August 10, 2020||Guwahati||IIT-Guwahati, RR Animal Healthcare make headway in indigenous Covid-19 kits commercialisation||GUWAHATI: Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati (IIT-G), has become the first educational institute in the country to produce coronavirus test kits, which include RNA extraction, RT-PCR and Viral Transport Media (VTM) kits. This comes as an alternative to the Chinese, American and European kits that Indian labs are procuring. The institute is producing the kits, which are vital for confirming the presence of novel coronavirus in a swab sample, in collaboration with RR Animal Healthcare Limited. For India, China remains the biggest supplier of the VTM kits used for collecting swab samples in the first stage while American and European companies manufacture the other two.  However, more than 2.5 lakhs VTM kits developed at IIT-G have already been supplied to National Health Mission (NHM), Assam, while several testing laboratories across the country have also started buying these as they are an affordable alternative. Moreover, IIT-G takes much less time to deliver these kits when compared to the foreign-made ones. “The performance of the indigenously developed RNA extraction kits have been highly satisfactory as per tests conducted by Gauhati Medical College and Hospital. The RT-PCR kits are also being validated and the production and supply of these kits are likely to commence soon,” professor Parameswar Krishnan Iyer, dean of public relations, branding and ranking at IIT-G, told TOI on Sunday. He added that the institute is ready to work with the government, National Health Mission and hospitals and testing centres to begin large-scale production and supply. The “SPILD” VTM kits, RT-PCR and RNA isolation kits have been developed at the centre for nanotechnology at IIT-G by a team headed by professor Iyer and professor Siddhartha Sankar Ghosh from IIT-G and Dr Labanyamoy Kole and Dr Debashish Dutta of RR Animal Healthcare. The “SPILD” Covid-19 kits have already passed the viability test from a laboratory and are ready to be produced for sale. The in-house initiative comes as a boost to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan” initiative. “As per reports, India has been importing these kits from several countries at exorbitant prices. Our kits can now replace them and large-scale production would in turn also generate employment in the healthcare and allied sectors. We believe the demand of these kits will go up as the number of tests increases in the country,” Iyer said. Speaking about the achievement, IIT-G director TG Sitharam said, “Our institute has always been at the forefront of the fight against Covid-19. The kits were developed following requests from NHM, Assam, and they have now been validated by GMCH as well as approved by ICMR”. Professor Siddhartha Sankar Ghosh, faculty at the Center for Nanotechnology in IIT-G said that when the mission director of NHM, Assam approached IIT-G to develop these Covid-19 kits, they carefully strategized with RR Animal Healthcare to develop these “SPILD” Covid-19 kits indigenously, keeping in mind the quality, affordability and timely delivery which is utmost important. "Presently, we have developed the capability to deliver several thousands of these high-quality import substitute kits everyday as and when required and this can be ramped up if needed to meet the requirement of the entire country without depending on imported kits,” said Ghosh. Dr Debashis Dutta, Director of RR Animal Healthcare Ltd. said that the journey of jointly developing the “SPILD” Covid-19 kits with IIT-G has been worthwhile, as these quality Covid-19 diagnostic kits are an affordable replacement for all the imported kits by a huge margin. Dr Labanyamoy Kole, head, research and development at RR Animal Healthcare Ltd, said, “The entire team at RR Animal Healthcare and IIT Guwahati has been very committed to provide an affordable and high-quality health solution at this time of pandemic and we will keep improving and customizing these kits such that their quality remains the best while ensuring the development and timely delivery of these kits so that the nation does not rely anymore on imported products".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/iit-guwahati-rr-animal-healthcare-make-headway-in-indigenous-covid-19-kits-commercialisation/articleshow/77451899.cms||Kangkan Kalita
August 10, 2020||India||Now a course for Swacchta mission||NEW DELHI: The Centre will launch an IVR based free training course on ODF Plus today as the government focuses on sustaining the change achieved after providing universal access to toilets. To undertake the SBM Academy course, one doesn’t even need a smartphone and it won’t cost anything to him/ her. All one needs to do is dial the course number 18001800404 from anywhere in the country. The course has been designed for Swachhagrahis (Swacch Bharat volunteers) , Panchayati Raj Institutions, community-based organizations, NGOs, self help groups and others who are associated with the second phase of the mission. It has four chapters, each with four audio lessons and a multiple-choice quiz at the end of the chapter. “To be considered successful, the user must answer at least 50% of the questions correctly. The content of SBM Academy is in Hindi and delivered by Azaad Sir, a fictional character created for the purpose,” said a source. Union Jal Shakti minister,Gajendra Singh Sekhawat, who will launch the initiative, told reporters that the drive against filth and garbage will continue under the ODF Plus initiative. This will include building more toilets as more new houses are built in rural areas and also take the programme ahead. Shekhawat accompanied a group of reporters during a tour to Rashtriya Swachhta Kendra, which was inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-a-course-for-swacchta-mission/articleshow/77452606.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 10, 2020||India||1,000+ Covid fatalities on Sunday, week’s new cases cross 4 lakh||NEW DELHI: India reported more than 1,000 deaths from Covid-19 in a single day for the first time on Sunday, even as the country reported record high numbers for the week, with fresh cases surging past the 4-lakh mark and fatalities crossing 6,000. Sunday’s toll from the virus was 1,007 while 63,851 fresh cases were reported taking the total tally to 22,14,269, as per data collated from state governments. On the brighter side, recoveries crossed 15 lakh to 15,30,070, accounting for 69% of the caseload. Active cases rose to nearly 6.4 lakh. The past week was the deadliest yet in India, both in terms of the spread of Covid-19 infections and fatalities. The country recorded nearly 4.1 lakh fresh cases, which is likely to be the highest in any single country for the August 3-9 week (the week’s data from the US and Brazil will come only on Monday morning). In the previous week, India had recorded 3.7 lakh cases. The number was 3.2 lakh in the week before that. The week’s death toll was 6,279, likely to be the third highest in the world behind fatalities in the US and Brazil. This was a sharp rise of around 15% from the previous week’s toll of 5,345. Daily deaths crossed the 900-mark for the first time during the week before going past 1,000 on Sunday. The day’s new infections, at over 63,000, were the second highest for a single day so far after Saturday’s count of 65,410, as per TOI’s numbers collated from state government data. Maharashtra reported 12,248 new cases, again the second highest count after Saturday’s numbers (12,822). Maharashtra, however, reported 390 deaths, the highest by any state in a single day so far. Mumbai’s new cases stood at 1,066 while the city recorded 48 deaths. Andhra Pradesh reported 97 deaths and 10,820 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday, both highest single-day numbers for the state. The state’s death toll went past 2,000 to 2,036. Even as the AP’s mortality rate stands stable at 0.89%, significantly lower than the national average of above 2%, the state has witnessed 687 deaths in August alone. The rise in the death rate has been proportional to the rate of increase in the caseload. Meanwhile, Vishwas Sarang, a minister in the Madhya Pradesh government, tested positive for the virus. Chief minister Shivraj Chouhan said he would donate plasma to the ailing minister. In Tamil Nadu, fresh Covid-19 cases remained below 1,000 for the third day in Chennai and the city’s daily death toll dropped to 12 on Sunday, one less than in Coimbatore and Virudhunagar. This is the first time other districts are reporting more deaths than Chennai. Overall, Tamil Nadu had 5,994 new cases and 119 deaths on Sunday. With 6,020 people getting discharged following treatment, TN has 53,336 active cases — a 6.4 % drop compared to last week. A health official from Coimbatore said, "We have been witnessing a change in pattern among the patients. During the initial days of the outbreak, most of the patients tested positive for the virus were asymptomatic. But for the past few weeks, we had started witnessing more patients with mild symptoms. The number of patients with symptoms rose from 30% to 40% and of which, at least 10% to 15% were found with high temperature, cough and breathing difficulties.” Karnataka reported 5,985 fresh Covid-19 cases and 107 deaths due to the infection, with its capital accounting for 1,948 cases and 22 deaths. According to the health and family welfare department, the state has 80,973 active cases as 4,670 patients were discharged on Sunday. While the number of discharges has increased to 93,908, the total tally of the infected is 1,78,087. The toll has touched 3,198. Seventeen of the state’s 30 districts reported more than 100 fresh cases. Covid-19 cases in Bihar crossed the 79,000-mark on Sunday as 3,934 more people tested positive for the virus in the past 24 hours. With 10 more official deaths, the toll mounted to 429 while the number of positive cases reached up to 79,720. Patna recorded the maximum 786 new cases on Sunday. The health department claimed to have tested 75,628 samples in the last 24 hours and over 10 lakh so far. Altogether 4,73,734 samples, which is about 40% of the total collected, have been tested between August 1 and 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1000-covid-fatalities-on-sunday-weeks-new-cases-cross-4-lakh/articleshow/77452815.cms||---
August 10, 2020||India||India reassures Nepal after Jaishankar’s Buddha remark||NEW DELHI: India moved to quell a new controversy over the birthplace of Gautama Buddha after the Nepalese government took exception to foreign minister S Jaishankar claiming Buddha was Indian. Addressing a CII event on Saturday, Jaishankar had said, “Who are the greatest Indians ever that you can remember? I would say one is Gautam Buddha and the other is Mahatma Gandhi.” To the extraordinarily sensitive Nepal, already tense about the downward spiral in bilateral relations with India, this was added insult. Nepal’s foreign ministry issued a sharply worded riposte said, "It is a well-established and undeniable fact proven by historical and archaeological evidence that Gautam Buddha was born in Lumbini, Nepal. Lumbini, the Birthplace of Buddha and the fountain of Buddhism, is one of the UNESCO world heritage sites.” On Sunday, the MEA said reassuringly, “EAM’s remarks yesterday at the CII event referred to our shared Buddhist heritage. There is no doubt that Gautam Buddha was born in Lumbini, which is in Nepal.” Nepal’s foreign ministry statement added prime minister Narendra Modi had, during his visit to Nepal in 2014, said that "Nepal is the country where the apostle of peace in the world, Buddha, was born." "It is true that Buddhism spread from Nepal to other parts of the world in the subsequent period. The matter remains beyond doubt and controversy and thus cannot be a subject of debate. The entire international community is aware of this," the Nepal statement added. The new controversy, ironically, comes on the day when the Indian Army donated 10 ICU ventilators to the Nepal army, which was handed over by the Indian ambassador Vinay Kwatra in Nepal. “These ventilators are designed for a broad range of applications to include advanced invasive or non-invasive respiratory support. They can be used in support of secondary care in hospitals with ICU, tertiary multispecialty hospitals and dedicated ICUs. Further, due to their compact nature, they are portable and handy in transportation of patients requiring intensive care.” said a statement. Former foreign secretary of Nepal, Madhuraman Acharya tweeted "Some 2270 years ago, Indian Emperor Ashok erected a pillar at Lumbini in Nepal to mark the birthplace of Buddha. That monument stands taller than any self-aggrandizing claim to say that Budha was an “Indian”! Period !!" Even the Nepali Congress, perceived to be closer to India was upset. Former Prime Minister and chief of the Foreign Relations Department of the ruling Nepal Communist Party, Madhav Kumar Nepal objected to Jaishanker's statement. Nepali Congress spokesperson Bishwa Prakash Sharma took strong exception to the Indian foreign minister's claim. "Lord Buddha was born in Nepal. We have reservations toward the Indian foreign minister Jaishanker's statement against historical facts that the land is in today's Nepal," he tweeted in Nepali. Since Nepal changed its political map and included Indian territories in Lipulekh, the Indian system has frozen out Nepal. The Indian government has refused to hold talks on the territory issue while these new maps, which India considers to be illegal are around. India believes Nepal PM KP Sharma Oli is bent on ruining bilateral ties while cosying up to China. Nepal government is trying hard to hold talks with the Indian system, but neither the Indian government, nor the ruling party BJP wants to give any opening to the Nepali government to start talks. However, the Indian government has made it clear that its problems with the Oli government notwithstanding, there would be no let up in its engagement with the Nepali people. Watch India reassures Nepal after Jaishankar’s Buddha remark riles neighbour||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-reassures-nepal-after-jaishankars-buddha-remark/articleshow/77452833.cms||Indrani Bagchi
August 10, 2020||Business||327 items form 3/4th of imports from China, ‘can be alternatively sourced’||NEW DELHI: Just 327 products — ranging from mobile phones and telecom equipment to cameras, solar panels, air-conditioners and penicillin — accounted for nearly three-fourths of the imports from China, a study has estimated, while pointing out that it is possible to find alternative sources to get these goods or manufacture them in India. A paper by policy thinktank Research and Information System for Developing Countries (RIS) used UN Comtrade data to estimate the value of these "critically sensitive imports" at $66.6 billion in 2018 in overall imports of a little over $90 billion. In 2018-19, official numbers had pegged imports from China at $76.4 billion. A product was considered sensitive if China accounted for over 10% share of imports or if the value of shipments was $50 million or more. "Such export monopoly of China has to be diluted in view of strategic requirements," the report said. In terms of the number of goods imported from across the border, the share of the 327 sensitive products was less than 10% of the 4,000-odd items that were imported from China. The study, which shared with TOI, estimated that in case of 82%, or over 3,300 products, China was not the most competitive producer. But there are also products where China is the sole exporter. The product base ranges from everyday-use items such as earphones and headphones to microwave ovens and certain types of washing machines. The list also has several types of machinery, some auto components, escalator components, certain acids and chemicals and fertiliser like diammonium phosphate, where China is the sole supplier. "It is possible to produce some of the products domestically if other sources are not immediately available," RIS director general Sachin Chaturvedi told TOI. The RIS paper suggested taking a strategic view while deciding on alternative sources for imports. In fact, since March, the government has started tapping overseas missions to identify alternative sources of import of products. Economists and traders, however, point out that it may not be possible to find the products at the same scale, something that even the RIS report points to. "As China is empowered with scale factor, other competitors lose their grounds when delivery of voluminous trade takes place," the study noted. In recent years, China has emerged as the hub for the production of electronics, pharma and chemicals with global giants setting up manufacturing facilities to not just cater to the domestic market but export to other destinations, including the US and Europe. Following the outbreak of Covid-19, several companies are looking at de-risking their production chains by setting up or relocating facilities to other countries. The report’s author, S K Mohanty, told TOI that in several cases, domestic production should be encouraged, something that the government is trying to do through the incentive scheme for production of mobile and electronic goods and pharmaceutical products. The commerce and industry ministry has also identified a dozen sectors, raging from furniture and footwear to air-conditioners, where it is seeking to provide sops. "Places where diversification of import sources is not possible, local manufacturing is a better option. We have suggested short-term and medium-term solutions," said Mohanty. He also said that though India’s share in China’s trade may be low, it is a significant contributor to its overall trade surplus. "Unlike what many people are arguing, a diversification of the import basket will impact China," Mohanty said. Watch 327 products form 3/4th of imports from China, ‘can be alternatively sourced’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/327-items-make-up-biggest-chunk-of-imports-from-china/articleshow/77453001.cms||Sidhartha
August 10, 2020||India||Air India Express crash: Pilots may have tried to take off after deep touchdown, experts say||MUMBAI: Photographs of the wreckage of the ill-fated Air India Express Boeing 737, especially those of the cockpit control panels and aircraft engines, suggest the pilots attempted a take-off or go-around after a deep touchdown on the tabletop Calicut runway, said a senior pilot. However, that’s still a theory, say experts. The accident could have occurred due to other factors, details of which will emerge only in the investigation report. “The wreckage of the cockpit shows the throttle in the fully forward position, which is the take-off/go-around position. The spoilers are retracted from the position of the speed brake lever, whereas in an aircraft trying to come to a halt after touchdown the spoilers should have been fully extended,’’ said an aviation source. Spoilers are panels on the top of the wings which when raised or deployed, reduce the speed of the aircraft. However, the flaps (panels mounted on the rear edge of the wing, which can be raised or lowered from the cockpit to increase lift—the drag produced by the wings) are still in landing configuration. “A possible explanation is that the pilots might have forgotten to put the flaps in take off/go-around configuration. Flaps in landing configuration can hinder the attempts to lift off,’’ said an engineer. If the accident investigation report reveals that the pilots did attempt to take off again after the brakes were applied post touchdown, then the Calicut crash will have a number of similarities with the 2010 crash of an Air India Express flight in Mangalore. The similarities would be in the series of actions taken by both sets of pilots post the late touchdown on tabletop runways. An aircraft can certainly take off go around safely post touchdown, provided the action to do so is taken swiftly after touchdown and most importantly, before action to slow down the speed of the aircraft speed—like applying brakes—is taken. Unlike the Mangalore crash, in the case of the Calicut accident, the aircraft did not catch fire post impact. It was speculated that the AIX pilots had probably switched off the fuel supply to cut off the engines and prevent a possible fire. “But in the cockpit photographs, the fuel control switches are not in the cut-off position, which means the engines were running on impact,’’ the source aviation added. Also, unlike the Mangalore crash, where the Boeing 737 aircraft fell into a 300-feet gorge off the runway end, in case of Calicut the terrain drops to only 35-40 feet, which would explain the comparatively lower casualties, he added. The Air India Express pilots apparently missed the touchdown zone and landed about 3,000 feet deep into the Calicut runway in tailwinds. “But the runway is long enough and so a deep touchdown by itself doesn’t entirely explain why the aircraft went off the tabletop runway to fall off the edge and crash,’’ said a senior commander. “There has to be a host of other factors for such an accident to occur,’’ he added. Irrespective of what the investigation throws up, what needs to be highlighted here,s ay aviation experts, is that pilots take split-second decisions during a landing. The final landing phase which begins after an aircraft has crossed the runway threshold is completed in less than 15 seconds. During this time, the aircraft crosses the runway threshold, does a landing flare (floats over the runway to reduce descent rate and achieve a smooth touchdown) and touches down; the sequence includes applying different modes of braking to ensure the aircraft systematically decelerates and comes to a halt before the end of the runway. Watch Kozhikode air crash: How the dream of homecoming turned into a nightmare||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pilots-may-have-tried-to-take-off-after-deep-touchdown-experts/articleshow/77453144.cms||Manju V
August 10, 2020||India||As BJP ring-fences its flock, Ashok Gehlot reaches out to all Rajasthan MLAs||JAIPUR/JAISALMER: Bracing for a possible trust vote during the special assembly session from August 14, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot on Sunday sent out a three-page communication urging all MLAs in the 200-member House to “listen to the voice of the people to save democracy and stand with the truth in the interest of the state”. The appeal came even as he fired a factionalism barb at BJP for “ring-fencing” its MLAs at different locations, flayed the Sachin Pilot-led Congress dissidents for “falsely” accusing him of having filed sedition cases against them and kept his own flock insulated in Jaisalmer from any poaching attempt by either side. “Even as the government is working day and night (to fight off the Covid-19 pandemic), some of our (Congress) colleagues and certain leaders in the opposition are conspiring to topple our democratically elected government. This is unfortunate,” states Gehlot’s lengthy note to the legislators. The note harks back to “a similar conspiracy” against the erstwhile BJP government led by the late Bhairon Singh Shekhawat and how Gehlot, who was then a Union minister and PCC chief, opposed horse-trading of MLAs. “The people of the state would never want such a tradition to be set in Rajasthan. Currently, the people of the state are in deep anger against the elected representatives involved in this conspiracy.” The note ends with an impassioned appeal, “You may be a legislator from any political party, (but) you should understand the sentiments of your peers, your family members and your voters and decide to ensure that the majority government elected by the people keeps working firmly for the welfare of Rajasthan and that the plans to destabilise the government do not succeed.” Later in the day, Gehlot said BJP shifting 20 of its 72 Rajasthan MLAs to Gujarat and corralling the rest at different locations within the state could mean the party is riddled with factionalism. The CM argued that Congress legislators being confined to two resorts in Jaisalmer — they were earlier holed up in a Jaipur hotel for almost the whole of July — was different because the party needed to thwart alleged horse-trading by BJP. “But why is BJP worried? It is ring-fencing its MLAs at three-four locations in a selective manner. I can see friction in them,”he told reporters at Jaisalmer airport. Gehlot also targeted the 19 Congress dissident MLAs for wrongly “creating the impression” that notices issued to them by the SOG, which filed three sedition cases last month, had been engineered by the state government. The CM said even he received a notice from the SOG. Watch Ashok Gehlot reaches out to all Rajasthan MLAs, as BJP ring-fences its flock||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-bjp-ring-fences-its-flock-ashok-gehlot-reaches-out-to-all-rajasthan-mlas/articleshow/77453319.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 10, 2020||Kochi||Administering a ‘positive’ message to Covid patients||KOCHI: For Father John Puthuva, having conversations with Covid patients has become a part of his daily routine. Fr Puthuva, who used to run prison ministries, has been calling up Covid patients every day for the past three months, ever since he heard of a Covid-positive woman committing suicide in North India. The priest tries to talk with at least one patient a day at length so that the patients could share their worries and problems with him. “I believe that loneliness is something that affects them the most, especially since they have to stay isolated for a long time. If someone has a repressed emotion, I think that they would get at least some relief when they talk about it to someone. In my calls, I just have a casual chat and try to make them comfortable. If they express any particular problem they face, I try to find a solution for it as well,” says Fr Puthuva. Fr Puthuva finds the phone numbers of patients mostly through mutual friends. “When I started my routine, it was difficult to find contacts of patients. Years ago, I was a priest in Delhi. Many people there, still maintain contact with me, and through them, I found contacts of patients in Delhi. Some of them were nurses working there. Many wanted to come back,” said Fr Puthuva. Fr Puthuva recollected an incident where a man in Delhi who wanted to come home after recovery told him about a shortage of money. The priest transferred the money to the man’s account and when he contacted him after reaching home, the priest advised him to pay him back by helping another person with the money that he owes him. Fr Puthuva adds that now it has become easy to get contacts of patients as their friends themselves are approaching him, asking to call them. Fr Puthuva said that unlike a few months ago people don’t panic about the pandemic. “Initially, people used to get scared and used to get worked up about them losing their sense of taste, smell et al. Such symptoms used to create fear and panic in the initial days. But people are aware of the symptoms and are not that scared anymore. Now, when I call people, they are confident. Maybe it is because of the low fatality rate in the state,” said Fr Puthuva.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/administering-a-positive-message-to-covid-patients/articleshow/77450573.cms||Disney Tom
August 10, 2020||Vadodara||Two CBI officers handling SSR’s death case served in Vadodara||Vadodara: Two Gujarat cadre IPS officers will help probe into the mysterious death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh, who allegedly hanged himself to death in the bedroom at his Mumbai residence earlier last month.Gujarat cadre IPS officer and CBI joint director Manoj Sashidhar, and Gagandeep Gambhir, a 2004 batch IPS officer, will investigate Singh’s death.Sashidhar, a 1994 batch officer, was known to be strict yet pro-active cop during his stint as Vadodara police commissioner. He was transferred to the city in 2016 and only a few weeks into his role, the city’s most notorious gangster Mukesh Harjani was bumped off by his rivals in Harni area in October 2016.The incident could have triggered a gang-war but the police managed to crack the case within 10 days and also arrest the accused. Sashidhar had overseen the investigations then and had also cracked down on many history-sheeters to ensure that peace prevailed in the city.During his two-year tenure in the city, Sashidhar made efforts to digitize the police control room for giving quick response to the callers and also adopted a paperless system by digitizing thousands of important documents in the Police Bhavan. Tech-savvy by nature, he also started a twitter handle for the city police to reach out to the netizens.Sashidhar also took on rising property crime rates in the city by making digital attendance mandatory for patrolling teams and ensured that they were on the road late in the nights. Gagandeep Gambhir too served in the city as a DCP in 2008 before serving as district superintendent of police in 2011. She was known to be a tough officer who had acted firmly against troublemakers in the walled city during her stint as DCP. A no-nonsense cop, Gambhir had ensured that a deputy superintendent posted under her in the district got suspended for turning up drunk at the police headquarters. She had caught the personnel red-handed in an inebriated state and also registered an FIR against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-cbi-officers-handling-ssrs-death-case-served-in-vadodara/articleshow/77450049.cms||Tushar Tere
August 10, 2020||Hubballi||Excise department staff create awareness on Covid||Hubballi: Excise department staff are visiting villages and residential areas in Hubballi and Dharwad to create awareness on wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, which are vital to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. They are meeting the public at markets, malls, temples, fields, bakeries, bus stands and other places, where a large number of people gather. The team led by Dharwad excise deputy commissioner Shivana Gowda, has been engaged in this initiative since July 16. The team has already visited many villages and wards in the city. Excise inspector Sanjeev Reddy of Hubballi taluk said that he and his team have already visited eight wards in Hubballi city. He said that they have got a good response and the people are following their tips to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. He said that in Dharwad inspector Chidanand, in Kundagol Premsingh Lamani, and in Navalgund T J Gunjikar are creating awareness among the people to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. The staff said that they even visited fields in rural areas, and asked people not to work in groups. “We reply to the queries of people regarding the pandemic, and try to remove any misconceptions to give a correct picture. We highlight do’s and don’t s, apart from precautions to be taken. We instil confidence in the people and ask them to remain positive,” said Sanjeev Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/excise-department-staff-create-awareness-on-covid/articleshow/77451580.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 10, 2020||Patna||Manjhi meets AIMIM neta||PATNA: Rumour mills have gone into an overdrive with Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi meeting Akhtarul Iman, the state president of All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), at the latter’s residence here on Friday and holding parleys with him for about an hour. Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM has one seat in the 243-member Bihar legislative assembly. Though Manjhi and Iman have described their meeting as “informal” and “personal”, insiders said the two leaders explored the possibilities of forging an alliance between HAM (S) and AIMIM in the Bihar assembly elections due in October-November. “It’s true that Manjhi met Iman. However, the meeting was apolitical in nature,” HAM (S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan said. Iman, on his part, said, “I have been in touch with Manjhi since long. After all, Manjhi is a senior politician and also served as CM of the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-meets-aimim-neta/articleshow/77450687.cms||Ramashankar
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Problems remain but we will work around them, say Covid units||By: Prirhvijit Mitra KOLKATA: Private hospitals in Kolkata have greeted the state order that restricts advance payment to 25% of estimated Covid-treatment cost or Rs 50,000, whichever is lower. But they believe that the provision to cancel admission in case of non-payment within 12 hours is a tricky one and may not be legally permissible, especially in the case of emergency patients. Most said they will stick to their existing practice of being flexible about advance deposits and will not eject any patient over non-payment. Some hospitals, however, were worried about the government direction of intimating patients’ kin about investigations, pointing out it could be difficult in a scenario where family members are quarantined and doctors are being forced to take quick decisions. Times ViewThis order tries to strike a balance between hospitals’ and patients’ interests. There have been complaints of hospitals asking for deposit amounts of more than Rs 3 lakh-Rs 4 lakh. Similarly, on the other side, hospitals have complained about problems in recovering dues from patients. The government will have to track this and may have to issue fresh guidelines, if necessary, after a thorough review.AMRI Hospitals has been charging between Rs 20,000 and Rs 50,000 on admission depending on whether the patient has insurance cover. It plans to carry on with the practice without insisting on payment within 12 hours. “Most are paying within a day or two so there’s no question of asking a patient to go after 12 hours. It could be difficult to calculate 25% of the estimated treatment cost though, so we will not ask for it,” said CEO Rupak Barua. Peerless Hospital has been settling for any amount on admission and plans to remain flexible. More than half of the Covid patients are being brought in severe condition and insisting on spot payment would be impractical, pointed out CEO Sudipto Mitra. “It’s fair to allow a reasonable time to patients’ kin for the payment. We will continue with it. It will not be legal to ask a patient to leave for failing to pay an advance since the West Bengal Clinical Establishments Act makes it mandatory to treat every patient,” said Mitra. He added that estimating 25% of treatment cost, too, was impractical since Covid patients’ conditions can change during hospital stay, altering the estimated charges. Non-payment has not been an issue at Ruby General Hospitals so far, said GM - operations Subhashis Datta. “There have been scores of elderly patients whose children paid from abroad at the time of discharge. Private hospitals get few patients who can’t afford to pay, so refusing admission is unnecessary and unethical,” said Datta. He added that the government order should be seen as a direction to offer treatment to all rather than as a scope to turn away patients. Medica Superspecialty Hospital, too, plans to stick to its practice of charging Rs 50,000 in advance, but will also wait and watch. “The government order vindicates our decision to ask for an advance, though we must use our discretion on this,” said chairperson Alok Roy. The new advisory will help screen a patient’s ability to pay for treatment, said RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) zonal director R Venkatesh. “Patients who cannot afford treatment as an out-of-pocket expense can be stabilized clinically and shifted to facilities where they can avail of free or subsidized treatment. We have not been taking any special advance payment for Covid patients,” he said. Another hospital official said it plans to ask patients to leave in case it appears that they may not be able to afford the bill. “It is now a government order, so why shouldn’t we?” he asked. While some, like AMRI, felt it will be difficult to consult patients’ families before every investigation, others, like Medica, said they will give it a shot. “Since Covid treatment is evolving, investigations, too, are often unplanned. We are going by the consultants’ opinions and they, too, are trying out new methods of treatment and investigation. It could be impractical to seek approval from the patients’ families for every test,” said Barua.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/problems-remain-but-we-will-work-around-them-cov-units/articleshow/77452237.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Patna||Patna Municipal Corporation starts removing garbage from Bakri Bazar||PATNA: The residents of station road and nearby areas finally heaved a sigh of relief after the Patna Municipal Corporation has started removing the garbage from Bakri Bazar, which is a temporary secondary garbage point in the city. The decision has been taken by the civic body to zero down the amount of garbage from Bakri Bazar, after the Patna Smart City Limited (PSCL) approved the long-pending Railway Station Area Redevelopment (RSAR) project, besides 16 other projects on Friday. Garbage generated from the PMC’s New Capital, Patliputra and Bankipore circles were dumped on the 16-acre plot at Bakri Bazaar. PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma said on Sunday the sanitation workers would transfer all the garbage from Bakri Bazar to the landfill site at Bairiya every day. “Since, the construction work at the Gardanibagh and Agamkuan transfer stations has yet to complete, the municipal body would ensure that the door-to-door garbage collected is dumped at the landfill site. The amount of garbage at Bakri Bazar will be zero before the bidding for RSAR project is completed,” he said. “We will install high-mast lights at Bairiya to ensure that transfer of garbage continues throughout the night,” he added. “With the help of Poclain machine, the garbage will be cleaned, giving more space for fresh dumps. We are also planning to develop greenery there,” said Sharma after inspecting the landfill site on Sunday. Meanwhile, the PSCL would soon float tenders for the RSAR project, which will be taken up by utilizing funds to the tune of Rs216.5 crore. PSCL chairman and Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal approved the projects along with 15 other projects at the PSCL’s 15th board meeting on Friday. Three new complexes — Hawker Complex, Modern Municipal Complex and Smart City Complex — and a multi-modal transport hub will come up there. The separate G+2 Modern Municipal and Hawker Complexes will be for fruit, vegetable and meat sellers among others. It will have the capacity to accommodate more than 400 sellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-starts-removing-garbage-from-bakri-bazar/articleshow/77450590.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 10, 2020||Mysuru||PM Modi has live interaction with Hassan agri co-op functionary||Hassan: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, as part of Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, conversed with a functionary of a agricultural cooperative society in Hassan, through a live TV conversation. Basavegowda, secretary of Ugane Primary Agriculture Credit Cooperative Society Limited, Kyathanahalli, Hassan taluk, and his team attended the event. With the help of a translator, he replied to the PM’s queries, who asked about the cooperative’s history, progress, and current projects. The conversation was for around 15 minutes. The society is located at Kyathanahalli, which is 18 km away from Hassan, and comes under Bylahalli gram panchayat. “It was formed 44 years back. It involves 29 villages and has 2,300 members. Its annual transactions are worth Rs 50 crore. The farmers under the cooperative grow maize, ginger, areca, and potatoes as their main crops. It was formed mainly to make agricultural implements easily available to farmers, including pesticides and manure. A warehouse has been planned, which aims to store 1,200 metric tonnes of procurement. It is budgeted at Rs 40 lakh, of which Rs 32 lakh is sought under NABARD. This will benefit around 3,000 farmers in terms of reducing production cost and increase their profit, and as areca and maize will also be stored, farmers can pledge it towards loans. It will be finished in three months,” said Basavegowda, while responding to the PM’s queries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pm-modi-has-live-interaction-with-hassan-agri-co-op-functionary/articleshow/77450038.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Shell out Rs2.5k per month for tests to travel between Kasaragod, M’luru regularly||Mangaluru: Though the Kerala government has reintroduced interstate e-pass system allowing interstate travel, daily commuters will have to shell out Rs 2,500 per month only for rapid antigen test for Covid-19. With the daily commuters from Kasaragod — mostly people employed in shops, other commercial establishments and in industrial sector in Dakshina Kannada —finding it difficult bear the expenses, they have asked the government to make test kits available to them for free or on discounted rates. As per the revised rule, daily commuters will have to undergo the antigen test for Covid-19 once in a week to renew their e-passes. Kerala government had granted permission to private labs and hospitals to do antigen tests for Covid-19 in July and price for each antigen test was fixed at Rs 625. However, Kasaragod district administration is yet to decide on the price of test to be conducted on daily commuters between Kasaragod and Mangaluru. Kasaragod-based Kishor Y, who owns a shop in Mangaluru, told TOI that his shop remains closed for since March. “Earlier, Kerala government stopped issuing e-passes for daily commuters. Now they have reintroduced the e-pass system on a condition that we undergo rapid antigen test for Covid-19 every week. Several people from Kasaragod who work as salesmen or do other odd jobs earn just Rs 10,000 – Rs 15,000 per month. It will be difficult for them to afford Rs 2,500 per month for the test. We have already launched ‘Sahayathri’, an online campaign to fight for the rights of people from Kasaragod working in Dakshina Kannada. Many of us have sent messages to Kerala revenue minister E Chandrashekharan, Kasaragod district collector Dr D Sajith Babu and people’s representatives via WhatsApp and email,” Kishor said. Prakash M, another daily commuter said people are waiting for an order from Kasaragod district administration. “We have no issue following the new guidelines which mandates rapid antigen test for Covid-19. However, the district administration should consider waiving the cost of test,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/shell-out-rs2-5k-per-month-for-tests-to-travel-between-kasaragod-mluru-regularly/articleshow/77451295.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Business||Coaching classes are not eligible for GST exemption, rules AAR||Mumbai: Coaching classes are not eligible to get any exemption from Goods and Service Tax (GST). This position was reiterated by a recent ruling given by the Andhra Pradesh bench of the Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR). A similar stand has been taken earlier, including by the Maharashtra bench of the AAR. In other words, coaching classes have to levy and collect GST at 18% from students. Entry number 66 of the relevant notifications gives exemption to educational services, if these are provided by an educational institution, subject to certain conditions. These are: The service provided is related to education, the education is provided as a part of a curriculum and it is provided for obtaining a qualification recognised by any law for the time being in force. The applicant, Master Minds, was offering a variety of coaching courses (regular, crash courses, revision exam courses) with different fee structures and curriculum options to aspirants (students) of chartered accountancy and cost accountancy streams. The AAR bench noted that such coaching is not mandatory to be conferred an inter or final certificate by the Institute of Chartered Accountants and the Institute of Cost Accountants, both of which are statutory bodies. The coaching class was not issuing any coaching completion certificate or any study certificate, in respect of the chartered accountancy and cost accountancy courses. Master Minds was not accredited or affiliated to or recognised or authorised by these two professional institutions for imparting coaching or training. These professional institutions were themselves offering coaching and training to the aspirants through their regional councils or branches or certain accredited bodies, in accordance with the prescribed curriculum. Given the conditions, the AAR held that the coaching class was not eligible for the exemption provided by the GST notification. Likewise, charges collected for providing accommodation and catering services to its students also would not get the benefit of any GST exemption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/coaching-classes-are-not-eligible-for-gst-exemption-rules-aar/articleshow/77452369.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Mysuru||Leopard caught in snare dies||Mysuru: A leopard caught in a snare died at Panchavalli village in Hunsur taluk on Sunday. The big cat, believed to be about 5-years-old, was spottedby villagers on Hunsur- Virajpet road near Nagarahole Tiger Reserve. The villagers informed the foresters, who in turn rushed to the spot and untangled the wire from the carcass. All the canines were found intact in the carcass during post-mortem, said forest officials. It may have been caught in snare laid to trap wild boars which raid the farms and destroy crops, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/leopard-caught-in-snare-dies/articleshow/77450970.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||‘Fleeced’ by private facilities, patients’ kin cry for relief in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A screenshot of a provisional bill estimate from a private hospital in Kolkata, which adds up to Rs 10.4 lakh, has gone viral over social media and has raised questions about the lack of transparency. The bill mentions astronomical amounts under various heads. For investigations and ward medicines and consumables for a 14-day period, the bill provides an estimate of Rs 7.1 lakh, accounting for around 69% of the total estimated bill. This comes a day after the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) barred private hospitals from charging more than 20% of the estimated cost of treatment or a maximum of Rs 50,000, whichever is less, as advance deposit at the time of admission. The Facebook post about the estimated bill went viral after the patient’s daughter sought financial help. In subsequent posts later in the day, she clarified that she had made the post only to seek financial help through crowdfunding. She added that her 55-year-old father was put on prone ventilation and his lungs have been damaged, but doctors were trying their best. The post was shared over WhatsApp and Facebook where people criticized the billing system. It was, however, deleted from the woman’s timeline on Sunday evening. Sritama Sarkar of Jodhpur Park, who now lives in Stockholm, complained to the WBCERC last week about exorbitant billing. For a 26-day hospital stay, after which her father Kishore passed away on July 23, the family had to pay Rs 17.1 lakh. Sarkar told TOI that the bill for medicines alone came to Rs 7.7 lakh. She joined a video conference on July 31 as part of the hearing held by WBCERC and lodged a complaint. “The commission wanted to know if I was willing to contest the inflated bill and accordingly I submitted my affidavit. I do not know if there was medical negligence as well, so I urge the commission to probe it. My father tested positive after his admission,” she said. Rashbehari Avenue resident Bikram Banerjee said he had to shell out Rs 60,000 for his mother’s one night of hospital stay and was given an estimate of Rs 1.1 lakh if she stayed another night. “My 58-year-old mother’s basic health parameters were not even checked properly. Her oxygen saturation level had dropped to 85%, but she was initially not provided oxygen support. I had to provide her with an oximeter and there were no attendants to help her walk till the washroom. The hospital denied the allegations,” Banerjee said. The bill claimed she had had an X-ray, but my mother’s jewellery was not taken off. For the family of Kolkata Police constable Dipankar Sarkar, who was hospitalized for 25 days at a private hospital before passing away last week, the hospital gave a bill of Rs 16 lakh. His colleagues went into a negotiation and reduced it to Rs 13 lakh, of which the family could pay only half. A senior private hospital official said, “On an average, total billing in general ward for Covid patients not requiring critical care does not exceed Rs 2 lakh in our hospital. For patients in ICU, the average cost is between Rs 3.5 lakh-Rs 4.5 lakh, though there might be deviations in some critical cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fleeced-by-pvt-facilities-patients-kin-cry-for-relief/articleshow/77452287.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 10, 2020||Patna||Patna: Criminals spray pepper on ASI, flee||PATNA: Two unidentified criminals attacked an assistant sub-inspector (ASI), Santosh Kumar, with pepper spray when he tried to interrogate them on Nala Road under Kadamkuan police station area in state capital on Sunday. The ASI was rushed to a nearby private hospital for treatment. Kadamkuan police station SHO Nishikant Nishi said Kumar was on routine patrolling on his bike when he spotted two suspected criminals. “He asked them to stop and reached near them to frisk for illegal weapons when they used pepper spray and fled,” he said. The SHO said one of the suspects fled on a bike while another on foot in a bylane after attacking the ASI. “The ASI had a burning sensation in his eyes and face and he was unable to chase them. However, other members of patrolling team also reached the spot and chased the suspects, but they managed to escape,” the SHO said. He said police were trying to ascertain their identity and an FIR was lodged in this connection. Bike-lifter arrested: Locals nabbed a bike-lifter from the Housing Board Colony under Kankarbagh police station area on Sunday. He was trying to steal a bike. Kankarbagh police station SHO Ajay Kumar said the thief was identified as Ritik Mishra (21) of Khajekala area in Patna City. He said two master keys were recovered from his possession. The SHO said Ritik was trying to open the lock of a bike belonging to one SK Karn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/criminals-spray-pepper-on-asi-flee/articleshow/77450629.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 10, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Patna patients to get antiviral drug for free||PATNA: Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey on Sunday asked the officials of AIIMS-Patna to use antiviral drug Remdesivir on Covid-19 patients strictly as per the protocol. The drug will be made available to the patients at AIIMS-Patna on consultation with doctors free of cost, he said. The instruction came a day after the ministry of health and family welfare asked the state governments to make efforts to reduce Covid mortality rate. Patna is among the 13 districts in the country with high case load and fatality rate. These districts account for nearly 9% of the country’s active Covid cases and about 14% of deaths. The minister, who held a videoconferencing with the doctors of AIIMS-Patna, said he has asked officials in Delhi to provide Remdesivir in sufficient number to AIIMS-Patna. “The availability of this drug at the hospital will help the patients,” Choubey said. He also enquired about the progress of human trial of ‘Covaxin’ and the health of patients who received plasma from the recovered patients. Remdesivir has been included as an investigational therapy in the clinical management protocols for Covid-19 based on limited available evidence. The drug is not sold by chemists currently. Dr Sunil Kumar, secretary of Bihar unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said only one shop at Ashok Rajpath sells this drug, which costs around Rs 3,200. “Now, the drug is out of stock and people have started black-marketing. This drug needs to be given to Covid patients with moderate symptoms,” he said. Meanwhile, the state health department is making all efforts to increase number of ICU beds and ensure oxygen supply at the hospitals where Covid patients are treated. Principal secretary of health department Pratyaya Amrit has asked all the district magistrates to assess and expand health facilities in their respective districts within two days. Amrit told this newspaper on Sunday that the positivity rate would come down with the increase in testing in the state. “We are ensuring continuous supply of rapid antigen test kits and the number of RT-PCR tests would also go up from August 15. There are enough beds at Covid-dedicated hospitals and isolation wards,” Amrit added. The Patna district administration has also started mobile rapid antigen tests, especially in the containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-patients-to-get-antiviral-drug-for-free/articleshow/77450516.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Horse-trading: ACB files FIR against Bharat Malani, Ashok Singh||JAIPUR: Two days after middlemen Bharat Malani and Ashok Singh were released from judicial custody after being arrested by Special Operations Group (SOG) on July 11 for alleged horse-trading of MLAs, the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) lodged the FIR (copy of which is exclusively with TOI) against the duo in the same matter following the court’s order for the case to be handed over by SOG. This case along with two others was transferred to ACB as SOG lacked the jurisdiction to probe into the corruption charges. Along with the duo, who are yet to be re-arrested, two other middlemen in the nexus- Anil Mishra and Karni Singh have been also accused in the FIR. The FIR claimed that Ashok and Bharat’s phone conversation revealed that the duo along with Karni Singh on the instructions of Mishra were supposed to offer money (approximately Rs 30 crore-Rs 40 crore) to MLAs to topple the Congress government ahead of Rajya Sabha elections (June 19). Karni Singh had approached Kushalgarh MLA Ramila Khadia and supposedly even met her twice though she denied it. They had also attempted to approach MLAs Rajkumar, Omprakash Hudla and Kantilal. Karni Singh and Mishra are yet to be found. All four have been accused of criminal conspiracy and Prevention of Corruption (PC) act. The FIR stated that SOG had caught Bharat and Ashok after the conversation of the two businessmen was intercepted to find out about possible smuggling of explosives but instead revealed a deeper conspiracy to topple the present state government. According to the ACB’s FIR, in the first week of June, Mishra had asked the duo to suggest possible names of MLAs who could be wooed to break away from the Congress led government ahead of Rajya Sabha elections following which Ashok had texted Khadia’s and Rajkumar’s names while Bharat had suggested Hudla’s. Ashok had also apparently told Bharat ‘to find MLAs who would vote as told and the going rate for this was between Rs 30 crore-Rs 40 crore’, claimed the FIR. Following this, the duo got in touch with Karni Singh who was asked to approach Khadia with the offer of the same but she denied any knowledge of this, said the FIR. The cops had four mobile numbers on their radar out of which two were intercepted while the call record details (CDR), user identifications etc were accessed for all of them. When SOG had custody of Ashok and Bharat, the cops had also requested the court for taking the voice samples of both the accused, but the duo had refused. The arrest of these two had set the ball rolling with many political leaders being named in the case and though the SOG had registered a case under 124 A (sedition) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) against both the accused, once the case was transferred to ACB, the sedition charge was dropped. All the four persons named in the fresh FIR by ACB registered on Saturday night was under 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and PC Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/horse-trading-acb-files-fir-against-malani-singh/articleshow/77452770.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Good news in lockdown times: Metro completes India’s deepest air shaft||KOLKATA: India’s deepest Metro ventilation shaft, 43.5m deep, equalling a 15-storey building, will be completed on Monday. The engineering marvel has been achieved for East-West Metro despite extremely challenging geological conditions, including two aquifers linked to the river Hooghly, that posed risks of water ingress. The base slab — 43.5m below ground level — will be cast on Monday. Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC) and Afcons have already presented the country’s first underwater twin rail transportation tunnels and the deepest underground Metro station at Howrah station. The ventilation shaft will add another feather in their cap. “Completing the 43.5m ventilation shaft, India’s deepest, on the banks of the Hooghly, was a marvellous achievement for our team,” Satya Narayan Kunwar, project manager, Afcons, told TOI on Sunday. Built on a 8,000sqm plot where there once stood a Kolkata Port Trust warehouse, the 10.3m-diameter escape shaft is located right between the Metro tunnels. It had to match the Metro tunnels’ depth, which is nearly 40m from the surface of the river. Such shafts not only provide ventilation but are also used for evacuation. At Howrah Metro station, the 520m-long twin tunnels plunge 30m into the river. From there, they go deeper, till 37m, crossing the river bed. So the shaft had to go as deep as 43.5m. It has been built with innovative engineering techniques to navigate geological challenges and overcome any impact on the Circular Railway line that runs along the river bank. The shaft has a 10.3m inner diameter wall with a 500mm thickness. There is a 1m-thick concrete diaphragm wall around it as well. Negotiating the weak soil and two strong aquifers connected to the river were the biggest challenges while building the shaft. A large amount of bore-hole investigation data was analyzed to generate soil profiles in the Gangetic plains and a detailed study of the geological formations helped determine construction sequences keeping in mind structural safety and security during the excavation. “The proximity to the river threw up surprises due to ancient alluvial deposition, river course transformations and varying foundations of old buildings across the road,” Kunwar said. “To understand the erratic subsoil deposition, we did a detailed soil-mapping study. A lot of precautions had to be taken while building the diaphragm wall because the twin tunnels were already completed,” he added. There is another evacuation shaft coming at Raja Subodh Mullick Square, about 1km from Esplanade. However, this one will be just 13.5m deep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/good-news-in-lockdown-times-metro-completes-indias-deepest-air-shaft/articleshow/77452324.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 10, 2020||Rajkot||MP couple abduct migrant worker’s one-year-old son||RAJKOT: A childless couple from Madhya Pradesh allegedly abducted a one-year-old son of another migrant labourer in Morbi whom they had befriended over the past few months. The accused, Sanju Kathaiyabhai and his wife Rekha, took one-year-old Piyush with them when they were going to the market. They told his father Jitendra Yadav that they would buy clothes for him as well. As Yadav knew the couple well, he allowed them to take his son. The couple had rented a house in Yoginagar in Morbi just before the lockdown. When the duo did not return till late evening, he called them but their phones were switched off. Yadav then approached police and a complaint of abduction was lodged against the couple. Police said that the couple did not have a child, so they may have taken the kid along with them. “The possibility of their intention to sell the boy is also not being ruled out,” said investigating officer IM Gondiya. “We have got some details about their address in Ujjain and sent a team there to trace the couple,” said Sanju worked as a construction labourer in Morbi while Yadav, a native of Bihar, worked as a painter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/mp-couple-abduct-migrant-workers-one-year-old-son/articleshow/77450563.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Patna||Patna: Engineering graduates among six sent to jail||PATNA: Three engineering graduates from IIT-Kharagpur, NIT-Patna and NIT-Bhopal were among six arrested on Friday night for allegedly running an interstate racket to help aspirants crack the entrance examinations by sending scholars in place of the candidates themselves in return for huge amount of money. They were arrested from a flat in Vindhyachal Apartment on Boring Road under Buddha Colony in the city and sent to jail on Sunday. Among those arrested, Rohit Kumar was a passout from IIT-Kharagpur while Ramesh Kumar Singh and Ujjwal Kashyap had graduated from NIT-Patna and NIT-Bhopal, respectively. Prashant Kumar had passed out from a Bhagalpur engineering college while Nitesh Kumar and Saurabh Suman had studied BBA from Cimage College in Patna. Police said Ujjwal, the mastermind, was running the racket with the help of one Atul Vats, who is an accused in some cases lodged in Delhi, Haryana and Rajasthan in 2017 and 2018 for running a similar racket there. Police said they used to charge Rs1.5 to 2 lakh from candidates for making them clear the NEET and other entrance examinations besides tests conducted for recruitment in central and state government jobs and others. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said, “Initially, police thought someone might be actually conducting examination for small group of students in order to maintain social distancing. However, when police went to flat number 11B for verification, things looked suspicious after which all six were detained and brought to the police station.” He said all six were interrogated till Saturday night after which an FIR was lodged against them. Police said a Harley Davidson bike, costly watches and cellphones, two bank passbooks and debit cards, eight chequebooks, two filled cheques carrying total amount of Rs6 lakh, three blank cheques, original educational documents of 13 candidates, four laptops, one CPU, two hard drives and five pen drives were recovered from their possession. Police also said the bike was in Ujjwal’s name and registered in Jharkhand. Police said Delhi police’s Special Operation Group case documents against Atul were also recovered from the flat. Patna City SP (central) Vinay Tiwari said the racketeers had managed to replace the actual candidates with scholars in the engineering entrance examination conducted by private university last week. “They replaced at least 10 candidates with scholars,” he said. Tiwari said they also used to sit as scholars for the purpose. “Police is gathering details about their bank accounts,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/engineering-graduates-among-six-sent-to-jail/articleshow/77450551.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Probe begins into clash at Siwan flood relief camp||PATNA: Siwan DM Amit Kumar Pandey has constituted a two-member team to ascertain the reason behind the clash between the supporters of BJP MP from Maharajganj Janardan Singh Sigriwal and a local mukhiya, Ajit Kumar Singh, at a flood relief camp in Siwan district on Saturday. The members of the team visited the flood relief camp at Pakauli on Sunday and collected information about the clash. At least 12 people were injured in the clash, which took place in the presence of Sigriwal. The situation was brought under after the intervention of senior police officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/probe-begins-into-clash-at-siwan-flood-relief-camp/articleshow/77450706.cms||Ramashankar
August 10, 2020||Patna||Fresh plan to redevelop five stations under ECR||PATNA: At least five major stations falling under the East Central Railway (ECR) have been shortlisted by the Railway Board for their overall redevelopment as well as granting them status of world-class stations. The Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) has been assigned the task to execute the plan at the earliest. These stations are Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Muzaffarpur, Gaya, Begusarai and Singrauli. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, these stations will be redeveloped under the private- public partnership (PPP) mode. Railways will develop these stations from commercial point of view. Restaurants, shopping areas and food plaza will be developed to help railways earn more revenue, he said. As per the blueprint, railways has decided to develop these stations on the pattern of an airport, providing separate space and concourse for the exit and entry of passengers. Each platform is to be provided with escalator and ATM facilities. Besides, there will be no movement of parcel luggage trolleys on platforms, he said. The parking areas of these stations are to be linked directly to platforms. Railways will also ensure hotel facility to passengers while there will be a separate booth for the medical assistance in emergency. Internet, well furnished waiting rooms or lounges, washrooms and cafeteria are the parts of the plan, Kumar said. According to sources, the old railway plan to create world-class stations has been dovetailed with the new plan to improve passenger amenities for commercial purposes. Trains diverted: Railways has diverted the routes of Darbhanga-New Delhi special (02565) and Darbhanga-Ahmedabad special (09166) via Darbhanga-Sitamarhi-Muzaffarpur instead of its original Darbhanga-Samastipur-Muzaffarpur route due to floodwaters inundating the tracks on the Darbhanga-Samastipur route. The Jayanagar-Amritsar (04649) and Darbhanga-Lokmanya Tilak (01062) special have been short-terminated at Samastipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fresh-plan-to-redevelop-five-stations-under-ecr/articleshow/77450611.cms||Kumod Verma
August 10, 2020||Patna||Passenger footfall at city airport up 9.8% in July||PATNA: Footfall of passengers at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport (JPNI) here increased by 9.8% in July when compared to June. The number of flyers saw a jump despite the state government imposing lockdown to contain spread of Covid-19. As per the data shared by Patna airport director Bhupesh C H Negi, altogether 1,49,784 flyers either departed from or arrived at the city airport in July. The passenger footfall at the airport was 1,36,300 in June and just 18,866 in May. The number of domestic flights at Patna airport increased from 236 in May to 1,186 in June and 1,313 in July. “The passenger footfall increased after resumption of domestic flight operations. Our focus is on winning passengers’ confidence. Extension of existing terminal building and construction of new terminal building are also in full swing,” the Patna airport tweeted on Sunday. With the rise in number of flyers, maintaining social distancing amid Covid pandemic inside the terminal building will be a challenge for the Airports Authority of India (AAI)-Patna. Negi, however, said once the super structure on the eastern side of the airport is ready by August 15, maintaining social distancing would not be an issue. “The AAI-Patna is following all Covid protocols in the existing terminal building and it will be followed in the new area of the terminal building as well,” he added. With the completion of ongoing extension and modification work, the annual passenger handling capacity of the terminal building will increase to 2.5 million passengers per annum (mppa) from existing 0.7 mppa. After addition of the new areas, number of check-in counters will increase to 20 from existing 16. Similarly, number of registered baggage X-ray machines will increase to four from three, number of hand baggage X-ray machines will increase to five from three and number of male/female frisking booths will also increase. Patna airport is presently handling 29 flights, including 13 of IndiGo, eight of SpiceJet, four of GoAir and two each of Air India and Vistara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/passenger-footfall-at-city-airport-up-9-8-in-july/articleshow/77450561.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 10, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi holds meeting with senior RJD netas at party office||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav held a meeting with senior RJD functionaries at the party office here on Sunday, a day after Congress incharge for Bihar Shaktisinh Gohil’s meeting with the functionaries of the grand old party. RJD state president Jagadanand Singh and general secretary Alok Mehta were among the prominent party netas who attended the meeting. Mehta said it was a routine meeting in which the situation arising out of Covid-19 pandemic and floods was discussed. Meanwhile, insiders in the RJD said the party would raise the issue of murder of Ramashray Singh Kushwaha in Gopalganj district in the upcoming assembly polls. The RJD had earlier demanded a CBI probe into Kushwaha’s murder. Kushwaha was shot dead by unidentified armed criminals when he had gone to supervise the construction work of a cold storage and a petrol pump near Khajuraho under the Bhore police station area in Gopalganj in June last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-holds-meeting-with-senior-rjd-netas-at-party-office/articleshow/77450677.cms||Ramashankar
August 10, 2020||Meerut||Two men caught for looting silver & cash from Meerut jewelry store||Meerut: Two men were arrested for allegedly decamping with 20kg silver and Rs 15,000 in cash from a jewelry store in the district on Sunday. The arrests came two-and-a-half hours after an FIR was filed at Delhi Gate police station reporting the theft. The thieves had decamped with the jewelry and cash on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday.Meerut SSP Ajay Sahni said, “A police team was deployed to crack the case. Within two-and-a-half hours of the FIR being filed, they were able to arrest both accused, and seized 20kg silver and Rs 6,000 of the stolen amount in cash from their possession. The accused were identified as Suraj and Saurabh Kumar — both residents of Brahmpuri. An FIR has been filed under relevant sections of IPC, and the accused have been sent to jail.”The police team that cracked the case was awarded Rs 25,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-men-caught-for-looting-silver-cash-from-meerut-jewelry-store/articleshow/77450542.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 10, 2020||Mysuru||Quit India anniversary observed||Mysuru: The city observed 78th anniversary of Quit India movement on Sunday. A function was organised at the Freedom Fighters Memorial at Subbarayana Kere, wherein freedom fighters recalled the events that led to India’s independence. At a function organised at the Congress Bhavan, former MLA MK Somashekhar remembered the contribution of the Congress and sacrifice of freedom fighters towards India achieving independence from colonial powers. He said Quit India movement was an important milestone in the freedom struggle wherein Mahatma Gandhi gave a clarion call to countrymen to drive away the British from the country. He criticized the BJP for overlooking the contribution of the Congress in nation building. He alleged that BJP is distorting history by dropping lessons on secular and democratic values in textbooks for students. He also alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is following a divide and rule policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/quit-india-anniversary-observed/articleshow/77450761.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput case: Not joining CBI probe, says Patna SP Vinay Tiwari||PATNA: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday refuted reports that it has roped in Patna SP (central) Vinay Tiwari for investigating Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s alleged suicide case. Even Tiwari described the reports as fake. “Neither I have requested for central deputation nor the CBI has communicated anything in this regard to me,” Tiwari told TOI. CBI spokesperson R K Gaur told TOI over phone from Delhi that no such development has taken place. Tiwari had returned to Patna on August 7 midnight after the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation released from home quarantine in Mumbai. Tiwari had gone to Mumbai on August 2 to lead the Patna police team in its probe into Sushant case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/not-joining-cbi-probe-says-city-sp/articleshow/77450578.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||CM launches 41 projects for tribal areas||Jaipur: On the occasion of World Tribal Day, chief minister Ashok Gehlot launched 41 projects under tribal area development (TAD) department amounting to Rs 127 crore. Gehlot blamed the Centre for the delay in completion of broad gauge railway line from Ratlam to Dungarpur via Banswara. He also announced the opening of a 50-bed capacity hostel for tribal students in Jaisalmer.Arjun Singh Bamnia, minister of state (MOS) for tribal area development (TAD) said 10 talented students from tribal areas will be sent to New Delhi for preparation of UPSC examinations. He also said tournaments will be organized in tribal areas to showcase sports talent. Gehlot said hostels will also be opened in Barmer and Jodhpur for the tribal students. "A coaching centre will be opened for tribal students in Jodhpur as well so that they can prepare for competitive examinations," he said.With a view to promote development in tribal areas, Gehlot laid the foundation stone of 28 projects (amounting to Rs 98.7 crore) and launched 13 other projects amounting to Rs 20.09 crore through a video conference from Jaisalmer. "During our previous term, the state government had given Rs 200 crore to the Railways for the broad gauge line from Ratlam to Dungarpur via Banswara. Land was also acquired for the project. The then UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi laid its foundation stone, but with the change in government at the Centre, the work remained incomplete," said Gehlot. While launching the projects, the CM said, a state holiday has been declared on the World Tribal Day honouring the sentiments of the tribal population in Rajasthan. "Our aim is to discuss the problems of the tribal society on this day, discuss the achievements made so far, and decide on the future plans," he said.Gehlot remembered Mavji Maharaj, Govind Guru, Virbala Kalibai and the martyrs of Mangarh on this day. He assured that there will be no let-up in the development of roads, supply of power and water, promoting education and providing health facilities in the tribal areas of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-launches-41-projects-for-tribal-areas/articleshow/77452796.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Dehradun||Nepalese Army accelerates work on Darchula-Tinkar road||PITHORAGARH: A company of Nepalese Army reached Darchula (in Nepal) during the weekend to accelerate the construction of the strategically-important Mahakali corridor, from Brahmdev (in Kanchanpur area of Nepal) to Tinkar, near the China border. Sources told TOI that personnel of the Nepalese Army’s engineering unit arrived at the site on Saturday for carrying out survey work and geographical observation of the route, after which the construction work will be accelerated. As reported by TOI earlier, soon after India inaugurated an almost 80-km-long road built by the Indian Army to connect Dharchula (in Pithoragarh) with Lipulekh near the China border in May this year, Nepal had also deployed its Army to construct the long-pending Darchula-Tinkar road. The 127-km-long road had been in the works since 2008. However, in 12 years only 40-km of the road was constructed by the private contractor deployed for the job. Consequently, the construction of the remaining 87 km was handed over to the Nepalese Army this year, as per sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nepalese-army-accelerates-work-on-darchula-tinkar-road/articleshow/77449732.cms||Prem Punetha
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Youth Cong launches ‘Rozgar Do’ campaign on social media||Jaipur: The state Youth Congress on Sunday (August 9), the foundation day of Indian Youth Congress (IYC), ran a ‘Rozgar Do’ campaign on social media attacking the Centre over rising unemployment and job losses due to lockdown. They demanded that all the vacancies under the central government must be filled. The social media campaign on Twitter was trending at no. 2 in India.The campaign was launched on various social media platforms, including Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. They demanded immediate start of recruitment process to fill the vacant posts in all departments under the central government. They also demanded that privatization of railways and other public sector undertakings (PSU) be stopped. Unemployed youths who lost their jobs due to the ‘mismanaged lockdown’ must be provided financial assistance, they demanded."Stop abolishing posts in government departments and the recruitments stuck in court cases should be resolved immediately," they further demanded."The youths in the country are worried about their future. I appeal to the central government to create as many job opportunities as possible in this crisis situation," said minister Udai Lal Anjana in a video message. Another minister Saleh Mohammad stating that Prime Minister Narendra Modi didn’t keep the promise of providing jobs, urged the youths to continue their struggle till the demands are met.Chief spokesperson of state Youth Congress Ayush Bhardwaj said 20,000 Group A posts, 90,000 Group B posts and over 6 lakh Group C posts are vacant in the central government. Besides, more than 2.5 lakh posts are vacant in the Indian Railways. "33% of skilled youth are without employment in the country. Instead of increasing the posts under UPSC from 2,000 to 3,000, they have reduced it to around 800-900. The central government has fooled the unemployed youth by starting backdoor entry of corporate personnel in civil services," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-cong-launches-rozgar-do-campaign-on-social-media/articleshow/77452797.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: 792 new patients, nine deaths in Haryana in a day||CHANDIGARH: As many as 792 new patients and nine deaths, which included five from Yamuanangar, on Sunday took Haryana’s overall Covid-19 count to 41,635, with total deaths 483. Faridabad also crossed the 10,000 mark to occupy the top slot in the state. Meanwhile, 750 recoveries took the overall recoveries to 34,781, which improved the recovery rate in the state to 83.54% and doubling rate at 28 days. Now, there are total 6,371 active patients, including 147 critical patients. At present, 122 are on oxygen support, and 25 on ventilator support. Faridabad reported maximum 150 new patients and one death. It took the overall tally of the district to 10,129, with 141 deaths. In addition, 187 persons got discharged from hospitals and overall recovery in the district has gone up to 9,155. Now, there are 833 active patients. Karnal emerged as second hotspot with 93 new patients. The district total has gone up to 1,302. Gurugram recorded third highest with 80 patients. Here, the tally has gone up to 9,728, with 125 cases. There are 662 active patients in the district. In Panipat, 55 new patients were detected and the total went up to 1,617. Sonipat reported 53 new patients and one death. Here, the total has gone up to 3,209. 48 new patients have been reported from Sirsa, and 43 new patients and five deaths are reported from Yamunanangar district. In Rewari, 42 new patients took the overall total of the district to 2,157. Kurukshetra recorded 39 new patients with two deaths. Here the total has gone up to 686. Palwal had 37 new patients, followed by 32 in Panchkula. Mahendergarh reported 27 new patients, where total has gone to 954. Hisar reported 20 new patients, where total has gone up to 1,145. Six new patients each have been reported from from Jind and Bhiwani districts followed by five from Kaithal, two from Nuh and one each from Jhajjar and Fatehabad The testing rate in Haryana had gone up to 29,352 tests per million per day, as total 7,44,080 persons have been tested so far. In addition, 84,334 persons have completed the quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/792-new-patients-nine-deaths-in-hry-in-a-day/articleshow/77457368.cms||Manvir Saini
August 10, 2020||Amritsar||Covid-19 claims 24 more lives in Punjab; 987 catch virus||CHANDIGARH: There seems no end to the high rate of Covid-19 deaths as Punjab reported 24 deaths on Sunday. So far, the virus has claimed 586 lives in the state. A total of 987 positive cases were reported from 20 districts of the state, taking the overall tally of cases to 23,903. Of new cases, 80.34% (793) cases were from five districts. The health department removed 12 entries — 11 duplicates cases and one shifted to Jammu and Kashmir — added in August 8 tally states. The virus claimed the lives of nine people in Ludhiana and four in Bathinda. Three deaths were reported in Bathinda and two each in Jalandhar and Kapurthala and one each in Mohali, Sangrur, Barnala and Gurdaspur. A total of 22 patients in critical condition are on ventilator and 131 on oxygen support. Ludhiana continued to report the highest number of cases for 13th day in running. Of the total 987 cases, 316 were from Ludhiana. Of them, 68 were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Ludhiana was followed by Patiala where 204 people were tested positive, and 79 in Jalandhar. In Amritsar, as many as 76 people were tested positive, 59 in Moga, 41 in Bathinda, 37 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 29 in Gurdaspur, 22 in Nawanshahr and 20 in Sangrur. In Ropar, 18 people were found to be infected with the virus, 16 in Ferozepur, 14 in Barnala, 12 in Kapurthala, seven in Pathankot, six each in Mansa and Tarn Taran. Five cases were added to the tally from Muktsar. As many as 459 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged 15,319.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/covid-19-claims-24-more-lives-in-pb-987-catch-virus/articleshow/77457197.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19 claims 24 more lives in Punjab; 987 catch virus||CHANDIGARH: There seems no end to the high rate of Covid-19 deaths as Punjab reported 24 deaths on Sunday. So far, the virus has claimed 586 lives in the state. A total of 987 positive cases were reported from 20 districts of the state, taking the overall tally of cases to 23,903. Of new cases, 80.34% (793) cases were from five districts. The health department removed 12 entries — 11 duplicates cases and one shifted to Jammu and Kashmir — added in August 8 tally states. The virus claimed the lives of nine people in Ludhiana and four in Bathinda. Three deaths were reported in Bathinda and two each in Jalandhar and Kapurthala and one each in Mohali, Sangrur, Barnala and Gurdaspur. A total of 22 patients in critical condition are on ventilator and 131 on oxygen support. Ludhiana continued to report the highest number of cases for 13th day in running. Of the total 987 cases, 316 were from Ludhiana. Of them, 68 were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Ludhiana was followed by Patiala where 204 people were tested positive, and 79 in Jalandhar. In Amritsar, as many as 76 people were tested positive, 59 in Moga, 41 in Bathinda, 37 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 29 in Gurdaspur, 22 in Nawanshahr and 20 in Sangrur. In Ropar, 18 people were found to be infected with the virus, 16 in Ferozepur, 14 in Barnala, 12 in Kapurthala, seven in Pathankot, six each in Mansa and Tarn Taran. Five cases were added to the tally from Muktsar. As many as 459 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged 15,319.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-claims-24-more-lives-in-pb-987-catch-virus/articleshow/77452799.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: One more cop commits suicide; sixth in two months||JAIPUR: A 29-year-old police constable committed suicide in Sikar’s Dhod police station area by drowning himself in a water tank in Binjasi village on Sunday morning. Constable Yogindra Singh’s body was found in the tank after the family found him missing from his room. Amit Kumar, SHO, Dhod police station, told TOI, "For the last 6-7 months, the constable was on medical leave and was apparently undergoing treatment for depression. On Sunday morning, when the family members went to his room, he was missing and later they found him in the water tank within their home’s premises." The deceased constable had been posted in Bhankrota police station before he went on leave and had been in the force for the past six years. "The family informed us around 6.30am and we immediately went to the spot and took him to the hospital where he was declared dead," added the official. Family members said Yogindra was engaged and was to get married in the coming days. He was one amongst the four siblings and had a brother serving in the Border Security Force (BSF). In less than two months, six police personnel have committed suicide in Rajasthan, with the last one being in Kota over a month ago. Senior cops are concerned about the sudden cluster nature of these cases. With no confirmed reasons for any of the suicides so far, the police administration claimed that they are looking at ways to deal with the matter, which has cropped up at a stage when lockdown is being eased in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-more-cop-commits-suicide-6th-in-two-months/articleshow/77452804.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Brothers kill, rob sister after Rakhi||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch on Sunday detained two brothers Sajijul Shaikh, 40, and his younger brother Rojoali Shaikh, 27, both from Ramol, for allegedly killing their elder sister Souki alias Mira Ramswaroop Sadhu, 45, at her apartment in Sarita Residency, Ramol on Aug, 4. Senior superintendent of police, crime branch, Deepan Bhadran said that it is an irony that the two younger brothers had planned the murder using the pretext of tying Rakhi to visit her at her home. “They tied Rakhi, had tea made by their elder sister and then stabbed her to death. They then broke open the wooden cupboard and robbed gold and silver jewellery worth Rs 6 lakh,” Bhadran said. “The duo had met on August 2, and decided to kill their sister because they thought that because of Souki, Sajijul’s wife had divorced him and now he was not getting another girl to marry. They thought if this continues the younger brother will also not get a bride. Souki had two interfaith marriages, one with Rakesh Nepali and later when Nepali died, with Ramswaroop Sadhu. Hence they decided to kill her and loot the jewellery, which they knew she used keep in a wooden cupboard,” added Bhadran. ACP crime branch, B V Gohil said that the brothers had brought their elder sister Souki to Ahmedabad from Kolkata and there was continued dispute in their house over her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/brothers-kill-rob-sister-after-rakhi/articleshow/77451608.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: 792 new patients, nine deaths in Haryana in a day||CHANDIGARH: As many as 792 new patients and nine deaths, which included five from Yamuanangar, on Sunday took Haryana’s overall Covid-19 count to 41,635, with total deaths 483. Faridabad also crossed the 10,000 mark to occupy the top slot in the state. Meanwhile, 750 recoveries took the overall recoveries to 34,781, which improved the recovery rate in the state to 83.54% and doubling rate at 28 days. Now, there are total 6,371 active patients, including 147 critical patients. At present, 122 are on oxygen support, and 25 on ventilator support. Faridabad reported maximum 150 new patients and one death. It took the overall tally of the district to 10,129, with 141 deaths. In addition, 187 persons got discharged from hospitals and overall recovery in the district has gone up to 9,155. Now, there are 833 active patients. Karnal emerged as second hotspot with 93 new patients. The district total has gone up to 1,302. Gurugram recorded third highest with 80 patients. Here, the tally has gone up to 9,728, with 125 cases. There are 662 active patients in the district. In Panipat, 55 new patients were detected and the total went up to 1,617. Sonipat reported 53 new patients and one death. Here, the total has gone up to 3,209. 48 new patients have been reported from Sirsa, and 43 new patients and five deaths are reported from Yamunanangar district. In Rewari, 42 new patients took the overall total of the district to 2,157. Kurukshetra recorded 39 new patients with two deaths. Here the total has gone up to 686. Palwal had 37 new patients, followed by 32 in Panchkula. Mahendergarh reported 27 new patients, where total has gone to 954. Hisar reported 20 new patients, where total has gone up to 1,145. Six new patients each have been reported from from Jind and Bhiwani districts followed by five from Kaithal, two from Nuh and one each from Jhajjar and Fatehabad The testing rate in Haryana had gone up to 29,352 tests per million per day, as total 7,44,080 persons have been tested so far. In addition, 84,334 persons have completed the quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/792-new-patients-nine-deaths-in-hry-in-a-day/articleshow/77457370.cms||Manvir Saini
August 10, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: Himachal Pradesh reports 107 positive cases, 1 death||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh on Sunday reported 107 fresh cases of Covid-19, with maximum 23 recorded in Chamba district, while one patient died in the last 24 hours. Total 100 patients also recovered during the day. The latest figures take the count of positive cases in the state so far to 3,371, of which 1,149 are active cases, while 2,181 patients have recovered, 13 persons died and 26 migrated out of Himachal. Health officials said a 74-year-old patient from Hamirpur district, who was also suffering from kidney-related diseases, passed away at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital in Mandi late Saturday night. Other than Chamba, 14 new cases surfaced in Mandi district, 13 in Hamirpur district, 11 each in Sirmaur and Solan districts, 9 cases each in Bilaspur and Kangra districts, 7 cases in Shimla district and 5 each in Kullu and Una districts. Among the patients recovering during the day were from Bilaspur (4), Hamirpur (10), Kangra (7), Kinnaur (5), Kullu (4), Mandi (5), Shimla (3), Sirmaur (36), Solan (22) and Una (4). So far, 165,496 persons have been tested for Covid-19 in the state, of whom 161,538 have tested negative, while the results of 587 samples were awaited. Solan district has seen maximum 822 positive cases in the state, of which 332 are active cases, 474 recovered, while 16 moved out of the state. Kangra recorded the second-highest cases at 529, out of which 107 are active cases, 417 recovered, 3 died and 2 moved out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-reports-107-positive-cases-1-death/articleshow/77452810.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 792 new patients, nine deaths in Haryana in a day||CHANDIGARH: As many as 792 new patients and nine deaths, which included five from Yamuanangar, on Sunday took Haryana’s overall Covid-19 count to 41,635, with total deaths 483. Faridabad also crossed the 10,000 mark to occupy the top slot in the state. Meanwhile, 750 recoveries took the overall recoveries to 34,781, which improved the recovery rate in the state to 83.54% and doubling rate at 28 days. Now, there are total 6,371 active patients, including 147 critical patients. At present, 122 are on oxygen support, and 25 on ventilator support. Faridabad reported maximum 150 new patients and one death. It took the overall tally of the district to 10,129, with 141 deaths. In addition, 187 persons got discharged from hospitals and overall recovery in the district has gone up to 9,155. Now, there are 833 active patients. Karnal emerged as second hotspot with 93 new patients. The district total has gone up to 1,302. Gurugram recorded third highest with 80 patients. Here, the tally has gone up to 9,728, with 125 cases. There are 662 active patients in the district. In Panipat, 55 new patients were detected and the total went up to 1,617. Sonipat reported 53 new patients and one death. Here, the total has gone up to 3,209. 48 new patients have been reported from Sirsa, and 43 new patients and five deaths are reported from Yamunanangar district. In Rewari, 42 new patients took the overall total of the district to 2,157. Kurukshetra recorded 39 new patients with two deaths. Here the total has gone up to 686. Palwal had 37 new patients, followed by 32 in Panchkula. Mahendergarh reported 27 new patients, where total has gone to 954. Hisar reported 20 new patients, where total has gone up to 1,145. Six new patients each have been reported from from Jind and Bhiwani districts followed by five from Kaithal, two from Nuh and one each from Jhajjar and Fatehabad The testing rate in Haryana had gone up to 29,352 tests per million per day, as total 7,44,080 persons have been tested so far. In addition, 84,334 persons have completed the quarantine period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/792-new-patients-nine-deaths-in-hry-in-a-day/articleshow/77452805.cms||Manvir Saini
August 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 claims 24 more lives in Punjab; 987 catch virus||CHANDIGARH: There seems no end to the high rate of Covid-19 deaths as Punjab reported 24 deaths on Sunday. So far, the virus has claimed 586 lives in the state. A total of 987 positive cases were reported from 20 districts of the state, taking the overall tally of cases to 23,903. Of new cases, 80.34% (793) cases were from five districts. The health department removed 12 entries — 11 duplicates cases and one shifted to Jammu and Kashmir — added in August 8 tally states. The virus claimed the lives of nine people in Ludhiana and four in Bathinda. Three deaths were reported in Bathinda and two each in Jalandhar and Kapurthala and one each in Mohali, Sangrur, Barnala and Gurdaspur. A total of 22 patients in critical condition are on ventilator and 131 on oxygen support. Ludhiana continued to report the highest number of cases for 13th day in running. Of the total 987 cases, 316 were from Ludhiana. Of them, 68 were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Ludhiana was followed by Patiala where 204 people were tested positive, and 79 in Jalandhar. In Amritsar, as many as 76 people were tested positive, 59 in Moga, 41 in Bathinda, 37 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 29 in Gurdaspur, 22 in Nawanshahr and 20 in Sangrur. In Ropar, 18 people were found to be infected with the virus, 16 in Ferozepur, 14 in Barnala, 12 in Kapurthala, seven in Pathankot, six each in Mansa and Tarn Taran. Five cases were added to the tally from Muktsar. As many as 459 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged 15,319.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-claims-24-more-lives-in-pb-987-catch-virus/articleshow/77457195.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jammu||Covid-19 claims 24 more lives in Punjab; 987 catch virus||CHANDIGARH: There seems no end to the high rate of Covid-19 deaths as Punjab reported 24 deaths on Sunday. So far, the virus has claimed 586 lives in the state. A total of 987 positive cases were reported from 20 districts of the state, taking the overall tally of cases to 23,903. Of new cases, 80.34% (793) cases were from five districts. The health department removed 12 entries — 11 duplicates cases and one shifted to Jammu and Kashmir — added in August 8 tally states. The virus claimed the lives of nine people in Ludhiana and four in Bathinda. Three deaths were reported in Bathinda and two each in Jalandhar and Kapurthala and one each in Mohali, Sangrur, Barnala and Gurdaspur. A total of 22 patients in critical condition are on ventilator and 131 on oxygen support. Ludhiana continued to report the highest number of cases for 13th day in running. Of the total 987 cases, 316 were from Ludhiana. Of them, 68 were co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Ludhiana was followed by Patiala where 204 people were tested positive, and 79 in Jalandhar. In Amritsar, as many as 76 people were tested positive, 59 in Moga, 41 in Bathinda, 37 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 29 in Gurdaspur, 22 in Nawanshahr and 20 in Sangrur. In Ropar, 18 people were found to be infected with the virus, 16 in Ferozepur, 14 in Barnala, 12 in Kapurthala, seven in Pathankot, six each in Mansa and Tarn Taran. Five cases were added to the tally from Muktsar. As many as 459 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged 15,319.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/covid-19-claims-24-more-lives-in-pb-987-catch-virus/articleshow/77459146.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s first law university to function from this year||JAIPUR: The state’s first dedicated law university named after Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar (DBAU) set to start its academic session from this year. Initially announced in 2012 by then Congress government, the university faced closure in 2017 without any academic session. It was re-announced in 2019 has been given charge of all 88 Law colleges in the state. The maiden year will see the start of one year LLM course from its campus at Jamwaramgarh in Jaipur. “We are intending to start the fully residential course from this year. From the next year onwards, more courses will be added and strength of students will increase,” said Dev Swaroop, vice chancellor of DBAU. The LLM course is being designed with the help of noted legal luminaries and law academicians. “It is going to have modern-day subjects like Cyber Law, International Law, Environment Law and use of latest technology to make our grads employable for years to come,” said Swaroop. Highlighting the importance, Swaroop says that the university aspires to transform legal education in the state. “Our work will start from the basics to ensure that all law colleges follow the rules: the required number of faculties and facilities for students as per the Bar Council of India and standardizing of the syllabus. Moving from here we intend to collaborate with the best legal institutes like National Law Schools for continuous enhancement of courses, teachers training and students exchange,” said Swaroop. He further added that act as a resource centre for all the law colleges of the state for their academic improvements also academic calendar will be regulated and necessary examination reforms will be introduced with the help of ICT  “The faculties and students will study all-important laws in the state and evaluate keeping its utility and effectiveness in providing relief to the last man standing,” said Swaroop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/states-first-law-univ-to-function-from-this-year/articleshow/77452811.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Bar on def imports: Unions see red, pvt cos ready with foreign tie-ups||Nagpur: The government’s move to impose an embargo on import of 101 defence items has evoked sharp criticism from a section of unions in the ordnance factories, which feel it may only end up helping the private sector. The unions have already served a strike notice over the government’s plan to corporatize the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB). The private sector, on the other hand, sees a major opportunity, as companies are ready with foreign collaborations to start production in India. A source in Kalyani Group venture Bharat Forge said the company is planning to come up with a project to make small arms ammunition from 5.56mm calibre onwards. The company has worked out tie ups with Australian and Bulgarian manufacturers for the project and an announcement may be made soon. The group is already into making artillery guns. The 155mm howitzer made on the basis of DRDO design is due for trials, which have been held up because of the lockdown and other restrictions on account of Covid. The new policy can also bring opportunities for making naval guns and close in weapon system, said the official. Wing Commander (retd) Rajesh Dhingra, CEO of Reliance Defence, which has a major set up in Nagpur, said, “The group already has its global tie ups, which can be taken up for production in India. Based on the technological platform available from abroad, products can be customized to Indian needs. The policy is expected to give a major fillip to the Indian industry, boosting domestic production.” Satyanarayan Nuwal, chairman of Solar Industries, which has interests in ammunition manufacture, said the policy will create space for more private players in the segment. Solar Industries is already into making Pinaka rockets, and 30mm ammunition, which are in trial stage at present. Another project on hand grenades is also underway. The policy will give an opportunity for Indian businesses to develop their own technology too, he said. “The ordnance factories have the capacity and technology to make a number of items in the list but there are not enough orders from the Master General Ordnance (MGO) of the Army. The move to bar imports will lead to private sector companies that have got licences to make defence items moving in. With 74% FDI allowed in the sector, the companies can tie up with foreign entities and start assembling in India,” said C Srikumar, general secretary of All India Defence Workers Federation (AIDEF). The government had come up with a public procurement preference to Make in India in June 2017. Under this, 127 items were notified and another 26 were added in May 2020. The local suppliers will have to be given preference for purchases of these items. The government should also specifically include OFB in the preference list where we have the capacity to manufacture items, said Mukesh Singh, general secretary of Bhartiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh (BPMS), the RSS affiliated union. Singh said the BPMS welcomes the decision to bar imports as it will boost indigenization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bar-on-def-imports-unions-see-red-pvt-cos-ready-with-foreign-tie-ups/articleshow/77452809.cms||Shishir Arya
August 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||General edu in dark over current student strength||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Covid-19 has not only kept students away from schools, it also has put the state government in dark about the exact number of students currently part of general education system. Since the broadcast and online classes have been introduced only as an interim arrangement till the physical reopening of schools, education department has not yet been able to take the final count of students present in each class in government and aided schools in the state. As per the provisions in Kerala Education Rules (KER), the final strength of students in every government and aided school is assessed on the sixth working day after the school reopening. Since schools are not officially open, the process could not begin yet. “The trend shows that there is significant increase in the number of students who have joined in government and aided schools this time. Definitely there is a palpable increase in admission to Class I. But, a final figure regarding the number of students is yet to be ascertained,” said KITE CEO Anvar Sadath. KITE had facilitated online facility for students to seek admission. Admissions are mainly to first and fifth and eighth standards in government and aided schools. According to last year’s figures, there were a little over 33 lakh students in schools that provide public education in Kerala. A random checking of the Aadhaar details of students found that the unique ID of at least 99,963 students was either fake or wrong. Though finance inspection wing has started a probe, it hasn’t reached anywhere and the state government is yet to take strict action against anybody in this connection, causing drain of public funds and other resources. As the number of teaching posts in each school is approved on the basis of the student strength, there is significant delay in assessing addition and deletion of teaching posts this year. “Officially, schools are not yet open, nor we do know when the reopening would be possible. Till then, we have to go by last year’s figures,” said general education secretary A Shajahan. Other than the teaching posts, the allocation of food grains and supplements for non-meal programme are also decided on the basis of the student strength. However, the Union government has agreed to go by the last year’s figure till the schools are open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/general-edu-in-dark-over-current-student-strength/articleshow/77450594.cms||B S Anilkumar
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Heroin worth Rs 15 crore seized in Barmer||JAISALMER: The police seized 2.740 kilogram of heroin worth Rs 15 crore and arrested two persons in Barmer on Sunday. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said during interrogation of accused in fake note case, one Khandu Khan was also involved in it and on Sunday his house was searched in which police recovered 1.740kg heroin in two polythene bags. When he was inquired he told that his neighbour Moolaram Jat had given him the heroin on which police searched Jat’s house and recovered 1kg heroin and arrested him, he said. In counterfeit notes and heroin smuggling cases, the police so far have arrested seven persons, including a minor. The accused are being inquired about the source of heroin and involvement of other people in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heroin-worth-rs-15cr-seized-in-barmer/articleshow/77452822.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Forest department to roll out plan for conservation of turtles||JAIPUR: The forest department will launch a plan for conservation of turtles in the state. Protecting nine species and their nesting on Chambal River bank in Sawai Madhopur and Dholpur districts will be primary focus areas. Red crowned roof turtle and three-striped roof turtle are listed as ‘critically endangered’ in the International Union of Conservation of Nature (IUCN)’s red list. Deputy conservator of forest, National Chambal Gharial Wildlife Sanctuary, Furqan Ali said, “For the conservation of turtles (hard shell and soft shell), a proposal to establish a network of hatcheries at four locations has been mooted. The proposal has been forwarded to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC). We are expecting the approval from the ministry in October,” he said. Once the proposal receives a green signal, the project will be set up on (60:40) cost sharing pattern. “While 60% cost will be borne by the state government, the Centre would provide 40% share to set up the hatcheries proposed at three locations in Dholpur and one at Palighat at Chambal,” added Ali. The plan aims to protect rich aquatic biodiversity of the river and preserve all those species which act as natural cleaning agents. Many turtles, being carnivorous, can help scavenging and naturally aid in cleaning the river water. If started, this will be the first onsite turtle egg protection programme in the state. Harimohan Meena, biologist working at Chambal, said that in different seasons, different turtle species nest along the banks of the river. In the past, major threat to the nests of these turtles were poaching of nests, predation of hatchlings by dogs and other animals. “As per the proposal, the conservation plan will include locating turtle nesting sites in a scientific manner, excavation, and relocation of eggs to the hatchery site. To protect eggs from predators and poaching a net garden fencing will be erected to protect the hatchery,” he said. Forest officials claimed that the project is cost effective and one hatchery at site could be developed after spending Rs 2 lakh. “It would also generate employment for locals as community participation will be involved for managing turtle hatchery sites, locating and relocating of turtle nests,” said an official. The turtle species which are included in this conservation plan are crowned river, Indian tent turtle, Indian roofed, Indian narrow-headed soft shell, Indian softshell, Indian peacock softshell and Indian flapshell turtle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forest-dept-to-roll-out-plan-for-conservation-of-turtles/articleshow/77452816.cms||Ajay Singh
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Minor gangraped in Dausa by five; three arrested||JAIPUR: A 17-year-old hearing and speech impaired girl was gangraped allegedly by five persons in Dausa’s Lalsot police station area on August 4. Senior police officers including Jaipur IG S Sengathir reaching Dausa to take stock of the situation “We received information on Saturday night that a minor had been gangraped following which we started investigation and found that the she had been sexually assaulted by five persons who had been named in the FIR. According to the complaint, the girl was walking to a store in the village when the accused took her in their vehicle on the pretext of taking her to a temple following which each of them took turns to rape her,” said Sengathir. According to information, the accused kidnapped the girl around 11 am and dumped her back in the village around 5 pm during which time they kept calling others to rape her. Through sources, cops found that two accused took her on the a and raped her near a temple and then called others to take advantage of the situation. Elaborating on the case, the IG said, “The girl’s mother had gone out of the village and returned on August 6 after which she realised that something was amiss. Getting any information from the child was difficult due to the challenges which the minor was facing but she still gave us the names of the accused who all were from the same village as her.” Cops arrested three out of the five while the hunt is on for the remaining two. A case of gangrape, abduction as well as under POCSO Act has been registered. The minor’s medical examination was done and doctors claimed that fortunately she did not suffer any major injuries, claimed officials. On Sunday, the issue gained traction when leaders of the opposition met the girl’s family who claimed the cops did not register FIR and it gave time for the accused to get away. Sengathir said, “We registered the FIR as soon as we received information.” BJP leaders have threatened a mass agitation if all the accused are not arrested by August 15. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Shocking: Hearing and speech impaired minor girl abducted, gang-raped in Rajasthan's Dausa||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-gangraped-in-dausa-by-five-3-arrested/articleshow/77452813.cms||Yeshika Budhwar
August 10, 2020||Goa||Goa Dairy may hike milk procurement rate||Ponda: Though the Covid-19 pandemic has largely affected most businesses, milk farmers in Goa have something to cheer about as the Goa Dairy is likely hike the rates of milk procurement from September. A source from Goa Dairy has revealed that though a formal decision has not been taken, the administrative committee is seriously mulling over hiking the rates by Rs 1.5 per litre of milk supplied by a farmer to the dairy. If the milk rate is hiked by Rs 1.5 per litre, then the dairy will have to shoulder the burden of Rs 1 lakh daily. However, the source TOI ruled out the possibility of a hike in the selling price of milk. Last year, from August 2019, the dairy had increased the procurement rates of cow milk by Rs 2 a litre and buffalo milk by Rs 7 a litre from July 2019. Presently, the farmers get Rs 28.14 for milk with 3.5% fat and 8.5% SNF (solids not fat), Rs 29.57 for milk with 4% fat and 8.5% SNF, Rs 31 for milk with 4.5% fat and 8.5% SNF, Rs 32.44 for milk with 5% fat and 8.5% SNF, and Rs 33.51 for milk with 5% fat and 9% SNF. The source told TOI that the cooperative union procures around 60,000 litres of cow milk per day from local farmers and a tanker of around 13,000 litres of high fat milk on every alternative day from Karnataka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-dairy-may-hike-milk-procurement-rate/articleshow/77453295.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||BJP shifting MLAs due to chinks in its ranks: Rajasthan CM||JAISALMER: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday criticised the BJP for shifting Rajasthan MLAs to different locations, including Gujarat, and claimed that the opposition party was riddled with factionalism. The BJP has been herding its MLAs in hotels and resorts since Friday ahead of the assembly session on August 14. Gehlot, while defending the stay of Congress legislators at two hotels in Jaisalmer, said the ruling party was required to keep them together to thwart horse-trading of MLAs by the BJP. “Why is BJP worried? It is fencing its MLAs at three-four locations, in a selective manner. I can see friction in them,” Gehlot told reporters at the Jaisalmer airport. The chief minister alleged that the BJP was trying to topple his government at a time when he was making efforts to save lives amid the corona pandemic. Speaking through video conferencing at a function of the tribal area development department, Gehlot reiterated that conspiracies were hatched to topple his government. “The current one is the third attempt. The earlier two attempts were in March and June in the run up to Rajya Sabha polls,” Gehlot said. Naming Union ministers Amit Shah, Dharmendra Pradhan and Piyush Goyal once again, the chief minister said, “They all are conspiring. It is the country's misfortune that such people, who want to weaken democracy, are in power.” The CM said that this fight to save democracy will continue even after August 14. “We will win, the truth will win. The victory will be of the people and of all those MLAs who, whether they are in government or in the opposition, do not want the state government to be unstable,” Gehlot said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-shifting-mlas-due-to-chinks-in-its-ranks-cm/articleshow/77452817.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat revenue minister’s brother found hanging at home in Shilaj||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat revenue minister Kaushik Patel’s brother Gautam Patel, 63, was found hanging in his room at his home in Shilaj on Sunday morning. No suicide note was found, police said. Bopal police have registered a case of accidental death. Ahmedabad rural DSP K T Kamaria said Gautam had a chemical and pharmaceutical firm in Khambhat town of Anand district. He is survived by his wife, son and daughter-in-law. His daughter stays in London, said a police officer. “Cops have also inquired whether he had any financial crisis or any mental or physical issues, but nothing was found,” said Ahmedbad rural SP Virendra Yadav. Yadav said Gautam’s wife Kalpana spotted him first. “Usually, he would come for prayers at around 10.30am every day, but as he did not come on Sunday, his wife went to his room and found him,” he said. A close friend of the family told TOI that Gautam was a very jovial person. “I am perplexed to learn he has commited suicide,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ministers-brother-found-hanging-at-home-in-shilaj/articleshow/77451669.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Meerut||Tempo driver attacks cops with hammer & rod, held in encounter||MEERUT: A tempo driver attacked cops with an iron rod and a hammer following an argument at a checkpoint in the city on Friday night and fled from the spot in Pallavpuram area. As the police probe began, the accused was identified as Neetu alias Harpal. A day after the incident, Neetu was arrested in an encounter where he sustained bullet injury in the leg. The incident took place on Lawar road in Pallavpuram area when the cops, after suspicion, signalled the tempo to stop. "As the tempo stopped briefly, one of the constables approached the driver and began asking routine questions," Digvijaynath Shahi, Pallavpuram SHO said. "The driver soon attacked constable Satish with an iron rod. He later attacked another constable Anil with a hammer in a bid to incapacitate them," the SHO added. The two constables - Satish and Anil - sustained serious injuries in the attack and are currently under medical observation at a city-based hospital. According to police, constable Satish has received 30 stitches while constable Anil sustained a fracture in his hand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/tempo-driver-attacks-cops-with-hammer-rod-held-in-encounter/articleshow/77450570.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rebels created ‘false impression’ on sedition charges: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAISALMER: Targeting the 19 Congress rebel legislators, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday claimed that they ‘falsely’ created an impression about his government slapping sedition charges against them. Gehlot said he too had received a notice from the special operations group (SOG), the probe agency that registered three FIRs for sedition last month. The SOG sent a similar notice to sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who was learnt to have told the Congress high command that the Gehlot-government was maliciously trying to prosecute him with grave charges like sedition. “But that was just for recording statements,” Gehlot said about the SOG notice issued on July 10. The CM was talking to reporters after reaching Jaisalmer from Jaipur on Sunday. Besides Gehlot and Pilot, the SOG notice was issued to Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi too. “These notices were projected in a manner as if sedition cases had been filed against these leaders (19 rebel MLAs),” said Gehlot. Contrary to the CM's claim, one rebel Congress MLA, Bhanwar Lal Sharma, was indeed booked for sedition, though the charge was dropped by the SOG last week. The three FIRs were booked on Joshi’s complaint that a conspiracy was on to topple the state government through horse-trading of MLAs. Gehlot, however, said the SOG wanted to talk to some MLAs in Manesar about the horse-trading issue but was not allowed. “The way the 19 MLAs have been cordoned off by deploying bouncers and as many as 200 people around them, is worrying. Even their family members are not allowed to meet them. The SOG and the ACB teams had gone to talk to them but were not permitted,” said Gehlot. The CM said that people in Rajasthan were angry at BJP as well as the rebel Congress MLAs. “Today there is anger in every household for the BJP leaders and for the leaders who belonged to our party but left (for Manesar). I believe the MLAs must be realising it now and most of them will come back with us,” said Gehlot. On the phone tapping row, the CM said it was part of a conspiracy aimed at misleading people and toppling the state government. Gehlot said his government was committed to not tap phones of anyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rebels-created-false-impression-on-sedition-charges-gehlot/articleshow/77452823.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Youth hangs self in Kota||KOTA: A 21-year-old youth hanged himself from the ceiling fan of his room in Akash Nagar under Borekheda police station area here on Saturday evening. Police handed over the body to family members on Sunday morning after the family members refused autopsy. No suicide note was recovered from his possession. Akshyaraj Singh hanged himself from the ceiling fan in his room on the third floor of his house where he was studying on Saturday evening, circle inspector of Borekheda police station Mahendra Meena said. When family members reached his room at night, he was found hanging after which he was immediately rushed to MBS Hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead, he added. The youth, after completing his studies, was preparing for a competitive exam, CI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/youth-hangs-self-in-kota/articleshow/77452829.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Missing woman found dead in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Kanota police is yet to find the cause of death of 53-year-old Mamta Bharadwaj who went missing from her home on August 4 and whose body was found in a sack, though they suspect that she was killed by the accused same day as she went missing. Her autopsy is yet to be done. The body was found in a highly decomposed state and almost beyond recognition though the cause and time of death will be confirmed after autopsy. Narendra Kumar Khichar, SHO, Kanota police station told TOI, “While the body was beyond recognition, after we checked that a woman matching the deceased’s description had been reported missing six-days back. Through the clothing on the deceased woman’s body, her son identified her.” Bharadwaj’s body was found in a plastic sack and it appears that she was killed elsewhere and the body dumped at the site where it was found.Cops claimed as it had been raining there was not much around the site where the body was found. “The area where the body was found is desolated and there is nothing in site for 100 metres because of which there are no CCTV cameras installed nearby. The sack had also blackened and there are no markings on it to give us clue as to where it was bought from. The family is also unable to give us any leads though the woman did not stay very far from where her body was found. She came from a middle-class background and till now we have found no evidence to indicate if there was any household conflicts,” said the SHO. The deceased’s autopsy could not be performed on Sunday also as her Covid-19 results were yet to arrive. Meanwhile, cops are looking it as murder and elaborating on the possibilities of motives, the official said, “Her autopsy will reveal many details including how she was killed and the time of death as well which could lead to suspects. There are many motives including if it was due to some sort of tantric worship but nothing can be confirmed as yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/missing-woman-found-dead/articleshow/77452828.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||152kg of doda post seized in 2 cases, 7 held||JAISALMER: The police have recovered 152 kilogram of doda post in two different cases in Jaisalmer on Sunday. Seven people have been arrested and a pistol, seven bullets have been recovered from them. A car and two other vehicles have also been seized. According to SP Ajay Singh, in the first case, Lathi police recovered 87 kilogram doda post, a pistol and seven bullets and arrested five smugglers and two vehicles. Police got a tip off that a Swift car was full of doda post and a Bolero camper was escorting it. They were heading to Jaisalmer via Khetolai range. Barricading was done at Khetolai. When the smugglers saw the barricading, they tried to move towards the highway and police chased and caught them. Driver of the car Surendra had waved pistol on the police, he further said. Singh said that five gunny bags containing 87 kilogram of doda post were recovered from the car along with an illegal pistol and seven bullets. Police seized both vehicles. In the second case, Singh said SHO Nokh Hanumanaram with team recovered 65 kilogram of doda post and arrested smugglers along with a vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/152kg-of-doda-post-seized-in-2-cases-7-held/articleshow/77452826.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Officials working on UK-India diplomatic relations in 1984 helped locate Op Bluestar papers’||Jalandhar: UK’s Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) has confirmed that “one or more officials who worked on UK/India diplomatic relations in 1984 helped locate and identify papers” for Jeremy Heywood’s review in 2014 into the allegations of UK involvement in Operation Bluestar in June 1984. UK-based independent researcher and journalist, who has procured the information after pursuing a court case under Freedom of Information for two and a half years, has said this information has now confirmed that officials with conflict of interest helped investigate Special Air Service (SAS) role in Operation Bluestar. Reacting to this disclosure, British MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi said, “This judgement vindicates the stance taken by the likes of myself and strengthens the Labour Party’s call for an independent inquiry to establish the extent of the Thatcher government’s involvement in the 1984 attack on the Darbar Sahib complex in Amritsar.” Dhesi has also praised Miller for his investigation, persistence, and pursuit for truth and justice for the Sikh community. In 2014 also, it was Miller who ferreted out information from declassified secret documents about Indian government seeking help of SAS of UK in planning army action on Golden Temple in 1984, that a furor was created and UK’s then prime minister David Cameron had to order an internal investigation by his top civil servant, Sir Jeremy Heywood, into the extent of the UK’s role in the massacre. Three weeks later, the Heywood Review was published and it concluded that the advice given by the SAS officer had “limited impact in practice”. However, Sikhs of UK were not satisfied with this and the review was demanded a “whitewash” and Labour Party, including Dhesi, demanded an independent review. While pursuing his appeal in First Tier Tribunal, Miller also provided a witness statement from Dhesi. Apart from explaining some more background about the 1984 events in Amritsar and the Heywood Review and concerns of the Sikh community that the Heywood Review had limitations due to the speed of its production and the limited period it covered, Dhesi also criticised the FCO reliance on possible social media ‘reprisals’ from the Sikh community, as ‘thinly concealed racism’. He emphasised that British officials, active in Anglo-Asian affairs in the 1980s, should not, in 2014, be able to “select which files investigators had access to”. If that proved to be the case, there would not be criticism of the individuals, but there would be a call for an independent inquiry ‘to rectify the apparent inadequacy of the Heywood Review,’ he had contended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/officials-working-on-uk-india-diplomatic-relations-in-1984-helped-locate-op-bluestar-papers/articleshow/77453158.cms||IP Singh
August 10, 2020||Meerut||2 Muzaffarnagar jail barracks sealed after 16 prisoners, cop test positive||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Two of the 25 barracks of Muzaffarnagar jail were sealed after one police constable and 16 prisoners tested positive for Covid-19, said an official here on Sunday. All the infected people have been shifted to Muzaffarnagar medical college for treatment. Now, samples of all officials, security personnel and prisoners of the remaining 23 barracks are being collected for testing. The jail has over 2,200 prisoners against a capacity of 850. The entire jail has been sanitized. Jail sources said about a weeks ago, a prisoner who was released on bail was found Covid positive on his return. Jail administration had then tested all the 90 prisoners in his barrack. Test reports found three infected. AK Saxena, superintendent of the Muzaffarnagar district Jail, said,"Inmates of the two sealed barracks are being provided food and other essential commodities." Since June 27, new prisoners are being sent to a temporary jail, where they stay till their Covid-19 report arrives. “Earlier, new prisoners were kept and tested in an isolation ward in the district jail," said Saxena. Sources said a temporary jail has been set up in a college building at Kawal village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-muzaffarnagar-jail-barracks-sealed-after-16-prisoners-cop-test-positive/articleshow/77450588.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 10, 2020||Surat||Noted paediatrician loses three-week Covid battle||Surat: A 67-year-old renowned paediatrician in the city succumbed to Covid-19 infection at a private hospital on Sunday. According to his close aides, Dr Ashok Kapse was admitted to a hospital 23 days ago with Covid-19 symptoms and later tested positive. For the last 10 days, he was put on a ventilator after his condition deteriorated. He is survived by his wife Dr Alka Kapse and a daughter Dr Rucha Seth.Dr Kapse was the third doctor to have died due to Covid-19 infections in the city.Dr Kapse, who ran a private clinic in the city’s Nanpura area, used to evince keen interest in infectious diseases was a well-known public speaker on the subject. He was at the forefront in educating people about Covid-19 through social media since the beginning of the pandemic. “Dr Kapse had delivered many lectures on dengue, malaria, typhoid and antibiotic uses across the country. He had addressed international conferences on infectious diseases in Thailand, Malaysia, Finland, Spain, UAE, the USA and the UK. He was active in spreading awareness about Covid-19 till his last breath,” Dr Vinod Shah, a family friend of Dr Kapse told TOI.Dr Kapse was also the president of Surat city branch of Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) and president of Gujarat State branch of IAP.Dr Parul Vadgama, president of Indian Medical Association (Surat), too paid tributes on Dr Kapse’s demise. “We express our deep grief on the sad demise of well known paediatrician and corona warrior Dr Ashok Kapse. He was a gem of IMA Surat. His contribution towards medical fraternity and society will be remembered and acknowledged for years to come,” she said.State BJP president and Navsari MP C R Paatil expressed his grief over the death of Dr Ashok Kapse. “Renowned paediatrician of Surat city Dr Ashok Kapse died due to Covid-19. He did a good job during the pandemic. He had expressed his happiness when the plasma bank began in Surat. I am saddened that a corona warrior left us,” Paatil tweeted on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/noted-paediatrician-loses-three-week-covid-battle/articleshow/77450656.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Mysuru||Rain recedes in Kodagu, gives boost to relief efforts||Madikeri: Rain receded on Sunday in Kodagu, which helped improve the flood situation, even as revenue minister R Ashoka toured the flood and landslide-hit hilly district and held discussions with the district administration. He said the government is planning to establish a permanent rescue centre in Madikeri to handle floods and landslides in Kodagu district, given that it has become a regular feature during the monsoon, affecting thousands and impacting the economy at the tourist hub. Ashoka visited Talacauvery, the ground zero of the natural calamities, along with district minister V Somanna and deputy commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy and superintendent of police Kshama Mishra. BJP MLA K G Bopaiah and other elected representatives were present. With heavy rainfall subsiding, it has helped the rescuers to take up relief and rescue operations across the hilly terrain, while the flood situation improving, and water level receding in the Cauvery River. “A video conference will be scheduled with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, where the state government will present a detailed report on the flood situation in Karnataka. We will request for funds from the central government to handle the crisis,” said Ashoka. Govt not releasing adequate compensation: DKS KPCC chief D K Shivakumar asked elected representatives cutting across party lines to focus on the natural calamity, and asked the government to plan a permanent solution to prevent natural calamities in Kodagu. He visited Talacauvery and inspected the rescue efforts. He alleged that the government was not releasing the compensation amount to the people affected by rain last year. “The state suffered losses to the tune of Rs 35,000 crore due to floods and landslides last year,while the government released Rs 1,800 crore, which was not properly distributed to the affected,” he alleged. However, Kodagu district minister V Somanna refuted the allegation, and that the government had compensated the affected. He said Rs 7 lakh in ex gratia will be given to the family of the dead. Search continues for missing priest and his family The search operation to locate the missing family of a chief priest of a temple at Talacauvery continued for the second day on Sunday, but rescuers were unable to find them. The rescue operation led by NDRF and SDRF, was stopped at 2 pm, owing to a sudden downpour, even as a team from Madras Engineering Group (MEG) continued searching till 5 pm. The revenue minister said that he has asked the rescuers to step up their efforts, and promised additional men and machinery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rain-recedes-in-kodagu-gives-boost-to-relief-efforts/articleshow/77450628.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Vadodara||Shopkeeper selling duplicate TVs held||Vadodara: The special operations group (SOG) has arrested a man on Sunday for selling televisions by assembling duplicate parts in the city. Cops arrested Narendra Wadhwani from his shop on Undera Road and seized duplicate parts and good worth Rs 18 lakh from his electronics shop. The police said that he has been committing the fraud for quite some time now. According to SOG sleuths, Wadhwani would buy duplicate television and air-conditioner parts from Delhi and assemble these at his shop. He would put stickers of branded companies on them and sell these duplicate products online and in the retail market. Cops are trying to find out if any other persons are involved in the racket. Goods||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/shopkeeper-selling-duplicate-tvs-held/articleshow/77450068.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||State technical universities to allow entry to Rajasthan students studying outside||JAIPUR: The state technical universities in Bikaner and Kota have bent their rules to accommodate state students returning from other states due to Covid-19. The move came after several state students expressed their inability to continue their studies in far-off areas like Mumbai, Bangalore, Chennai and Pune, due to the pandemic. The rules say that credits of these students will be transferred to the state colleges and they can continue their remaining degree programme here. The process of admitting in the mid of a four-year bachelor’s degree programme or two-year master’s degree programme is named as ‘lateral entry.’ Since the beginning of the lockdown until unlock-3, hundreds of students have returned home from across the country. They initially came for some days but the situation has become so uncertain that they have started to look for enrolling in their home town or state. Since May, engineering and degree colleges have been receiving calls and emails from the students making a request for admission in the middle of their degree programme. They are citing two reasons for their return — financial crunch and uncertainty over the ending of Covid-19. “The concept of lateral entry was introduced first between Rajasthan Technical University and Bikaner Technical University. It means that a student enrolled in RTU and its affiliated colleges in south, central and eastern Rajasthan can shift or take admission in colleges in western Rajasthan districts which are affiliated with BTU under the lateral entry system,” said HD Charan, VC of BTU. Later, they also made an arrangement that those enrolled in other states can also take the admission, provided their parent university/college issues no-objection certificate to them. The BTU has admitted some students from the other states under this policy. “My family business was to export raw material to Europe which has gone down miserably. I have realised that my family cannot bear the expenses of my technical education in Bangalore, so I chose to return to my native city Bikaner. I am glad that my application has been approved and with the start of the academic session, I will continue my degree from here,” said Rahul Prakash (name changed), student of an engineering college in Bangalore, who shifted under the lateral entry to the BTU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-technical-varsities-to-allow-lateral-entry-to-raj-students-studying-outside-state/articleshow/77452831.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Pachpadra refinery will be built on time: Rajasthan government||JAIPUR: Work on the Rs 43,123-crore refinery at Pachpadra may have stalled due to lockdown, but with a little over two years left to meet the deadline for completion of the project, now there is a race to accelerate construction activities. Before the Covid outbreak, 3,800 people were working on the site, but as of now the workforce has gone up to 5,000, said an official of the petroleum department after a review meeting of the project. He said the joint venture company HPCL Rajasthan Refinery Ltd (HRRL) has fast-tracked development of various projects of the refinery to make up for the lost time. “Conscious of the deadline and the lost time due to the lockdown, HRRL has fast-tracked processes for developing key projects of the refinery. The number of people working on the project has actually exceeded 5,000, which was 3,800 before the pandemic broke out. But the number will increase significantly to about 25,000 once the fabrication of the refinery starts in 4-5 months’ time. Similarly, awarding works contracts has been given priority,” said Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, mines and petroleum department. He said the original deadline of completing the refinery was fixed for October 2022, which now looks within reach, while commercial operation is expected to start from March 2023. “Now, the priority is to meet the deadline and accordingly, we are ensuring that there is no delay in decision making,” Agarwal added. As per the findings of the review meeting, HRRL has already issued 155 work orders worth Rs 20,000 crore, including four of the 13 processing units, which are at the heart of any refinery. Works worth Rs 4,185 crore have already been completed on ground. A survey for laying 540km long pipeline from Mandvi port in Gujarat has been completed. As per the plan, HRRL would import 7.5 million tonne Arab mix crude oil which will be stored in a tank at Mandvi from which, it will come to the Pachpadra refinery through the pipeline. Additionally, the 9-million tonne refinery will get 1.5 million tonne crude oil from Rajasthan, mostly from Cairn. A reservoir for 28 million of gallons daily (MGD) water has been constructed on the refinery site. Currently, it has been connected with 18-km long pipeline to get water from a PHED point for construction. But ultimately, when the refinery becomes operational, water will come from Nachna where HRRL has started construction work for a reservoir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pachpadra-refinery-bounces-back-after-lockdown-deadline-within-reach-says-govt/articleshow/77452834.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Fourth spell cuts rainfall deficit from 36% to 23%||JAIPUR: The fourth spell of southwest monsoon started from this Monday has given relief to many districts which were facing deficit rainfall. Till the completion of three spells, Rajasthan had a deficit of 36% rainfall as compared to 2019, but now the deficit has reduced to 23%. Despite this, the state still needs two good spells of heavy rainfall to cover the deficit rainfall. Jaipur Met office said that the fourth and fifth spells of the monsoon would be fruitful and many districts which are in deficit category would end up get excess rainfall. According to data available with the Jaipur Met office, 23 out of 33 districts are under the category of deficit rainfall till Sunday. “There is an improvement as earlier our 30 districts were under the category of deficit rainfall which means they received less rainfall as compared to 2019. But now the number has reduced to 23. Since the conditions are favourable for the monsoon, there is a possibility that many districts will receive either equal or more rainfall compared to 2019,” said an official. The state so far has received an average rainfall of 222.67mm as compared to 357.03(received till August 8, 2019). “Many districts in the western and eastern Rajasthan will get heavy to very heavy rainfall during coming week. Even in Jaipur, there is a possibility of heavy rainfall from Tuesday onwards,” said the official. Currently, Jhalawar has received highest average rainfall of 367.27mm till Sunday. Sriganganagar has received the lowest average rainfall of 74.25mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fourth-spell-cuts-rainfall-deficit-from-36-to-23/articleshow/77452835.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ranchi||‘Nearly 90% of Covid beds in Ranchi occupied’||RANCHI: With over 3,000 cases in its tally and 2,075 active Covid-19 cases on Sunday morning, Ranchi has emerged as the coronavirus hotspot of the state. Despite the health department and the district administration making necessary arrangements to fight the pandemic and bring the infections under control, the number of cases is surging significantly. Arrangements for 2,238 beds were made across different centres in the city but with the continuous surge since the last week, it seems that the facilities will not be adequate in the coming days. A health department official said that, of the total beds, 1,950 — or nearly 90% — are occupied. The data provided by the district health authorities said the 2,238 beds were spread over two Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH), 20 Dedicated Covid Healthcare Centres (DCHC), 10 government-run Covid Care Centres (CCC), 16 private hospitals, five private hotels and banquet halls till August 7. However, with 804 fresh cases detected in the last four days, the authorities are exploring options to increase the number of beds. Talking to TOI, civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said: “Considering the surge of Covid-19 cases, we are planning to increase our bed capacity. A team has already inspected the isolation centre at the Sarla Birla University campus and we are planning to convert it as a DCHC.” Meanwhile, the two DCHs — Rims and Paras HEC Hospital — which have a capacity of 170 and 50 beds are also staring at a shortage of beds. “The problem at Rims is that apart from the Covid-19 patients, many of our health workers are getting infected and we have accommodated them on the hospital campus so that they could resume their services after recovery,” said a senior member of the Rims Covid-19 task force. Two other DCHCs at Military Hospital and CCL Hospital have a total capacity of 108 beds. The 10 CCCs, which included those at Khelgaon and R&R Colony, have a capacity of 1,393 beds while 373 beds are in 13 private hospitals, including Medica and Medanta. Another 139 beds are in four private hotels. “We are planning to increase the 740-bed CCC at Khelgaon to 1,500 beds and if required, it will be made functional within 24 hours,” Prasad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nearly-90-of-covid-beds-in-city-occupied/articleshow/77451044.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Diabetic man objects to potato curry, wife beats him||AHMEDABAD: A man from the Vasna area of city filed a complaint with police on Saturday alleging that his wife had beaten him on Friday night after he objected to potato curry she made for dinner. He said that he had opposed as he is a diabetic and his doctor had advised him to avoid potatoes. In his FIR with Vasna police, Harshad Gohel, 40, father of four daughters and resident of Sorainagar in Vasna, states that he had frequent quarrels with his wife Tara Gohel, the accused. Harshad, a daily wager, said that he had on Friday night asked Tara what she had prepared. She said she had cooked potato curry which he could have with chapattis. “I objected to this and asked why she had made potato curry even when she knew it wasn’t good for his health. This did not go well with my wife who began abusing me,” he alleged in the FIR. When Harshad objected to Tara’s abuses, she rushed to the bathroom, came out with a washing bat and started beating him. Harshad began screaming for help and his family members rushed there and rescued him from Tara’s grip. He was taken to VS Hospital in the Ellisbridge area where he a fracture was found in his right shoulder. A medico legal case was filed at the VS Hospital. Later, Vasna police booked Tara under charges of causing hurt and uttering of abusive words and began an investigation. Read this story in BengaliWatch Gujarat: Wife beats up diabetic husband for refusing to potato curry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/diabetic-man-objects-to-potato-curry-wife-beats-him/articleshow/77451686.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||First virtual autopsy carried out on Kota Covid patient||KOTA: The state’s first virtual autopsy was conducted in New Medical College Hospital (NMCH) here on Saturday when a three-member medical board conducting it upon a 29-year-old youth who was brought dead to the hospital on Friday. It is claimed to be the first virtual autopsy after guidelines for corona protocol on autopsy of deceased was issued on May 12. NMCH superintendent Chandrashekhar Sushil said the youth, a resident of Pratap Colony here, was brought dead from a depot in Tathed area under Kaithun police station on Friday. He tested Covid positive on Saturday morning, Sushil said. Since the family members of the deceased were suspicious of his death, they lodged a case under Section 174 of CrPC. According to procedure, a three-member medical board comprising DrVinod Garg and Dr Sachin Meena from forensic medicine department and Dr Harshvardhan of radiology department was formed. At the time of virtual autopsy, father of the deceased youth was present dressed in PPE kit, Sushil added. In virtual autopsy, no cuts or penetrations are made in the body to take out fluids as it may infect the medical team. Instead, a minute external examination is carried on the body and then it is scanned. The body, after being taken out of the bag, is first disinfected and then scanned thoroughly to find out any internal injuries and then it is put back into the bag after being disinfected again. The medical board would submit its report in the next few days. The initial observation was that the deceased had severe lungs infection and pneumonia, a medical officer said. “On the insistence of the deceased’s father, an application for virtual autopsy as per Covid guidelines was submitted following which three medical board personnel conducted the virtual autopsy in presence of five people,” Kaithun SHO Rajesh Soni said. The last rites were performed on Sunday in presence of the subdivisional magistrate, he added. The deceased was a contractual labourer in BPCL depot at Brijeshpura in Thaded area and while working on Friday noon, he suddenly felt severe backache and was rushed to hospital but collapsed unconscious on the way and was declared brought dead to hospital, Soni said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1st-virtual-autopsy-carried-out-on-kota-covid-patient/articleshow/77452832.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Meerut||At Meerut Khadi unit, tricolour sales down 80% this year||MEERUT: The days before the Independence Day is a hectic time at the Meerut-based Khadi Gram Udyog manufacturing unit. The cotton tricolours have to be packed, the invoices prepared and delivery is to be ensured to various parts of the country right in time for the festive occasion. A bulk of the around 15,000 orders comes from parts of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Delhi-NCR, Jammu and Kashmir, Rajasthan and even West Bengal. However, there is a sombre mood at the unit this year. Officials said that the Covid-19 pandemic has totally ruined business this year. Secretary Prithvi Singh Rawat said, “This year is unprecedented. We usually sell flags worth Rs 30 lakh around this time. There is hardly any business this year.” According to estimates, around 15,000 flags are made at the unit every year and they come in all shapes and sizes costing anywhere between Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 apiece. While 80% of the stock is sold around August 15, the remaining is off the shelves by Republic Day, The entire manufacturing process ranging from procuring the Khadi cloth from villages to printing and packing the tricolour happens between March and July. However, officials said that the Covid-induced lockdown has severely hampered business this year. “Around the same time last year, we had sold close to 12,000 flags. There isn’t even 10% of the orders right now,” said Rawat. “Our only hope now is on whatever sale happens at the 12 Khadi outlets spread across Noida, Baghpat and Meerut districts. That too will be negligible in terms of revenue.” The facility, started in the early 1920s at the height of the freedom movement and spread across 1,25,000 sq yards, has the capacity to manufacture around 50,000 flags a year and caters mainly to government institutions. Officials said that, yet, the unit is on the verge of collapse. Dyeing and printing department manager Bhupender Kumar Upadhyay said, “The influx of cheap synthetic flags too has spoiled our business. The Constitution of India has specifically mentioned that the tricolour should be made of cotton Khadi. That is the only authentic Indian flag. There was a time when 800 workers used to work here. It’s not even seven today and the total strength of the unit is less than 20.” “The Covid-19 pandemic has only added to our woes. We don't even have the means to pay salaries now,” he rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/at-meerut-khadi-unit-tricolour-sales-down-80-this-year/articleshow/77450604.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 10, 2020||India||Amid Covid, NREGS demand soars||NEW DELHI: On Thursday, MGNREGS clocked 106 days of active work in the 2020-21 financial year. On the same day, Telangana generated 106% mandays compared to the work done in 365 days of 2019-20. Interestingly, during this period, Andhra Pradesh touched 96% of the work done last year. It is expected to overhaul the previous year’s work performance this week. It is not just these two states which are over-performing by a distance in the pandemic year that has created serious scarcity of jobs. As many as six big states which qualify as the traditional MGNREGS catchment areas are close to touching 70% work in comparison to last year while two have crossed 80%. Crucially, two other states have crossed 60% of the work. The progress status of the rural jobs programme, as reported by TOI, has repeatedly confirmed that more and more villagers have been flocking to the scheme in the wake of lockdown and absence of traditional work avenues. The rise in MGNREGS graph across major states is revealing. Besides Telangana and AP, Gujarat on Thursday touched 84% of the work done last year while UP was close behind with 80%. Rajasthan achieved 69% of mandays generated in 2019-20 in just 106 days while Chhattisgarh and Bihar achieved nearly 68%. MP and Haryana stood at 67% while Karnataka and West Bengal touched 60%. Odisha has done 65%. As per rural development ministry sources, Telangana and AP are not representative cases under MGNREGS. The ‘tasks’ that comprise a day’s work in the two states are easy compared to other states, which result in more mandays being generated. As a result, as reported by TOI, the ministry recently wrote to states to conduct fresh ‘time-motion study’ to lay down the benchmark for a day’s work under MGNREGS. The directive was mainly targeted at Telangana and AP. Maharashtra is languishing in relative terms, having achieved only 43.4% of last year’s mandays. Watch NREGS comes to rescue of rural workers amid Covid-19 job stress||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-covid-nregs-demand-soars/articleshow/77453357.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Jail inmates test positive for Covid in Bharatpur||JAIPUR: More than 15 inmates of Bharatpur jail and three prison staff were found infected with Covid in the past two days. “We have admitted the symptomatic inmates to RBM Hospital and those who are asymptomatic have been admitted to the covid care centre (CCC) at Mahila Hostel,” a health department official said. However, for security, police have been deployed at RBM Hospital to ensure that inmates undergoing treatment don’t escape. It is not the first time jail inmates have been diagnosed with Covid. In Jaipur, central and district jails had reported the outbreak in which 254 inmates and jail staff were found infected. Recently, one inmate tested positive at Sever Jail dispensary. Health department officials conducted contact tracing and collected samples from other inmates who were in contact with the positive inmates. “When we tested them, we found a lot of them infected with the virus. We are conducting activities to contain the spread of the virus further,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jail-inmates-test-positive-for-covid-in-bharatpur/articleshow/77452841.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Produce from local farms brings down veggie prices in Jaipur||JAIPUR: With vegetables from local farms pouring in, the prices have dipped in the wholesale market of Jaipur in the past one week. As the supply from local farms and other states is good, there is a possibility of further drop in the prices of the vegetables by the end of August. The prices of the vegetables soared in June and July because vegetables from areas like Chomu (Jaipur), Bassi (Jaipur), Shivdaspura (Jaipur), Sikar and Tonk were exhausted. However, after the completion of the three spells of southwest monsoon, the local farms are now sending the vegetables like beans, coriander, tomatoes, onions, bottle gourd and others to wholesale market. “During June and July, the prices of tomatoes saw a rising trend. During mid-July, its retail prices went up to Rs 80 to Rs 100 per kilogram. However, now with ample supply of tomatoes from Nasik (Maharastra) and from the local farms from Chomu and Sikar the retail prices are Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kilogram. It is likely to drop further,” said Aabid Qureshi, a wholesale trader of vegetables at Muhana Mandi on Sunday. He added that locally produced Indian round gourd, bitter gourd, bottle gourd, snake gourd and ladyfinger are now available in the market due to which there has been a drop of the prices of vegetables. “After August 14, we would get almost all vegetables from the local farms from Sikar, Jaipur and Tonk districts. Se we expect further drop in the prices of the vegetables,” he added. There has been a continuous dip in the prices of ladyfinger which was earlier sold in Rs 120 per kilogram and is now available in Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kilogram in the retail. Similarly, Lemon which was earlier available in Rs 80 to Rs 100 per kilogram, is now available in Rs 50 to Rs 60 per kilogram in the retail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/produce-from-local-farms-brings-down-veggie-prices/articleshow/77452839.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Affected farmers of Dravyavati project threaten to protest||JAIPUR: Around 300 farmers of 34 revenue villages whose plots were allegedly acquired for the Dravyavati river project have decided to intensify their protest. The farmers alleged that over 600 bighas of private land was acquired without providing compensation to them and Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) had proposed to earn revenue after auctioning. The farmers threatened to stage protests at the UDH minister’s residence, collectorate and JDA headquarters on Monday. Ashok Mehta, a member of Dravyavati Nadi Kisan Sangrash Samiti said, “We have revenue records of our land, still JDA has termed us as encroachers of the nullah. On February 7, 2018, the court directed the JDA to deposit the records of 1955 . However, even after two years, land records have not been submitted.” The JDA has proposed to Rs 32,000 crore after reclaiming 85 hectares from Dravyavati river. For the same, several auctions were organised to sell the land. “Earlier, the JDA had fixed a base price of Rs 20,000 per square metre. However, it was not providing compensation to private farmers whose land had been acquired. The JDA should provide compensation as per Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. We would intensify our protest if government fails to meet our demands,” said another farmer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/affected-farmers-of-dravyavati-project-threaten-to-protest/articleshow/77452838.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Mysuru||30 villages flooded in Mandya||Mysuru: Around thirty villages, including the historical Paschima Vahini and Muthathi and tourist spot Mahadevapura have been declared as flood-affected villages in Mandya district. Following the heavy discharge of water from KRS dam, upstream, the Paschima Vahini on the banks of the Cauvery River in Srirangapatna taluk, where funerals are performed, has been flooded. Even the tourist spots and places where film shootings take place, like Ganjam in Kasaba GP and Mahadevapura in Srirangapatna and Muthathi in Malavalli taluk, were flooded. The district administration which conducted a survey of the places in the district, identified 30 villages as affected by floods. While the heavy discharge of water from KRS Dam has flooded the villages in Malavalli and Srirangapatna taluks, the release of Hemavathi water has affected villages in KR Pet taluk. Srirangapatna taluk has been badly affected due to rain, and 19 villages have been submerged here, nine villages were declared flood-affected in Malavalli taluk due to nearly 50,000 cusecs of water being released from KRS Dam. Mandya zilla panchayat CEO S M Zulfiquar Ulla said that panchayat development officers were directed to take measures to ensure that people and livestock are safe from flooding. Pandavapura panchayat nodal officer P S Kantharaj said that notices boards were erected in three places in Yennehole Koppalu village, which is on the banks of Cauvery River coming under Haravu GP, to warn people. “We have erected notice boards and warned people from venturing near the river with cattle. We are also alerting people living close to the river to move to safer places,” he said. Tourists to be allowed to visit Bharachukki falls The Chamarajanagar district administration on Sunday decided to allow tourists to visit Bharachukki falls. The gates of this famous waterfall will be opened for tourists once the police, tourist, revenue and forest department officials complete preparatory works to ensure the safety of tourists at the spot. “We will allow tourists to visit the falls, probably from Thursday. I have asked the authorities to complete all the preparatory works at the earliest, and submit a report by Wednesday afternoon,” said deputy commissioner M R Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/30-villages-flooded-in-mandya/articleshow/77450669.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man gets lewd messages, files FIR||Ahmedabad: Arun Thakor, 20, of Sola lodged a complaint with cybercrime cell of city police on Saturday alleging that on October 2019 he had received a friend request on his Instagram ID. He has alleged in the complaint that he accepted the request and then saw that the person who had sent the friend request had put Thakor’s own photo as a profile picture. Cyber cell sources said when Thakor asked him why he had put Thakor’s photo as profile image, the man on the other end started abusing him and started sending lewd messages to Thakor and his family members. Hence he blocked the Instagram ID he had accepted. Thakor then got a friend request from another Instagram ID in which his wife’s picture was there as profile picture. When Thakor asked why he has put his wife’s picture as profile picture, the person who sent the friend request again started abusing him and started sending lewd messages to defame him. “We have got the IP address log of the unknown accused and will very soon will detain him,” said a cyber cell official||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-gets-lewd-messages-files-fir/articleshow/77451701.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Covid deaths in Jaipur rise alarmingly||JAIPUR: Mortality rate due to Covid in Jaipur has more than doubled in August compared to the numbers in July. In the first eight days of August, deaths due to the virus has almost equaled the number of deaths reported in July. It seems that mission Life Saving (LiSa) has weakened in the city in August, which was aimed at identifying Covid cases early from vulnerable categories such as elderly people, pregnant women, infants and patients suffering from underlying diseases such as chronic ailments of heart, liver, kidney and lungs. In July, the city had reported 28 deaths, but in first eight days of this month, 27 deaths have already been reported. The mortality rate in July was 1.3%, which now has increased to 2.8%, which is more than double. July was the best month in terms of preventing deaths due to Covid. In June, 69 deaths were reported, 59 in May and 32 in April. Despite, the city reporting the highest number of Covid cases in July, the health authorities and doctors managed to prevent deaths to report lowest mortality rate. From July 20 to July 25, Jaipur reported not a single Covid death. It is the only week since April, when Jaipur reported no deaths due to the virus. But, health authorities failed to keep the record for long and in the next two weeks, it reported 37 deaths. However, SMS Hospital doctors said there is a need for conducting death audit to find out what are the actual causes of spike in deaths in Jaipur. “The deaths which have happened in August should be audited to find out if more vulnerable category people have been infected and died,” said a SMS Hospital doctor. Health authorities including health minister are continuously appealing to people to take proper precautions including wearing masks and following the norms of social distancing besides frequently washing hands with soap. In the last 24 days, the cases have doubled. Cases in Jaipur are not being reported in clusters just like they had reported in Ramganj, Shastri Nagar, Ghat Gate and such areas. The cases are being reported from different areas. There are more than 100 places in the city, which have been reporting sporadic cases for the past few days. Since the cases are scattered all over the city, the district administration is imposing micro containment in the neighborhoods of places where a case is detected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipurs-covid-deaths-doubles-in-august/articleshow/77452845.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
August 10, 2020||Mumbai||Did pilots try to take off after deep touchdown?||MUMBAI: Photographs of the wreckage of the ill-fated Air India Express Boeing 737, especially those of the cockpit control panels and aircraft engines, suggest the pilots probably attempted a take-off or go-around after a deep touchdown on the tabletop Calicut runway, according to senior commanders TOI spoke with. “The wreckage of the cockpit shows the throttle in the fully forward position, which is the take-off/go-around position,” said one of them. “The spoilers are retracted from the position of the speed brake lever, whereas in an aircraft trying to come to a halt after touchdown the spoilers should have been fully extended,’’ said one of the commanders. Spoilers are panels on the top of the wings which when raised or deployed, reduce the speed of the aircraft. However, the flaps (panels mounted on the rear edge of the wing, which can be raised or lowered from the cockpit to increase lift—the drag produced by the wings) were still in landing configuration. “A possible explanation is that the flaps may not have been put in take off/go-around configuration. Flaps in landing configuration can hinder attempts to lift off,’’ said an engineer. Aircraft accident investigators however caution against arriving at any conclusion yet, saying the crash could have been caused by other factors, details of which will emerge only in the probe report. If the accident investigation report reveals that the pilots did attempt to take off again after the brakes were applied post touchdown, then the Calicut crash will have a number of similarities with the 2010 crash of an Air India Express flight in Mangalore - mostly in the series of actions taken by the pilots post the late touchdown on tabletop runways. An aircraft can take off or go around safely post touchdown, provided the action to do so is taken swiftly after touchdown and most importantly, before action to slow down the speed of the aircraft speed—like applying brakes—is taken. Unlike the Mangalore crash, in the case of the Calicut accident, the aircraft did not catch fire post impact. It was speculated that the AIX pilots had probably switched off the fuel supply to cut off the engines and prevent a possible fire. “But in the cockpit photographs, the fuel control switches are not in the cut-off position, which means the engines were running on impact,’’ an air safety expert said. Also, unlike the Mangalore crash, where the Boeing 737 aircraft fell into a 300-feet gorge off the runway end, in the case of Calicut the terrain drops to only 35-40 feet, which would explain the comparatively lower casualties, he added. The pilots apparently missed the touchdown zone and landed about 3,000 feet deep into the Calicut runway in tailwinds. “But the runway is long enough and so a deep touchdown by itself doesn’t entirely explain why the aircraft went off the tabletop runway to fall off the edge and crash,’’ said a senior commander. “There has to be a host of other factors for such an accident to occur,’’ he added. Irrespective of what the investigation throws up, what needs to be highlighted here, say aviation experts, is that pilots take split-second decisions during a landing. The final landing phase, which begins after an aircraft has crossed the runway threshold, is completed in less than 15 seconds. During this time, the aircraft crosses the runway threshold, does a landing flare (floats over the runway to reduce descent rate and achieve a smooth touchdown) and touches down; the sequence includes applying different modes of braking to ensure the aircraft systematically decelerates and comes to a halt before the end of the runway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/did-pilots-try-to-take-off-after-deep-touchdown/articleshow/77453163.cms||Manju V
August 10, 2020||Surat||While virus slackens grip on Surat, case tally reaches 12,705||Surat: Covid-19 cases have been going south for the past one week. In what comes as a big relief for the citizens as well as the administration, the city has been reporting less than 200 cases daily, a trend that didn’t buck even on Sunday with 178 fresh cases only.Meanwhile, five more Covid-19 patients succumbed to the virus taking the death toll in the city to 545.According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, highest cases were reported from Katargam zone with 35, followed by 29 in Athwa, 27 in Central, 20 each in Varachha (A) and Rander, 19 in Varachha (B), 15 in Udhna and 13 reported in Limbayat .The rate of recovery also improves with 105 patients discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recovered patients in the city to 9,407.Surat rural reported 44 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the total cases to 3,105 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/while-virus-slackens-grip-on-surat-case-tally-reaches-12705/articleshow/77450698.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Counterfeit masks worth Rs 90,000 seized by Ahmedabad police||AHMEDABAD: In the times of Covid-19, unscrupulous elements are using every means to prey on people. After detecting fake injections and drugs, city police have now busted a racket making counterfeit masks of a branded company. Bapunagar police on Saturday detained four persons, Kiran Jethwa, 32, of Vastral, Kamlesh Mehta, 50, of Sabarmati, Niraj Bhatia, 37, of Sabarmati and Ghanshyam Nagrani of Chiloda in the case. Kamlesh Gangwani of Hansol, who used to market the counterfeit masks is absconding. “On a tip-off we raided a premises, Sumul Business Park located in Bapunagar and seized 1,780 counterfeit masks worth Rs 90,000,” said a Bapunagar police official. Police sources said during primary interrogation it has been learnt that the logo of the branded company was supplied by one Kamlesh Gangwani to the detained accused, and they had been selling the masks for last two months. Bapunagar police said they are searching for the absconding accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/counterfeit-masks-worth-rs-90k-seized-by-city-police/articleshow/77451737.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Aurangabad||No need to submit school leaving certificate initially||AURANGABAD: Students seeking admission for polytechnic courses do not have to submit the school leaving certificate during the online registration process, according to the State Directorate of Technical Education (DTE).  The DTE has taken a policy decision to this effect anticipating difficulties in getting the document due to the outbreak of Covid-19, authorities concerned said. Among other key changes, students who have completed their Class VIII and Class IX studies from outside Maharashtra can also apply for admission to polytechnic courses. The DTE has partially relaxed the domicile criteria for polytechnics and admission process will begin from Monday till August 25. S P Shiralkar, a senior faculty associated with Government Polytechnic, Aurangabad, said the exemption in producing the school-leaving certificate will speed up the admission process. Earlier it was mandatory for students to complete their studies from Class VIII to Class X from Maharashtra to seek admission to diploma courses. As per the official release, the DTE has designated 341 facilitation centres for polytechnic courses across the sate, including 52 such facilities for Aurangabad. After filling online forms, students are expected to visit the nearest facilitation centre for verification of documents by seeking prior appointment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/no-need-to-submit-school-leaving-certificate-initially/articleshow/77450691.cms||Prasad Joshi
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: No institutional quarantine for international flyers who test negative||JAIPUR: Non-resident Indians travelling back to Jaipur will no longer need to undergo institutional quarantine if they test negative for Covid 96 hours before reaching the city. Earlier, every passenger was required to go for institutional quarantine, but the state government, following the guidelines by the Union health ministry in this regard, decided to allow such passengers to go home if they test negative. TOI on Sunday spoke to authorities including Subodh Agarwal, additional chief secretary, mines and petroleum, who is heading the coordination cell overseeing the return of Indian nationals. “Travellers can now seek exemption from institutional quarantine by submitting negative Covid-19 report by the RT-PCR test on their arrival at the Jaipur airport. This test report should have been conducted 96 hours prior to their journey. Also, while applying to return to India, the passenger should first upload their report. Also, the passenger submitting a wrong report is liable for criminal prosecution,” Agarwal told TOI. Also, passengers found Covid-19 negative will have to still keep themselves under home quarantine for seven days. The new SOPs won’t affect the travellers coming to Jaipur for emergency reasons like pregnancy, death of relative or parents with children below the age of 10. “They already have exemption from institutional quarantine. But they require to undergo home quarantine of 14 days under the surveillance of health authorities,” said an officer. Also, the state government has categorically said that for detection of Covid-19 they won’t consider the antigen test. “If the antigen test report is negative, it won’t imply that the passenger is Covid-19 negative. He or she will have to go for authentic Covid-19 test, which can be RT-PCR or the regular Covid-19 test,” said an officer. The ministry has now given some relief to the passengers by changing the guidelines issued on May 24 and all these guidelines would come in effect from Monday onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-institutional-quarantine-for-intl-flyers-who-test-negative/articleshow/77452860.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Panchaganga river water level below danger mark||Kolhapur: The water level of Panchaganga river came down below the danger mark of 43 feet after two days. However, the flood alert is still in place as the water is still above the alert mark of 39 feet. On Sunday evening, the water level in the river was at 42.4 feet as the intensity of the rain went down. Still, 67 barrages and 43 roads continue to be under water. The Kolhapur-Ratnagiri highway opened for traffic on Sunday afternoon. The Shiye-Bawda entrance of Kolhapur city continues to remain closed as some portion of the road is still inundated. All the gates of Radhanagari dam are now closed and currently 1,400 cusec of water is being discharged. The discharge from Almatti dam, located along Krishna river in Karnataka, has been reduced to 1.8 lakh cusec from 2.2 lakh cusec on Saturday. The dam’s live storage is around 74%. Meanwhile, villagers of Chikhali and Ambewadi and residents from Sutarwada of Kolhapur city continue to remain at shelter camps or at other safe places. According to the administration, around 3,000 people have been moved and they have been asked not to return till the water level comes down below the alert mark. Boats in villages State irrigation minister Jayant Patil on Sunday handed over 15 electric boats to the villages located along Krishna river in Sangli distirct. Each boat has a capacity to carry around 20 people. each. The district administration has spent Rs 2.10 crore for buying these boats. Last year, the unfortunate incident of overturning of boat at Bhramnal village of the district had led to loss of several lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/panchaganga-river-water-level-below-danger-mark/articleshow/77450709.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Sleep lost: Neighbour’s lathi charge||Ahmedabad: A man from Chanakyapuri on Sunday filed a complaint with Sola police alleging that a man from his apartment complex attacked him over a parking dispute. Dipen Shah, 36, a resident of Nirman Tower, said that Vimlesh Patel came with a stick when Shah called him during the small hours of Sunday and told him to remove his car. Patel’s car had been parked behind Shah’s car. Patel abused and attacked Shah with the stick as he was upset that Shah had disturbed his sleep. Shah called police and filed a complaint over injuries and abuses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sleep-lost-neighbours-lathi-charge/articleshow/77451791.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka govt moves to replenish accounts of DCs in flood-hit districts without fresh proposal||MANGALURU: In a bid to prevent rehabilitation efforts in flood-hit districts across the state from being hampered by lack of funds or delay in their disbursal, revenue minister R Ashoka has decreed that the personal deposit (PD) accounts in the name of the respective deputy commissioners will be replenished as and when the balance falls below the Rs 5 crore-mark. This saves the DCs the hassle of having to submit a fresh proposal seeking funds. The state government moved to open PD accounts in the name of the DCs to usher in transparency in the utilisation of funds allocated for housing, compensation for crop loss and miscellaneous emergencies. The latest directive by the state government will now ensure that the DCs can focus their energies entirely on rehabilitation efforts. Hailing the state government’s decision, Dakshina Kannada DC KV Rajendra told TOI, “If we are left with funds yet to be utilised under separate heads in the main account, we can use it interchangeably and replenish them later. For example, there is Rs 21 crore in the PD account in Dakshina Kannada while the administration must pay around Rs 6.5 crore to the Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation.” Rajendra admitted a portion of the funds had been committed to expenditure for management of Covid-19, while some of the bills had already been paid. “The district administration can use the money in the State Disaster Relief Fund, which credited to the PD account, to offer compensation to those affected by flood, erect barricades in low-lying areas and ferrying of people in hazardous zones to rehabilitation centres,” he added. Udupi DC G Jagadeesha said that the district administration had already earmarked Rs 14 crore for the undertaking of various rehabilitation projects. “Currently, there is Rs 3 crore in the PD account. The state government has disbursed Rs 50 crore to be credited to the PD accounts in 10 districts. Udupi has no urgent need for the funds,” Jagadeesha told TOI. Revenue minister Ashoka said that the government had released a sum of Rs 340 crore to the districts towards housing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/govt-moves-to-replenish-accounts-of-dcs-in-flood-hit-districts-without-fresh-proposal/articleshow/77450704.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 10, 2020||Vadodara||Karjan woman blackmailed and raped by two men in Bharuch||Vadodara: A 21-year-old woman living in Karjan was allegedly blackmailed and raped by two men from Bharuch. The woman lodged an offence on Saturday as one of the accused Sapan alias Armaan Jamadar uploaded her photos by making a fake Instagram profile.The woman told police that the other accused Moin Patel befriended her when she had visited a hospital in Bharuch around a year back. Patel talked with her on phone several times and promised her to get a job in a petrochemicals major in Dahej. During one of the conversations Patel told the woman that he likes her and made a marriage proposal. On May 31, Patel called her at a guest house in Karjan and had sexual relations with her by promising to marry her. A few days later, Jamadar called the woman to tell her that he is aware of her relationship with Patel and also has their photos. Jamadar then started blackmailing her using the photos and allegedly raped her. Later, the woman switched off her phone so that neither of the two could contact her.Jamadar then created the woman’s fake Instagram profile and shared her and Patel’s photos on it and sent them to the woman’s three sisters, brother and her friends. Police said that Jamadar and Patel had colluded with each other as the latter shared his photos with the woman so that she could be blackmailed.The duo has been booked for rape, sexual harassment, assault and under Information Technology Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/karjan-woman-blackmailed-and-raped-by-two-men-in-bharuch/articleshow/77450083.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat University forms panel to hear students’ issues||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat University has constituted a five-member committee to look into various issues faced by students and come up with solutions for them. This has however drawn sharp protests from a section of students who feel that the varsity authorities are shying away from their responsibilities and are passing the buck to the committee. The committee, which includes Jawant Thakker, dean of commerce stream and Pankaj Shukla, a GU syndicate member, among others, will now take up the work to resolve any dispute faced by students, said GU sources. Currently, the varsity is facing protests and representations by students on various issues including conducting exams and college admission process. “Students are running from pillar to post to air their grievances. The vice-chancellor (VC) and pro-VC are not available to meet the students as a result of which students have to hand over their memorandum to the registrar. All these issues are gathering dust at the registrar’s table,” said a member of National Students Union of India (NSUI).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-forms-panel-to-hear-students-issues/articleshow/77451803.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Surat||Cybercrime police recover Rs 1 lakh lost in online fraud||Surat: An insurance agent received Rs 1 lakh back on Sunday which he had lost to an online credit card fraud on August 2. The victim’s immediate steps helped police recover the money, Cyber Crime police said.Mathuraprasad Jayswal, 35, a Dindoli resident, was shocked when he received an SMS on his mobile informing him about spending more than Rs 1 lakh on his credit card. Jayswal immediately realised that it was an act of the fraudster who had collected his credit card number and One Time Password (OTP) some time ago over phone. He soon dialed 100 on police control room and also reached Cyber Crime police station. Collecting details about the transaction police started process to stop the money from being transferred to other accounts. “The victim contacted police in two hours of him receiving the message alert of spending. Due to this police got enough time to recover the money,” said A K Chauhan, police inspector, Cyber Crime police station. An inquiry in the incident by police revealed that Jayswal, has a credit card and he received a call from an unknown number offering him a new credit card. “The money was spent through a payment gateway of no brokerage merchant and in this case the money was with the merchant for four hours. It was not transferred to the destination account hence we could recover it quickly,” added the police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cybercrime-police-recover-rs-1-lakh-lost-in-online-fraud/articleshow/77450721.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Kochi||Heavy rains to continue today: IMD||KOCHI: India Meteorological Department (IMD) informed that heavy rainfall will continue in many places in Kerala on Monday though no red alert was issued for in any district. IMD issued an orange alert for Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Malappuram and Kannur and said there is a possibility in reduction of heavy rainfall from Tuesday. On Sunday, state received 366% excess rain and from Aug 1-9, Kerala received, on an average, 198% excess rainfall. Central and north Kerala received maximum rainfall this month. For the first time in several days, Idukki, that was receiving over 10-15cm of rain in many places from August 4, is not on red alert. The district recorded 279% excess rain on Sunday. The water level in Mullaperiyar dam touched 136ft on Sunday night. It is the level at which the state sought permission from Tamil Nadu government to release water. When the water level touched 132ft, Tamil Nadu government had issued first warning. Six shutters of Pamba dam were opened on Sunday after water level rose. The water level in Idukki reservoir on Sunday was 2,364.02ft. The new rule curve level for release of water is 2,383.53ft by August 10. Fishermen teams from Neendakara and Azheekkal had arrived in Pathanamthitta to help the administration in the event of sudden flooding following the opening of dams. Pamba and Achankovil waters have been rising due to heavy rain in the district. The forest area too received heavy rain leading to increase in water levels in catchment areas and reservoirs. Eight of KSEB’s major dams are on red alert. Kallarkutty, Lower Periyar, Ponmudi, Erattayar, Moozhiyar, Peringalkuthu, Kallar and Kuttiady are releasing water through their spillway. The irrigation reservoirs which are on yellow alert include Neyyar, Maniyar, Bhoothathankettu, Malankara, Mangalam, Kanjirapuzha, Siruvani, Moolathara, Karapuzha, Kuttiady and Pazhassi. Meanwhile, Kannur recorded highest rain with 16cm, followed by Kochi airport, Perumbavoor, Ernakulam south, Taliparamba, Hosdurg (12cm each) and Cherthala and Idukki (11cm each). Cial, Piravom, Kayamkulam, Kumarakom and Koyilandy got 10cm each. IMD informed that a low-pressure area had formed over northwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal and under its influence, state will receive heavy rains on Monday. Fishermen have been advised to stay away from the sea as squally weather will prevail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/heavy-rains-to-continue-today-imd/articleshow/77450717.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Collectors announce fresh lockdowns in Parbhani, Beed||Aurangabad: At a time when the state is easing restrictions and going all out with its ‘Mission Begin Again’ programme, the district administrations of Parbhani and Beed have decided to opt for lockdowns. As per the order released by Parbhani district collector D M Mugalikar, the lockdown would be implemented in the limits of Parbhani Municipal Corporation and 5km radius around it as well as in Sonepath town of the district from early Monday till midnight of August 14. Parbhani has reported over 1,000 Covid-19 cases so far. While 50 have succumbed, there are 500 active cases. In Beed, district collector Rahul Rekhawar has issued a notification announcing a 10-day lockdown in Beed, Parli, Ambajogai, Ashti, Kej and Majalgaon town from August 12 (midnight of August 11) to 21. Beed has reported close to 1,600 positive patients. Of them, over 700 have been discharged. Currently, there are 818 active cases in the district. Authorities from both the district administrations have warned of taking strict action against those found violating the lockdown orders. Movement of those involved in the essential services, including media, has been exempted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/collectors-announce-fresh-lockdowns-in-parbhani-beed/articleshow/77450723.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 10, 2020||Bareilly||448 cartons of liquor seized from Bihar-bound truck in Bareilly||Bareilly: Close on the heels of the Punjab hooch tragedy that claimed over 100 lives recently, Bareilly police have seized 448 cartons of India-made foreign liquor — worth around Rs 16 lakh — from a coal-laden truck on its way to Bihar in Izzatnagar area of Bareilly district late on Saturday night and arrested a Rajasthan-based liquor smuggler.Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey said the liquor cartons were being transported in a coal-laden truck on its way from Haryana’s Hisar to Bihar, where liquor is banned. On Saturday night, a team from Izzatnagar police station, led by sub-inspector Sunil Kumar, was on routine patrolling when they received a tip-off about the illicit liquor consignment and signalled a truck to stop, but the driver sped up in a bid to evade the police. The police team chased the truck and stopped it near Nainital highway and seized the liquor cartoons and arrested Raghuveer Singh, a resident of Churu district in Rajasthan. Another accused, Sanjay of Hisar, managed to escape, said police. During questioning, Raghuveer disclosed that Sanjay used to supply liquor to his contacts in Bihar while he would provide transport, said police, adding that both the accused were booked under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Excise Act.The SSP told TOI, “The 448 cartons contained 21,504 quarter bottles of IMFL. We are working on the links and call details of the accused to nab other members of the gang. We are on high alert after the Punjab hooch incident in which over 100 lives were lost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/448-cartons-of-liquor-seized-from-bihar-bound-truck-in-bareilly/articleshow/77449143.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 10, 2020||Dehradun||Plastic ban goes for a toss in Covid-19 times in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: The outbreak of Covid-19 and a shift in the priority of the local officials has resulted in the resurfacing of polythene bags in the city markets. These non-biodegradable bags continue to be in use in the city without any hindrance despite a major drive against their use conducted by the Dehradun Municipal Corporation last year and the several crackdowns on those using them. On Saturday, TOI visited the two main vegetable markets of the city situated at Nehru Colony and Dharampur only to find out that polythene bags are being openly used by traders. Sanjay Lal, a vegetable seller at Dharampur, said, “A lot of the customers bring their own bags to carry vegetables but there is a huge number of customers who demand polythene bags. Before the lockdown was implemented we were mostly using cloth bags but now, only polythene bags are available in the wholesale markets of the city.” Another shopkeeper Vimal Uniyal said, “Providing polythene bags to the customers has become our compulsion. If the administration bans it again, we will stop buying it and giving it to the customers.” Anil Ratudi, a local who had come to shop in Dharampur vegetable market, said, “Though I carry a cloth bag to the market, the plastic bags can be seen all over the market. The government had allowed the use of plastic products for the duration of the lockdown. However, these plastic bags refuse to go away from the market even as the nation is moving towards unlock.” City residents have also expressed their concern over use of single use face masks and their disposal. Arun Narayan, a resident of EC road, said “Its not just plastic bags, there are is a long list of plastic goods that can be found easily in the markets. The authorities had to fight a long battle before the use of plastic was banned last year. We must embrace the alternatives before it’s too late.” Meanwhile, civic officials when queried said that “a drive will soon be conducted in this regard”. SP Subudhi, member secretary of Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board, said, “The usage of the plastic products has definitely gone up in the wake of the global pandemic. As of now, it's difficult to ascertain how this usage will be stopped as even the PPE kits are made of plastic which is necessary for people involved in healthcare. The government must soon conduct a review to issue guidelines suggesting ways to reduce the usage of plastic and other alternatives available.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/plastic-ban-goes-for-a-toss-in-covid-19-times-in-dehradun/articleshow/77449859.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Mumbai||Two hours before AI crash, a plane landed similarly, but safely||MUMBAI: Less than two hours before the Air India Express flight from Dubai landed and crashed, an IndiGo flight had followed a similar approach and landing onto the Calicut runway on Friday evening. The difference though, was that the IndiGo flight was operated with an ATR, a turbo prop aircraft, which operates at much lower speeds than the jet-engined Boeing 737s. ATR aircraft typically carry out an approach to land at 110-115 kts, as against Boeing 737s, which would have an approach speed of about 140-150kts. Slower the speed of the aircraft, shorter the runway length it needs to cover to come to a halt. But the IndiGo aircraft had followed a similar flight profile, said Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert. He relied on data from flightradar24, a live flight-tracking website, which showed that the pilots too had initially lined up to land on the westerly runway 28, like the AI pilots, as this was the runway with headwinds that are favourable for landing. But the IndiGo pilots discontinued the approach to land, which could have been for similar reasons, poor visibility due to rains and cloud cover. “The IndiGo pilots then made a second attempt and landed on the easterly runway 10, same as the Air India Express pilots,” said Capt Singh. “The IndiGo ATR may have faced less severe weather and the slower turboprop aircraft may have been more forgiving. Nevertheless, this pattern can provide some interesting insights into the prevailing conditions and the interactions between the pilots and the air traffic controller,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/an-indigo-flight-had-landed-the-same-way-as-the-ai-one-just-2-hours-before/articleshow/77453208.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Surat||Kamrej MLA 250th to donate plasma||Surat: After 28 days of recovery from coronavirus, Kamrej BJP MLA V D Zalavadia donated his plasma at SMIMER Hospital on Sunday. Zalavadia had tested positive on July 5 and was being treated at home. He recovered from Covid-19 on July 20. Interestingly, Zalavadia became the 250th plasma donor at the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER hospital’s blood bank on Sunday. “Plasma therapy helps Covid-19 patients recover. I had decided to donate while I was recuperating and I also appeal to all other recovered persons like me to donate their plasma and help fight Covid-19,” the MLA said. “Large number of people from all walks of life are now coming forward to donate their plasma after they recover from Covid-19. We appreciate their generosity. On Sunday, MLA V D Zalavadia became the 250th plasma donor of our bank. Till Sunday, a total 252 people donated their plasma at our blood bank,” Dr Ankita Shah, professor and head, Immunohematology and Blood Transfusion (IHBT) department at SMIMER hospital, told TOI. Total four blood banks including New Civil Hospital and SMIMER Hospital have plasma collection permissions in the city. According to sources, over 500 people have so far donated their plasma in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/kamrej-mla-250th-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77450737.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Bhopal||Infra, economy, health & edu Madhya Pradesh’s priority||BHOPAL: Even as it battles the Covid-19 pandemic, the Madhya Pradesh government is making plans for ‘transformation’ and is drawing up a blueprint for the future in a collaborative and consultative process along with NITI Aayog. Four priority areas have been identified — physical infrastructure, governance, health and education, and economy and employment — and experts have been roped in to prepare a three-year action plan, said officials. Work on the ‘transformational’ project has already begun despite the restrictions of Covid-19. The first of the webinars for this was held on August 7 and three more are planned by August 11. Additional chief secretaries of home, public health, labour and Narmada Valley Development departments are leading the webinars. These four priority groups are divided into 18 sub-groups, which comprise representatives from the Centre, NITI Aayog, NIPFP, premier academic institutions, public policy institutions, representatives of WHO, UNDP, World Bank and consultancy firms and private sector giants. The Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Good Governance and Policy Analysis (AIGGPA) in Bhopal is playing a key coordinating role, including providing facilitators for each sub-group, said officials. After brainstorming in their respective focus areas, the sub-groups are preparing action plans, with particular focus to outcomes and timelines. Measurable outcome indicators and KPIs will be proposed, along with short-term, medium-term and long-term targets. In the end, the sub-groups will make presentations before CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The final blueprint will serve as a foundation for the state’s road map for inclusive growth for the next three years, say officials. “While the erstwhile Planning Commission also undertook state consultations in the planning process, the difference here is that the state government is taking the lead, and the entire planning process has been decentralized,” said a government release. “Through direct engagement, NITI Aayog is fulfilling its mandate of cooperative federalism, complimenting the practical knowledge of states with perspectives from stakeholders at the cutting edge of development,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/infra-economy-health-edu-mps-priority/articleshow/77452894.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Dehradun||Edu dept to prepare draft proposal for implementation of NEP 2020||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand education minister Arvind Pandey will take feedback from academicians, staffers of the education department, and other stakeholders so as to come up with a proper draft for the implementation of the National Education Policy 2020 in Uttarakhand. The minister has directed a few senior officers of the department to start working on the draft and focus on the needs of the education structure in Uttarakhand. TOI sources said that the department is going to start the process of taking feedback for the draft from this week through video conferences and then later, the education minister will present the draft proposal before the cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-dept-to-prepare-draft-proposal-for-implementation-of-nep-2020/articleshow/77449880.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Two hours before AI crash, a plane landed similarly, but safely||MUMBAI: Less than two hours before the Air India Express flight from Dubai landed and crashed, an IndiGo flight had followed a similar approach and landing onto the Calicut runway on Friday evening. The difference though, was that the IndiGo flight was operated with an ATR, a turbo prop aircraft, which operates at much lower speeds than the jet-engined Boeing 737s. ATR aircraft typically carry out an approach to land at 110-115 kts, as against Boeing 737s, which would have an approach speed of about 140-150kts. Slower the speed of the aircraft, shorter the runway length it needs to cover to come to a halt. But the IndiGo aircraft had followed a similar flight profile, said Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert. He relied on data from flightradar24, a live flight-tracking website, which showed that the pilots too had initially lined up to land on the westerly runway 28, like the AI pilots, as this was the runway with headwinds that are favourable for landing. But the IndiGo pilots discontinued the approach to land, which could have been for similar reasons, poor visibility due to rains and cloud cover. “The IndiGo pilots then made a second attempt and landed on the easterly runway 10, same as the Air India Express pilots,” said Capt Singh. “The IndiGo ATR may have faced less severe weather and the slower turboprop aircraft may have been more forgiving. Nevertheless, this pattern can provide some interesting insights into the prevailing conditions and the interactions between the pilots and the air traffic controller,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/an-indigo-flight-had-landed-the-same-way-as-the-ai-one-just-2-hours-before/articleshow/77456084.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Mysuru||Flood situation improves in Malnad||Shivamogga/ Mandya: The flood situation improved across Malnad and the Cauvery belt, as the rain receded on Sunday. Though there was a red alert issued by the IMA for Malnad region, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru and Hassan districts did not receive heavy rain. Traffic has also eased, as the situation has improved, but the restriction on the movement of vehicles on Charmadi Ghat, which witnessed landslides, will continue till Tuesday. Both Chikkamagaluru and Shivamogga received moderate rainfall on Sunday, while the Bhadra river, which was in spate, has receded. The river flooded Mundugadamane village in Horanadu which had nearly 50 houses, that got cut off, as a walking bridge was washed away. The Chikkamagaluru district administration quickly built a new one. It stopped raining in Sharavathi valley which stretches across Hosanagar and Sagar taluks in Shivamogga, even as the inflow into the Linganamakki dam, built across the river, has increased. The authorities said the inflow is likely to come down from Monday. In Hassan district, the Sakleshpur belt, which was hit by heavy downpour, didn’t receive any rain. The Hemavathi river which was in spate and submerged the Holemalleshwara temple at Sakleshpur town, has receded. Meanwhile, the inflow into the KRS dam increased to 97,000 cusecs on Sunday, but there are indications that it will decrease as rain has subsided in its catchment areas. The water level at the dam as on Sunday night was at 120 ft, which is some 5 ft below the maximum level. Though there is heavy outflow of river, no untoward incidents was reported. The water level in Hemavathi dam located in Gorur is 2,918.1 ft against full storage capacity of 2,922 feet. The inflow into the dam reduced to 29,478 cusecs, which was 50,036 cusecs on Sunday. The water outflow from Kabini dam located in H D Kote in Mysuru district is down to 16,600 cusecs owing to sharp decline in the inflow, which will help manage the flood situation downstream, mainly at Nanjangud, which is still reeling due to floods in several areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/flood-situation-improves-in-malnad/articleshow/77450728.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Aurangabad||263 new Covid cases emerge in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: As many as 263 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the district on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 16,753. Moreover, 10 patients succumbed to the infection while undergoing treatment at different hospitals. Th death toll in the district stands at 549. Of the 263 cases recorded on Sunday, 49 cases were reported from the rural areas, 20 from the jurisdiction of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), 27 were identified by the mobile swab collection labs and 69 were tested positive for the contagion during the mandatory screening conducted by the civic body at the entry points of Aurangabad city. 200 patients were discharged from different hospitals on Sunday, taking the total number of discharged patients in the district to 12,346. Currently, there are 3,858 active cases in the district. Authorities said that the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases was the result of large-scale testing that is being carried out by the mobile swab testing vans, special squads deployed at the city’s entry points, contact tracing on war footing and mandatory testing of vendors and workers employed in business houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/263-new-covid-cases-emerge-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77450731.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||24k to take GTU’s second round of online examinations||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has received a good response to its second round of online exams that are to be held from August 17. Nearly 24,000 students have chosen the option. The varsity has cancelled the pen-and-paper exams, which were to be held from the same date.About 4,150 students have not selected the online option. Hence they will take the offline exams which have been re-scheduled to September. The exact date for the offline tests will be announced soon, sources said.The varsity decided to hold another round of online exams from August 17 in the wake of the latest Unlock-3 guidelines issued by the Centre. The guidelines say that schools and colleges are to remain closed till August 31.About 25,000 candidates had registered to take the pen-and-paper exams that were to begin from August 17. Students were given the option of choosing between the two exam formats.The varsity is holding its first round of online exams for final-year degree and diploma engineering students. About 12,500 students are taking them. On Tuesday, 459 students could not take the exams due to some technical problems. The re-exams for these students will be conducted on August 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/24k-to-take-gtus-second-round-of-online-examinations/articleshow/77451849.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Kochi||Alappuzha: More than 3,000 people in relief camps||Alappuzha: Incessant rain, breaching of outer bunds and overflowing of rivers have forced the district administration to shift 3,205 people of 935 families to 69 relief camps. At least 12 gruel centres (non-residential camp for serving food only) were also opened in Kuttanad. In Chengannur taluk, 1,452 people are staying in 30 relief camps. Chengannur was one of the worst-hit places in the 2018 floods. Saji Cherian, MLA, said that around 10,000 people, especially senior citizens, children and those having severe health issues were shifted to their relatives’ homes. “At present, the situation is not dangerous. If water level increases, all arrangements have been made to shift people to safe locations. Adequate number of boats, heavy vehicles and rescue equipment were arranged in Chengannur town. This time the state government has opened Thottappally estuary,” said Saji. The district administration officials said that all the villages of Kuttanad taluk were flooded due to heavy rain. Pamba and Manimala rivers breached its banks after shutters of Maniyar and Moozhiyar dams were opened. Outer bunds of seven paddy fields breached in Kuttanad affecting the paddy cultivation in 507 hectares. Principal agriculture officer Latha Mary George, said paddy cultivation in atleast 1,300 hectares submerged following breaching and overflowing of outer bunds. Over 12 relief camps are functioning in Kuttanad and at least 327 people are staying there. Major roads like Alappuzha-Changanassery Road and Ambalappuzha-Thiruvalla Road and other rural roads in Alappuzha were flooded. KSRTC Alappuzha has stopped bus service to Thiruvalla. KSRTC Thiruvalla depot has also stopped services to Edathua, Ambalappuzha and Alappuzha. Sea erosion is also severe in the coastal belt of Alappuzha. Alappuzha district collector A Alexander has warned people residing on the banks of Pamba river to be cautious as the shutters of Pamba dam have been opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/alappuzha-more-than-3000-people-in-relief-camps/articleshow/77450754.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Dehradun||Irked by authorities’ delay, locals repair pothole-riddled road||DEHRADUN: Realising it would be too late before the administration addressed their long-pending demand of repairing an uneven road, the residents of Sahaspur, Santur Kotda in Dehradun, pooled in funds to fill the potholes which they believe could have caused fatal accidents if left unattended. TOI had highlighted the plight of these residents in a report but the issue still didn’t get the attention of civic officials. The poor condition of the stretch of road in the locality frequently leads to accidents among patients visiting a hospital in the vicinity. Talking to TOI, Akash Joshi, a resident, said, “We finally decided to take matters into our own hands, in the interest of residents and commuters. The potholes could have severely injured people, especially during the monsoon. The authorities would have taken several more months to act.” Another resident, Surendra Tomar, said, “The maintenance of this road has been long pending. We were told it was due to a shortage in budget. On Saturday, we decided to use our own money to fill the potholes and offer some relief to commuters.” A Public Works Department (PWD) official, who did not wish to be named, said that the road will be repaired once the monsoon ends. “The potholes that were filled by the locals will be paved properly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/irked-by-authorities-delay-locals-repair-pothole-riddled-road/articleshow/77449893.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Coast receives steady rain with less severity||Mangaluru: It was a continuous downpour that continued in the three coastal districts of Karnataka for the second day on Sunday, but with less severity. The continuous rain saw many low-lying areas, houses near river banks and agricultural fields inundated in all the three districts. In Brahmavar taluk of Udupi district, paddy fields in Uppoor village were under water, as were fields near Madisalu rivulet in Aroor village. The district administration has kept ready in case they need to evacuated people in case of an emergency. The houses on the Sita Nadi near NIlavar village are also in danger due to the rising water level of the river. In Mangaluru, the house of Harish at Adarsha Nagar, Jalligudde was damaged due to a mudslide on Sunday. Udupi received the highest amount of rain at 102mm, followed by Dakshina Kannada at 65mm and Uttara Kannada at 46mm. The highest rain in the state was recorded at three places in Udupi district. While Innanje recorded 275mm, Bammarabetta recorded 273 mm and Kurkalu recorded 184 mm of rain. The KSNMDC bulletin stated that high waves in the range of 3.5m-6.1m were forecast till 11.30pm of Monday along the coast of Karnataka from Mangaluru to Karwar. Strong gales with speeds reaching 50-60 kmph are also likely to prevail along and off the Karnataka coast,the bulletin stated, warning fishermen not to venture into the sea. The rain prediction stated that the coastal districts will have widespread moderate to heavy rain associated with strong surface winds, and scattered very heavy to extremely heavy rain over Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/coast-receives-steady-rain-with-less-severity/articleshow/77450759.cms||Stanley Pinto
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||School Fee Row: Parents on a wild-goose chase asactivists, officials withhold facts||Nagpur: The state education department’s failure to implement fee regulatory provisions and vested interests of few self-claimed activists have sent parents seeking fee reduction on a wild-goose chase. For the last few months the school fee issue has been raging with activists piling up pressure on both schools and the education department, but never informing parents concerned about the legal process to be followed. The biggest myth about fee reduction being propagated through social media is that registering protest with school or education official will do the trick. As per The Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fee) Act, minimum 25% of parents need to come together and register a complaint. Former school education minister Vinod Tawde, during whose tenure this bill was passed, said the most crucial aspect of RFA is missing today. “25% parents need to approach the Divisional Fee Regulatory Committee (DFRC). But the state has not appointed new members to this committee for over a year, only announcements have been made. Without DFRC, the Act is like a toothless tiger and we demand that it must be done within 15 days,” said Tawde. The earlier draft mentioned 50% parents requirement, but it was Tawde who insisted that the threshold be lowered. Additional chief secretary Vandana Krishna, who’s heading the school education department, told TOI that they are working towards formation of DFRC. In a text message, Krishna said “It (DFRC formation) is in process. Advertisement has been issued inviting application.” Advocate Bhanudas Kulkarni, one of the experts in education related litigations said the government needs to make major changes immediately. “There has to be a fee regulatory authority like in professional courses. I hope that some aggrieved parents file a public interest litigation (PIL) regarding this,” said Kulkarni. With every state having its own mechanism to deal with the issue, parents associations are seeking a pan-India approach. Ashok Agrawal, national president of the Delhi-based All India Parents Association and litigant in many education related cases, has written to Prime Minister’s Office seeking intervention. Agrawal said, “We have sought an ordinance which will put a cap on the fees being charged at least for this academic year. This will ensure that across the country all parents suffering due to economic crisis get some relief.” Schools say they are facing a bigger financial crisis than parents now. Rajendra Dayma, president of Independent English Schools Trustees Association (IESA), said, “It’s only 10%-15% parents who always have a negative attitude towards schools. They will always find fault with school and yet refuse to shift their children to other institutes. In fact we are reeling under financial stress with fee collection dipping. Still salaries, EMIs, overhead costs have to be paid. Schools are simply soft targets which anyone can take one easily.” TWO SIDES OF THE DIVIDE SCHOOL FEE HIGH, EDU DEPT CAN’T ACT * State edu dept or even govt has no powers to dictate fee to pvt unaided schools * Filing complaint with edu dept regarding fee will not yield results * In Maharashtra, Regulation of Fee Act is only legal framework governing this aspect SCHOOL MANAGEMENT REFUSING TO REDUCE FEE * Filing random complaints with school management about fee does not have any legal standing * Minimum 25% parents from a school need to officially join as ‘aggrieved parents’ * In a school of 1,000 students, minimum 250 parents need to come together as a group * This group can’t have ‘anonymous’ parents, as each one will have to sign documents related to their grievance * Group has to approach Div Fee Regulatory Committee within 30 days of the aggrieved decision taken by school management STATE GOVERNMENT’S FAILURE * No Divisional Fee Regulatory Committee currently in existence * Govt says process is currently on for that * To pacify parents & politicians, edu officials issue vague letters to schools which can’t be enforced in court of law * Content in letting schools and parents fight it among themselves||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-fee-row-parents-on-a-wild-goose-chase-asactivists-officials-withhold-facts/articleshow/77452897.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 10, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: BJP launches seven-day Swachh drive||BHOPAL: The MP BJP and the state government will launch a weeklong campaign to free the state of garbage ahead of the Independence Day. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that the cleanliness drive will be held in each city and district to support the call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “With the inspiration of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Indians created new dimensions in this field by making cleanliness their goal. Modi ji has given a call for ‘Quit India’ and has once again connected us with cleanliness. This will also give new direction to the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan,” tweeted Chouhan. The chief minister said that people and all the party members would resolve to participate and encourage others to join the weeklong sanitation campaign. “We s take a pledge to join the weeklong sanitation campaign on the call given by the PM ahead of August 15 and contribute to making our home, city, district, state and country more clean,” said the CM. The BJP state leadership has also called upon the district and mandal heads to conduct the drive in all blocks and segments from August 8 to 15. BJP Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia has also supported the drive. “The Prime Minister while inaugurating the National Sanitation Center has once again given the slogan ‘Quit India’ by re-linking the country with the cleanliness drive,” tweeted Scindia. BJP said that PM’s message has made clear that the Swachh Bharat Mission has been a big support in the fight against coronavirus. The slogan of “Gandagi, Bharat Chhodo” shows the government’s commitment towards cleanliness, said state BJP chief VD Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-launches-7-day-swachh-drive/articleshow/77452898.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nashik||NMC to auction 331 Ganpati idol stalls||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to auction 331 stalls to those wanting to sell Ganpati idols for the upcoming Ganeshotsav. The auction will be conducted at all six divisional offices of the civic body on Thursday at 11.30am. The stalls will be provided for a period of eight days — from August 16 to 23 . The stalls will be set up at 24 locations across the city and the size of the idols cannot be over 4 feet. “The stall owners will have to ensure that all the safety protocol are followed. They will have to ensure that social-distancing is also maintained by the customers visiting the stalls,” a civic official said. The size of each stall will be of 10x10 sq ft. Those participating in the auction should be residents of Nashik and will have to submit residential proof along with photocopies of their ID cards. A deposit of Rs 4,000 for each stall will have to be paid in cash to participate in the auction. The bid winners will have to pay the bidding amount along with the GST on the same day of auctioning either in cash or by demand draft in the name of NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-auction-331-ganpati-idol-stalls/articleshow/77450757.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 10, 2020||India||Unfair on Sonia, Congress must find full-term chief: Shashi Tharoor||NEW DELHI: Exactly a year to the day when Sonia Gandhi completed a year in office as interim president of Congress, Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor has said it was “unfair” to her to carry the “interim chief’s burden indefinitely”. Speaking to a news agency, Tharoor also said Congress must expedite the process of finding a full-term president to arrest the growing public perception that the party is “adrift and rudderless”, while adding that he thinks Rahul Gandhi has the “mettle, capability and aptitude to once again lead the party”. The Thiruvananthapuram MP, however, proposed that if Sonia Gandhi does not wish to continue as president, Congress must “take action” to elect a new president. “We also need to arrest the growing public perception, fuelled by a dismissive media, that Congress is adrift and rudderless, incapable of taking up the challenge of a credible national Opposition,” the former Union minister said. Congress needs to urgently address this by expediting the process of finding a full-term president, through a participatory and democratic process that will offer the winning candidate a legitimate mandate and the credibility that will be indispensable in ushering in much needed organisational and structural revival of the party, Tharoor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unfair-on-sonia-congress-must-find-full-term-chief-shashi-tharoor/articleshow/77453491.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand reports 230 new Covid-19 cases, 8 deaths||Dehradun: Novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand reached 9,632 on Sunday after witnessing a jump of 230 fresh infections on the day. Meanwhile, the toll of the virus surged to 125 after eight more Covid-19 patients died in the state. The maximum of 127 cases were reported in Haridwar after which the number of active cases reached 895 in the district on Sunday. In Dehradun, 34 new cases were reported while 19 new cases were recorded in Udham Singh Nagar, followed by 16 cases in Nainital, 11 in Tehri, eight in Rudraprayag, seven in Champawat, four in Uttarkashi, three in Pauri, and one in Chamoli. “Among the eight deaths, three cases each were from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Rishikesh and Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH). One Covid-19 patient died at Shree Mahant Indresh Hospital in Dehradun while the other infected elderly died at Metro Hospital in Haridwar,” informed Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 war room. Yet another death of Covid-19 patient was reported after the release of the health bulletin, confirmed Harish Thapliyal, public relations officer of AIIMS-R. Meanwhile, with cases rising in the state capital, the health department is mulling to hire a third party agency to maintain cleanliness at Covid Care Centers (CCCs) where government sweepers are reluctant to provide their service fearing infection. The poor state of these CCCs was highlighted when a few patients made videos of dirty toilets and premises and uploaded them on social media platforms. It is believed that opening of the city's biggest CCC, at Raipur Stadium, got delayed by a few days due to the unavailability of sweepers and cleaners. Talking to TOI, DR BC Ramola, chief medical officer of Dehradun, confirmed that cleaners and sweepers are not ready to serve in Covid Care Centers even when the health department has agreed to pay them a monthly salary in the range of Rs 15,000 to Rs 18,000. “The city has over a dozen CCCs and we are yet to get a single sweeper for the Maharana Pratap Sports College, which has a capacity of 750 beds. Hence, we will be taking the help of a third party agency,” added Dr Ramola.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-230-new-covid-19-cases-8-deaths/articleshow/77449915.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Man held for giving triple talaq on social media||Mangaluru: The Udupi District Police have arrested a man for giving triple talaq to his wife through social media in Shirva. The man, who sent triple talaq message through a social media platform, has been sent to judicial custody, said police. The accused has been identified as 38-year-old Sheikh Mohammed Saleem, a resident of Shirva. Sheikh got married to Swapnaz, a resident of Shirva in 2010 and the couple have a daughter. They were residing in Saudi Arabia until recently. However, Sheikh, who allegedly had an affair with another woman, left his wife and child in Saudi Arabia and flew back to India in July. Police said after his arrival to India, Sheikh sent a triple talaq message on social media to his wife. He also posted pictures of another woman on his account. Swapnaz lodged a complaint to jurisdictional police through an email and based on it, they arrested Sheikh. Police said that Sheikh, after testing negative for Coronavirus, was sent to 14 days’ judicial custody. A case was registered at Shirva police station under The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-held-for-giving-triple-talaq-on-social-media/articleshow/77451505.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nashik||Cells planned for protection of tribals’ health & interests||Nashik: Tribal development minister K C Padvi has underlined a project of drawing up of special cells, each of which will work on tribal health conservation and protection of tribal interests.Padvi, while addressing the tribals on World Tribal Day on August 9 via a video-conference, said the government was keen on protecting the interests of true tribals against “fake” tribals. “The ‘Tribals Interest Protection’ cell will find out the actual tribal people and help in their development. It will weed out the people who have followed corrupt practices to get tribal certificates and benefited from the tribal development schemes,” he said. The cell will also promote trade of agricultural produce and products of tribals by finding markets and investments.The ‘Tribal Health Conservation Cell’ would specifically focus on sickle cell and other diseases that are commonly found among the tribals.State assembly deputy speaker and Dindori MLA Narhari Zhirwal underlined the need to increase godowns that would store the tribals’ agriculture produce that can be forwarded to various departments to ensure that the tribals get a good price.A festival called ‘Raan Bhaajya’ (vegetables from jungle), was organised by agriculture minister Dada Bhuse at Krishi Bhawan in Nashik.Meanwhile, Shramjeevi Sanghatana agitated against online education system saying tribals were excluded from this new way of education. “Govt must provide internet connectivity, mobiles and laptops for e-education,” the Sangathana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cells-planned-for-protection-of-tribals-health-interests/articleshow/77450765.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 10, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Thief cuts open vault, but cutter slits his throat too||VADODARA: In a bizarre incident, a burglar died in a private bank on Saturday midnight on Harni Road as his throat was accidentally slit by the same cutter with which he had opened the safety vault. The unidentified burglar had broken into the Harni Road branch of Bengaluru-headquartered Ujjivan Small Finance Bank located on the ground floor of a commercial complex. Police said that the thief first broke into the bank using his electric cutter and entered inside sometime between 12.45am and 1am. He then cut open the safety vault. But before he could enter and steal, the cutter accidentally got switched on and slashed his throat. “The area outside the safety vault is very small for even one person to stand. As it was dark, the thief did not realize his movement in that narrow space and pulled the wire which turned on the cutter and slit his throat,” said inspector SS Anand of Warasia police station. Meanwhile, the bank’s vigilance department based in Chennai noticed the burglar’s movement inside the bank through CCTV cameras and alerted the branch manager Prashant Sharma. But when Sharma opened the branch and checked, he found the burglar lying dead in a pool of blood. Sharma then called Warasia police station and a patrolling van nearby reached the bank and confirmed that the burglar was dead. Police officials said that they suspect that the burglar was alone and there was no other person along with him. “We have found some documents from him, but his identity can be verified once his family members come and see the body,” Anand added. A case of accidental death was registered regarding the thief’s death and an offence of burglary attempt was also registered against him. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burglar-cuts-bank-vault-with-cutter-but-slits-his-throat-too/articleshow/77450092.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Tuition teacher held for raping woman when she was 17||AHMEDABAD: A 22-year-old woman lodged a complaint with Odhav police on Saturday evening that a tuition teacher named Osho Mishra — who used to stay near her house had raped her when she was 17 years old and then kept her quiet, by promising to marry her. The teacher then held a fake marriage ceremony at his friend’s office and also took the girl out on honeymoon to different places in Vadodara, Gandhinagar, Udaipur and Delhi. Later the teacher left his house and went away. DCP Zone-5 Achal Tyagi said that they have detained the tuition teacher under sections of rape. Police sources said the woman, who is now doing her BSc, came into contact with the teacher at the age of 17 when her family needed someone to fill up the school form of her younger brother for admission. “At that time, Mishra filled up the form and exchanged phone numbers with the girl. Later, he sent messages to the girl and once even slit his wrist to express the depth of his desire for the girl. He used to send the photos of his slit wrist to the girl,” said a police official. Police sources said, the tuition teacher then pressurized the girl to come to his house for tuition in English grammar. “Once, when the girl went to house for tuitions, he was alone at his house and he tried to rape the girl but the girl did not allow him to. However he then clicked her photos and threatening to make the photos viral, he raped her. He promised the girl to marry her and even took her to his friend’s office and arranged a fake marriage ceremony where he again got photos taken. He did not give the photos to the girl,” said a police source. Then, after having a honeymoon, Mishra disappeared from the locality, said police. “The girl mustered courage and told her family about what had happened and then registered a complaint at Odhav police station. We have sent the accused for pre-arrest Covid test,” said DCP Tyagi. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tuition-teacher-held-for-raping-woman-when-she-was-17/articleshow/77451906.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress MLAs demand action against rebels at CLP meet||JAIPUR: Even as chief minister Ashok Gehlot appeared ready to forgive his sacked deputy Sachin Pilot and the band of 18 dissident legislators camping in Manesar, most of the Congress legislators looked in no mood to reconcile with the rebels on Sunday. At the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting held at a hotel in Jaisalmer late Sunday night, the legislators supporting Gehlot demanded strict action against the rebels. Sources said a senior cabinet minister first raised the demand, which was supported by the legislators with a loud applause. Another senior Congress leader assured the legislators that the Pilot camp would not be defended before the Congress high command. Two rebel MLAs, Bhanwar Lal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh, were suspended from the party soon after the revolt early last month. The chief minister is believed to have pacified the legislators at the CLP by saying that sometimes an "insult" had to be swallowed to "save democracy". Gehlot had expressed similar sentiments about ‘saving democracy’ in his letter written to all Rajasthan MLAs on Saturday. The demand for action against the Pilot camp came even as Gehlot said last week that he was ready to “hug” the dissidents if the party high command decided to forgive them. In contrast to his stiff stand against Pilot last month, Gehlot mellowed down of late and had been saying that the rebels could be forgiven if they apologised to the party high command. The scenario at the CLP, however, was different on Sunday night. Gehlot had reached Jaisalmer earlier in the day and met the legislators camping in two hotels since July 31. At the CLP held in Suryagarh Hotel, Gehlot assured his legislators that the state’s Congress government was "safe" and would complete its full tenure of five years. Gehlot urged the legislators to remain united during the state assembly session commencing from August 14. The Congress government led by Gehlot is expected to go for a floor test during the assembly session to prove that it was in majority despite the revolt. The chief minister told the CLP that the BJP beginning to hoard its MLAs indicated that the opposition had already accepted that its attempts to topple the government cannot succeed, said sources. AICC leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala, Avinash Pande, Ajay Maken, Vivek Bansal and others were present at the CLP meeting. Parliamentary affairs minister Shanti Dhariwal and PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra too were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-mlas-demand-action-against-rebels-at-clp-meet/articleshow/77452903.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cumulative cases: A’bad at 27,898||Ahmedabad: With the deaths of nine Covid-19 patients in Surat and three in Vadodara districts, the death tolls of the districts reached 501 and 100 in 24 hours ending 5pm on Sunday. Ahmedabad (1,633), Surat, and Vadodara account for 84% of the state’s death toll. With the update on Sunday, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad are at 27,898; in Surat, they are at 15,225; in Vadodara, they are at 5,612; and in Rajkot, they are at 2,606. Only Devbhoomi Dwarka (83) and Dang (30) districts have fewer than 100 cumulative cases in Gujarat. For the second consecutive day, Gujarat recorded 1,000-plus discharges at 1,311, taking the total to 54,138. The state now has 14,272 cases, which consist of 20% of the total cases. The discharges include 589 from Surat, 111 from Vadodara, 106 from Ahmedabad, and 56 from Rajkot. Of the 33 districts of Gujarat, 18 have had 10 or more deaths due to Covid-19 so far. Of the 71,064 total Covid patients in Gujarat, 14,272 (20%) are active, 54,138 (76.2%) are discharged, and 2,654 (3.8%) are dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cumulative-cases-abad-at-27898/articleshow/77451939.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hubballi||Ready to tackle any eventuality: Shettar||Dharwad/Kalaburagi: All precautionary measures have been taken to tackle mishaps due to heavy rain and floods in the district, said district minister Jagadish Shettar. After viewing the mock life-saving drill by the NDRF team at Benni halla near Yamanur in Navalgund taluk on Sunday, the minister said the administration is well equipped to tackle any eventuality. The district has witnessed heavy rain in the past three days. Huge damage has been caused to crops and houses, particularly in Navalgund taluk. Steps are being taken to pay compensation to the affected families, he said. A contingent of NDRF will be camping at Navalgund to take up rescue operations at short notice in the event of any emergency. Local youths will assist the NDRF, Shettar said. A comprehensive plan to avoid flooding in Benni halla and Tuppari halla is being prepared by MLAs Shankar Patil Munenakoppa and Amrut Desai, said Shettar. Deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil and other officials were present. Shettar visits Bogur Shettar also visited Bogur village in Dharwad taluk and consoled the family members of a minor girl who committed suicide after allegedly being raped by a man. The minister assured the parents of the girl that the police will ensure justice by getting the accused convicted. Basheer, the accused has been arrested under the Pocso Act and is in jail. The minister handed over Rs 50,000 from his personal account to the bereaved family. Shepherd stuck on island resued by NDRF team  A shepherd, who was stuck in an island in Krishna river next to Narayanpur reservoir in Shorapur taluk in Yadagiri district, was rescued by the NDRF team on Sunday. Shepherd Topanna Rathod, a resident of IB tanda, had gone to Melinagaddi island by crossing the river four days ago to graze his sheep. On the same day, water was released into the river from the reservoir. As the river went on swelling, Topanna was stuck in the island along with his herd of 230 sheep and a dog. Shorapur MLA Rajugowda learnt about the incident and he son Manikanthagowda confirmed it by using the drone camera. A 16-member NDRF team rushed to the island. They brought the shepherd and the dog back in a special boat. It is said that the sheep are safe in the island. Topanna said he survived the four days by drinking sheep’s milk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ready-to-tackle-any-eventuality-shettar/articleshow/77450787.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nashik||Maha to request SC to exclude primary health dept hirings||Kolhapur: Maharashtra government is going to request the Supreme Court to exclude the recruitment in the government health centres.Last months, the government had told the SC that it is not going to make fresh recruitments in view of the pandemic while the SC was examining the constitutional validity of the reservation given to the Maratha community.Speaking in Karad on Sunday, state health minister Rajesh Tope said, “The posts are vacant in the primary health centres. Considering the legalities related to Maratha reservation, the SC has been assured that the recruitments will not be carried out. This has led to hurdles in filling up the vacancies of the public health department. Our efforts will be to get the recruitments in the health department excluded. We have spoken with the state attorney general to work out the exclusion considering the emergency situation.”In the SC, the anti-Maratha quota petitioners had alleged that the state government is trying to delay the hearing and is planning to fill up 72,000 vacancies. The lawyers representing the government had assured the SC that no vacancies will be filled till September 15, upon which the SC listed the matter for September 1.Tope said, “We will carry out the recruitment based on merit and in a transparent way. The process will be speedy. We have ordered the district collectors to hold the interviews to recruit doctors and nurses in the primary health centres.”About inflated bills issued by the private hospitals, Tope said, “The bills should be first handed over to the auditors. Only after the bills have been audited, they should be given to relatives of the patients. The bills should not be beyond the capped amount. We have set up rapid action teams to visit the private hospitals and ensure that the bills are issued within the capped limit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maha-to-request-sc-to-exclude-primary-health-dept-hirings/articleshow/77450785.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||e-Janmashtami as temples to stay closed||Ahmedabad: Various shrines, including Iskcon Temple on SG Road and Hare Krishna Mandir in Bhadaj, will remain closed on Janmashtami, on Wednesday. The festival will go online for these temples. While Iskcon Temple will stay closed for two days from Wednesday, Hare Krishna Mandir will be closed for three days from Tuesday. Dwarkadhish temple in Dwarka will remain closed on Janmashtami as well, a first for it during the festival. Haresh Govind Das of the Iskcon management said that celebrations will be shown live on social media and other platforms. He said the closure was prompted by the pandemic. Hare Krishna Mandir has similar online-broadcast plans. Swami Jaganmohan Krishna Das, president, Hare Krishna Movement, said: “Krishna Janmashtami is an important festival for devotees around the world. But due to the uncertain situation, the temple will telecast the festival live.” Physical darshan is closed for all visitors from Tuesday to Thursday, Swami Jaganmohan Krishna Das reiterated. “This is to ensure the safety of people,” he said. “We advise everyone to abide by state and central government norms and stay home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/e-janmashtami-as-temples-to-stay-closed/articleshow/77451947.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man sets bike ablaze in Vatva||Ahmedabad: Ayyub Saiyed, 26, of Sadbhavnanagar in Vatva lodged a complaint against one Imran Shaikh of Vatva on Saturday for abusing him and setting his bike on fire. Ayyub has stated in his FIR, that on Saturday early morning Shaikh knocked at his door and as he opened the door, Shaikh asked him why he was moving around with Mohsin Chagu and his brother. At that time Saiyed’s parents also came out of the house, hence Shaikh went downstairs and started abusing loudly. “According to the complaint, as Saiyed’s father Mehboob Saiyed went down, he saw that Saiyed’s bike was in flames and Shaikh was standing there with a bottle of inflammable liquid in his hand. When Saiyed rushed downstairs, Shaikh told him that he has set the bike on fire and they could do whatever they were able to,” said an official of Vatva police station. However, as others gathered on the spot, Shaikh went away and Saiyed and his father Mehboob doused the fire. Vatva police officials said that they have registered a case against Shaikh and are searching for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-sets-bike-ablaze-in-vatva/articleshow/77451946.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Dehradun||Waterman of India Rajendra Singh to join Matri Sadan seer on 1-day hunger strike to protect Ganga||DEHRADUN: The fast begun by Swami Shivanand Saraswati to protect River Ganga, have all other related demands of late professor G D Agrawal fulfilled, and get an investigation started against the forcible lifting of fasting seers of Matri Sadan, completes a week today. The seer has been taking only water in the past week. In his support, many other members of civil society, including renowned water conservationist Rajendra Singh, have decided to sit on a day-long mass hunger strike across the country on Monday. “At 108 different places across the country, people will sit on Ganga Satyagraha tomorrow to give momentum to the protest being independently conducted by Saraswatiji. He is the only seer in this country who is fighting to save Ganga over the past two decades, risking his own life. We cannot let him die like this. The government has to listen to his demands,” said Rajendra Singh, often called the Waterman of India. On August 3, Swamiji, the Matri Sadan founder, handed over a memorandum, detailing his demands in five points, before he began his fast. They included stopping construction work of all hydel power plants on the Ganges, banning stone crushers on the river banks, punishing all Uttarakhand officials who failed to adhere to NMCG orders of October 2019 on banning mining, legislating the Ganga Act and forming a council of Ganga devotees, and start a high-level probe into both the alleged killing of professor Agrawal and forcible eviction of fasting Matri Sadan seers. Agrawal, a former professor at IIT-Kanpur, was the first ever secretary of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). When the lifelong environmental activist sat on a hunger strike to demand the protection of the river in 2018, the government appeared to have agreed upon a couple of his demands, but later on, these were revoked. Singh said, “The recent move to get Bhagirathi Ecosensitive Zone’s zonal plan notified contradicts the late professor’s vision of saving Himalayan ecology. The zonal plan is meant for profit, not ecological benefit. We don’t wish the Ganges to meet the same fate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/waterman-of-india-rajendra-singh-to-join-matri-sadan-seer-on-1-day-hunger-strike-to-protect-ganga/articleshow/77449941.cms||Shivani Azad
August 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Primary teachers brave hurdles to impart ‘education at doorstep’||KOLHAPUR: While heavy rain lashes Anuskura — the last village in Shahuwadi tehsil in Kolhapur district with no network coverage and electricity supply of upto five hours — 9-year-old Chinmayi Jambhale rushes home with her cattle. Reason? Her primary school teacher is going to come home to teach her. ‘Shikshan Aale Dari’, meaning education at doorstep, is an initiative started by primary school teacher Prakash Gatade around one-and-a-half months ago to keep around 125 school children from small hamlets like Wakicha Wada, Nhavyachi Wadi, Musalman Wadi, Kumbhyachi Wadi, Kante, Ayarewadi, Dabholkar Wadi and Anuskura up-to-date with the lessons. Gatade said, “People in the village don’t use mobile phones as there is no network here. Online education is the need of the hour but how is it possible in a place where even 2G network is not available all the time? Under the ‘Shikshan Aale Dari’ initiative, the primary school teacher travels to remote hamlets every alternate day. After taking care of all the necessary precautions, like thermal screening and proper sanitisation, they teach for around 45 minutes and also assign homework.” All the necessary permissions were obtained by the teachers from the gram panchayat, Corona Dakshata Samiti and parents of the children. Dashrat Ayare, headmaster of the Kendriya primary school in Anuskura said, “The dropout rate among students is very high in the region as the people here are poor and don’t understand the importance of education. The children work in the fields along with their parents and take the cattle for grazing. Under the new initiative, teachers make batches of five to six students and impart lessons. One of the students is made the leader who has to assist and ensure every student in the group completes his/her studies.” Sayali Jambhale, Chinmayi’s mother, said, “The teachers coming to our hamlets brave heavy rain, muddy off-roads, and now even the virus to teach our children. We are grateful.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/primary-teachers-brave-hurdles-to-impart-education-at-doorstep/articleshow/77450836.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||Listen to people’s voice: CM to Rajasthan MLAs||JAIPUR: Ahead of the state assembly session on August 14, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday wrote a three-page appeal to all Rajasthan MLAs urging them to “listen to the voice of people” to save democracy and “stand with the truth” in the interest of the state. Gehlot, who faced political crisis after his sacked deputy Sachin Pilot revolted by taking away 18 legislators loyal to him to Manesar in Haryana, sought the special assembly session to show that his government was still in majority. Five days prior to the crucial session, the chief minister addressed the MLAs across political parties for their cooperation in foiling the conspiracy to topple his government. Narrating the steps taken by his government in fighting Covid-19 with support from all parties, Gehlot wrote, “Even as the government is working day and night (to save lives), some of our (Congress) colleagues and certain leaders in the opposition are conspiring to topple our democratically elected government. This is unfortunate.” Gehlot once again recounted how a similar conspiracy was hatched against the BJP government of late CM Bhairon Singh Shekhawat between 1993 and 1996 in the state and how Gehlot, who was then a Union minister and PCC chief, opposed the undemocratic method of horse-trading of MLAs. The CM narrated this account to PM Narendra Modi too last month. “People of the state would never want such a tradition to be set in Rajasthan. Currently, the people of the state are in deep anger against the elected representatives involved in this conspiracy,” Gehlot wrote. Gehlot mentioned the six BSP MLAs and said their merger into Congress was as per the law and aimed at stabilising the government. “They merged into Congress for the development of their areas, which is legal. But, destabilising the government through sale-purchase of MLAs can never be justified; this is against democratic virtutes and traditions,” he wrote. The CM concluded by saying, “It is my appeal to you all that to save democracy, to keep people’s faith in us and to avoid wrong traditions, you should listen to the voice of people. You may be a legislator from any political party, (but) you should understand the sentiments of your peers, your family members and your voters and decide to ensure that the majority government elected by the people keeps working firmly for the welfare of Rajasthan and that the plans to destabilise the government do not succeed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/listen-to-peoples-voice-cm-to-raj-mlas/articleshow/77452905.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Mall sealed for use of trial rooms, other violations||AHMEDABAD: The solid waste department of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Sunday sealed the Central Mall in the Ambawadi area of the city for not following social distancing norms and not forcing the customers to wear masks. Director of solid waste department Harshad Solanki said that after sealing the Ahmedabad One Mall on Monday, the authorities had issued a warning to all malls to observe social distancing and force their customers to wear masks. He said that on Sunday an AMC team found that changing and trial rooms were open for all at the Central Mall and every one was using them without restrictions. Solanki said that as per the direction, customers are not allowed to enter the trial room. Officials who were part of the team said that even some of the staffers were seen surrounded by several customers and they had their masks on their mouths instead of their noses. “The mall is sealed and the conditions that were imposed on Ahmedabad One Mall were issued to the mall authorities,” the official said. He said that the AMC in its notice has said that the mall management must disinfect the entire mall and submit the reports of rapid antigen tests of the security guards, housekeeping and other staff. The authorities have been asked to give an undertaking that the rules of social distancing and mask will be enforced. The authorities will have to give a detailed road map on how they plan to implement the rules. Solanki said that several establishments near Law Garden and Ambawadi were checked but as the news of sealing of Central Mall had spread, the staff and the management had stopped customers from entering their premises and customers were made to stand in white circles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mall-sealed-for-use-of-trial-rooms-other-violations/articleshow/77452044.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||IIM-A BIES survey spots slight recovery||Ahmedabad: The monthly Business Inflation Expectations Survey (BIES) for June showed slightly better projections from MSMEs, which have been contending with the impact of the Covid lockdown. The survey was carried out by Prof Abhiman Das, RBI chair in finance & economics and chairperson of Misra Centre for Financial Markets and Economy, at IIM-A. The survey sends out questionnaires asking for information on sales, costs, and profit margins among other aspects to listed MSMEs to understand their projections. “One year ahead business inflation expectations in June 2020 have declined marginally by 12 basis points to 4.12% from 4.24% reported in May 2020. However, they continue to remain over 4% for four consecutive months,” mentioned the findings. “The percentage of firms expecting significant (over 6%) cost increase has been gradually declining. However, the percentage of firms reporting moderate (in the range of 3% to 6%) cost increase has sharply increased — from 16% in May 2020 to 22% in June 2020.” While there was some improvement of sales from the ‘much less than’ category, about 91% of the firms in the sample still report that sales are ‘somewhat or much less than normal.’ The percentage in this category has remained above 70% since June 2019. Prof Das in his analysis said that the responses on profit margins show early signs of optimism. Over 71% of the firms in June 2020 reported that sales are ‘much less than normal’ as against over 75% in May 2020 and 81% in March 2020. Over 68% of the firms in the survey in June 2020 reported ‘much less than normal’ profit as against 74% in May 2020. “Over 86% of the firms in the sample in June 2020 expect ‘much less than normal or somewhat less than normal’ profit margins — down from 89% that reported in May 2020,” mentioned the report. The report added that this proportion has been hovering around 75% since June 2019. It went up further after January 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/iim-a-bies-survey-spots-slight-recovery/articleshow/77452004.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jodhpur||11 of migrant family from Pakistan found dead in Jodhpur village||JODHPUR: Eleven refugees of a family from Pakistan were found dead at an agriculture farm under suspicious circumstances in Lodta village of Dechu tehsil in Jodhpur district on Sunday morning. The deceased included five children and four women. Following a spot inspection, police said they suspected all the deceased to have consumed pesticide or some chemical. But they are awaiting FSL and post-mortem reports. “We are not yet in a position to ascertain if it was suicide, accidental casualty or something else. We have sent the bodies to conduct post-mortem by a medical board and will wait for the result,” said SP (Jodhpur rural) Rahul Barhat, adding that a can of pesticide and some injectable vials were found from the shack where the bodies were found. One person of the family, identified as Kewal Ram (35) and son of the head of the family Budharam Bheel, survived as he was out in the farm allegedly keeping watch on animals trespassing the field at night. He, however, claimed that it was not suicide but murders and accused his in-laws. He has lodged an FIR against them. Confirming the FIR, Barhat said that Kewal Ram's wife has not been living with him due to some dispute, and she had been pressurising the family for custody of her children. Police have also found a written note from the shack, which mentions the dispute, and are verifying if it's authentic. Meanwhile, Kewal Ram is also a suspect in the case as he had "escaped" from the incident and has been changing his statements. He had claimed that he was not in the shack, where his family members slept at night, and learnt about the incident only after he came back in the morning. He then called up his relatives living nearby, who informed the police. “We all had dinner between 9 and 10pm. After some chit-chat, all went to sleep. But I went up to the fencing of the farm to guard the crop from animals and drifted into sleep there itself," Kewal Ram claimed, adding that he learnt about the incident only when he reached home in the morning. Those who died included Budharam and his wife Antara Devi; their son Ravi (31); daughters Jiya (25) and Suman (22); three sons of Kewal Ram; two grandsons Mukdash (17) and Nain (12); and another family member Laxmi (40). The family had been working on another farm in the area and had shifted to the current farm, belonging to one Bhiyaram, about 5-6 months back for work. Hindu Singh Sodha, president of Seemant Lok Sangathan, also rushed to the spot and demanded a fair investigation into the matter. He also spoke to the survivor and police officers. Sodha said the family had immigrated to India from Sanghar district of Sindh province of Pakistan in July 2015. They had been staying in Jodhpur on long-term visa and working as farm labourers in Dechu area. Jodhpur MP and Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat lashed out at the state government, saying that the incident raises a question mark over the “working style” of chief minister Ashok Gehlot. “The deceased include two men, four women and five children. One after other, very frightening incidents reflecting the deteriorating situation of the state, are coming to the fore. The government should swing into action and clear the picture," Shekhawat tweeted. “The death of 11 migrants from Pakistan in Dechu village in Jodhpur is a heart-wrenching incident. A high-level investigation should be carried out. This is the result of the absence of the government,” former chief minister Vasundhara Raje tweeted. State BJP president Satish Poonia alleged that the deaths occured due to "spurious liquor" and demanded that the police "investigate the matter without delay at the earliest".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/11-of-pak-migrantfamily-found-deadin-jodhpur-village/articleshow/77452906.cms||Ajay Parmar
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Focus on maths score for science applicants||KOLKATA: Colleges that have a high demand for science honours courses are taking innovative routes to select the best candidates. The state colleges are in a bind as West Bengal Higher Secondary Council suspended several major science subjects, including physics, chemistry and statistics, due to the Covid-19 situation in the state. Lady Brabourne College has traditionally witnessed thousands of applicants in the science stream honours departments. This year, in order to counter the challenge of students securing very high scores, despite many science papers getting cancelled, the college has decided to put additional weightage on mathematics for selecting students in statistics honours program. “Till now, we considered the aggregate, mathematics as well as statistics marks in the plus-two board exams to select candidates. This year, since the subject paper was suspended, we will give double weightage to mathematics. It is also an essential subject, which can judge the students quantitative capabilities for them to take up statistics,” said principal Siuli Sarkar In East Kolkata Girls College, for economics, nutrition or geography — subjects which were suspended in the HS examinations — they will take into account English marks as a compulsory element while selecting students. Shukla Hazra, principal of the college, said in all the subjects this year, the governing body has decided to include English marks. “The students will be granted admissions based on English, aggregate (best of four subjects) and the individual subject marks. We had initially planned to provide weightage on Madhyamik marks, which unfortunately will not be feasible,” she said. At Maharaja Manindra Chandra College, the criteria in physics, chemistry and computer science honours are set to undergo massive changes with mathematics marks being a determining parameter. “In physics, mathematics score will be multiplied by three, in chemistry and computer science, maths marks will be multiplied by two. Along with it, we will also take into account the best of four subjects aggregate marks,” said principal Manturam Samanta. There has been a significant change in admission criteria for Bethune College undergraduate honours program in physics, chemistry and Sanskrit. “We considered and gave double weighatge to physics and chemistry marks in HS examination. But this year, the formula is best of four subjects and the individual subject marks will be taken once. We could not erase the parameter to take into account the subject marks in both physics and chemistry since other boards may have conducted the exam in both,” said a college official. Seth Anandaram Jaipuria College that receives a huge number of applications from Kolkata and suburbs, has also decided to look into maths marks in case of physics admission apart from the best of four subjects aggregate marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/focus-on-maths-score-for-science-applicants/articleshow/77452002.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 10, 2020||Vadodara||Spike continues for sixth day, over 100 new cases in Vadodara||Vadodara: Vadodara city and district together continued record over 100 cases for the sixth consecutive day with 108 found in the 24 hours ending Sunday evening. The fresh cases have been reported from Tarsali, Waghodiya Road, Gotri Road, Harni, Danteshwar, Akota, Navayard, Yakutpura, Ajwa Road, among a few other areas within the VMC limits. In Vadodara rural, the fresh cases have been reported from Karjan, Padra, Dabhoi, Waghodiya, Bajwa, Ranoli, Bhayli and Por areas. The 108 new cases that tested positive were results of 1,014 samples that were tested since Saturday evening. This is the highest number of samples tested within a day. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also declared two more deaths due to Covid-19 talking the official death toll to 108. The number of patients on oxygen or on ventilator has remained around 200. Except VMC’s west zone, total number of positive cases in all three other zones of VMC and rural areas of Vadodara district has crossed 1,000 mark now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/spike-continues-for-sixth-day-over-100-new-cases-in-vadodara/articleshow/77450136.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Syllabus reduction: Schools cut down on screen time in Kolkata||KOLKATA: With the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) and CBSE reducing syllabus load, most city schools are now tweaking their online classes to cut down on screen time and bringing in other ways of teaching kids off-screen.  Schools like La Martiniere, St James’, the six Loreto schools, Apeejay, Birla High and some schools in the DPS chain are bringing changes in their online classes to make it easier for students and ensure that off-screen revision and assignments get priority. Some schools have already sent e-alerts to parents telling them about reduced timings of online classes. In many Council-affiliated schools, the routine has been changed so that apart from subjects like English and maths, which will be taught every day, others can be taught at least once a week. While on some days class lectures will be held for 160 minutes, on other days, it’s being further reduced to 120 minutes, with breaks, for kids in middle school. Online class timing has been curtailed further for primary section. “Though both teachers and kids were coping well, we felt that since the syllabus load has been reduced, we should reduce online class timing because this will give relief to kids,” said Supriyo Dhar, secretary of La Martiniere schools. The school is shifting gear from Monday and the focus is on off-screen projects and assignments, which will have to be mailed to teachers for correction. St James’ School has recently shifted from a free to paid platform for online classes and has recast its routine. In all six Loreto schools, the extra time that the syllabus reduction has provided, is now being factored in such a way that kids, who were lagging because of lack of connectivity, get additional online classes. The others are spending this time writing projects or assignments, said principal of Loreto Entally, Jessica Gomes Surana. CBSE has reduced load by 30% across classes but there are some schools that have decided not to teach the reduced syllabus. “We are not cutting down on class time but bringing in a lot of breaks, off-screen learning time,” said vice principal of DPS Ruby Park Indrani Chattopadhyay. Her view was echoed by DPS Howrah principal, Sunita Arora. Apeejay School has cut down online class time by an hour, said principal Rita Chatterjee. Principal of Loyola School, Rodney Borneo, felt that a further syllabus reduction is needed for schools that have large number of underprivileged kids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/syllabus-reduction-schools-cut-down-on-screen-time/articleshow/77452028.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Godhavi village declared containment zone||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad district authorities have declared the entire Godhavi village, situated on the outskirts of Bopal-Ghuma, as a containment zone after the authorities found eight Covid-19 positive cases from the village. District development office Arun Mahesh Babu said that 15 persons were found Covid positive in rapid antigen test. In confirmatory test, eight were tested positive. Ahmedabad district, barring AMC areas, reported 15 fresh cases on Sunday, taking the total in the district to 1,420. Of the 15 cases reported in the district on Sunday, nine were from Dholka, two each from Dhandhuka and Sanand and one case each from Bavla and Mandal. Taluka-wise, of the 1,420 cases in the district, 357 were from Dholka, 235 from Daskroi and 330 from Sanand. As for other talukas’ contributions to the 1,420 cases, 152 were from Viramgam, 159 from Bavla, 90 cases each from Dhandhuka, 57 cases from Mandal, 30 from Detroj, and 10 from Dholera. As on Sunday, 5,831 people are under home quarantine in Ahmedabad district and another 30,817 have completed their home quarantine period. The district had 110 active cases and two people were taking treatment in Covid care centre in the district. According to officials, the district has so far reported 58 Covid deaths and 1,250 patients have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/godhavi-village-declared-containment-zone/articleshow/77452005.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rs 1,000 crore heroin from Afghanistan seized at Nhava Sheva||MUMBAI: In one of Mumbai’s biggest narcotic hauls, 191kg heroin, worth around Rs 1,000 crore, was seized at the Nhava Sheva port on Saturday night. The drug was smuggled from Afghanistan, world’s leading illicit opium maker, via Iran. The smugglers had concealed the drug in plastic pipes painted to look like bamboo and declared it as Ayurvedic medicines. Two customs house agents, who had documented the import, have been arrested. TOI has learnt that four more persons, including an importer and a financier from Delhi, have been picked up and may be brought to Mumbai on Monday. Customs house agents Meenanath Bodake of M B Shipping & Logistics Solution from Nerul, and Kondibhau Pandurang Gunjal from Mumbra were produced before a local court which remanded them in 14 days’ judicial custody on the condition that their Covid-19 test reports are negative. Ongoing investigations seem to suggest that the accused had smuggled similar quantities of drugs in the past as well. Officials said this was the biggest haul in Mumbai. On January 31, the special task force of Punjab police had seized 194kg of heroin and other contraband from a rented house in Amritsar district and arrested six persons, including an Afghan national and a woman. Afghanistan has been the world's leading illicit opium maker since 2001. Afghanistan's opium poppy harvest produces more than 90% of illicit heroin globally and more than 95% of the European supply. Customs and the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) made the seizure on Saturday after an alert Customs officer detected the mis-declaration in consignment at Nhava Sheva port. Officials of the special intelligence & investigation branch (SIIB) of customs immediately sought help from the DRI. “On examination of the container, we found there were orange-coloured gunny bags imported by Sarvim Exports. The goods inside were declared as Glycyrrhiza glabra extract, or licorice root extract,” said an official. “The wooden textured structure was covered by bark, which appeared to be pasted on it artificially. On removing the outer wooden bark and wood dust with the help of a cutter, it was noticed that there was a green coloured plastic pipe and inside this the cream coloured powder purported to be heroin was found. A test using an NDPS kit confirmed it was heroin.” The consignment was then seized under the provisions of the NDPS Act. Arrested CHA Bodake told investigators that one Mohammed Numan had introduced Delhi-based importer Suresh Bhatia of Sarvim Exports to him. On further inquiry, it was found that Bhatia was arrested in the past in a drug peddling case. “A larger syndicate is involved in the distribution of the narcotics. Some of the accomplices of the accused, who had abetted the crime, are yet to be apprehended,” said a senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-1000cr-heroin-from-af-seized-at-nhava-sheva/articleshow/77453234.cms||Ahmed Ali
August 10, 2020||Pune||Runway work to keep Pune airport shut from 8pm to 8am from October 26||PUNE: The Pune airport will operate for 12 hours from 8am to 8pm from October 26 for one year owing to the re-carpeting work of the main runway, officials told TOI. “The work on re-carpeting the parallel taxi track is currently going on, and is likely to be completed by next January. Re-carpeting of the main runway will start around September 15 this year and landing distances will be reduced from the Lohegaon side (runway 10 end). The airlines have been advised about the revised distances available from September 15,” an airport official said. April and May 2021 will see a complete closure of the airport for 14 days for the work, the official told TOI. The Lohegaon facility is a defence airbase and the re-carpeting is being done by the Indian Air Force (IAF) which controls the runway and the air traffic control. Before the lockdown, the airport, which has only one runway of 2,530m, witnessed a total of 170 flight movements daily on an average. “From September 15, the landing distance from the Lohegaon side of the runway will be reduced to around 2,133m. Work on the runway’s Wagholi end (runway 28), will be completed by next October. All airlines have been informed and they will make changes and adjustments, accordingly. With the airport to operate from 8am to 8pm from October 26 for one year, the number of flights also will come down. Pune airport has got the maximum number of flights between 8pm and 2am,” the official told TOI. The airport has around 15 departures and an equal number of arrivals from 6pm till 3am. “The IAF will be doing the re-carpeting and resurfacing work of the runway between 8pm and 8am. A total closure for 14 days in April-May next year will mean that no commercial aircraft will use the airport. Under these circumstances, the airlines have a lot of planning to do. While the changes will cause some hassles to the flyers, the re-carpeting work is important for safety,” another airport official added. In 2018, former Pune airport director Ajay Kumar had told TOI that the re-carpeting was scheduled in 2019. It was planned in phases from October 2019. Since then, work on the taxiway and other areas near the runway have been going on but at a slow pace, sources said. “We will need a proper rescheduling of flights. The number of flights will come down. Some direct flights to Pune can be redirected via Mumbai if slots can be made available,” an airline representative in Pune told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/runway-work-to-keep-pune-airport-shut-from-8pm-to-8am-from-oct-26/articleshow/77452034.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||94-year-old freedom fighter felicitated by govt||Ahmedabad: Ninety-four year old freedom fighter Nandlal Shah, who took part in the 1942 uprising against the British rule and was jailed for 16 months, was felicitated by the Ahmedabad collectorate on Sunday. Freedom fighters are felicitated every year on the occasion of Independence Day at the Raj Bhavan, but this year, because of the Covid-19 outbreak, it was decided that officials will visit homes of freedom fighters and felicitate them. Shah said that whether it was fighting against the British Raj or now the pandemic, his only mantra in life is to never entertain negative thoughts. “Remaining positive in all circumstances and following a healthy routine is the secret of my longevity,” Shah said. Deputy collector J B Desai led a team of officials who felicitated the freedom fighter. Shah was just 17 and was studying at C N Vidyalaya when he joined the freedom struggle, indulging in disruptive activities in Surendranagar district. Using stolen explosive material, Shah and his friends Bhogilal and Kanji made bombs and hurled them at the Surendranagar jail and Anglo Indian Circus which was on in Surendranagar. However, Shah became famous for the Bhogavo case where he hurled bombs on a bridge over Bhogavo river in Surendranagar when a goods train was passing over it on February 5, 1943. He was subsequently arrested and put on trial. The trial was delayed as he contended that he should be tried in a juvenile court as he was 17 years old. Meanwhile, World War II broke out and British officers were transferred, and he was given a 16-month jail sentence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/94-year-old-freedom-fighter-felicitated-by-govt/articleshow/77452052.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Cat caption of ‘Hitler picture’ raises storm on social media||Kolkata: During the pandemic, Kolkata’s cat lovers formed a group on social media called ‘Bangia Beral Samity’ with the aim to discuss all things feline. A photograph found in the archives of the University of Kentucky that was captioned as ‘Adolf Hitler with a cat’ came up in one of the threads of discussion. However, the 1,000-odd members in the group brainstormed to analyze how Hitler didn’t have any interest in cats and the caption might be faulty. One among them wrote to the University of Kentucky archives as well. The director of Digital Services of University of Kentucky Libraries’ Special Collections Research Center has now told TOI that the university is changing the description to “Photo captioned ‘Hitler’ may be an impersonator”. The University of Kentucky (UK or UKY) is a public research university in Lexington, Kentucky that was founded in 1865. Incidentally, this controversial photograph dated “about 1940-1945” is part of the university archive’s Marshall Webb papers that primarily comprise photos and digitized notebook and original items from World War II veteran Marshall Webb. This photograph stood out not just for the claim that it belonged to Hitler but also counters the claim that the Nazi dictator had ailurophobia — the fear of cats. “For years, I have been researching on Hitler. Having gone through various books and research material, I was sure that the photograph being claimed as that of Hitler was incorrect. In terms of look and expression, the photograph didn’t match him. On display on the university website is also snapshot of someone having written ‘Hitler’ behind the photo. However, there are two sets of handwritings. My hunch was that someone had simply made a guess and written ‘Hitler’,” said group member and author Rohon Kuddus. In his mail to the university, Kuddus asked “if there was any specific reference” for using such a caption. In the reply, he was told the archives wasn’t sure about the caption and the description was written on the back of the photo by someone before the collection was transferred to UK libraries. He was also told that they were considering changing the caption. When TOI got in touch with the archives about this photograph, Sarah Dorpinghaus, director of Digital Services, Special Collections Research Center, University of Kentucky Libraries, wrote back saying, “It is interesting that this group is looking into this photograph. We do plan on changing the description to reflect that this description is unconfirmed. However, our programmers are reconfiguring our metadata editor tool. So, we are unable to make the change at this time. But, we hope to in the next month or so. We are planning on updating the photo description to something like: ‘Man resembling Hitler holding cat’. Photo captioned ‘Hitler’ may be an impersonator.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cat-caption-of-hitler-picture-raises-storm-on-social-media/articleshow/77452045.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: During lockdown, this housing society perfectly balanced rules and normal life||PUNE: Many housing societies clamped down hard as soon as the Covid-19 lockdowns were declared. But at the Montvert Tropez, a society of 1,000 residents in Wakad, all efforts were made to ensure some semblance of normal continued. For parcels and newspapers, residents were given a choice on whether they wanted items delivered at the front gate or at their doorsteps. Besides essential supplies, they even found a way to keep ice-cream coming in.  There is still considerable focus on well-being. Society members have been encouraged to eat a diet containing vitamin C and to try online yoga at home. “During the lockdown, some households would prepare extra food packets for an NGO to distribute among the needy,” said Navdeep Jain, secretary of the society. “For ourselves, we took the help of small grocers and big vendors to keep up the supply of essentials. Dairy bigwigs like Nestle and Amul set up stalls for bulk supplies,” Jain said. Anil Shinde, manager of the society, said workarounds were set in place to avoid inconveniences. He said, “Those who wanted to rent out their apartments started having problems as it wasn’t easy to get rental agreements done. So we had a grace period of six months to process these documents. We would also ask people coming from other cities to submit certificates from doctors and e-passes via email so that they didn’t have to run around to find photocopiers.” It was indeed a challenge to keep people inside during the lockdown. Jain said, “After a point, people started asking if they could step out. And honestly, the instructions from authorities on what’s allowed and not were confusing. So we allowed people to step out of their homes as long as they followed social distancing norms and had masks on.” He added, “We didn’t go overboard with curbs. Every household has the responsibility to keep the entire society safe. We followed whatever the government rules were.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/during-lockdown-this-housing-society-perfectly-balanced-rules-normal-life/articleshow/77452057.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: One dead, 12 injured in explosion due to gas leak||PUNE: A 40-year-old man was killed and 12 members of two families, including seven children, sustained injuries in a domestic cylinder explosion caused by a gas leak in an apartment at Dighi early on Sunday morning. The blast left two flats on the first floor of Ashtavinayak Housing Society greatly damaged. “The explosion also caused a minor fire in the apartments,” said an official from the Pimpri Chinchwad fire brigade. The deceased has been identified as Dnyaneshwar Temkar. His wife, two children, and four relatives sustained injuries. Temkar’s neighbour Mahendra Surwade, his wife and three children were also injured. “Surwade’s wife Archana (35) sustained 85% burns in the incident. Her condition is critical,” said senior inspector of the Dighi police station Vivek Lawand. Temkar died as he was stuck under collapsed wall, the officer added. Lawand said that prima facie it seems the gas leaked from a cylinder at Temkar’s flat throughout the night. “Someone from Temkar’s flat woke up around 6.30am and switched on the light. The sparks inside the switch probably came in contact with the accumulated gas and the explosion occurred,” Lawand said. Family members, who were sleeping next to the wall in both flats, sustained injuries. Three fire tenders from the Pimpri Chinchwad fire department, led by Rajendra Gawli, reached the spot. “We found that two flats on the first floor were completely damaged. A minor fire occurred after the blast and it was immediately doused. The local residents had already shifted the victims to a hospital,” the fire officer said. Lawand said that Temkar was working in a private company while Surwade works with a cab aggregator company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-dead-12-injured-in-explosion-due-to-gas-leak/articleshow/77452037.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Dehradun||Kedarnath national highway blocked following incessant rains||DEHRADUN: The Rishikesh-Kedarnath highway, NH-109, along with 55 other roads were reported blocked following incessant rainfall since Saturday. The Badrinath national highway also continued to be blocked at Lambagad due to constant landslides and falling of debris. According to the State Emergency Operation Centre (SEOC), agencies concerned were working around the clock to open the Kedarnath highway. Pilgrims who were planning to go on treks were stopped at either Sonprayag or Gaurikund due to the debris at Munkatiya, sources in the SEOC said. In Pithoragarh district, 13 link roads and three border roads were reported to be blocked. Around six roads were closed in Chamoli district, while three roads were out of bounds in Pauri district till the time of filing this report. Kumaon region witnessed heavy to very heavy rainfall and was more affected than the Garhwal region. Between Saturday night and Sunday morning, Haldwani received the maximum rainfall (200mm), followed by Chorgaliya (180mm), Devprayag (110mm), Khatima (100mm), Thal (80mm), Munsyari (70mm), Ukhimath (70mm), Haridwar (70mm) and Mussoorie (60mm). “We have recorded widespread rainfall, with spells of heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places since Saturday night. Rains will continue across the state for the next few days,” said Bikram Singh, the director of the regional meteorological centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kedarnath-national-highway-blocked-following-incessant-rains/articleshow/77449328.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Anxiety or ease debate over proctored entrance exams||PUNE: Savitribai Phule Pune University is gearing up to conduct its first online proctored entrance examination for admission to 15 under graduate courses and integrated postgraduate courses for the academic year 2020-21 on August 16. Candidates have to login with their registered login ID and password from a convenient location and time from 8am to 8pm on Sunday to appear for the exam. While this has been a practice with the private universities during the lockdown, it poses several problems for SPPU. Many students to SPPU come from rural areas of Marathwada and Vidarbha region where internet access and uninterrupted electricity are problems. The sheer number of students attending it would be huge and many would not be well-versed with the process. The university has said that all procedural details of the online proctored examination would be available on SPPU website on or before August 11. If successful, the same mode of examination may be used for the post-graduate courses too. A proctored manner of examination is where one faculty will monitor a set of 20 or so students online and their screens will be shared with the faculty. Already private universities in the city have used this way to conduct examinations. But in all this, a robust grievance redressal system is needed to make sure that students do not suffer due to any technical fault. Uttam Chavan, deputy registrar for SPPU, said, “We have conducted online entrance exams but this is the first time that even proctoring is being done online. During the registration itself, students were told to write what device they have. We got 1,500 applications till now. Within two days, we will declare a complete guideline for how to appear for such an examination.” Chavan said mock tests will also be held for students considering that for many, this will be their first attempt at such an entrance examination. “The camera needs to be ON all the time during the examination and one can’t go out or open another browser etc. Hence we are keeping two days for mock tests,” he added. The examination is such that only one question will be visible to the student at a time and hence even if there is a technical glitch, when the student logs in again, the examination will start from where it was let off and the time would also be calculated accordingly. “Consider that you feel a question is wrong, or if the answer is not given in the answers given in the option or for any such problem, there is an online grievance redressal tab, which can be used by the students,” added Chavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/anxiety-or-ease-debate-over-proctored-entrance-exams/articleshow/77452064.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
August 10, 2020||Pune||IMD forecasts moderate rainfall till Friday for Pune||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department on Sunday forecast that Pune district would receive light to moderate rain till Tuesday and moderate rainfall thereafter till Friday. “An off-shore trough runs between north Karnataka and south Kerala. There are strong westerly winds blowing over the west coast. The low pressure sytem lies over Odisha and its further movement over to central India will cause rain over the state,” a senior IMD official said. “The westerly winds will bring moisture over the Madhya Maharashtra region, which include Pune district and cause rain over the district. The intensity of the rain will increase between Wednesday and Friday. The district will get moderate rainfall on these days,” he added. The maximum temperatures during these days would remain in the range of 28°C to 31°C, a met official said. On Sunday, the city experienced mostly overcast conditions with a few spells of light rain from morning. The ghat areas in Maval, Mulshi, Bhor and Velhe tehsils received heavy rains, a met official said. The Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded maximum temperature 28.1°C and 28.4°C, which were above normal by 0.8 degree celsius and 0.4 degree celsius, respectively. Shivajinagar and Lohegaon recorded 1mm and 4 mm rainfall respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-forecasts-moderate-rainfall-till-friday-for-dist/articleshow/77452079.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Police, govt agency reach out to senior citizens in Kolkata, New Town||KOLKATA: Cops have started visiting the homes of senior citizens and enquiring about their health and needs and providing them with emergency contact numbers. The drive has started in several Covid-affected zones in Kolkata, Salt Lake and New Town. People, enlisted in the police-run elderly outreach initiatives, ‘Pronam’ in Kolkata and ‘Sanjh Baati’ in Salt Lake-New Town, are being contacted immediately. In Kolkata, the drive has already started in south Kolkata, particularly the Jadavpur area, which has the highest number of containment zones. Bidhannagar Commissionerate that runs an elderly care programme in has also intensified their outreach programme. In south Kolkata’s Covid-hit zones, an officer said, “From Saturday, we are calling up senior citizens, most often video calls. In each area, we are creating WhatsApp groups and asking seniors to send SMS, where the elderly people can always share their needs and concerns.” In Salt Lake, Anuradha Mondal, ADCP, Bidhannagar Police Commissionerate and nodal officer of ‘Saanjh Baati’, said, “Since the beginning of lockdown, a dedicated team of cops has been calling up members regularly, checking about their health and supplying daily essentials to them whenever needed. We haven’t stopped it even for a day and intensified the process.” New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is also forming a task force with Swapno Bhor to reach out to all senior citizens living in New Town with special focus on the gated communities. The drive has started in Patuli, which along with Baghajatin, has a dozen of containment zones. There are 212 Pronam members in the area. Pronam is a city police-run elderly outreach initiative. At Regent Park, this number has reached around 600. “But the Covid situation has led many to contact us and these WhatsApp groups are already having 750 members,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-govt-agency-reach-out-to-senior-citizens-in-kol-new-town/articleshow/77452072.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Timing restrictions raze late-night dining culture||AHMEDABAD: Public apprehensions towards eating out have gradually begun easing out with restaurants witnessing a gradual increase in footfalls over the weekends and holidays. However, several of them which typically were late night hangout spots have been facing difficulties resuming operations, in the wake of the restriction in timings imposed by the government. For instance, Karnavati Club Road, which connects SG Highway near YMCA Club to the Sardar Patel Ring Road, which was typically a known late-night hangout spot for youngsters, now bears a deserted look as most cafés and eateries have not yet resumed. Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA) – Gujarat had already made a representation before the state government seeking to allow restaurants to operate till midnight. Hoteliers also believe that restaurateurs be allowed to keep their premises open for takeaways after midnight so that they can make up for their lost revenues. “We have sought an appointment to meet the chief minister to represent the issues of extending timing of operations as the business is suffering. We hope the government will consider our request and provide some relief to the industry,” said Narendra Somani, president, HRA- Gujarat. Many other restaurants were banking on the thriving late-night takeaway business which has also taken a hit due to restrictions in timings. Vishal Mulchandani, co-founder of a café, said, “We have recently opened and while the business on weekdays is extremely slow, it has begun picking up well over the weekends. It is not easy to operate at this point because the revenues are not enough to be able to meet our costs and thus, we have to limit our staff and cut other costs to sustain. But with this, it is important to keep operating and let our brand be known and we’re trying to do so to stay relevant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/timing-restrictions-raze-late-night-dining-culture/articleshow/77452090.cms||Niyati Parikh
August 10, 2020||Dehradun||Heavy rains damage 11 roads in Nainital, six still closed||NAINITAL: Heavy rains and landslides on Saturday and Sunday led to the closure of at least 11 motorable roads in Nainital district. The worst affected was the Kathgodam area while Kaldhungi also witnessed heavy rainfall. According to the data provided by the district emergency operation centre, Kathgodam received over 150 mm of rainfall on Saturday whereas Kaladhungi received more than 50 mm. The entire district on an average received around 35 mm of rainfall. Notably, Nainital has received close to 590 mm of rainfall since June. Speaking to TOI, a district administration official said, “While 11 roads were blocked on Sunday morning, five of them had been cleared by the evening. We have deployed JCB machines and other equipment as well as enough manpower to clear all the roads. They will become functional soon.” Meanwhile, director of the regional meteorological centre Bikram Singh said, “The district will receive medium to heavy rainfall in the next few days. Apart from Nainital, three other districts of Kumaon — Bageshwar, Pithoragarh and Champawat — and a few from Garhwal will also receive medium to heavy rains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heavy-rains-damage-11-roads-in-nainital-six-still-closed/articleshow/77449332.cms||Prashant Jha
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP law minister shifted to hospital after breathlessness||LUCKNOW: As many as 684 more people in the city tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection on Sunday, taking the tally to nearly 5,000 in August so far and overall caseload since the outbreak to 12,760. Meanwhile, state law minister Brijesh Pathak, who had tested Covid-19 positive on August 5 and opted for home quarantine, was admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) after he experienced difficulty in breathing. He is now stable. “The minister’s vitals are normal and the condition is stable,” said Dr RK Singh, in charge of the Covid-19 hospital at SGPGI. Pathak’s wife, diagnosed with the disease on July 27, is already under treatment at the hospital. On Sunday, Indiranagar reported the highest number of cases at 36. It was followed by Gomtinagar (32 cases), Aashiana and Chowk (27 each), Mahanagar, Hasanganj and Thakurganj (21 each), Hazratganj (20), Sarojininagar and Alambagh (19 each), Gosainganj (17) and Saadatganj (15). The fresh cases included 12 inmates of Adarsh Jail in Gosainganj during a random sampling drive. “These inmates were asymptomatic, hence have been advised to stay in isolation,” said a senior health official. The Covid-19 rate of transmission is increasing progressively in the city. On an average, 610 cases were added daily in the past five days. As a result, the number of active patients on Sunday touched 6,082. These patients are either in hospital or in home quarantine. However, the relief is that of the total caselaod, 6,531 patients including 238 on Sunday have recovered. Meanwhile, the district administration has directed private pathologies to send 10% of the samples they test to government labs for cross checking. Six private labs in the city are authorised to conduct Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/min-shifted-to-hosp-after-breathlessness/articleshow/77452914.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab assembly building is a fire hazard too, no NOC issued so far||LUDHIANA: Whenever fire disaster strikes somewhere, like in the case of the blast in a firecracker unit in Amritsar on Saturday, authorities concerned rush to conduct raids, looking for violations of fire safety measures and no-objection certificates (NOC). But here’s the paradox: in a query sought under Right to Information Act, it comes to light that Punjab assembly building is a fire hazard too! Under Right to Information Act, a Ludhiana-based activist, Rohit Sabharwal, had sought the certified copies of latest fire safety certificate issued to Punjab legislative assembly building and also latest copy of request letter submitted by assembly officials for obtaining this fire safety certificate from Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC). In its reply, the fire and rescue department of Chandigarh MC stated that no fire safety certificate has been issued to the building. It also admitted that no request letter was submitted by officials of Punjab legislative assembly for obtaining the fire safety certificate. Activist Sabharwal said, “There can be fire safety arrangements in the premises, but without fire safety certificate, the process is incomplete.” He said earlier he had demanded information about government departments in Ludhiana and was given similar reply by local fire department there too. “So, obviously, rulemakers are above rules.” Quoting an old case, in which he had filed a complaint with Central Public Information Commission in 2014 when he was denied information about fire safety certificates to Parliament of India and Supreme Court, Sabharwal said the commission had declared that the fire safety certificate is of supreme importance. Sabharwal said later it was shared by authorities concerned that fire safety certificates were not given to both buildings. The commission had then directed the authorities to do the needful. When contacted, speaker of Punjab legislative assembly, Rana K P Singh, refused having any information about fire safety certificate and said, “I am not aware of these things. Better talk to some secretary-level officer about it.” Municipal commissioner K K Yadav said, “There are many buildings in the city that have not taken fire NOC from MC. We are going to serve them notice soon. As far as the fire NOC of the Punjab legislative assembly is concerned, according to record with the fire department, it has not been issued so far.” Meanwhile, secretary of Punjab legislative assembly, Shashi Ranjan Lakhanpal said, “The building has been declared heritage structure and it is now under the control of Chandigarh administration. New advanced fire safety system is being installed in the building and when MC Chandigarh had issued the advisory, we had written to XEN UT of public works department for following it up.” She said they are installing sprinklers and other required equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-assembly-building-is-a-fire-hazard-too-no-noc-issued-so-far/articleshow/77453244.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
August 10, 2020||Dehradun||Two Corbett staffers found Covid-19 +ve, seven of reserve put under quarantine||DEHRADUN: Two staff members of Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR), who tested Covid-19-positive this week, were admitted to a hospital. Seven other staff members of the reserve were also put under quarantine as a precautionary measure. The eco-tourism range of CTR, where the infected employees were deployed, has temporarily been closed down and sanitised as per the health protocols. Officials said that other staff members, who had gone on leave or were posted outside the reserve, are not being allowed inside till the time their Covid-19 test report comes negative. Notably, CTR was reopened after National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines on June 14 which barred elderly and children below the age of 10 years from entering the reserve. In view of the Covid-19 threat, the officials had also restricted the entry of crowded gypsies inside the park and only a limited number of people are allowed in a safari gypsy. However, staffers getting infected despite all precautions has raised alarm among the tourists as well as hoteliers in and around Ramnagar, which has so far reported 1,507 Covid-19-positive cases and 23 deaths. Rahul, the director of CTR (who uses only his first name), meanwhile denied that there was any threat to tourists. “The two staff members who tested Covid-19-positive were on reception duty. However, they were not in touch with any tourist or visitor as the entire booking process was online. There is no need to worry,” he said. Local sources at the CTR, however, said that since the staffers were on reception duty, they may have conducted thermal screening of tourists. RK Tiwari, the SDO of Ramnagar, said, “We had been following norms very strictly and the health certificates are being checked. Also, our staff does contactless thermal screening of the tourists at the entry point and always wears PPE kits. So, in case anyone is found having fever despite having an all-fine health certificate, we are not allowing them to enter.” Since June 14, four-to-five vehicles (on an average) have been entering the reserve for safaris daily, according to officials. From June 14 to July 31, around 600 tourists visited the reserve. The total staff strength of CTR is currently around 800, including permanent workers as well as daily wagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-corbett-staffers-found-covid-19-ve-seven-of-reserve-put-under-quarantine/articleshow/77449342.cms||Shivani Azad
August 10, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Chakan, 3 other municipal towns a concern for ZP officials||PUNE: The Chakan, Talegaon Dhabade, Daund and Saswad municipal towns remain an area of concern among the 14 municipal towns in Pune district, owing to the rising Covid-19 cases. Chakan has recorded a progressive tally of 374 cases, followed by Talegaon Dabhade (365), Daund (360) and Saswad (290). Chakan, which is densely populated, witnessed a surge in cases in July and has recorded 16 Covid-19 deaths, so far. “The four municipal towns are mostly associated with industrial zones and so, draw a big floating population from Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad and other areas. The population density of these towns is also high and the houses are small. These are among the main reasons for the high cases,” said Pune Zilla Parishad’s chief executive officer Ayush Prasad. The ZP chief told TOI, “The four municipal towns are a worry for us. We have told the respective tehsil officials to deploy more doctors and health staff and go for an aggressive contact tracing and testing strategy to break the chain of the virus spread. Finding positive patients is key to arresting the spread.” Khed’s medical officer B B Gadve said, “Apart from industries, Chakan has many markets such as onion-potato, vegetables, jewellery, grains, weekly bazaars, among others. Many outsiders visit these places. This has contributed to the spike in cases, particularly after the July 8 relaxations.” Meanwhile, Bhor municipal council recorded barely 29 cases, the lowest among the 14 councils. It has not recorded a single death. As many as 19 people have been discharged after recovery and 10 are active cases, so far. “The council administration has been working in tandem with the tehsil administration closely from the beginning. It had closed the town a couple of times as and when they recorded cases in bulk. This strategy has worked effectively and so it has recorded less cases compared to other towns, so far,” a senior official from the Bhor tehsil administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chakan-3-other-municipal-towns-a-concern-for-zp-officials/articleshow/77452091.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL wants liable officials to pay victims compensation||AHMEDABAD: A public interest litigation has been filed in the Gujarat high court seeking compensation for the victims of the fire incident in Shrey Hospital and demanding that the amount should be recovered from the responsible officers. The PIL was filed after eight Covid-19 patients died last week in Shrey Hospital in Navrangpura in an incident of fire. The PIL has demanded implementation of all directions issued earlier by the high court in various litigations for implementation of fire safety norms. But it has specifically urged the court to direct the government not to give compensation to the fire accident victims from the taxpayers’ money, but to fix liabilities on officials concerned after an inquiry and make them pay the amount from their pockets. The PIL has also urged the HC to direct the civic body to fill all vacant posts in the Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) so that such fire tragedies can be prevented in future. The PIL has also sought directions for the civic body and the fire department to undertake an exercise of granting fire NOC after following due procedure. It demanded that all the high-rise buildings and other buildings requiring fire NOCs should be directed to obtain relevant certificates within four months. Meanwhile, a contempt of court petition is pending in the high court for last five years for proper implementation of the Fire Safety Act that the state of Gujarat enacted in 2013. While the law was enacted after PILs demanded proper implementation of fire safety norms in city areas, the Fire Safety Act is not applicable to corporation areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-wants-liable-officials-to-pay-victims-compensation/articleshow/77452099.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Pune||Household cooks in Pune struggle to retain jobs amid long lockdown period||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: The coronavirus outbreak has adversely affected the livelihoods of domestic cooks. Shenaz Bori, who works as a maid and cook in some houses in Hadapsar, said, “I used to cook and clean for three boys who had come to Pune from West Bengal for studies. But, they went back home three months ago. I have jobs in two other households as a domestic worker, but as a cook, I made more money. But now nobody wants outsiders to touch their food because they don’t trust we would be careful enough and might spread the virus through their food.” Fake news has spread faster and wider than the coronavirus itself, leading people to believe everything they read as forwarded messages to be true. “My parents read somewhere that coronavirus spreads more quickly through food and stopped our cook from rejoining work,” a graphic designer, who lives in Balewadi, said. Shyam Prasad, who works for households on Boat Club Road and Koregaon Park, said, “I have been at home ever since the lockdown started in March. Thankfully, my employers are sending me salary every month because I have worked for them for over 10 years. But I am worried if the situation continues, I might lose my jobs.” Shanta Pawar, who works as a cook for households in NIBM, said that she too has lost jobs due to the fear of the contracting virus. “There are still many people who do not want outsiders to come into their homes. I used to cook for five households in NIBM but now I have rejoined only two households. My income is less than half of what it used to be but expenses are the same,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/household-cooks-struggle-to-retain-jobs-amid-coronavirus-outbreak/articleshow/77452106.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: MSRTC deploys 55 buses on 40 routes for travel within the district for Ganeshotsav||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) has deployed 55 buses on 40 routes for intra-district travel in Pune for the regular fare. This comes a couple of days after buses from the district were allowed to ferry passengers to the Konkan region for Ganeshotsav. A senior MSRTC official said no special passes will be required to travel on these buses, which will connect Pune city to Baramati, Bhor, Shirur, Saswad, Narayangaon, Rajgurunagar, Indapur, Daund-Patas, Nira, Junnar, Alephata, Bhimashankar, Velha, Paud-Mulshi and other routes, such as Baramati-Bhigwan, Baramati-Walchandnagar, Baramati-Daund, Swargate-Velha, Talegaon-Chakan-Shikrapur, Narayangaon-Junnar and Junnar-Deole, etc. “With Ganeshotsav approaching, many will want to travel to their homes — the initiative is mainly for this purpose,” the official said. “All social distancing and safety protocols will be followed. Masks will be mandatory. No more than 22 passengers will be allowed on-board each 44-seater bus,” MSRTC’s Pune divisional controller Yamini Joshi said, adding that the number of buses can be increased as per demand. “Tickets can be purchased online or at the depots,” Joshi added. The buses will start from Swargate, Pune station and Wakdewadi. An official said these would be non-stop trips. “If a group of people are booking a bus to a village en route, we will the request,” another official said. Last week, the Pune unit of MSRTC had started buses to the Konkan region in view of the demand from people to visit their homes for the upcoming Ganapati festival. The buses depart from depots at Swargate and Pimpri for Dapoli, Ratnagiri, Khed, Chiplun and Guhaga, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-deploys-55-buses-on-40-routes-for-travel-within-the-district-for-ganeshotsav/articleshow/77452105.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Rohtak farmers, trade unions want ordinances recalled||Rohtak: Members of trade unions, farmers and some working employees’ organisations on Sunday took out a protest rally in Rohtak, seeking withdrawal of the three ordinances related to agriculture marketing passed by the Union government. Dubbing those as anti-farmer, the members of various organisations reached the mini-secretariat on their tractors raising slogans against the government and later courted their arrest. In a press release, Kisan Sabha general secretary Sumit Singh said on August 9, 1942, Indians had raised ‘Quit India’ slogan against the British rulers, and once again on this day, the farmers and labourers have raised slogans against the corporate houses to save the peasantry class from the clutches of high and mighty. “The government is enacting anti-farmer and anti-labour laws to promote corporate culture in the country. With the implementation of these three ordinances, the agriculture will be snatched from farmers’ hands and reach the hands of corporates,” he alleged. Meanwhile, BJP state president Om Prakash Dhankhar, who was in Rohtak on the day, said the three ordinances would turn around the fortunes of farmers and they would be able to sell their produce at much higher prices. He said the protesters are being misled by opposition parties for their vested interests, though in reality, the ordinances are in their favour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rohtak-farmers-trade-unions-want-ordinances-recalled/articleshow/77453247.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Pune||Instructions in mother tongue may help learners grasp better||PUNE: The National Education Policy (NEP) lays emphasis on using the mother tongue in early childhood education. However, the move has also raised concerns. Convener of Maharashtra RTE Forum Hemangi Joshi, who works in the area of promoting mother tongue-based literacy, has been focused on dispelling unfounded beliefs in this area. What is the mother tongue policy?The policy says that wherever possible the medium of instruction until at least Std 5, but preferably till Std 8 and beyond, will be the home language or mother tongue, the local or regional language. Thereafter, the home/local language shall continue to be taught wherever possible. This will be followed by both public and private schools. In a way, the policy has recognized that unless the gap in the child’s language and that of the teacher/education is not taken into consideration, it will be difficult to universalize literacy. What are the benefits of the move?If the policy is implemented in letter and spirit, there are chances that we can become a knowledge society as envisioned. Diversity in languages, thereby in cultures and knowledge systems, is a rich resource of the country. Chances of becoming India as Vishva Guru as mentioned in the policy are very high if this rich resource is respected and promoted. Implementation of the policy requires clarity and conviction on the part of social and political leaders. Strong politics will pave the way for implementation of the policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/instructions-in-mother-tongue-may-help-learners-grasp-better/articleshow/77452092.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM orders social pre-audit of stubble management scheme||CHANDIGARH: Dismissing allegations of favouritism shown to certain manufacturers, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Sunday ordered a social pre-audit of the Crop Residue Management (CRM) scheme for supplying subsidised farm equipment and machinery to farmers. “The social pre-audit by the agriculture department will nail the lies being propagated by certain vested political interests,” said the chief minister. He also pointed out that not a single farmer had questioned the quality of machines and equipment supplied under the scheme, which is aimed at ensuring scientific disposal of paddy straw during the Kharif Season-2020. The chief minister said the pre-audit will make the scheme more effective, broad-based and farmer-friendly, with the ultimate goal of getting rid of pollution triggered by stubble burning. Suggestions and objections, if any, will be invited from all stakeholders for the purpose, he said. The Union government has been running the scheme for distribution of farm machinery among farmers and cooperative societies to accomplish effective in-situ management of paddy straw for the past two years. Under the scheme, farmers from Punjab have been given subsidy of nearly Rs 460 crore on 50,815 farm machines. The Central government has already listed around 180 manufacturers from Punjab to ensure supply of farm equipment and machinery in this regard. During the current year, the government intends to give subsidy approximately amounting to Rs 300 crore on 23,500 such machines. Captain Amarinder Singh directed additional chief secretary (development) Anirudh Tiwari to provide these machines to farmers and societies only after completion of the audit. The ACS said the social pre-audit would be completed well before the distribution of farm machinery and equipment to farmers and cooperative societies. Around 7,000 individual farmers will be given the machines at 50% subsidy, while 5,000 cooperative societies, panchayats and farmers’ groups would be given the machines at 80% subsidised rate. Secretary (agriculture) K S Pannu urged all the farmers, farmer organisations, political parties, machine manufacturers and NGOs to put forward their suggestions and objections to make the scheme better aligned with the farmers’ interests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cm-orders-social-pre-audit-of-stubble-management-scheme/articleshow/77453245.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Cops rescue Contai woman near Kolkata C-zone||KOLKATA: When the Bhowanipore police had come across a middle-aged woman lying on the footpath at the Sarat Bose Road-Beltala Road crossing, they initially thought she was suffering from Covid. Lying close to a containment zone, she could neither move nor speak. None came to her rescue, fearing to contract the virus. That happened on July 13. On August 2, cops could finally reunite the woman, Moni Rana (49), a resident of Dauchi near Contai in East Midnapore, with her family. On Saturday, when Moni finally spent a week with her family and was finally ready to leave the city, she thanked the police for giving her a new lease of life. On the night of July 13, Moni was found lying unconscious on the road. Tapas Baidya, sub inspector of Bhowanipore police station was alerted about the matter. He got her admitted to Sambhu Nath Pandit Hospital for treatment. The woman was under treatment and counselling by the hospital staffers and cops. After a few days, she recalled about her family but could not recollect how she reached Kolkata. Her husband’s name was Pradip Rana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-rescue-contai-woman-near-city-c-zone/articleshow/77452101.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 10, 2020||Pune||90,673 students register for admission to junior college||PUNE: As on Sunday evening, 90,673 students had registered with the official website for admission to the first year junior college (FYJC) in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Currently, 15,000 more students have registered on the website as compared to the total number of students who bagged admission last year. There are 304 colleges in the city with total intake strength of 1,06,972 offering admission in four streams — Arts, Commerce, Science and Vocational courses. While Science stream is offered only in English, the other courses are offered in both English as well as Marathi. Of the total registered candidates, 53,594 forms had been verified as on Sunday evening. Last year, against an intake capacity of around 1,05,000 seats, only about 69,056 students had taken admission leading to over 35,000 seats remaining vacant. The parents of some children, who had completed Std X from other boards especially CBSE, claimed that their forms were not getting verified. Meena Shendkar, assistant director of education, said that an online meeting of all centre heads was held on Friday. “Some centres have shown a bit of pendency in clearance of forms, but the verification would have been completed by the end of Saturday. There is no need to panic. There are enough seats available for all students. Once again, we appeal to students to choose their colleges carefully whenever they fill up part two of the form,” said Shendkar. This year, the intake capacity for the Arts stream is 15,681, for Commerce it is 42,815, for Science it is 43,981 and for Vocational Courses it is 4,495. The registration process for admissions started on July 26 while students were able to fill up part one of the form from August 1. “If any student has had to make the payment multiple times, the system will revert the excess amount within three days. However, it is advised that students wait for at least 30 minutes for the confirmation of their first payment, before paying the application fee again,” said an official from the deputy director’s office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/90673-pupils-register-for-admission-to-jr-college/articleshow/77452103.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 10, 2020||Pune||Reveller at Lonavla fires in air, 4 held||Pune: Four men on an excursion near Sahara bridge on Lonavla city to Aamby Valley Road caused panic on Saturday evening when one of them fired from his licensed pistol for “fun”. The Lonavla city police arrested the four men _ Sagar Mohan Bhumkar (35), Sandip Hanumant Jadhav (36), Sachin Balasaheb Bhumkar (35), and Sachin Sahebrao Mandale (38), of Bhumkar Vasti in Mulshi taluka _ for offences under Section 188 (disobedience) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Arms Act. They were released on bail late on Saturday night. The police said they are farmers and Sagar Bhumkar has a firearm licence for the pistol he fired with. The police have since taken the pistol worth Rs80,000 and five bullets and recovered an empty cartridge from the site. The four men had reached a tabletop near Sahara bridge around 6.45pm in defiance of the authorities’ ban on excursions. They were having fun when they noticed another group arriving. At this juncture, Bhumkar pulled out his pistol and fired a round in the air, causing panic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/reveller-at-lonavla-fires-in-air-4-held/articleshow/77452095.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Cop rescues 67-year-old thrown out by daughter||CHENNAI: For 67-year-old Jayalakshmi, temples in the city were her home after her daughter threw her out in February. Jayalakshmi’s husband had just passed away and her daughter was not willing to look after the woman who had been left an invalid after a paralytic attack. A month later, the lockdown shut the temples and Jayalakshmi was literally on the streets. She struggled through the lockdown with one side of her body paralysed, living on handouts and sleeping on pavements. Last week, things got even worse for her. She tripped and fell on the pavement of AC Swamy street in Secretariat colony. Jayalakshmi was left completely immobile, unable to even drag herself around. That’s how Inspector Rajeshwari of Secretariat Colony came upon the woman, lying weeping on the pavement, on Saturday night. Jayalakshmi told the cops that she was thrown out of her home when she could not take care of herself after her husband died in February. When the cops offered to take her to a rescue home, Jayalakshmi initially refused hoping against hope that her daughter would come to her aid. The police informed her daughter, who came to meet her on the pavement but left after giving her Rs100. She refused to take her mother home. Heartbroken, Jayalakshmi then went with inspector Rajeshwari who got a Covid-19 test done (she tested negative) and admitted her to a rescue home. “It was heart wrenching to hear the woman’s ordeal. It is not just her, most parents need the children’s care only during their old age. But unfortunately they are often pushed out of the home for no reason,” said inspector Rajeshwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cop-rescues-67-year-old-thrown-out-by-daughter/articleshow/77452048.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Pune||I-T lens on town planning officer||PUNE: The Income Tax department’s Benami Property Unit has started a parallel investigation against joint director of town planning Hanumant Nazirkar, after the state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) found five dubious properties suspected to be held by him. The five properties have been sealed and Nazirkar’s passport has been impounded, ACB said. Nazirkar, who lives in Pune, is presently posted in Amravati. The Pune ACB on June 17 launched a probe in a disproportionate assets case against Nazirkar concerning holdings worth Rs2.75 crore. The ACB wrote to the I-T department about the five suspect properties, following which the parallel investigation was launched. This is the first time the I-T department started an investigation arising from a disproportionate assets case registered by the ACB. The ACB also booked Nazirkar’s wife and two children in the case and has already seized three cars, including a luxury four-wheeler, two scooters, gold and silver ornaments, totally worth Rs1.18 crore. “We realized that he was holding five properties — two in Pune and three in Satara — which were in others’ names. We verified the information and realized that these were Benami properties and informed the I-T Department,” superintendent of police (ACB) Rajesh Bansode said. Bansode said primarily the disproportionate assets were worth Rs2.75 crores, but the special SCB team realized that he holds more property and assets. “The amount might run into hundreds of crores,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/i-t-lens-on-town-planning-officer/articleshow/77452118.cms||Gitesh Shelke
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Shiromani Akali Dal wants CVC to probe Rs 2,000-crore bribe charge||CHANDIGARH: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has demanded that Punjab governor V P Singh Badnore order a Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) probe into the charges of Congress high command allegedly receiving Rs 2,000 crore from the liquor and sand mafias to operate at will in the state and to ensure that no free and fair inquiry is ordered into their activities. SAD took out a protest march to the Raj Bhawan here and courted arrest on Sunday for a third consecutive day. The march was led by former Akali minister Hira Singh Gabria, who was joined by party workers from Ludhiana district. Stopped short of the Raj Bhawan, the protesters staged a sit-in before courting the arrest. Gabria alleged that the liquor and sand mafia have struck a deal with the Congress high command, and that is why Sonia Gandhi neither condemned the incident nor tried to console the families of 130 persons, who died in the hooch tragedy. He stressed that a CVC probe is needed to trace the trail of transfer of ill-gotten money from Punjab to Delhi and urged the governor to make a recommendation to this effect to the Union government immediately. Gabria also urged the governor to recommend dismissal of the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government, order a high court or CBI inquiry into the illicit liquor trade and order filing of murder cases against all Congress MLAs. He said the governor should also direct for handing over of all files concerning the Rajpura illegal distillery seizure and other similar cases to the Enforcement Directorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-wants-cvc-to-probe-rs-2k-cr-bribe-charge-against-cong/articleshow/77453251.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Pune||Chinchwad hosp staff protest on as talks fail||Pimpri Chinchwad: The protest by nursing staff and resident doctors of the Aditya Birla Memorial Hospital in Chinchwad continued on Sunday with no indications of a deal with the hospital's management. The staff have been alleging difficult working conditions at the hospital, which is a designated Covid-19 treatment centre. The medical workers on strike said talks failed last week with the management, which has asked them to resume work or submit resignations.A staffer from the hospital told TOI claimed that workload has become so intense that a single nurse now cares for as many as 50 patients in the Covid-19 ward. Inside the hospital's ICU, it was alleged that there are not more than two nurses for every 25 patients. A reasonable nurse-to-patient ratio has been one the top demands by the staff. “The evening dosage of medicines we start at 8pm for the patients sometimes stretches on until midnight due to staff shortage," said the nurse who spoke to TOI. "Moreover, there is no quarantine facility or separate accommodation that can isolate staff who are treating Covid-19 patients from those who are in the general wards. This way, the hospital risks infecting healthy staff." She added that discussions with the hospital's management did not succeed.Shena Sibi, the committee coordinator of the United Nurses’ Association, said duty rotations need to be more flexible.The resident doctors, who joined the nurses in protest on Saturday, said there has been a "tremendous" increase in workload .Rekha Dubey, the CEO of the Aditya Birla Hospital, refused to comment on the issue. Dubey, last week, had said protesting staff are free to resign. “They don’t want to work, which is their right. And we cannot force anyone to work. We are finding alternatives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chinchwad-hosp-staff-protest-on-as-talks-fail/articleshow/77452121.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||6 labourers found +ve, 113 quarantined||Ahmedabad: The health team posted at the Aslali Circle found six labourers Covid positive during a routine check up. The 119 labourer were brought to Gandhinagar from Odisha by the Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation Limited. The AMC officials said that these 119 labourers were brought in two buses and according to the protocol all the buses that enter the city are checked. The six labourers who were found positive have been admitted to the infectious disease hospital in the city and the remaining 113 were allowed to go the staff quarters at Pratappura village in Gandhinagar. Rapid antigen test was conducted on the 119 labourers. The AMC health team has informed the district collectorate authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6-labourers-found-ve-113-quarantined/articleshow/77452128.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chennai||Police ensure city’s homeless don’t go hungry||Chennai: With city observing a complete lockdown on Sundays, the city police have become saviours for the homeless. According to city police officials, in several areas, homeless people are taken to corporation parks and community halls where food is distributed for them the entire day. On Sunday, police personnel from the St Thomas Mount police district distributed ration for a month along with masks, vitamin tablets, sanitisers to children and elders at the New hope and New life home in Perumbakkam. St Thomas Mount deputy commissioner K Prabakar was present on the occasion and served food to the beneficiaries. Similar efforts were taken by the personnel of Secretariat Colony police station and in Egmore, traffic police distributed food to pavement dwellers. “During the initial stages of lockdown, police worked with caterers to feed stranded guest workers,” said a police officer.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/police-ensure-citys-homeless-dont-go-hungry/articleshow/77452059.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Speeding vehicles biggest threat to West Bengal’s fishing cats||KOLKATA: Vehicular collision has emerged as the biggest trigger for fishing cat deaths outside protected areas of Bengal. A recent paper published in Cat News — a newsletter by International Union for Conservation of Nature — has analysed data from Facebook page of The Fishing Cat Project and media reports, between January 2019 and February 2020, to identify threats to the animal. “The most persistent threat to fishing cats outside protected areas is speeding vehicles. This calls for concerted efforts to identify vulnerable stretches and introduce speed breakers and reflective signboards,” said author of the study, Divyajyoti Ganguly. This is followed by deaths due to electrocution (due to wires deployed to kill feral pigs) and ritualistic tribal hunts. The report also highlights a shift in trend compared to a decade back — 2010-11 — when 27 cases of fishing cat mortality were reported from Howrah and Hooghly, with retaliatory killing being the primary cause of death. “This is because compared to a decade ago, more eyes and ears are looking out for the cat and reporting on them on social media,” says Tiasa Adhya, founder member of The Fishing Cat Project. Ganguly, in this study, recorded 11 instances of fishing cat mortality during the study period of 14 months. The cases were reported from Howrah (5 reports), Hooghly (2 reports), South 24 Parganas (2 reports), North 24 Parganas (1 report) and Burdwan (1 report). “The most reported cause of fishing cat mortality outside protected areas in Bengal is death by vehicular collision (8 instances), out of which seven were road accidents and one a rail accident. This is followed by death by electrocution (2 instances) and ritualistic tribal hunt (1 instance),” the study says. Fear psychosis, as per the study, is still a dominant threat where locals kill the animal out of fear. “Locals killed a fishing cat in Murshidabad out of fear recently as they thought the animal would harm them,” said a member of NGO Human and Environment Alliance League (HEAL).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/speeding-vehicles-biggest-threat-to-bengals-fishing-cats/articleshow/77452124.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
August 10, 2020||Meerut||Will shut accounts in banks charging fees to transfer mid-day meal money to students: MDMA||MEERUT: The Uttar Pradesh Mid-Day Meal Authority (MDMA) has taken exception to some banks charging their cut for transferring mid-day meal funds to the accounts of the students of government schools. In a letter to all the 75 district magistrates of the state, the director of the MDMA also warned of closing the accounts in all such banks which don’t stop charging the fees. With the schools shut due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the state government is transferring mid-day meal funds to the beneficiaries’ accounts via NEFT under the direct benefit transfer scheme. The DMs have been told to instruct the banks to stop charging the fee with "immediate effect". “Some banks are charging a fee for transferring the mid-day meal funds to the students’ bank accounts. From time to time, the government of India and the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) transfer money under direct benefit transfer scheme to accounts of beneficiaries. These banks benefit as crores of rupees are deposited under various schemes in the form of CASA (Current And Savings Account). So, charging a fee for this transfer is inappropriate,” read the order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, director of MDMA. “The district magistrates should ensure that the banks do not charge any fee for transferring mid-day meal funds. In case, any bank refuses to omit the fee, then accounts in all the branches of the said bank will be closed,” read Anand’s order. Parents of more than 1.5 crore students studying in UP government schools are being given grains and food allowance for a duration of 76 working days -- from March 24 to June 30. According to the government's scheme, each primary student will get 7.6kg of grains and an upper primary class student will get 11.4kg of grains each for the 76-day period. In addition, Rs 374.29 will be transferred to each primary class student via online banking. While each upper primary class student will get Rs 571.02. This money is being transferred into their parents’ account. According to officials, the banks have been charging Rs 2.65 per transaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/will-shut-accounts-in-banks-charging-fees-to-transfer-mid-day-meal-money-to-students-mdma/articleshow/77450026.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 10, 2020||Pune||2,758 test Covid-19 positive in PMR, more than 3,000 recover||PUNE: More than 3,000 people recovered from Covid-19 in Pune Metropolitan Region on Sunday, marking the rare instance in which those discharged outnumbered the positive cases in a 24-hour period. With the 3,171 recoveries, a total of 79,597 have been discharged in the region so far, data from Pune district health officer (DHO) Bhagawan Pawar showed. In Pune, 1,879 were discharged, while the number stood at 987 in Pimpri Chinchwad. On Sunday, 2,758 people tested positive for the contagion, taking the regional tally to over 1.08 lakh. Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad contributed 1,390 and 1,092 cases, respectively. The municipal councils, cantonments and rural areas together recorded 276 fresh cases. The total number of active cases (people being treated for the contagion) on Sunday stood at 26,185, of whom 12,187 were under home quarantine. A total of 15,812 people are undergoing treatment in Pune Municipal Corporation limits, with 6,601 patients in hospital isolation. A daily report issued by PMC stated that 726 patients were in a critical condition at various hospitals in its limits. Of them, 448 are on ventilator support, the PMC report added. The DHO’s report also stated that 55 people succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday, taking PMR’s toll to 2,469. Twenty-eight people died in Pune municipal limits and eight in Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits. The councils, cantonments and rural areas together recorded 19 fatalities. With this, 1,579 people have died of the virus in PMC limits so far, and 502 in PCMC areas. Most of those who died on Sunday had underlying health problems, such as respiratory problems, heart issues, hypertension and diabetes, health officials said. On Saturday, 70 patients had succumbed to Covid-related complications in the region, making it the highest single-day toll for the region so far. Nearly five lakh samples have been tested in PMR so far, with a majority done in PMC (3,19,588), followed by Pimpri Chinchwad, which tested 1,20,533 samples. The district is conducting 50,260 tests per million population, which is more than twice that of Maharashtra, which is testing at the rate of 20,321 per million.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2758-test-positive-in-pmr-more-than-3000-recover/articleshow/77452117.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||VSSC former director S C Gupta dies||Thiruvananthapuram: Renowned space scientist Dr S C Gupta, who was former director of Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, died here on Sunday night. He was 85. Cremation will be held later. Gupta leaves behind wife Kusum Gupta, daughters Dr Prabha Nini Gupta (retired physician, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram), Sadhana Gupta (USA) and son Arun Gupta (USA). He received his doctorate in Electrical Engineering from the University of Pennsylvania. He was responsible for the development of control, guidance and instrumentation systems at VSSC for space vehicles. Gupta had also received several awards including National Academy of Science Award, Vasvik Award, and Aryabhatta Award.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vssc-former-director-s-c-gupta-dies/articleshow/77452094.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Still FIR-proof after fire killed 8||Ahmedabad: Bharat Mahant in whose hospital eight Covid patients died on Thursday morning is still a free man as police claim they have no paperwork to lodge a complaint. Mahant is a BJP leader and the son of a former Gujarat minister, Mahant Vijaydasji. Ahmedabad Police found Mahant so ‘cooperative’ that he was allowed to leave after a short detention on Friday. Cops say that they have not filed any complaint as they are yet to receive reports from the AMC and its Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services. The two departments have been facing flak since the tragedy. Moreover, the hospital was sealed by the AMC only on Friday. Deputy commissioner of police, Zone-1, Ravindra Patel said, “We have not registered a complaint as we have been waiting for reports from other departments including the forensic science laboratory, the fire department of the AMC, and the electricity department.” When asked about Mahant, Patel said, “He was neither arrested nor detained under house arrest. We have only taken his statement.” On the query about the sealed hospital, Patel said that he knew it had been sealed but suggested that “authentic information” be sought from the AMC. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/still-fir-proof-after-fire-killed-8/articleshow/77452127.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||Corona norms go haywire as aspirants swarm centres in Lucknow||By- Raghav DuggalLUCKNOW: Social distancing, thermal scanning and other Covid-19 protocol went haywire as hundreds of aspirants assembled outside the examination centres for the BEd entrance examination in the city. Lucknow had 82 centres. Avoiding public transport due to Covid fear, majority of candidates from adjoining districts pooled in money to hire taxis or come on two-wheelers. However, as parking space was limited or no management were made, candidates parked vehicles on the roadsides. At most of the centres, TOI found overcrowding at the gates with no social distancing and candidates pushing and shoving each other to gain entry. Some of them were not wearing masks as well. No thermal scanning before entry was done at many centres. However, candidates were allowed entry only after thermal scanning at some centres like National PG College, Lucknow University second campus, and Mahila PG Degree College. Authorities also gave masks to those who came without it. Candidates at most places also came out on roads during the break and were seen having meals at roadside eateries. “Initially, centre authorities were thermal scanning candidates, but when the rush increased, they allowed free for all entry,” said BEd candidate Akshita Singh at a centre in Gomtinagar. Avantika Sharma, who took the exam at a centre in Aminabad, said, “I tried to maintain social distancing but with over 1,000 people around, it became impossible.” “A mask is useless if you are standing so close to each other,” said Riya Maurya, while struggling for the entry at a centre in Charbagh. Candidates also said that test time should have been cut short considering the pandemic situation. “Had the examination duration been short, we would have reached home timely for lunch. But due to long hours we had no option but to buy snacks at crowded stalls,” said Ankit at LU second campus centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/corona-norms-go-haywire-as-aspirants-swarm-centres/articleshow/77452932.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab farmers announce more protests||JALANDHAR: There is no letup in protests by farmer organisations in Punjab against the agriculture sector-related ordinances passed by the central government, with a number of farm organisations on Sunday announcing protests for the coming days. In the latest move, after protesting with tractors earlier, Bharti Kisan Union, Doaba has decided to take out a motorcycle rally in Hoshiarpur on Monday to protest against the new laws. On the other hand, Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) has announced to block entry of elected SAD-BJP representatives in villages from August 15 to 21. Outfit’s general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri Kalan said while banners would be put up outside the villages announcing the ban on their entry, union’s squads would also man the roads to villages and question the SAD-BJP MPs and MLAs coming there. Apart from protesting outside the residences of other SAD-BJP MPs, the farmers had earlier protested at the residence of Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal and SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal in their village, Badal. Despite assurances by the SAD and BJP leaders, the farmers groups have not relented. Notably, even Bharti Kisan Union (Lakhowal), which is aligned with SAD (Badal), has been opposing these ordinances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-farmers-unrelenting-announce-more-protests/articleshow/77453249.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Rain ups reservoir levels, cheers water managers||CHENNAI: Heavy rain on Saturday has helped improve the storage level in reservoirs supplying the city. On Sunday, the combined storage level in the four reservoirs was 4,516mcft (million cubic feet), 40% of the total capacity of 11,057mcft. Poondi on Sunday had 130mcft; Cholavaram 96mcft; Red Hills 2,493mcft and Chembarambakkam 1,797mcft. The city and its suburbs received good rain almost throughout Saturday night, with Nungambakkam recording 1.5cm of rain and Meenambakkam registering 6.1cm. Since June 1, as part of the southwest monsoon, the city and its suburbs received 236.8mm of rain against the expected 213mm, a surplus of 11%. Over the next two days, a Met department forecast says, the sky over the city will be cloudy and there could be moderate rain. PWD officials said Red Hills on Saturday recorded 5.2cm of rain, Cholavaram 5cm and Chembarambakkam 2.1cm. All three reservoirs are in Tiruvallur district which received good rain last week also, said an official. At this time last year, the officials said, the storage level at Poondi was at 16mcft, while the others had reached dead storage level. This year, the good storage levels are due to a significant quantity of rain, mainly at nights. A Metrowater official said the Veeranam tank in Cuddalore district, one of the sources of drinking water for Chennai, is almost full. The tank with a storage capacity of 1,465mcft now has 1,401mcft, with Metrowater drawing 180MLD (million litres a day). All this has left the city in a comfortable position with regard to water supply, the official said. Work on the fifth reservoir to supply Chennai, at Thervoykandigai in Tiruvallur district, is nearing completion. With a capacity to store 500mcft, or 0.1tmcft (thousand million cubic feet), it is bigger than the Cholavaram reservoir in terms of storage capacity, said the official. By next year, he added, Metrowater will be able to draw from it to supply the city. Taking into consideration the satisfactory storage levels in the reservoirs, the government announced an increase in supply to the city’s residents. Metrowater, which had been supplying 650MLD, raised it to 700MLD and has been maintaining this even today, said a senior Metrowater official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rain-ups-reservoir-levels-cheers-water-managers/articleshow/77452098.cms||P Oppili
August 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ayurveda doctor charged with repeated rape||PUNE: The Bibvewadi police on Saturday registered an offence of rape against an Ayurveda practitioner after a 22-year-old patient lodged an FIR accusing him of sexually exploiting her for the past two years. An officer from the Bibvewadi police told TOI, “In 2018, the woman had gone to the suspect’s clinic where the suspect raped her and the act was recorded on CCTV. Later, the suspect started sexually exploiting her by threatening to make the clip viral. Our probe is on.” Kerala man booked for molestation A 42-year-old woman on Saturday lodged an FIR against a man from Kerala for molesting her on the promise of casting her in a movie. She stated in her complaint that on August 6, the man clicked her photos via video call on the pretext of taking her screen test and threatened to make the morphed versions public. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ayurveda-doc-charged-with-repeated-rape/articleshow/77452123.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Farmers slam new agri laws, seek right to sell at MSP||KARNAL: Farmers on Sunday took out a march in Panipat to protest against the Centre’s three ordinances for the agriculture sector and demand a law giving them a right to sell their produce at the minimum support price (MSP). Protesting as part of their campaign, August Kisan Kranti Andolan, against the new laws, they raised slogans against the BJP-led central government and demanded immediate withdrawal of these ordinances. Led by Rattan Mann, the state president of Bharatiya Kisan Union, the farmers took out a procession from Kisan Bhawan to Karnal MP Sanjay Bhatia’s residence in Model town, where they handed over a memorandum to MP’s wife Anju Bhatia, as he himself was not present there. Mann said, “The Centre has brought three ordinances for the farm sector. But, these laws will help the corporate sector only and they will exploit the farmers. There is no clarity on MSP in these ordinances. Hence, the government should withdraw these ordinances and bring a law ‘Kharid Garanti Kanoon’ (right to sell at MSP).” He said they have launched the August Kisan Kranti Andolan campaign against these ordinances. During this drive, they would submit memorandums to Ambala and Sirsa MPs on August 16 and to Bhiwani and Sonipat MPs on August 23. “If the government does not withdraw these ordinances immediately, we will be forced to launch a larger agitation. For this, a state-level Kisan Mahapanchayat will be held in Rohtak’s new grain market on September 4 and the next course of action will be decided there,” he said. Mann said chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar should call a joint meeting of all party leaders, agriculture experts and farmer organisations before August 15 to discuss these ordinances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-slam-new-agri-laws-seek-right-to-sell-at-msp/articleshow/77453252.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: In PCMC limits, 90% drop in number of areas under curbs||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has reduced the number of micro-containment zones in its limits by almost 90% — from a whopping 1,500 locations towards the end of last month to just 110 now. It’s a major step in the civic body’s fight to contain the outbreak. The total area under micro-containment has also reduced to just 4sqkm, out of the civic body's total jurisdiction that covers 180sqkm. Shravan Hardikar, commissioner of the municipal corporation, said certain changes were recently made to its containment zone policy. For an area to now be declared a micro-containment zone in PCMC limits, it should have at least eight positive Covid-19 residents. Hardikar said the changes were made to ensure effective identification of patients and contact tracing. “We are making sure the containment zone guidelines are being followed strictly across the PCMC limits. More restrictions are in effect within the stipulated containment zones compared to the non-containment areas,” he said. According to rules, only shops selling essentials are allowed to operate within the micro-containment zones — from 10am to 2pm. In areas outside containment, businesses can operate from 9am to 7pm. The commissioner had issued orders in this regard on July 31. An official from the PCMC said the number of areas under containment started to increase after the unlock in the month of May. From just under 100 that month, areas under micro-containment rose to 227 by end of June. By the first week of July, the number stood at 427. And by July-end, the number had breached the 1,000-mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/in-pcmc-limits-a-90-drop-in-number-of-areas-under-curbs/articleshow/77452126.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chennai||Bidders show no interest in tender for temple work||CHENNAI: Tenders for temple maintenance, which contractors actively bid for in the past, have seen few takers since temples have remained closed to devotees for the past four months. Since mid-May, the Hindu religious and charitable endowments department (HR&CE) has invited bids on nearly 70 tenders for a work including outsourcing of security, house-keeping services, supplying material for temples, construction and collection of offerings to temples across the state. But only a few tenders that can generate quick gains have seen traction among the bidders. The tenders, excluding ones for constructing, restoring temple tanks, were worth around Rs 7.2 crore. For instance, tenders floated recently by Dhandayuthapani Swamy Temple at Palani, Subramaniya Swamy Temple in Tiruchendur and Arunachaleswarar Temple at Tiruvannamalai to collect and process hair offered by devotees did not find any takers. The collective worth of the tenders floated by the popular shrines was Rs 60 lakh. Similarly, none bid for tenders for collection of coconuts offered, livestock donated and shops at the Tiruchendur temple — these were among favourites to earn profits. The main reason for the lack of bidders was that for the contractors’ profit depended on the temple footfalls. “The tender pertaining to collection of hair was bid for Rs 5 lakh last year, but none grabbed it this year because temples are shut for devotees,” an official from the Tiruvannamalai temple said. However, another tender for the same temple for outsourcing security services had takers. A HR&CE official was quick to add that the trend will soon reverse. “This is only a temporary effect due to Covid-19. Things will bounce back to normalcy within a week of the temples reopening,” he said. Though the state government allowed reopening small temples, the bigger temples that attract tens of thousands of devotees remain closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bidders-show-no-interest-in-tender-for-temple-work/articleshow/77452115.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
August 10, 2020||Pune||SARS-CoV-2 has pushed other viruses into the back seat in Pune, says NIV||PUNE: The pandemic SARS-CoV-2 — the virus causing Covid-19 infections — has become the predominant virus in Pune. Other circulating pathogens — influenza A (H1N1) or swine flu, influenza A (H3N2) and influenza B — have taken a back seat, say scientists from the National Institute of Virology (NIV) here. The NIV has now advised that every patient with flu-like symptoms should consult the doctor without delay and each pneumonia case should be quickly screened for SARS-CoV-2. The scientists also said the virus has not undergone any significant mutation which can increase its virulence. None of the strains of SARS-CoV-2, isolated and sequenced over the last four months, significantly differ from the original strain in virulence, they clarified. NIV director Priya Abraham told TOI that SARS-CoV-2 has pushed influenza A (H1N1), which was among the dominant influenza virus strains in the region, to the “number two position in Pune”. “The other viruses that took a back seat after SARS-CoV-2 emerged are A(H3N2) and influenza B viruses. Rhinovirus was also in circulation, followed by the parainfluenza viruses,” she said. In Pune, doctors have uncovered a sizeable number of Covid-19 cases from among those hospitalised with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI). “Patients with SARI are being tested for respiratory viruses. We are testing patients’ samples for swine flu too, but we are predominantly detecting SARS-CoV-2 in them,” Abraham said. The Covid-19 pandemic was caused by a new respiratory virus, to which people have no pre-existing immunity. The virus has been causing unusual and extensive outbreaks of the disease in many countries including India since the start of the year. NIV scientists said all pandemic viruses are monitored for changes in their genetic make-up. “All viruses, pandemic or seasonal, need to be monitored constantly. But our studies show SARS-CoV-2 has caused more severe illness than seasonal viruses. This is why the virus is being constantly tracked. Its isolates are being studied for genetic make-up at regular intervals,” Abraham said. The NIV has been analysing strains from the region to determine if the virus has changed characteristics. “We are studying the genetic make-up of more than 1,400 available whole genomes of Indian SARS-CoV-2 virus strains available in the public domain. Of these, NIV Pune has so far sequenced quite a few strains from clinical samples,” Abraham said. She ruled out any significant mutation that could increase SARS-CoV-2’s virulence level. “None of the strains we have isolated and sequenced differ much from the original strain in their virulence level. But we need to constantly monitor the virus as any significant change in its genetic make-up can change therapy and prevention strategy,” she said. A senior scientist with the Indian Council of Medical Research said SARS-CoV-2 “seems to have surpassed” other viruses in Pune. “The timing of flu season differs from region to region in the country. That may be the reason for SARS-CoV-2’s dominance. As of now, other respiratory viruses do not appear to have the upper hand,” the scientist said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dominant-sars-cov-2-pushes-other-viruses-into-the-back-seat-in-pune-niv/articleshow/77452133.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt hospitals choke with Covid patients as cases surge in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday recorded 1,982 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths, as several government facilities were left with no available beds to admit more patients. While the total caseload rose to 79,495 cases, the death toll now stands at 627. District hospital in Kothagudem, community health centre in Narayankhed, Government general hospital in Suryapet and Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital (MGM) in Warangal exhausted their bed availability on Sunday. The Government general hospital in Nalgonda has just four beds available out of the 60 beds allotted for Covid-19 patients and the community health centre in Alair (Yadadri) has just five beds available out of 25 beds. So far, 55,999 patients have recovered from the disease in Telangana, while there are 22,869 active cases. The fatality rate in the state is continuing to decline slowly, going from 0.81 percent over 15 days back to 0.78 percent. Meanwhile, a central team from Delhi will be visiting Hyderabad on Monday in view of the increasing number of cases and complaints against private hospitals charging exorbitant amounts for treatment. The team will also look into details of Covid-19 tests and treatment in the state, as per official sources. An inspection of Urban Primary Health Centers and Bastiwakhanas will be held. The team will check if suspected patients who have tested negative in antigen tests are being tested by the RT-PCR method. RT-PCR tests have not started at most UPHC and Bastiwakhanas in Hyderabad yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-hosps-choke-with-covid-patients-as-cases-surge-in-t/articleshow/77452164.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||Covid triggers highest dropout of applicants in UP BEd test in five years||LUCKNOW: Over 74,000 applicants, 18% of the total registered, skipped the Uttar Pradesh BEd Joint Entrance Examination held across the state on Sunday. This was the highest dropout in terms of percentage in the past five years. In Lucknow, the dropout rate was nearly 24%. The fear of Covid-19 was the major factor for the high dropout rate as many candidates were apprehensive about contracting the infection in the examination centres where a large number of applicants had assembled. Heavy rainfall in some places like Ballia, Pilibhit and Gorakhpur reportedly also acted as a deterrent. According to Lucknow University, which conducted the entrance test which is a gateway to colleges offering bachelor of education courses in the state, of the total 4.3 lakh candidates who had registered for the exam, 3.6 lakh appeared, while 74,840 dropped out. The test was held at 1,089 centres in 73 districts. In the state capital, the examination was held at 82 centres where about 23,150 (76%) of the total 30,394 registered appeared. TOI had highlighted in its Sunday edition how many candidates had decided to skip the examination due to the pandemic situation, saying they would prefer “life” over the test and not take the risk of travelling or coming in contact with hundreds others travelling from different parts of the state. In 2019, 7% of the over 6.1 lakh applicants had skipped the entrance test, while 10% of 2.3 lakh registered candidates stayed away in 2018 and 12% of 3 lakh in 2016. In absolute numbers, 2017 witnessed 4.1 lakh registrations, closest to this year’s figure, with 9% drop out, almost half of this year’s absentees. Many candidates had been demanding postponement of the test for several days citing a spike in Covid-19 cases and deaths. On Sunday, candidates who had arrived were scared but said they were taking the risk for the sake of their careers. “Things have to be managed by taking precautions as we do while going out to buy essentials,” said a candidate. Another candidate, Ankit, said, “A number of my college mates and I preferred to skip the test after seeing the huge crowd outside centres.” Neeraj Pandey from Balia said, “Heavy rains in east UP made many candidates to stay home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-triggers-highest-dropout-of-applicants-in-bed-test-in-5yrs/articleshow/77452938.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Pune||Sand trader attempts to break open ATM unit||Pune: The Hadapsar police arrested a sand trader (30) while he was attempting to break open an ATM unit at Manjari during the early hours of August 8. The bank’s officials had contacted the police after they received an alert. The suspect — Rahul Manik Tupere of Hadapsar — entered the kisok and put wet mud on CCTV cameras to block the view. He also broke the electric cables attached to the machine and broke the siren, the police said. An officer from the Hadapsar police said Tupere supplies sand to small construction sites in the city. However, due to the lockdown there was no demand for the sand. Tupere needed money and so he decided to steal some from the ATM machine, police said. The CCTV cameras and other security arrangements of the kiosks of the bank were maintained and managed from the bank’s office in Mumbai. As soon as Tupere applied wet mud on the CCTV camera and cut the cables, the Mumbai office received an alert. The police said the Mumbai office immediately contacted their Pune officials, who ultimately alerted the local police. The police beat marshals, who were patrolling the area, received the message and rushed to the ATM kiosk. They found Tupere armed with a small iron rod and he was attempting to break the tin cover of the ATM unit. They took him to the police station and a case of attempt to theft was registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sand-trader-attempts-to-break-open-atm-unit/articleshow/77452132.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Five held in murder case||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police in the early hours of Sunday nabbed five criminals on police records at Patas toll plaza on the Pune-Solapur highway while they were on the run after allegedly hacking their 20-year-old friend to death in Bhosari on Saturday night. Police said a quarrel over the initials tattooed on arms signifying the name of the gang leader led to the murder. A team led by the assistant inspector, Siddheshwar Kailase, nabbed the suspects — Mangesh More, Rohan Saudatkar, Pranesh Ghorpade, Shubham Vani and Vaibhav Dhore — who were on their way to Latur. Police identified the victim as Mayur Madke, also with past criminal records. “Madke had tattooed ‘MM’ on his arm and one of the suspects, Mangesh More, too, had tattooed the same initial. A few days back, when Madke asked him about the tattoo, More had told him ‘MM’ stands for Mangesh More gang and not Mayur Madke gang. This led to a fight between the two and on Saturday, More and his aides hacked Madke to death,” Kailase added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/five-held-on-charge-of-murder-in-bhosari/articleshow/77452134.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Quit India Movement anniversary: Freedom fighter honoured by President||MANSA: Freedom fighter Bihara Singh (93), who joined the Indian National Army (INA) at the tender age of 15 in 1942, was honoured by the Mansa additional deputy commissioner on behalf of the President on the 78th anniversary of the historic Quit India Movement on Sunday. Recalling the days when he stood against the empire, Bihara Singh still displays the strength of spirit which fuelled him and his contemporaries. “I studied up to Class VIII and joined the INA formed by Subhash Chandra Bose in 1942. I remained in the war till 1945. Then I was held captive for 13 months at Rangoon (now Yangon) as a prisoner of war (PoW) and returned to India after Independence. I got married to Fateha Bai and have been honoured by the President on three occasions.” According to him, life as a proud citizen of Independent India is all he could ask for. ADC Sukhpreet Singh Sidhu said he was elated to hand over the felicitation by the President to the freedom fighter. The President had sent angvastram and shawls to honour freedom fighters across the country who witnessed the Quit India Movement and participated in the freedom struggle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/quit-india-movement-anniversary-freedom-fighter-honoured-by-president/articleshow/77453253.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 50 lakh announced for family of Sepoy Lakhveer Singh at memorial service||BATHINDA: The memorial service for Sepoy Lakhveer Singh, who sacrificed his life near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China in Arunachal Pradesh on July 22, was held at his native Demru Khurd village in Moga on Sunday. Hundreds of villagers fondly remembered the 24-year-old soldier. Punjab minister Rana Gurmit Singh Sodhi assured all possible support to the bereaved family. Meanwhile, the body of another Sepoy, Satwinder Singh has still not been recovered. Sepoys Satwinder Singh and Lakhveer Singh of 4 Sikh Light Infantry unit were part of a patrol in the area near the Line of Actual Control in Arunachal Pradesh on July 22. While crossing a log bridge on a fast flowing nullah in the high-altitude area, they fell down and were swept away while trying to save each other. While the body of Sepoy Lakhveer Singh was recovered, Sepoy Satwinder Singh was feared washed away. Minister Sodhi announced ex-gratia assistance of Rs 50 lakh instead of the Rs 12 lakh announced earlier to the family of Lakhveer Singh, apart from a government job to his widow. A cheque of Rs 5 lakh was handed over to Lakhveer’s wife Namdeep Kaur. Faridkot MP Mohammad Sadique said the state government would care for families of soldiers who make the supreme sacrifice in the line of duty. It was announced that the government school of Demru Khurd village would be named after Sepoy Lakhveer Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-50l-announced-for-family-of-sepoy-lakhveer-singh-at-memorial-service/articleshow/77453254.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chennai||Going back on decades of green jurisprudence||By Sithara SaranganThe draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Bill 2020 has been hotly debated since it was notified in March because of the exemptions granted to industries in meeting standard environmental safety and protection standards. The provisions raise concerns of transparency and make public participation impractical, while validating ex post facto environmental clearance, amongst other problematic changes. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/will-new-bill-weaken-environment-protection/articleshow/77457487.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/going-back-on-decades-of-green-jurisprudence/articleshow/77452963.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||Rushed to hosps in advanced stage, three more die||Lucknow: Covid-19 has claimed one life every five hours in the city in August so far. Sunday was no exception with five casualties being reported, including three critical patients who were brought to the hospital in advanced stage of the disease. Comorbidity was the common factor in all the patients who died on Sunday. The city’s Covid toll rose to 148 since outbreak, with 52 (35%) deaths taking place in first nine days of August. Three patients died at King George’s Medical University, included a 76-year-old man from Indiranagar admitted on August 6 in semi-conscious state with low oxygen level and kidney infection. “Tests done after admission found him Covid-19 positive. Lack of oxygenated blood damaged his brain causing hypoxic encephalopathy,” said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. Another death in KGMU was of a man (54) from Vibhuti Khand brought to KGMU with end-stage renal disease also passed away. Even after dialysis, toxins in blood damaged the brain (uremic encephalopathy), he added. The third casualty in KGMU was a 41-year-old woman who died of multi-organ failure. The Gosainganj resident was brought with critically damaged lungs and kidneys due to Covid-19 and had diabetes as well. Health officers said a woman (81) from Gomtinagar died of respiratory failure within four hours of admission at a private super speciality hospital and trauma centre on Rae Bareli road. She was also diabetic. Similarly, a 53-year-old man suffering from acute respiratory syndrome died at Sanjay Gandhi Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences being brought in an advanced stage of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rushed-to-hosps-in-advanced-stage-three-more-die/articleshow/77452950.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 10, 2020||Bareilly||Covid-19 positive cancer patient flees Delhi hospital, dies on train||BAREILLY: Having run out of money, the family of a 35-year-old cancer patient from Bareilly decided they would need to call off his treatment in a top Delhi hospital. However, on their way home aboard a train on Sunday morning with his wife and son, the man died 60km ahead of his destination. He had a few hours ago tested positive for Covid. News soon spread and the administration swung into action. Before the body could be brought home, the family was intercepted by district authorities. "The cancer patient who had tested positive for Covid-19 died on board the Raxaul Express. The family claimed they had not received the test report before they arrived here," additional chief medical officer of Bareilly Dr Ashok Kumar told TOI. "The deceased had influenza-like illness symptoms," Kumar said. Passengers who shared the coach are now being notified, a district official said. When the patient, a resident of Bakarganj in Bareilly's Quila area, had been diagnosed with cancer, his wife and son had taken him to Delhi for treatment. They put up at his younger brother's place during that time. But money ran out and they decided to take him home. When the train they were on was approaching Rampur, an hour's distance from Bareilly, the cancer patient started complaining of breathlessness. In a matter of minutes, he was dead. Government Railway Police personnel carried his body out of the train and on to an ambulance that took it to Bareilly. Hours before that in Delhi, the patient's brother had received the Covid-19 test report which was positive. He, however, said he could not get through to his brother's wife and son on the train though he alerted the rest of the family in Bareilly. Soon, neighbours knew and they tipped off police and local authorities. "We were not allowed to bring the body out of the ambulance. It was taken straight for funeral in keeping with Covid-19 guidelines," his son said. Now, he and his mother have been quarantined and samples have been collected for Covid-19 tests. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-positive-cancer-patient-taken-out-of-del-hospital-by-kin-dies-on-up-bound-train/articleshow/77450046.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 10, 2020||Chennai||NEP’s inclusive education lacks vision, say activists||Chennai: Amid the political stir in Tamil Nadu over the Centre’s new education policy, the differently abled people and forums have said it lacked “vision” and demanded that the state government include visually challenged scholars in the expert panel to reflect their feelings over the Centre’s NEP.Experts say the NEP emphasises an inclusive education method and merger of the special schools for differently abled students with regular schools. Students with multiple disabilities, dyslexia and hearing impaired would face a host of challenges in learning. It would lead to school dropouts among special children, they say.“The teachers in regular schools are not competent to teach special children. The differently abled children like those with visually impairment and dyslexia need special care and tools to study and understand the subjects,” said the state differently abled department’s advisory board member C Govind Krishnan. “As per norms, every 8 to 10 special students need a special educator (teacher). Is it possible in regular schools?” he asked. Visually challenged students will not be able to cope up to high school, if the concept of inclusive education becomes a reality. They neither learn the spellings nor the mathematical symbols. “In special schools for the visually challenged, a trained teacher for the targeted group help the students learn the spellings and the mathematical symbols that go a long way in ensuring they continue their studies,” said retired professor of Presidency College and president of Indian Foundation for Differently Abled Prof M Sagadevam. Hence, the existing special schools for the differently abled children should continue, he said and urged the state government to include a visually challenged scholar in the panel constituted to study the NEP. “Without representation, it will be difficult to reflect the feelings and the adverse impacts of the NEP for the differently challenged students,” he added.In Tamil Nadu, there are 23 special schools for special children. “NEP will be detrimental for the differently-abled children,” said TARADAC general secretary S Nambu Rajan. The emphasis should be on improving the infrastructure in the existing schools and encouraging the differently abled to study well. The rehabilitation council of India is framing the curriculum for BEd special education. The courses have been designed in such a way to equip the teachers (special educators) to teach visually impaired, hearing impaired, those with learning and multiple disabilities. It is different from the curriculum of the national council for teacher education (NCTE) for regular BEd courses, said Krishnan who runs school for visually challenged and orthopaedic children in Chennai. Braille typewriters and printers, screen reader software and audio materials are critical study materials in schools for the visually challenged. Would t he regular schools have these study materials and extend special care to these special children, he wondered. “The NEP lacks these critical views. Yet it speaks about mainstreaming inclusive education,” Krishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/neps-inclusive-education-lacks-vision-say-activists/articleshow/77452986.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||Upgrade Covid care by doubling number of beds in ICU: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Emphasising on further upgradation of Covid care facilities, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said on Sunday that the number of beds in the intensive care units (ICUs) of all medical colleges in the state should be doubled. He also directed the officials to increase the number of beds in Level-2 and Level-3 Covid hospitals in all districts of the state. Yogi gave the direction during a high-level meeting of Team-11 which was attended by additional chief secretary, health, Amit Mohan Prasad, and additional chief secretary, medical education, Rajneesh Dubey, besides top officials of various departments. Later while speaking to reporters, Prasad said the CM also gave directions to constitute a L3 hospital in Saharanpur district of west UP. At the same time, a dedicated Covid hospital should be made operational in Shamli and Bareilly districts, the CM added. The chief minister, Prasad said, also underlined the need for extra precautions in Lucknow, Kanpur Nagar, Prayagraj, Bareilly, Gorakhpur, Jhansi and Varanasi where the number of Coronavirus cases have been spiralling. Yogi further directed the officials to strengthen the command and control centres for providing ambulances to the people affected by the Coronavirus. Yogi categorically stressed on providing swift and timely treatment to the needy. Prasad said the process of Covid testing is being done on a full scale. He said that in the past 24 hours, as many as 99,869 samples were tested for Coronavirus infection. Till date, the state government has testes over 31 lakh samples. In the past 24 hours, the state recorded 4,687 fresh cases of Covid infection. Prasad said there were 47,890 active Coronavirus cases, of which 18,412 were in home isolation, 1,373 were in private hospitals and 155 patients were in semi-paid facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-upgrade-covid-care-by-doubling-no-of-beds-in-icu/articleshow/77452981.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||AP sees over 10k cases, 97 deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 10,820 fresh Covid-19 infections on Sunday taking the cumulative caseload to 2,27,860. The state’s death toll crossed the 2,000 mark reaching 2,036 with 97 deaths reported on Sunday, the highest single-day casualty figures for the state. Even as the state’s mortality rate stands stable at 0.89%, significantly lower than the national average of above 2%, Andhra Pradesh witnessed 687 deaths in August alone. As of Sunday, Kurnool district has seen the highest number of deaths:245, followed by East Godavari which has reported 224 deaths, Guntur 223 and Krishna 212. Kadapa has the lowest fatality numbers: 71. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-sees-over-10k-cases-97-deaths/articleshow/77452203.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Covid victim buried at Mankapur ghat as cemetery allows only ashes||Nagpur: A 74-year-old former railway employee, who had tested Covid-19 positive and passed away early Sunday morning, was buried at Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s Mankapur ghat after the Jaripatka Protestant Christian Cemetery administration asked the deceased’s family to cremate the body and bring only ashes for burial. The deceased was a member of Calvary Alliance Church, Wanjari Nagar, and entitled to get a burial plot at Jaripatka. The man had suffered a stroke and admitted to railway hospital from where he was shifted to a private hospital in Ramdaspeth on July 31. His swab was collected same day and he tested Covid-19 positive on August 1, following which the private hospital asked the patient’s son to shift him to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). While being treated for paralysis as well as Covid-19, the elderly man passed away at 6am at GMCH. “My grandfather too is buried at Jaripatka cemetery. My father had willed that he be buried here. But the cemetery committee initially refused to allow the burial. They kept asking us to bring the ashes after cremating the body. My mom refused to allow burning of the body,” the deceased’s son told TOI. Last week, the cemetery committee had conducted the last rites as per Protestant Christian religious tradition on the ashes of another Covid victim.“We had moved our request through the Wanjari Nagar church but the cemetery committee insisted on cremation followed by burial of ashes as done last week,” the son said. As the last rites couldn’t be held up further, the NMC offered the family a place at one of its oldest ghat in Mankapur having graves of people from different faiths. Reverend Ganesh Barve, president of Jaripatka Protestant Christian Cemetery, said as per their religious tradition burial at sea, land and even cremation is allowed depending on the prevailing circumstances. “The family was given a couple of options but they declined. Last week, a Kamptee pastor’s body was cremated and ashes buried in traditional way at the cemetery. They could have done the same. Then, we asked them to conduct last rites on their own as grave diggers were not ready to make the pit and no one wanted to risk an infection,” Rev Barve said. Barve added the family was also told to take the body to Bhandewadi where the government has allotted another burial ground to the community. IA Shah, the committee’s treasurer, said they would soon issue a letter asking community members to conduct last rites of Covid-19 victims on their own. “Digging is a main issue during monsoon. The water hinders the process and there is no space for JCB to enter. The pit has to be deep in such cases,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-victim-buried-at-mankapur-ghat-as-cemetery-allows-only-ashes/articleshow/77452895.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||More families close to being split by legal hassles in Pakistan||Nagpur: Two-year-old Arohi Goindhani’s name features in the list of 118 Indian nationals who are expected to return home by crossing the Pakistan border on August 10, but not that of her mother Reeta.Reeta is still a Pakistani citizen, who was living in India on a long-term visa (LTV). She had gone to Pakistan on a no-obligation return to India (NORI) visa granted for brief visits, and is stranded as the borders are closed due to Covid. Her child, who was born in India, is an Indian citizen and Reeta is waiting to get citizenship here. Now, as the Indian embassy has drawn up a list of 118 Indians for repatriation, technically only her daughter can return. Reeta, who is still a Pakistani citizen, will have to wait.Even as another batch of Indians is set to cross the border and return home, many are faced with such technical hassles. There are families where minor children have Indian citizenship and their mothers are still living on LTVs. So, even as their names feature in the list, the children are too young to go without their mothers. In some cases the husband and children have Indian citizenship, but may have to leave the woman of the house behind.Mohamed Raza, a businessman from Delhi, is reluctant to leave. His wife has come on a NORI visa and he and his children are Indian citizens. “My children are young and will not be able to stay without their mother. I cannot leave them behind either,” says Raza, who is now worried that his visit visa to Pakistan will expire soon.Sarika too, who is stranded in Ghotki town of Sindh province, has a similar problem. Delhi’s Mohamed Saif says if the repatriation is being arranged on August 10, the formalities will have to be done fast. “Lahore is 1,400km from Karachi, where my family is staying. It may not be possible to reach the border at short notice,” he said. Even his wife is a NORI visa holder who had gone to Pakistan with the kids.The only hope for them is that the embassy has also collected the names of NORI visa holders to be put up before the Pakistani authorities. It is expected that their reparation will be arranged too. The NORI visa holders are requesting that those with young children should be allowed to keep their kids with them.Rajesh Jhambia, president of Sindhi-Hindi Panchayat, which is also taking up the stranded persons’ case, said since it is expected that NORI visa holders’ case will also be cleared soon, they must allow their children and other members of families having Indian passport to remain in Pakistan till then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-families-close-to-being-split-by-legal-hassles-in-pakistan/articleshow/77452900.cms||Shishir Arya
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||4 held, 20 booked for attacking foresters near Tipeshwar||Nagpur: The Pandharkawda police have arrested four persons and registered FIR against 20 villagers for rioting, manhandling and abusing forest staff posted to monitor tigers in villages around Tipeshwar wildlife sanctuary. Tiger scare was reported for the last four months in Sunna, Andharwadi, Kopai, Kopamandi and Kobbai villages close to the sanctuary. There were at least 14 cattle and three goat kills for which compensation was delayed. Deputy conservator of forests (DyCF) KM Abharna said, “Only Rs 4 lakh is pending towards cattle kill and crop damage compensation since June this year. Over Rs 1.5 crore were paid as last year dues.” However, locals alleged despite lakhs of rupees lying with the eco-development committee (EDC) villages, no works have been done to benefit these villages. “We submitted proposals for solar fencing to farms but it was never done. Areas where fencing was done have already been dismantled. The forest department should allow grazing in the sanctuary or ensure tigers don’t venture near their villages,” they said. Lack of quick interventions through EDCs seems to have led to flaring up of situation on Thursday when cattle kill was reported on the outskirts of Kobbai village. Infuriated mob of villagers picked up stones and sticks to shoo away the tigress and her two sub-adult cubs that had come to feed on the cattle carcass. The villagers were not ready to listen and in process they manhandled women forest staff and pelted stones at the tigers and chased them. They also detained forest staff. The forest officials have also registered preliminary offence reports (PORs) against unidentified culprits under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and on the basis of video footage of these persons they are being identified. “We will arrest them soon and take legal action,” said Pandharkawda forest officials. Meanwhile, on a complaint lodged by RFO Sangeeta Kokne, police booked Amardeep Sidam, Vilas Sodsam, Parshuram Kumre, Santosh Kumre, Mahendra Korche, Kailash Todsam, Shiva Todsam and Shambhudeo Todsam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/4-held-20-booked-for-attacking-foresters-near-tipeshwar/articleshow/77452993.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Ballarpur murder: Five sent to PCR till Aug 15||Chandrapur: Five persons arrested in the murder of mafia kingpin in Ballarpur were sent to five days of police custody on Sunday. Notorious criminal Suraj Bahuriya was shot dead by the rival gang over illegal liquor and coal smuggling rivalry at a public place on Saturday. The persons booked for murder of Bahuriya have been identified as Amar Andhewar (29), Badal Harne (19), Alfred Anthony (19), Pranay Sahgal (22) and Avinash Bobade (22). They were produced before a court in Chandrapur and sent into police custody remand till August 15. Meanwhile, the funeral rites of deceased Bahuriya were performed in Ballarpur on Sunday. Hundreds of people took part in the funeral defying Covid-19 restrictions but police and administration remained mute spectators. Police sources claimed that Suraj Bahuriya was a known hard-core criminal and had several offences registered against his name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ballarpur-murder-five-sent-to-pcr-till-aug-15/articleshow/77452863.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Over 1k cases, 30 Covid deaths in Vid for 5th day in a row||Nagpur: With over 1,000 Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths reported for the fifth consecutive day, Vidarbha’s caseload surpassed 23,000 to reach 23,185 while the toll reached 647 on August 9. Once again Nagpur remained the worst-hit district with 518 cases and 23 deaths, followed by Amravati with 119 cases and two deaths. Yavatmal reported three deaths for second day in a row, while one patient each died during treatment at Chandrapur and Akola. Vidarbha’s case fatality rate is still at 2.8%. The day saw 330 patients getting discharge on Sunday, to take the total number of recovered patients to 13,711. Recovery rate was 59.13% on Sunday. For the first time since June 15, the recovery rate has dipped below 60%. More than 38% (8,827) patients are under treatment now. Of them, 4,781 are in Nagpur alone, thus significantly increasing the burden on health services in district. Yavatmal: Besides three deaths, the district registered over 100 cases on Sunday. The deceased include a 64-year-old woman of Yavatmal city, 50-year-old man from Mahagaon and a 53-year-old man from Digras. The death toll has touched 47 in Yavatmal so far. Against 104 new patients (64 men and 40 women), 24 were discharged from the GMC isolation wards. Results of more than 2,600 reports are pending. Amravati: Two deaths and a spike of 119 cases on Sunday took the district’s Covid toll to 89 and count past 3,000 to reach 3,068. With four 100-plus single-day spikes this month, the district has recorded 911 cases and 28 deaths in first nine days of August. A CS office report said that a 77-year-old man from Daryapur and a 53-year-old woman from Karanja Lad town in Washim district died at Covid hospital on Sunday. Total 21 patients were discharged on Sunday. The report further said after 89 deaths, and 1,944 recoveries there are 1,035 patients under treatment, including 21 taking treatment in Nagpur. The rural belt accounted for 47 of the day’s 119 cases to take its count to 749. Dhamangaon Railway tehsil led with 18 new cases that took its count to 48. Mozari in Teosa tehsil reported 11 cases. Bhatkuli and Chandur Railway tehsils reported four cases eachwhile three cases came from Anjangaon Bari village. Daryapur, Paratwada, Pohra, Achalpur, Ner Pinglai and Shirajgaon Kasba reported a case each. One patient from Arvi in Wardha district tested positive here. In Amravati city, Sai Nagar reported seven caseswhile Hamalpura reported five. Five SRPF jawans who returned from Mumbai also tested positive to take the force’s count to 24. Four cases came from Kiran Nagar. Three cases each were reported from Yashoda Nagar, Balaji Nagar, Vilas Nagar and Rampuri Camp. Two cases each came from Ambapeth, Chaitanya Colony, Gadge Nagar police station, Badnera, Keval Colony, and Dussehra Maidan. Twenty-four other localities reported a case each. Chandrapur: District registered yet another Covid-19 death as the total caseload climbed up to 856 with detection of 23 new cases on Sunday. A 71-year-old woman from MIDC area on the city’s outskirts died of novel coronavirus infection during treatment during wee hours of Sunday. This is fourth death from Chandrapur district. Two patients from outside the district have died here but they have not been included in Chandrapur’s tally. A total of 9 patients were discharged from the hospital during the day taking the recoveries to 475 in district. This has left a total of 375 patients under treatment. Akola: A 75-year-old woman from Telipura area of Murtizapur tehsil in Akola died during treatment on Sunday. She was admitted on August 6. This took Covid-19 death toll of Akola to 124. With 47 patients reported on Sunday, total cases in Akola surpassed the 3,000-mark. By evening, 41 patients received discharge taking total number of recovered patients to 2,415. Now, Akola has 480 patients under treatment, and most of them are from rural parts of the district. The Covid-19 spread is quite under control in urban Akola. Wardha: Total 12 new patients (8 men and 4 women) were detected in the district on Sunday while six were discharged after recovering from the disease. Wardha recorded highest 5 cases, Selu 2, Arvi 2 and Ashti 3. Total 41 patients are undergoing treatment in district. According to district collector’s office, the district has recorded 286 cases so far. Gondia: Covid is spreading in the district, especially in city and Tirora tehsil. On Sunday, 47 new cases were detected which include 20 from Gondia and 10 from Tirora tehsil. The day also saw 26 patients recovering from the disease. With this, total number of cases in Gondia reached 592, including 324 recovered, three deaths and 265 patients under treatment. Buldhana: Out of the 397 reports received on Sunday, 67 tested positive in Buldhana district. Total cases reached 1,907. On the other hand, 35 patients recovered and were discharged on Sunday taking total number recovered patients to 1,160. With 35 deaths reported till date, Buldhana has 712 patients under treatment. Washim: With 17 new cases coming from rural parts of Washim, total cases in district reached 935 on Sunday. Seven patients got discharge, taking total number of recovered patients to 519. With 19 deaths reported till date, 397 patients are under treatment in Washim. Bhandara: With a major spike of 39 cases, Bhandara’s Covid-19 caseload reached 409 on Sunday. With 243 patients discharged till date and two deaths reported earlier, total 164 patients are under treatment. Of them, three have been referred to Nagpur. Gadchiroli: Seven CRPF, one SRPF, one district police jawan and four civilians tested positive in the district on Sunday. The district has registered 725 cases so far. With 565 of them discharged till date and 1 death reported earlier, 159 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-1k-cases-30-covid-deaths-in-vid-for-5th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/77452871.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||Free pneumonia vaccine for kids in all UP districts now||LUCKNOW: The vaccine to prevent pneumonia will now be available in all 75 districts of the state under the universal immunisation programme. Included in 2017, the vaccine—called pneumococcal conjugate—was provided under the programme in 19 districts only. The costly vaccine was also available in the private sector. Pneumonia, an infection of the lungs, is the single largest killer of over 10 lakh children under five years of age across the world. Data shows that in India, 45 out of 1,000 children under the age of five die of pneumonia infections every year. In UP, around 27,800 children under five die of pneumonia every year. Director general, family welfare, Dr Mithlesh Chaturvedi stated: “The commonest cause of pneumonia is a bacteria called pneumococcus. It accounts for about 16% of all pneumonia cases and 30% of all pneumonia deaths. Studies have shown that the number can be brought down significantly by the use of the vaccine being provided free of cost under the universal immunisation programme.” “Every sixth child in the world dies due to pneumonia. Over 80% of pneumonia deaths occur in children under 2 years. Preventing pneumonia in children is the most cost effective and essential component of the strategy to reduce child mortality,” said Dr Piyali Bhattacharya, faculty, pediatrics department at Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences. Health experts point out that besides posing a risk to life, pneumonia can also affect a child’s physical and cognitive development and result in poor performance in school. Health officer at Unicef Dr Praful Bharadwaj said: “Adequate nutrition is key to improving a child’s natural defences, starting with exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months of life. This not only prevents pneumonia but also reduces the duration of illnesses. Addressing environmental factors such as indoor air pollution (by providing affordable, clean indoor stoves) and encouraging good hygiene in crowded homes also reduces the number of children who fall ill with pneumonia.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/free-pneumonia-vaccine-for-kids-in-all-up-dists-now/articleshow/77452991.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 10, 2020||Mangaluru||No fatalities reported in Udupi; 132 test positive in DK, 195 discharged||Mangaluru/Udupi: Given that the Covid-19 graph in the coastal districts has been on a constant upward spiral, the numbers for Sunday came as a dimly bright spot, with Udupi, while reporting 282 fresh cases had no fatalities, and in Dakshina Kannada, the number of people who were discharged far outstripped the patients confirmed infected – 132 test positive for the novel coronavirus while 195 were discharged. However, six patients succumbed to the Covid-19 infection in Dakshina Kannada, where the number of active cases has now dropped to 3,305, while Udupi is currently home to 2,697 active cases. In Udupi, 46% -- 132 -- of the patients who were confirmed infected on Sunday have been found to be primary contacts of previously infected patients, while those with a history of influenza-like-illness (ILI) accounted for 69 cases, said Udupi deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha, adding that the authorities were still tracing the source of the infection in 66 patients. Meanwhile, six with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), as many people who had travelled to Udupi from other parts of the country and three who had travelled to foreign countries added to the coastal district’s tally. Jagadeesha further pointed out that 205 of the patients who tested positive for the novel coronavirus were asymptomatic. While Udupi taluk, with 152 fresh cases, accounted for more than half of Sunday’s tally, Kundapur (86), Karkala (43) were the other contributors, while one case was also reported from outside the district. Of the six fatalities in Dakshina Kannada, Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks accounted for two each, while Sullia had one death and the remaining death was reported outside the district, its overall death toll now at 220. Of the 132 fresh cases, 68 had a history of ILI, 21 were primary contacts of previous patients, 11 had a past record of SARI while the source of the infection in 32 is being traced, the DC said. The overall Covid-19 tally in Dakshina Kannada has now risen to 7,207, of which Mangaluru which accounts for 5,023, with Bantwal trailing, at 689. On Sunday too, Mangaluru accounted for the lion’s share of the Covid-19 cases, with 81 people in the taluk being confirmed infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/no-fatalities-reported-in-udupi-132-test-positive-in-dk-195-discharged/articleshow/77451156.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 10, 2020||Vadodara||Barodians’ group frees trees from iron guards||Vadodara: After years of being locked in iron traps, trees in Banyan City too are enjoying at last. In a novel campaign over the last couple of weeks, a group of 16 nature loving Barodians has been liberating the trees from the iron guards around them. These citizens have taken it on themselves to cut the tree guards and hand these over to the civic body. Armed with manual as well as battery-operated cutters, they move around in different areas and cuts the trees free. “It is a small move but it can save hundreds of trees and ensure that they survive for more years. When saplings are planted in public places, tree guards are put around them for protection from damages or being eaten by stray animals,” said Milind Gadre, a member of the Nature Walk Group. “But when these grow up to be trees in couple of years, these iron tree guards then pose as become an obstruction as it penetrates the trees’ trunks and damage them from within. Also, the rusted iron sometimes infects trees and even kill them. So it is necessary to remove the iron guards in time,” Gadre told TOI. The guard also changes the shape of the trees’ trunk and sometimes weakens its base. The group has already removed 79 such tree guards from areas like Makarpura, Karelibaug, Pratapgunj, Dandia Bazaar and the old city. “Whenever any local informs us about such tree guards, we ask him or her to join in and volunteer for this work,” said Arun Muzumdar, another Nature Walk Group member. “We were helped by the Bank of Baroda and the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) in this campaign. The civic body collects the tree guards we remove but now some locals have started re-using it to protect the new plants. The guards should be removed when the tree is growing,” Muzumdar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/barodians-group-frees-trees-from-iron-guards/articleshow/77450175.cms||Tushar Tere
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||10 new cases take tally to 958 in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris logged 10 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the tally to 958 in the district. Fifteen patients recovered and were discharged in the district. While the total number of Covid patients discharged so far stands at 803, the hill district has 152 active cases. The recovery rate of the district is 83.8%. The new cases, including five women, were reported from Denadu, Karakorai and Ooty. Six cases of the Denadu village are tertiary contacts of T.Oranalli wedding function cluster. The rest of the four cases are contacts of earlier positive cases with travel history. According to health officials, aggressive tracing and tracking of contacts have brought down the number of cases in the district. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/10-new-cases-take-tally-to-958-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77452212.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Housewife kills self over harassment||Hyderabad: A 20-year-old housewife consumed unknown insecticide after allegedly facing harassment from her husband and in-laws for additional dowry. The victim, Guddi Manasa, from Gandhi Nagar, Kapra, succumbed at the hospital in wee hours of Sunday. The victim got married to Guddi Gopal, a Swiggy delivery boy, almost six years ago. According to the complaint, soon after the marriage, her husband and in-laws started harassing her both mentally and physically stating that she brought less dowry and demanded her to bring additional dowry from her parents. On Saturday, after a petty issue between the couple, her husband beat her up. When he went out, Manasa consumed unknown poison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/housewife-kills-self-over-harassment/articleshow/77452211.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu transport corporations can now hire, use private buses||CHENNAI: The state government has allowed its transport corporations to hire and operate private buses along routes on which they were unable to run government buses. While the government claimed that the policy change was aimed at clearing hurdles for the e-bus program, transport unions see this as a step towards privatisation of bus services. The state nationalised all bus routes in TN in 1972. At present, there are around 50,000 ‘scheme’ routes in Tamil Nadu, says official data. The Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, allow only state-run corporations to operate government buses along the scheme routes. Except for a handful of approved private operators, permits were not issued to others. In 2019, the Union ministry for road transport launched the second phase of faster adoption and manufacturing of electric vehicles (Fame-II) scheme and said it was ready to financially assist states willing to shift to electric mobility. TN was one of the first states to accept this scheme and since an e-bus will cost at least Rs 2.5 crore, Centre advised states to hire vehicles instead of purchasing them. Existing state rules needed amendments to allow hiring of private vehicles by state transport corporations and hence, necessary changes were made to the MV Act and a draft amendment was released in January. Since there was no objection received, final orders were released now, said a transport department official. Opposing this, K Arumugam Nainar from CITU, claimed hiring e-buses will increase financial burden of the state transport corporations running on loss. The Centre provides only a financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh per bus. This means each bus will get roughly Rs 2,000 per day. But private e-bus operators now demand Rs 12,000 as daily hire charges. So the state needs to bear the additional cost. “Also, the said government order doesn’t specify that changes would be applicable only to e-bus operators. Instead, it has allowed hiring of all types of buses including conventional diesel-operated buses. With no buses operated along 28,000 scheme routes, we fear that the government might allow corporations to hire private buses along them too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-transport-corpns-can-now-hire-use-pvt-buses/articleshow/77452214.cms||Ram Sundaram
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||Purvanchal e-way 52% finished, fresh deadline is Jan ’21||Lucknow: The UP Expressways and Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) on Sunday announced touching the halfway mark in construction of 340km Purvanchal Greenfield Expressway connecting Lucknow with Ghazipur in east UP. The announcement came shortly after UPEIDA chief executive officer and additional chief secretary, Awanish Awasthi, conducted an aerial survey of the expressway. Awasthi said, the project is 52% complete and expected to touch 56% mark by August-end. Earlier, the authority had set a Diwali deadline, but with the pandemic halting construction, the project is expected to be finished early next year, sources said. Seeking to fast-track the project, Awasthi sought to expedite construction of railway over bridges and bunds along the expressway. He has pitched for a January 2021 deadline for completion of the bridge over the Gomti. The expressway is being built in eight packages of which land acquisition continues to be a sticking point in package 2 and 3. Awasthi had asked district authorities to resolve issues of land compensation at the earliest. In Sultanpur, Awasthi directed the district administration to engage 150 migrant women labourers. The district comes under package 4. Likewise, the UPEIDA CEO emphasised on quality control while expediting the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/purvanchal-e-way-52-finished-fresh-deadline-is-jan-21/articleshow/77452997.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Heavy inflow fills Mettur dam faster||Salem: The Mettur dam recorded its heaviest inflow of 1.3lakh cubic feet per second (cusecs) this year on Sunday evening, as the Cauvery continued to swell with rainwater. The dam also saw its water level increasing by 10ft during the period. The inflow to the dam, which stood at 60,000cusecs on Saturday evening, rose to 90,000cusecs on Sunday morning before touching 1.3lakh cusecs around 8pm. The water level in the dam correspondingly saw a constant rise during the day, from75.8ft in the morning to 81.1ft in the evening. On Saturday night, the water level in the dam was 71ft. A Public Works Department (PWD) official said, “At this rate of increase, we expect the dam to touch 100ft-mark, against the full reservoir level of 120ft, by Wednesday.” The outflow, however, has been maintained at 1,000cusecs, despite the heavy inflow, since rivers downstream were brimming due to widespread rain. The quantum of water realized at Biligundulu, the entry point of the Cauvery in Tamil Nadu, also hovered around 1.15lakh cusecs to 1.30lakh cusecs during the day. PWD officials said they were expecting the quantum of water realized at Biligundulu to increase marginally or be on the same range on Sunday night and Monday morning, before dropping to a lesser quantum. “The water released from the KRS and Kabini reservoirs in Karnataka has been brought down on Sunday evening to 70,000cusecs and 16,000cusecs, respectively. So, we might see a drop in inflow,’’ the PWD officer said. Rain in catchment areas of the Cauvery in Karantaka has also subsided. Officials, however, said this was not the highest inflow, as last year the dam had received up to 2.5lakh cusecs during the monsoon. There was heavy flooding in Hogenakkal Falls and water overflowed into some of the wayside villages. Revenue, police and fire service personnel are constantly patrolling the river banks, asking villagers not to venture close to the river. The Bhavanisagar dam in Erode too saw a steady rise in water level, aided by the release of surplus water from the Pillur dam upstream. According to PWD officials, the water level in the dam has touched 99.9ft against its full reservoir level of 105ft. The inflow to the dam was recorded at 7,517cusecs, up from 7,389cusecs in the morning. Around 1,000cusecs water is being released from the dam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/heavy-inflow-fills-mettur-dam-faster/articleshow/77452240.cms||Mayilvaganan
August 10, 2020||Goa||Goa lauded for execution of school health programme||PANAJI: Health check-ups of all 1.6 lakh students, from classes I to VIII, were carried out in schools across Goa during the 2019-20 academic year, the state government has told the central government. The check-ups are carried out under the national school health programme. As part of the midday meal scheme, the Union ministry of education reviews the school health programme at the end of each academic year. The state’s performance for 2020 has received praise. The ministry, however, observed that Goa had not carried out the requisite social audit of the midday meal scheme. Until 2017, Goa fared poorly under national school health programme, with just about 1,400 of the 1.6 lakh students getting the mandated health check-up during the academic year. The state’s performance appears to have improved drastically in 2019-20. Under the programme, the directorate of health services (DHS) must also provide micro- nutrients, vitamin A, iron and folic acid tablets and de-worming medicine to children. It is also required to record parameters like height and weight of all the school students. The state government has told the centre that under the Rashtriya Bal Swathaya Karyakram all the 1.6 lakh students have been provided deworming tablets. Another 1.3 lakh students were provided iron and folic acid tablets and 949 students were provided with spectacles. None of the students were given the Vitamin A supplements. In its review, the ministry highlighted the importance of a social audit of the midday meal scheme. “A social audit is a collective monitoring of a scheme by people’s active involvement. It promotes people’s participation in all stages of implementation of the programme. It brings about transparency and accountability. It strengthens decentralised governance. Goa has not conducted social audit in both districts,” it noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-lauded-for-execution-of-school-health-programme/articleshow/77453271.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Delhi||View from the top: Delhi Metro to run at height of an eight-storey building||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is going to scale new heights with the upcoming Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor of its Phase-IV project. A viaduct of this corridor near Haiderpur Badli Mor will be built at 28 metres, the highest till date. This section will also see the highest-ever station. The proposed date for casting of piers at this location is October 8. A DMRC spokesperson said, “The rail level at Haiderpur Badli Mor will be more than the height of an eight-storey building and the pier supporting the viaduct will be of 25 metres. This will be much higher than the current highest viaduct at Dhaula Kuan, where the Pink Line passes at a height of 23.6 metres.” He added that this height was needed at this location because the viaduct would be crossing Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre), which was at a height of around 18 metres. The engineering feat comes with its own set of challenges. “DMRC’s engineers are planning a detailed construction plan to execute this meticulous project. The construction of the pier and the subsequent launching of the spans will be done without impacting operations on Yellow Line,” the spokesperson said. Though metro operations are shut at the moment, DMRC has to keep in mind reopening of the operations on Yellow Line, which is one of its busiest corridors. “CCTV cameras and other monitoring equipment will be installed to keep a round the clock check on operations. A dedicated team of engineers will be employed 24x7 to monitor the progress,” added the spokesperson. All safety measures have been put in place as the construction work is expected to go on for about two years. The platform of Haiderpur Badli Mor, which will come up above the existing Phase-III station, will be the highest-ever at a height of 23.5 metres. At present, the Mayur Vihar Phase-I station on Pink Line is the highest at 22 metres, followed by Karkardooma at 20 metres. The 28.9km Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg corridor, which is expected to be complete by 2022, is an extension of Magenta Line (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West). It will have 22 stations. Apart from Haiderpur Badli Mor, this corridor will have five other interchange stations — Peeragarhi (with Green Line), Madhuban Chowk (with Red Line), Majlis Park (with Pink Line), Azadpur (with Yellow and Pink Lines) and RK Ashram Marg (with Blue Line). Construction work on this particular section started in December last year. The average height of the pillars on this corridor is just 10 metres, but it will reach 20 metres at Madhuban Chowk, where it will cross Red Line (Rithala-Shaheed Sthal), and 25 metres at Haiderpur Badli Mor. DMRC had carried out partial work for the Phase-IV station at Haiderpur Badli Mor, which is going to be an interchange station, along with the work of the Phase-III Yellow Line station. In fact, the platforms of the upcoming station are ready and DMRC just needs to add a roof and a station building. Under Phase-IV, 61.6km of new lines will be constructed across three different corridors comprising 45 stations. Of these, 22.3km will be underground. Watch Scaling new heights: Delhi Metro to run at height of an eight-storey building||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/view-from-the-top-metro-to-run-at-height-of-an-8-storey-building/articleshow/77451118.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Share of 0-4 age group in deaths at 5-year high in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat was among the ten worst states in the country in 2018 in terms of deaths in the 0-4 years age group, which accounted for 10% of all deaths, according to data released by Sample Registration System. The data for 2018 reveals that the state’s rural areas are the ninth worst in the country, with this age group accounting for 12.2% of all deaths.  The study, ‘Percentage Of Deaths In The Age Group 0-4 Years To Total Deaths By Residence, India And Bigger States/UTs, 2018’, states that at the national level, the share of this age group in total deaths is 12.8% in rural areas and 8.2% in urban areas. In rural areas, it ranges from 2.1% in Kerala to 21.9% in Madhya Pradesh, and in urban areas from 1.9% in Kerala to 15.7% in Uttar Pradesh. The data revealed this age group accounted for a greater share of deaths in females, 10.7%, while the corresponding figure for males was 9.7%. In rural areas, these figures were 11.4% in males and 13.5% in females. A former office-bearer of a paediatrics association said that there are multiple factors behind deaths at this age. “In the first month, besides infections, premature birth asphyxia is a major contributor to the death rate. An later stages, it is the lack of health facilities at the village and taluka levels,” he said. He said a great deal of the time, by the time the child is brought to the civil hospital or to a paediatrician, it is too late. He said that even though there are several government schemes, such as the Mukhya Mantri Bal Sandharb Card, for newborn children, there is lack of awareness in rural areas. He said that invariably a local doctor — usually a bachelor of homeopathic medicine and surgery — will treat them first and only when their conditions worsen, will the children be referred to the civil hospital. Gaurang Jani, a sociologist, said malnutrition rates are higher in rural areas and medical facilities are also not as advanced. “Kerala has set an example by strengthening its rural health facilities and death rates among children have come down drastically,” he said. “In rural areas, there is also a greater preference for male children and all efforts are made to save boys, hence the death rate among girls is higher,” said Jani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/share-of-0-4-age-group-in-deaths-at-5-yr-high-in-state/articleshow/77452239.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
August 10, 2020||Delhi||CM Arvind Kejriwal inaugurates 600-bed hospital in south Delhi||NEW DELHI: In a boost to health infrastructure in the capital, a 200-bed Covid hospital at Ambedkar Nagar in south Delhi was inaugurated by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday. Out of the planned 600 beds, 200 with oxygen supply have been made operational. The bed capacity and ICUs would be enhanced in the coming days. “The Covid situation in Delhi is under control to a great extent. The parameters are good, the recovery rate is improving and the positivity ratio and death rate are decreasing. There are fewer patients who require hospitalisation,” said Kejriwal, adding that Delhi government was fully prepared to handle the pandemic, which was unpredictable as no one knew what might happen tomorrow. Observing that the new hospital would not only serve the people of the area, but also prove to be a huge support to Delhi’s health infrastructure, Kejriwal said, “There was no big hospital in this area and nearby constituencies. The idea of constructing this facility was conceived in 2013. I’m happy that it has now been inaugurated. The 200 beds will be of great help in treating Covid patients.” Compared with the initial months of the novel coronavirus outbreak, Delhi government had increased the number of Covid-designated beds multiple times. On July 26, a 450-bed hospital was opened in Burari. “We have increased the bed capacity of hospitals in the city. The new hospital in Ambedkar Nagar is a step in the same direction. I want to congratulate the people of Delhi and recognise the efforts of those who made it possible to get this hospital inaugurated a few months ahead of schedule,” said the chief minister. In the second week of June, the authorities were concerned about arranging for hospital beds because the number of Covid cases was rising fast. An estimate by Delhi government using a central government website had shown that 5.5 lakh cases would be witnessed by the end of July. In such a scenario, Delhi would have needed 80,000 beds. Subsequently, more beds were created by linking hotels, private hospitals, expanding the capacity of existing healthcare facilities and increasing the number of ICU beds in them. Of the 13,527 Covid beds available in government and private hospitals, 10,443 beds were vacant on Sunday. A large number of beds were vacant in Covid care centres because of the government promoting home isolation. Ambedkar Nagar MLA Ajay Dutt said the hospital had come as a blessing for people because the area did not have a huge healthcare facility. “Even after the pandemic, the hospital will continue to serve people, many of whom have to go to private facilities for treatment,” Dutt added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-inaugurates-600-bed-hosp-in-s-delhi/articleshow/77451077.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||20-yr-old jumps to death from terrace in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 20-year-old student from his apartment building’s terrace on Sunday. The victim, Rajan Vidyadharan, from Domalguda was addicted to alcohol and was sent to de-addiction centre in Chennai for rehabilitation almost eight months ago. The family suspected Rajan was suffering from depression. On Sunday at around 7.30 am, he went to the terrace of the apartment and jumped to death. He died on the spot after sustaining multiple injuries.A suspicious case was registered in Chikkadpally police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/20-yr-old-jumps-to-death-from-terrace/articleshow/77452232.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||5 encounters in 24 hrs; STF guns down Mukhtar aide||Lucknow: In five encounters in 24 hours, a sharp-shooter of don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, Rakesh Pandey, was shot dead in an encounter with Special Task Force personnel in Sarojininagar area of Lucknow on Sunday. Pandey was an accused in the murder of BJP leader Krishnanand Rai in 2005. Police said, Pandey carried a reward of Rs 50,000 while his family alleged he was shot after he was forcibly whisked away by cops from his Gudumba home and there was no bounty on him. In three other encounters across the state, Bulandshahr police shot at and arrested two criminals in separate operations while Noida cops held five criminals after an encounter. Criminals arrested in Bulandshahr were Amit, accused in 31 cases of loot and murder, and Saddam, also a history-sheeter. Inspector general, UP STF, Amitabh Yash said Pandey was accused in at least 12 cases committed since 1993, including the sensational murders of BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai in 2005 and contractor Ajay Singh in 2009. “His involvement was also found in murders and shootouts orchestrated by don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari in last 23 years,” Yash said. Police recovered a 9mm pistol, a .30 bore country-made pistol, and cartridges. An officer privy to the development, said, police team camped near Sarojininagar after receiving a tip-off. “When cops tried to stop an SUV, its occupants opened fire. Police fired in retaliation after which the SUV rammed a tree,” the officer said. Pandey sustained gunshot wounds and died on the spot while his aides managed to flee. According to STF, Pandey hailed from Mau district and stepped into the world crime after joining the gang of Mukhtar Ansari and Prem Prakash Singh alias Munna Bajrangi. Meanwhile, Rakesh’s father, Baldutt Pandey, claimed his son was looking after his ailing mother who was undergoing treatment at SGPGI. “We have no information about any cash reward on my son. He was taken away by STF men from his house in Gudumba,” he alleged. On November 29, 2005, BJP MLA from Mohammadabad constituency Krishnanand Rai and six others were shot dead and the case was later handed over to CBI on the directions of court. In 2013, Supreme Court transferred the case from Ghazipur to Delhi after Rai’s wife Alka Rai filed a plea in court. In 2019, she approached Delhi High Court challenging the acquittal of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari and others in the case. Prem Prakash was also shot inside Baghpat jail by Sunil Rathi in July 2018. A CBI probe is pending in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-encounters-in-24-hrs-stf-guns-down-mukhtar-aide/articleshow/77453004.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Power yet to be restored in Gudalur, Pandalur||Udhagamandalam: For the fifth consecutive day on Sunday, Gudalur and Pandalur taluks besides several villages in Kundha taluk and a few areas in Ooty remained in dark without power. As many as 320 electric posts and a half dozen of transformers were damaged across the district owing to the strong wind and rain that lashed the hills in the past week. On Sunday, the hill district recorded an average rainfall of 25.77mm ending 24 hours at 7am. While Deval received the highest of 102mm of rainfall, Gudalur and Pandalur recorded 30mm and 40mm respectively. Ooty and Coonoor registered 29mm and 24mm respectively. However, there is a lull in rain in Ooty, Kundha, Gudalur and Pandalur taluks on Sunday. But Coonoor and surrounding areas continued to experience rain since Saturday evening. According to reports, besides damage to the Dolphin’s Nose road, a tree was uprooted near Vandisolai near Coonoor due to the rain. Frequent power interruption was also reported in Coonoor and its surroundings. Ramesh Kumar, divisional engineer (general), TANGEDCO said, “A 25KV transformer and a 66KV tower were totally damaged in Gudalur and Pandalur taluks. Specialists have been brought from Mettur to fix the transformers and conductor.” He said, “A transmission conductor to a length of 8km was also damaged. All these damages occurred because several trees were uprooted there.” According to the divisional engineer, the fallen trees needed to be cut and removed. Only then the fixing work of the lines could be started. Major works are over. Power would be restored in Pandalur and Gudalur taluks by Sunday evening. “As far as the Missionary Hill area in Ooty is concerned, three damaged poles were replaced after removing the fallen trees. The LT line was restored. Power would be supplied by today evening”, Ramesh Kumar said. However, the Doddabetta area will be attended on Monday to restore power. Most of the damaged HT lines across the district were repaired. The damaged LT lines in suburbs and village areas will be attended on a day to day basis. As many as 310 TNEB personnel, including 60 specialists from Mettur and 140 from Coimbatore and Mettupalayam, are deployed for power restoration work. The recent rain and wind damaged 320 electric posts, seven transformers, two towers and transmission conductor running to 40km in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/power-yet-to-be-restored-in-gudalur-pandalur/articleshow/77452267.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Delhi||Call from FB helps police in Delhi, Mumbai thwart man’s bid to end life||NEW DELHI: A well-coordinated operation involving Facebook officials in Ireland and police in Delhi and Mumbai saved a possible death by suicide of a man whose wife had left home after a quarrel and had been missing for over a fortnight. A Facebook official from Ireland called up Delhi Police’s cyber cell on Saturday informing that their systems had identified suicidal activity on a Facebook account belonging to a Delhi resident and passed on the mobile number, which was used to open the account. Since calling the number directly could have triggered a panic response from a person who is already psychologically fragile, DCP Anyesh Roy got the location of the phone user tracked down. The details showed that the phone address was of Mandawali, East Delhi, after which DCP (East) Jasmeet Singh was informed. A local police team was rushed to the address within minutes. They were, however, much relieved to find her fine. She was oblivious of the inter-continental hue and cry that her Facebook account had caused. Sumati confirmed that the given phone number belongs to her but the Facebook account, she said, was used by her husband who was currently in Mumbai. She told police that she’d left her Mumbai home two weeks ago after a fight and was currently working as a cook at a hotel. She gave her husband Rajesh’s phone number, but was not aware of his address. The cyber cell sleuths got in touch with their counterparts in Mumbai. DCP Rashmi Karandikar from Mumbai Police managed to talk to Rajesh after sometime when he switched on his phone. She spoke at length with the man, who was in a lot of psychological distress, and counselled him, while simultaneously alerting the local police of Bhayandar area, a suburb of Mumbai. Within minutes, the local cops reached Rajesh’s place of stay and took charge of the situation. Watch Call from FB helps police in Delhi, Mumbai thwart man’s suicide bid||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/call-from-fb-helps-police-thwart-mans-bid-to-end-life/articleshow/77451115.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Friend stabs man over tiff, flees||Hyderabad: A 35-year-old man was stabbed by his friend after a tiff in Hayathnagar area on Sunday. The accused, who is absconding, has been booked for an attempt to murder. The victim, Shyamala Saidulu, from Veerannagutta in Hayathnagar works in a tent house. He was friends with the offender, Bandari Saidulu, an auto driver from Kalanagar. On Sunday while Shyamala was proceeding towards Koheda from Peddamberpet on his bike, the accused followed him and attacked him with a knife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/friend-stabs-man-over-tiff-flees/articleshow/77452257.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Pakistan Rangers accept body of infiltrator||Ahmedabad: At last, during the third flag meeting between the Border Security Force (BSF) and Pakistan Rangers, the Pakistan forces admitted the man shot dead by BSF near Barmer sector international border on the intervening night of Aug 7 and 8 was their citizen. The body of the intruder, after postmortem, was handed over to the Pak Rangers on Sunday. The Barmer sector comes under the jurisdiction of BSF, Gujarat Frontier. BSF officials said the intruder was trying to sneak over the fence on the international border close to Gujarat. BSF troops challenged him, but he crossed the fence and ran towards a bush. Senior BSF officials said they fired at him and found his body lying behind a bush on our side of the border. At the same moment, BSF troops also noticed movement on the Pakistan side. BSF sources said similar attempts were made earlier by Pakistan during daytime and were also foiled by the BSF. However, this is the first time that an infiltration was attempted during night in the area. “BSF is on high alert in view of the forthcoming Independence Day celebrations,” said a senior official of BSF, Gujarat Frontier. BSF officials said they had two flag meetings with Pakistan Rangers but despite footprints of the man and other footprints seen visibly coming from their side, they denied the deceased was their citizen. “However, in the last meeting held late at night on Saturday, the Pak Rangers accepted that the deceased was a Pakistani national. “From the other footprints found, it is believed that six to seven persons were with the man who was shot dead, but they fled after hearing gunshots,” said a BSF official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pakistan-rangers-accept-body-of-infiltrator/articleshow/77452297.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Delhi||1,300 new Covid-19 cases; Delhi government says increase due to ‘outsiders’||NEW DELHI: Delhi reported 1,300 fresh Covid-19 cases in the past 24 hours – second highest in the past 20 days – taking the total number of corona cases in the capital to 1,45,427. The death toll due to the viral infection climbed to 4,111 with 13 fatalities. After dipping as low as 613 on July 27 and hovering around 1,000 for several days, the number of Covid cases has started rising for the past few days. As many as 1,404 cases were reported on Saturday. Health minister Satyendar Jain has attributed the recent hike in Covid-19 cases to “patients from outside getting tested in the capital.” “Many patients from outside the city are getting tested here and that is why there is a rise in the number of cases. There is otherwise a decline in the cases,” Jain told reporters. The minister added that hospital admissions have also increased because of the patients coming from outside Delhi. According to sources, many people being tested through rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests, especially in areas close to Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, hail from the nearby areas outside the capital. The number of tests being conducted every day in the city rose to 23,787 (5,702 RT-PCR and 18,085 rapid antigen tests), which was far lower during the previous weekends. On August 2, 8,441 rapid antigen tests and 4,289 RT-PCR tests were conducted. So far, a total of 11,92,082 tests, including rapid antigen and RT-PCR, have been conducted. According to the health bulletin, 1,225 persons recovered from the coronavirus on Sunday, taking the total number of recovered persons to 1,30,587. The rate of recovery in Delhi has been constantly rising. Due to the high rate of recovery, the number of occupancies in the hospitals is falling. Of the 13,527 Covid beds available in the government and private hospitals, 10,443 beds were vacant on Sunday. Out of 10,146 beds in Covid care centres, 6,643 beds are vacant, while 382 of the 554 beds are vacant in dedicated Covid health centres. The pressure on the hospitals has reduced due to home isolation facilities being opted by more and more people. As of Sunday, 5,462 persons are under home isolation in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1300-new-cases-govt-says-increase-due-to-outsiders/articleshow/77451154.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Uttam Reddy: KCR working in tandem with AP||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy has called upon party cadre to take inspiration from events like the Quit India Movement to launch agitations in a democratic way to defeat the forces subjecting people to atrocities and injustices. He also called upon the cadre to gear up for elections to Greater Hyderabad and Warangal municipal corporations. Speaking on the occasion of the 78th anniversary of the Quit India Movement at Gandhi Bhavan on Sunday, the Nalgonda MP said Congress has a rich history of launching successful movements to protect people’s freedom and rights. It was Congress which granted statehood for Telangana as it wanted the people of this region to prosper. “KCR has ruined all the resources of Telangana and pushed the state into debts of over Rs 3 lakh crore in the last six years. He is silent on Andhra Pradesh trying to divert 11 TMC water and is helping the AP government execute works on expansion of Pothireddypadu head regulator and construction of Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme, which will deprive Telangana of 6.3 TMC of Krishna River water,” he alleged. He charged KCR of convening the cabinet meeting on August 5 only to create a reason to defer the meeting of the Apex Council to a later date so as to help the AP government complete the tender process of the two projects. He announced that Congress would expose KCR and fight against the injustices being done to the people of Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uttam-kcr-working-in-tandem-with-ap/articleshow/77452298.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Delhi||Civic elections in Delhi: AAP recasts party posts||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party has started strengthening its organisation in the wake of the 2022 municipal elections with an objective to oust BJP from power in the municipal corporations. As part of the organisation restructuring exercise, AAP has appointed Lok Sabha in-charge, district in-charge, district communication in-charge and assembly observers in all the 70 assembly constituencies. Gopal Rai, AAP’s Delhi convener, said in the second phase, AAP will appoint in-charge for all the 70 assembly constituencies. In the third phase, the party will appoint in-charge in all the 272 wards, he added. The AAP leaders who performed in the assembly polls and those who played a significant role during the Covid-19 crisis in ration and food distribution, in creating awareness about proper sanitisation and ensuring social distancing have been recognised and given bigger responsibilities. “We are giving priority to the leaders who worked hard during the assembly polls and the Covid pandemic. The restructuring process is happening from the top to the booth level,” Rai said. The party had lost to BJP in the 2017 municipal elections. AAP, however, won the assembly election early this year with a brute majority, winning 62 of the 70 seats despite BJP mounting a very aggressive election campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civic-elections-aap-recasts-party-posts/articleshow/77451133.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal on alert after Covid hospital fires in two cities||KOLKATA: The fires at two Covid facilities in Ahmedabad and Vijayawada, which left 15 people dead, had prompted the state fire department to start checking on the approximate 100 Covid care facilities in the state, a bulk of which are in Kolkata and suburbs. Fire officers are immediately checking the electrical connections and the fire-safety protocols in these Covid care facilities, which include hospitals, safe homes, hotels and even makeshift care facilities. State fire minister Sujit Bose said: “These incidents are a wake-up call. I had spoken to the Fire Services director general after the Ahmedabad fire on Thursday and again this morning after the Vijaywada fire. We have decided to immediately send teams to check these Covid facilities to ensure that safety protocols are in place in each of these institutions.” DG Fire Services Jagmohan said: “Fire officers are already inspecting the Covid facilities. There are around 100 of them, which have been identified for immediate inspection across the state. Since the preliminary cause of both the fire incidents are reported to be electrical short-circuit, our primary focus is to check them and ensure adequate fire safety protocols are in place at these institutions.” The DG said the inspections will continue next week. A fire officer said the fire incidents have also prompted extensive planning at the Fire department’s Mirza Galib Street headquarters on the fire control and evacuation drill. “The primary issue, which needs to be addressed is the evacuation drill, when it comes to Covid patients. The health safety guidelines may make physical proximity a challenge for rescue operations. It is very important to sensitize the patients on fire drills. There are some suggestions that oxygen and sanitizers, both inflammable, should not be stacked in one place,” said the officer, adding that a meeting will be held soon involving all agencies which are deployed in emergencies. Eight Covid patients died in a fire that broke out inside the ICU of Shrey Hospital in Ahmedabad city early on Thursday. A short circuit in one of the life-support systems in the ward is suspected to have triggered the fire. A similar tragedy struck at a Covid care centre in Vijayawada on Sunday, where seven Covid patients died in a fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/state-on-alert-after-cov-hosp-fires-in-two-cities/articleshow/77452296.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 10, 2020||Delhi||Expect moderate to heavy rain over the next few days in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded light to moderate rain on Sunday, with the Ridge station receiving 58.8mm of rainfall till 8.30am. Moderate showers are to continue till Wednesday, with isolated spells of heavy rain likely to occur in Delhi-NCR. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) says the monsoon trough has shifted, bringing more rain to the region once again. Kuldeep Srivastava, a scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said the monsoon trough was currently passing close to Delhi-NCR. “During this period, southwesterly winds from Arabian Sea and easterly winds from Bay of Bengal will reach Haryana, Delhi-NCR and western Uttar Pradesh at the lower level, while a cyclonic circulation will persist over Madhya Pradesh and UP,” said Srivastava. Under its influence, moderate rain accompanied with one or two spells of intense rain will occur over Delhi from the night of Sunday till Wednesday, he added. “Heavy rain may also occur in parts of NCR.” While Delhi’s base station, Safdarjung, only received 1mm of rainfall till 8.30am and another 1mm in the next nine hours, Palam received 18.1mm till 8.30am on Sunday and another 0.8mm of rainfall in the next nine hours. “Lodhi Road and Ayanagar received only a drizzle,” said a Met official. For northwest India, Srivastava said rain was expected from Monday to Wednesday with heavy rainfall occurring in regions places like east and west UP, east Rajasthan, Haryana, northern part of Punjab, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh. The capital’s maximum temperature on Sunday was recorded at 35 degrees Celsius, with the humidity levels remaining on the higher side — oscillating between 74% and 89%. The forecast for Monday shows moderate rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/expect-moderate-to-heavy-rain-over-the-next-few-days/articleshow/77451128.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Avoid visits for Ganesh Chaturthi, limit sarvajanik aarti to ten persons’||PANAJI: Ganpati Bappa will be accorded a relatively silent welcome in the state this year. With no door-to-door aartis, the beats of ghumots and shamels will likely go soft or even silent, and even sarvajanik celebrations will be a low-key affair. Also, with no dahi handis for Janmashtami, even Krishna’s birth celebrations will be subdued this year. Janmashatami will be celebrated on Tuesday, while Ganesh Chaturthi is on August 22. The state government, in guidelines issued on Sunday, imposed several restrictions on the celebration of the two festivals. “As far as possible, home visits to friends and neighbours may be avoided” for Ganeshotsav celebrations, the government has said. It also said that sarvajanik celebrations will be permitted by local bodies on a case-by-case basis. But this will be subject to restrictions. Also, while aartis can only be attended by up to 10 persons, there will be no tirthprasad or mahaprasad at these community celebrations. Entertainment programmes, or dekhavas, have also been prohibited. The guidelines stipulate that the idol for a community celebration can’t be more than 4-ft tall, so that a maximum of six people can carry out its installation and immersion. Also, priests performing the Ganesh poojas are required to follow social distancing, wear a mask, use hand sanitiser and adhere to other health protocols. Local bodies are then required to prepare a hourly time table, wardwise, for immersion, with staggered slots between 5pm and 10pm. Meanwhile for Janmashtami, the guidelines stipulate that there will be no dahi handi celebrations. A decision in this regard was already taken by the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) for its jurisdiction. The guidelines later issued by the state also prohibit social and religious gatherings. “We received a lot of calls from people about the need to hold the poojas (for Janmashtami),” said Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar. “One of the SOPs put in place will have restrictions on the number of people. Only five people will be permitted to carry out the puja in Panaji, provided they maintain social distance.” He added that the festival is held on a larger scale in Mumbai, and even there it has been banned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/avoid-visits-for-chaturthi-limit-sarvajanik-aarti-to-ten-persons/articleshow/77453006.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Felling nod for Ytl-Darwha road widening violates norms||Nagpur: The Forest (Conservation) Act (FCA), 1980, guidelines state that work on non-forest land cannot be started if the project involves forest land. But Yavatmal range forest officer (RFO) gave a go ahead to fell 752 huge trees on non-forest land despite Public Works Department (PWD) application for 1.50 hectare forest land diversion on Yavatmal-Darwha road pending. As per details on MoEFCC portal, PWD had submitted proposal for forest land diversion on September 24, 2019. The proposal was returned with some queries by nodal officer the very next day. However, Yavatmal RFO granted permission on March 3, 2020 to fell 752 non-teak trees, of which over 100 have already been chopped. There is confusion about this diversion proposal between forest and user agency. Yavatmal deputy conservator (DyCF) Bhanudas Pingle said, “No forest diversion proposal has been submitted by the PWD yet. However, it has sought work permission on forest area where no tree felling will be involved nor additional forest land will be required. We have forwarded this proposal to the Yavatmal conservator of forest. For land diversion, PWD will have to submit a separate proposal.” PWD superintending engineer Dhananjay Chamalwar said, “We have submitted proposal for forest land diversion and will check its status. It is true that delayed work permissions in forest patches has led to project cost escalating. ” As reported by TOI on July 7, 2020, over 3,500 trees will be felled for widening of road between Yavatmal-Kukta (61km) by two metres under the hybrid annuity model (HAM). The project was sanctioned four years ago at an estimated cost of Rs 280 crore. After TOI report, honorary wildlife warden Jaydeep Das, in a representation to state’s APCCF and nodal officer Sanjeev Gaur, alleged felling of trees on non-forest land on Darwha-Yavatmal road was in violation of FCA and demanded action. Das said FCA was enacted to check indiscriminate diversion of forest land and to prevent deforestation. Section 2 of the Act restricts dereservation of forest or use of forest land for non-forest purpose, except with prior approval of the Central government. Environment lawyer Manish Jeswani said though provisions of FCA may not have technically been violated by starting work on non-forest lands, expenditure incurred on works on non-forest lands may prove infructuous if diversion of forest lands is not approved. “Therefore, if a project involves forest as well as non-forest land, work should not be started on non-forest land till approval for release of forest land is secured,” he added. Nodal officer Gaur said, “We have sought a report from Yavatmal conservator.” Das pointed out, “On Yavatmal-Darwha road, PWD is felling indigenous trees for road widening. The said work is going on anticipating forest clearance. Thus, PWD is creating fait accompli situation which is not permitted under the FCA as per the apex court ruling in Lafarge case. The forest department too should not have granted felling permission on non-forest land.” MoEFCC’s Regional Empowered Committee (REC) member Suresh Chopne said, “The proposal has not reached the REC. In Chandrapur, PWD created fait accompli situation for many roads surrounding Tadoba. Now work has been stalled for mitigation steps in forest stretches.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/felling-nod-for-ytl-darwha-road-widening-violates-norms/articleshow/77453010.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 10, 2020||Nashik||Recovery rate of Covid patients in rural areas goes up||Nashik: At a time when the number of patients testing positive for Covid-19 in rural areas have increased by three times, the recovery rate of patients, too, has also swelled by four times between July 7 and August 8. During this period, as many as 81% people who had tested positive for coronavirus have been cured and discharged from various hospitals. The rural areas of the district had 1,338 patients on July 8 and the number jumped to 4,413 on August 8. In all, 3,075 patients were admitted to various hospitals in rural areas between the said period, of which, 2,489 were discharged while 77 patients succumbed to the infection. “This is a very good recovery rate observed in rural areas especially due to the various measures such as early detection, early intervention and follow-up treatment carried out by the health workers and health department,” district health officer Kapil Aher said. The recovery rate of patients across rural areas on July 8 stood at 57%. However, it has now increased to 74%. “The significant rise in the number of the patients can be attributed to the increased antigen testing, better screening of patients, carrying out contact tracing with ideal methods with the help of health workers, survey of co-morbid people in containment areas and keeping a watch on their health from time-to-time, ensuring that Covid-19 infection does not increase in areas other than containment zones by liming the movement of people, etc.” a health officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/recovery-rate-of-covid-patients-in-rural-areas-goes-up/articleshow/77452317.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Another audio clip seeks protests against temple||LUCKNOW: A day after an audio clip inciting people of a particular community to stage protests on Independence Day to register their disapproval of Ram temple and demand a separate nation went viral on social media, another objectionable audio clip made by a woman surfaced on Sunday. Police said the messages were being made from unknown numbers from abroad and they would take up the issue with the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Some media persons informed cops on Sunday that an audio message in a female voice was doing the rounds in which a woman is heard urging people to protest against Ram temple construction terming it a step towards making India a ‘Hindu Rashtra’. The message further instigates the followers of a certain faith to demand a separate country on the lines of Khalistan. Joint commissioner of police, crime, Nilabja Choudhury said an FIR had been filed in the case and an investigation was underway. “We are planning to consult the NIA on the issue,” the officer said and asked people to lodge a complaint at 9454401508 in case they receive such messages. On Sunday, similar calls were also made in New Delhi. Anti-terror cell of Delhi police has been assigned the task of tracking the origin of hate calls. Cops claimed that the calls were being bounced through a server in the United States and said they were trying to track the IP addresses from which the calls were being made. Sources in the police department claimed that according to Intelligence Bureau (IB) report it was the handiwork of sleeper cells.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/another-audio-clip-seeks-protests-against-temple/articleshow/77453011.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||Second Covid hosp in Ponda, will be commissioned by Tue: Rane||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Sunday that the government has decided to convert the sub-district hospital, Ponda, into a second Covid hospital. He made the announcement after a series of meetings with senior doctors and officials of the department of health, and said it would be commissioned in the next 48 hours. The state’s only Covid facility, the ESI hospital in Margao, is now almost full. As a record 506 new cases were detected on Sunday, a temporary holding ward has been created at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, to admit new patients that require immediate help but can’t be accommodated at the ESI-Covid hospital. “After a joint consultation with chief minister Pramod Sawant and other officials, the government has decided to declare the Ponda sub-district hospital as the second Covid hospital,” said Rane. “Arrangements are being made to transfer the patients from the sub-district hospital to other facilities.” They will either be accommodated in the North Goa district hospital or GMC. Rane also said that teams of doctors from GMC and the directorate of health services would take charge of the new Covid hospital in Ponda in the next 48 hours. The order appointing them has been issued, he said. The addition of this facility adds 200 more beds available for Covid patients. However, GMC dean and head of the Margao Covid hospital, Dr S M Bandekar, said that all patients with comorbid conditions and requiring more medical attention will be managed in Margao. “Facilities for treatment of Covid patients are available (there),” he said. Meanwhile, all antenatal patients from the ESI hospital will be shifted to the Ponda sub-district hospital. “There are 26 antenatal patients,” he said. Also, Rane said that over the next ten days, all departments from Hospicio hospital, Margao, will be shifted to the new South Goa district hospital, and that the facility will be used for the treatment of ante-natal and post-natal cases having Covid infections. It will open up 100 beds for the treatment of Covid patients, he said. “It will take around ten days to commission Hospicio,” Rane said. “Suggestions received from experts will be executed. Expert committee meetings will be held every week, and facilities will be upgraded at the Covid hospitals.” The minister also said that doctors are available in adequate numbers, and wherever required, more will be recruited. However, he admitted that there hasn’t been a good response for posts of multi-task workers. “Few candidates are coming forward despite a salary of Rs 18,000 a month being offered,” he said. Hence, he said, housekeeping and other jobs are outsourced. “Housekeeping at the ESI hospital has been given to EcoClean, while a proposal has been moved to appoint Sodexo to provide catering services at the hospital,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/second-covid-hosp-in-ponda-will-be-commissioned-by-tue-rane/articleshow/77453008.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Delhi||Untying the knot: Police crack down on sale of Chinese manjha||NEW DELHI: Ahead of Independence Day, Delhi Police has seized several kilograms of banned Chinese manjha from an East Delhi market. A complaint was recently filed by People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India in this regard. Police worked with PETA to identify locations where the “killer kite string” was being sold, despite a ban issued on it through a notification on January 10, 2017, from Delhi government. PETA officials said spools of the illegal manjha, which is often coated with glass, metal or other sharp materials to increase its durability, were seized from the Gandhinagar market in Shahdara. Those found selling the banned manjha were booked under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. Other markets were also being scanned, said a police officer. The ban on manjha aims to prevent harm to humans, birds and other animals as well as the environment. The government order permits flying kites only with cotton thread, which is free of any materials designed to increase its sharpness or strength. “Most people will choose plain cotton kite strings if they come to know that doing so can spare fellow humans, birds, and other animals of serious injuries and deaths,” said PETA India advocacy associate Pradeep Ranjan Doley Barman. “We commend the Delhi Police for conducting the raids and booking the offenders under the stringent law, which provides punishment of up to five years of imprisonment, or a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh, or both,” Barman added. Thousands of birds get injured each year due to the banned thread, with over 70% of cases last year across Delhi’s bird hospitals involving manjha injuries. Most of the injured birds are unable to fly again, while it results in the death of several others. The sharp thread has also proved to be dangerous for humans in the past. In February 2019, a motorcyclist died in Timarpur after his neck was slashed by a sharp manjha. In July of the same year, a three-year-old girl died after a stray piece of manjha cut her uncle’s neck, causing the motorcycle they were riding to crash. In August 2019, a 28-year-old engineer also died in Delhi after the sharp string slit his throat. “It was very important to set a strong precedent to deter offenders from continuing to sell the banned manjha. Last year, at least six people and more than 700 birds died due to the manjha,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, Shahdara, Rohit Rajbir Singh. “The manjha menace has to be met with zero tolerance,” he added. In 2019, the banned manjha was seized from different markets, such as Sadar Bazaar, Chand Mohalla, Bara Hindu Rao Market, Madhu Vihar Market and Lal Kuan Bazaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/untying-the-knot-police-crack-down-on-sale-of-chinese-manjha/articleshow/77451141.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 10, 2020||Chennai||Was asked if I am Indian for not knowing Hindi: Kanimozhi||CHENNAI: DMK Lok Sabha member Kanimozhi had an unpleasant experience at Chennai airport, when a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) officer asked her if she was an Indian after she asked the latter to speak in English or Tamil since she did not know Hindi. The CISF, which has ordered an inquiry, said it is not the policy of the organization to insist upon any particular language. “Today at the airport a (woman) CISF officer asked me if ‘I am an Indian’ when I asked her to speak to me in Tamil or English as I did not know Hindi. I would like to know from when being Indian is equal to knowing Hindi,” the Tuticorin MP tweeted, creating a hashtag #hindiimposition. Kanimozhi soon found support from Congress Lok Sabha member Manickam Tagore. “Condemnable! The way ruling establishment pushes One Nation, One Language, One Culture it will eliminate many for a few. Hope @CISFHQrs acts on this !,” the Congress MP tweeted. “Outright ridiculous. Highly condemnable. A linguistic test, what next? @CISFHQrs should respond,” tweeted Congress MP Karti P Chidambaram. The efforts by the MPs to highlight the issue did not go waste, as CISF responded quickly and promised appropriate action. “Warm greetings from @CISFHQrs. We sincerely acknowledge your unpleasant experience. Kindly DM journey details, name of airport, location, date and time of the incident for appropriate action in the matter,” CISF tweeted soon after. “I had come to the Chennai airport to catch a Vistara flight in the afternoon to New Delhi for attending a committee meeting. In the baggage area for security clearance, due to Covid-19, there were some procedures to follow and this officer was saying it in Hindi. When I told her to speak in English or Tamil, she asked whether I am an Indian and she continued in Hindi. You are nobody to tell that – I told her and proceeded,” Kanimozhi told TOI. “It is immaterial whether I am an MP or an ordinary citizen. When I landed in Delhi, two CISF officials came to me to inquire about what happened and promised to take action. I did not lodge any formal complaint,” Kanimozhi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/was-asked-if-i-am-indian-for-not-knowing-hindi-kanimozhi/articleshow/77452329.cms||D Govardan
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Five found +ve after antigen test in Kolkata's Patipukur market||KOLKATA: Five persons tested Covid positive in a rapid antigen test conducted at the Patipukur fish market— a wholesale hub at north Kolkata — on Sunday morning. A total of 60 people were tested. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation is conducting rapid antigen tests at markets in north Kolkata to identify and isolate asymptomatic Covid-19 patients to stop the disease spread. Last weekend, KMC’s rapid antigen test camp in Chetla found 13 positive patients out of 50 Covid suspects tested. That day in a separate camp near Hatibagan, six persons out of 38 reportedly tested positive. Of the 60 samples collected from Mukundapur market in the first round of antigen tests last Saturday, five had tested Covid positive. “On Sunday, the tests were conducted on sellers, auto rickshaw drivers, taxi drivers. Of the 60 persons, 5 were found positive. Of them, three persons were asymptomatic,” said Santanu Sen, Rajya Sabha MP and immediate past president of the Indian Medical association. “We have already conducted a similar antigen test drive last week at the Dum Dum Amritabazar Market near the Dum Dum station and found four persons Covid-19 positive after testing 60 persons,” Sen said. “The tests are basically aimed at identifying asymptomatic Covid positive patients and isolate them to prevent the spread,” said Atin Ghosh, a member of the KMC’s Board of administrators. “A week back, we conducted a similar antigen test drive in Maniktala market and found three persons Covid positive among 47 people tested during the drive,” Ghosh said. Antigen test is a quick method to determine if a person is infected with the Sars-Cov-2. While molecular tests take a lot of time, antigen tests can deliver results within 45 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-found-ve-after-antigen-test-in-patipukur-mkt/articleshow/77452322.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Give protection for interfaith couple’s marriage registration’||Ahmedabad: The Rajkot police and authorities of a women’s protection home, who were playing an instrumental role in keeping a couple separated, have been ordered by the Gujarat high court to protect the couple and help them in registration of their interfaith marriage.The high court ordered police for protecting the couple and directed the women protection home to take good care of the woman after she told the judges that she wanted to marry the man, who is not from the same religion she belongs to, but their two efforts of getting their marriage registered were thwarted, first by her family members and later by the cops. In this case, a 25-year-old man had filed a habeas corpus petition last month for his live-in partner, who was separated from him after they twice applied for marriage registration with the sub-registrar. They first applied for marriage on March 19, but the woman’s family separated her from the man and the one-month notice period lapsed and marriage could not be solemnized.After the lockdown, the couple reunited and applied to the sub-registrar for the second time on June 24. As soon as they filed the second application for marriage registration, the couple was summoned by Malviyanagar police. The woman was forced into the women protection home. Separated again, the man moved the HC and sought his girlfriend’s custody declaring that they intend to get married. Upon HC direction, the woman was presented before the court and she insisted that she is an adult and she wanted to join her to-be husband and to get the marriage registered. The man submitted that he was now awaiting a call from the sub-registrar in 60 days. But the HC intervened and ordered the sub-registrar to speed up the process for issuing one-month notice after getting an application from the couple. Meanwhile, the HC ordered that when the sub-registrar fixes a date, the woman should be escorted by police or the administrator of the women protection home on her way to the registrar’s office. This arrangement should continue till the marriage is solemnized. Once marriage is registered, the girl may join the husband. “During the process, the care shall be taken by all concerned that, in no manner, any harm is a caused to the couple. In the event of any protection needed afterwards once the marriage takes place, they shall be free to approach the concerned police authority, which shall accord such protection after assessing the situation,” the HC order reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/give-protection-for-interfaith-couples-marriage-registration/articleshow/77452326.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||16 trainee cops test positive for Covid-19||Coimbatore: As many as 16 women trainees of the police recruitment school (PRS), who tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, were admitted to the care centre at Codissia. As many as 183 women trainees recruited to the post of grade-II police constables had joined for training on June 1. They were staying in the 12 barracks on the PRS premises. “They never left the campus and had no visitors. However, a trainee developed flu symptoms on August 3 and was taking treatment at the police hospital. she was advised to give swab sample at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. The result announced on August 5 showed that she was Covid-19 positive. Her primary contacts were traced and swab samples were taken form 36 trainees. Sixteen of them have been tested positive,” said a police officer. The health department collected samples from 90 more women trainees. The result is likely to be announced today. PRS has stopped training until further orders. “We have advised all trainees to self-quarantine quarantine,” the officer said. City corporation workers fumigated the PRS campus and barracks on Sunday. Meanwhile, three cops, including a sub-inspector attached to the Podanur government railway police (GRP) station tested positive for the pandemic on Sunday. They were shifted to the Covid care centre at Codissia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/16-trainee-cops-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77452328.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ludhiana||19-yr-old Covid +ve woman ingests disinfectant, dies at DMCH||TNNLudhiana: A Covid-positive 19-year-old woman from Machhiwara, who was earlier stopped by cops from committing suicide by jumping from the isolation ward of the civil hospital, died at DMCH on Sunday. The hospital said she had allegedly ingested sterillium, a disinfectant. DMCH officials said the patient may have attempted suicide, but came to the hospital on Friday with complaints of sterillium ingestion. They added that she was sick and on a ventilator on Saturday night and died at 8.45am on Sunday. They added that she was Covid positive and had a heart blockage as well.SMO of civil hospital isolation ward Dr Hatinder said the patient was undergoing psychiatric treatment and she was diagnosed with congenital heart blockage at PGI, Chandigarh. She added that after she tested Covid positive, she was sent to the isolation ward on August 6.The SMO said on Friday, she asked for a phone from the nurse, who refused, but then she insisted that she needed to talk to her brother. She added that after that the patient’s brother told the nurse not to give her phone, as she called repeatedly. Later, the woman asked the nurse to discharge her from the hospital. The officer said when the nurse told her that she could not be discharged before 10 days, she ran towards the end of the corridor and was about to jump, when cops stopped her. “She didn’t suffer any injuries as she was caught by police officials,” the SMO added. She didn’t have Covid symptoms. The SMO said she was then sent to DMCH in an ambulance with her brother, as the expert group of level one and two coordinators had recommended the hospital for the treatment of her heart problem after she was cured of Covid.When asked about alleged ingestion of disinfectant by the patient, the SMO said she was not aware of it and indicated that she didn’t do so at the civil hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/19-yr-old-covid-ve-woman-ingests-disinfectant-dies-at-dmch/articleshow/77451137.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid cloud on Tungabhadra Pushkaralu||Hyderabad: The state government is yet to take a decision on organising Tungabhadra Pushkaralu in a grand manner or keeping it a low key-affair due to the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic. The Tungabhadra Pushkaralu, a festival dedicated to worshipping the river, is slated to commence from November 20. The Jogulamba Gadwal district authorities have submitted proposals to the endowments department for carrying out repairs and renovation of temples abutting the Tungabhadra river and in district limits. Initially, government had planned to spend about Rs 300 crore to make the Pushkaralu a grand event, but the officials are now adopting a wait and watch policy. Endowments minister A Indrakaran Reddy told TOI that mandatory work such as renovation of temples, illumination, construction of ghatsfor pilgrims would be taken up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-cloud-on-tungabhadra-pushkaralu/articleshow/77452335.cms||Roushan Ali
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Cabinet to discuss power bill relief this week||Nagpur: The proposal to provide relief to consumers receiving astronomical power bills this summer will be discussed by the state cabinet this week. Energy minister Nitin Raut told TOI that the proposal has been cleared in principle and just needs cabinet nod. Energy secretary Aseem Gupta, who is preparing the proposal, said that consumers of all four distribution licensees – MSEDCL, BEST, Tata and Adani – would get relief. He refused to elaborate on the proposal as it was yet to be tabled before the cabinet. Raut had earlier told the media that 93% consumers would get relief from the proposal. All the four licensees had not taken meter readings in late March, April and May. They issued average bills on the basis of winter months’ power consumption, which was very low. They took readings in June and sent bills on the basis of actual consumption. As the difference between consumption as per average bills and the actual one was very high, the accumulated units were very high and consumers got astronomical bills. This has led to widespread unrest in the state. Consumers, including celebrities, have slammed the distribution companies and the state government over high bills. Opposition parties, including BJP, AAP, Janata Dal, etc, have been staging agitations across the state demanding relief for consumers. A senior MSEDCL official said that the government would have to give subsidy amounting to thousands of crores if it wants to reduce the summer power bills of consumers of all licensees. “It is doubtful whether the government has the money to provide the kind of relief that consumers are expecting,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cabinet-to-discuss-power-bill-relief-this-week/articleshow/77453012.cms||Ashish Roy
August 10, 2020||Kozhikode||Police form team to probe crash||Kozhikode: State police have constituted a 30-member special team to investigate into the Air India Express plane crash at Calicut International Airport on Friday in which 18 people were killed and many injured. The team headed by Malappuram ASP G Sabu has Malappuram deputy superintendent of police C P Haridas as investigation officer. Police have registered a case under Karipur police station invovking Section 11 of Aircraft Act and Sections 337, 338 and 304-A of IPC and started investigation on the basis of the statement by a CISF assistant inspector of police who was on airport periphery security duty. Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau under Union civil aviation department has started its investigation into the cause of the accident and the technical issues involved. Malappuram district collector K Gopalakrishnan said 115 injured passengers of the flight are under treatment at hospitals in Kozhikode and Malappuram, of which the condition of 14 people are serious. As many as 57 passengers had been discharged from hospitals after treatment. The collector said one person who had died in the mishap had tested positive for Covid-19 and steps were taken as per protocols. He said a passenger who is under treatment in Malappuram has also tested positive for Covid-19. Three passengers under treatment in Kozhikode have also tested positive. Kozhikode district medical officer Dr V Jayasree has urged people who had taken part in the rescue operations to undergo voluntary quarantine and observation for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/police-form-team-to-probe-crash/articleshow/77451149.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party sets UP poll agenda with ‘22 mein bicycle’ message||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday released a digital open letter addressed to party cadres and leaders titled “22 mein bicycle” (Bicycle in 2022). The next assembly elections in UP are due in 2022. In the letter, Akhilesh asked the party cadre to work towards the formation of SP government in the state. The letter also lists issues and policies that need immediate attention of the people for a better future and highlights the failures of the present government. The letter, released digitally in the presence of senior party leaders, was also pegged as part of the anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi’s Quit India Movement (August 8), also known as August Kranti. The SP chief said the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi, Ram Manohar Lohia, Loknayak Jayaprakash Narayan, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar and Chaudhary Charan Singh about India are yet to come true and it was time for the people of the state and the country to decide what is better for them. India can be Atmanirbhar (self-reliant) only by discarding a capitalist economy and adopting a socialist economy instead. Both BJP and Congress have ruled the country from time to time and only consolidated the idea of a capitalist economy, as a result of which poverty and price rise are rampant. Akhilesh writes in the letter that Samajwadi Party is in favour of digital transformation, it is the need of the hour and it was this belief that prompted the SP government to distribute 18 lakh laptops to students from all sections of the society. It were these laptops that have helped the students to explore business ventures and purse their studies. He said introducing Dial 100 and 1090 Women Powerline along with 102 Ambulance was only an extension of SP government’s resolve to improve the necessities digitally. He said in the present times it was a fight between democracy and a mindset to showcase oneself as the most powerful. It is time for the people to decide if upholding democratic values was more important or a party which wants to forcibly enforce its decision on any people in general or a group, SP chief said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-sets-poll-agenda-with-22-mein-bicycle-message/articleshow/77453016.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
August 10, 2020||Delhi||Govt, corpns clash over textbooks||New Delhi: In what could turn into a major confrontation between the AAP government and BJP-led municipal corporations, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia asked Delhi government’s urban development department on Monday to ensure that if the civic bodies were unable to provide primary benefits to municipal school students, such as giving them textbooks, the state’s directorate of education should take over the institutions. On Sunday, Aam Aadmi Party functionary Durgesh Pathak had highlighted how three lakh students in schools run by North Delhi Municipal Corporation hadn’t been provided textbooks. He also claimed that these students would not get books until December, perhaps only next year. In a letter to the urban development principal secretary, who is also director for Delhi’s civic bodies, Sisodia stated he had received complaints that schools run by municipal corporations, especially the north body, hadn’t yet distributed textbooks to students in their schools. “The allegation against the north corporation, if found true, is serious,” Sisodia wrote. “None of us can play with the lives of children. It is unfortunate that even after a lapse of five full months of the 2020-21 academic year, textbooks are yet to be provided to children. This can play havoc with their lives.” Delhi government has given the three municipal corporations Rs 853 crore for primary school education, the bulk of Rs 393.3 crore going to the north civic body. The money is meant for teacher salaries and to provide textbooks to the children, Sisodia pointed out in his letter. “There are news reports that neither have the teachers got their salaries nor have the students got textbooks,” the letter stated, instructing the principal secretary to see that money provided by Delhi government was utilised by the municipal corporations for the purpose for which it was given. “If for some reason, the municipal corporations are unable to perform their primary duty, then steps are to be taken by the urban development department for taking over of the schools by the directorate of education,” the letter added. “Instead of paying huge grants to the municipal corporations which divert the funds provided by Delhi government, it would be appropriate in the interest of students and teachers that the schools are taken over and run directly by the directorate of education.” Sisodia also asked the officer to submit an action-taken report at the earliest. Jai Prakash, north corporation mayor, retorted that the AAP government should perform its primary duty of releasing funds for the municipalities on time. "They kept on sitting on our files for over six months. It is due to this dilly-dallying that we have financial problems,” he said. “As far as the distribution of books is concerned, everything is in place and distribution will begin soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-corpns-clash-over-textbooks/articleshow/77472003.cms||Alok KN Mishra
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cops, locals cremate non-Covid 83-year-old||KOLKATA: The natural death of a 83-year-old woman at the B-block of Rabindrapally in Patuli posed a serious challenge for local cops after they got to know that all four family members are Covid and cannot be a part of the cremation. The family got their physician to issue a death certificate thereby ruling out two options — one, the KMC citing the new SOP and refusing to remove the body as it was a natural death, and two, the morgues refusing to accept body as it was neither an unnatural death nor one where family members were absent. After the cops were informed, they took up the responsibility of the cremation. Two local youths, who studied under the deceased, also volunteered to help. The body was taken to Garia crematorium. In all this, relatives of the deceased — those living in Kolkata and Canning — refused help citing several reasons. “On Saturday, around 10 am, we got to know about this case. By then a crucial hour had passed. We got to know that the family comprised four members — her son, daughter in law and their two children. Unfortunately, all are Covid positive. All efforts to take the help of KMC and health department failed since they declined help since the elderly woman was a non-Covid patient,,” said an officer from Patuli police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-locals-cremate-non-cov-83-year-old/articleshow/77452333.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||State BJP shields Rajasthan MLAs from media glare||Gandhinagar: The Rajasthan unit of the BJP has shifted about 20 of its MLAs to Gujarat, a state which it rules, but the Gujarat BJP leaders have made a concerted attempt to keep the visiting Rajasthan MLAs away from media and public glare. Even as political drama is being played out in neighbouring Rajasthan, as the BJP looks to bring down the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government with the help of former Congress state president Sachin Pilot and his loyalists, the tables have been turned over the past two days. BJP shifted its MLAs to Gujarat to prevent poaching by the Congress. These Rajasthan BJP MLAs have been housed at a private golf club near Ahmedabad and at a resort in Sasan near Junagadh. The BJP is making all efforts to ensure that its Rajasthan MLAs are kept away from the media. Minister of state (home) Pradipsinh Jadeja is monitoring the stay of the visiting MLAs, sources said. Sources said, “Gujarat police and the state BJP’s key office bearers are ensuring that nobody from media or any private person reaches these MLAs.” Sources further said that the visiting MLAs will return back to their home state on directions of the Rajasthan and central BJP leadership. “The MLAs are expected to return back to Rajasthan on August 11, and will reach Jaipur hours before the state’s assembly session on August 12, when the Gehlot government floor test is expected,” the sources said. Chief minister deflects question  Chief minister, Vijay Rupani, deflected a question about the BJP shifting its Rajasthan MLAs to Gujarat ahead of the crucial trust vote in the neighbouring state, telling reporters to ask the question to state BJP president C R Paatil. He was speaking to the media after holding a Covid review meeting in Bhavnagar on Saturday. Refusing to answer a question on the presence of Rajasthan BJP MLAs in Gujarat, the CM got up to leave and said, “C R Bhai ne puchho (ask C R Paatil).” Deputy CM, Nitin Patel, said immediately afterwards, “What would C R Bhai know”. C R Paatil has not commented on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-bjp-shields-rajasthan-mlas-from-media-glare/articleshow/77452348.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nashik||Nashik reports 424 new cases, 219 recoveries||Nashik: The district has reported 424 fresh Covid-19 patients in the last 24 hours, including 192 from Nashik city, taking the total number of cases to 19,974 Five patients from the district, including two from Nashik city, have succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday. With this, the death toll rose to 597 in the district, including 337 in the city. A total of 219 patients were discharged on Sunday in the district, of which 151 patients are from Nashik city. There are 4,513 active cases, of which 3,034 are in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-reports-424-new-cases-219-recoveries/articleshow/77452331.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Almost entire Malegaon village declared containment zone||NASHIK: After 30 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Vadel village of Malegaon taluka, almost the entire village has been declared as containment zone. As many as 30 people tested positive from three families in the village. All of them were high-risk contacts of the first patient who tested positive. “The number is huge but the satisfactory thing is that all the Covid patients were all high-risk contacts of the first patient and hence the situation is almost under control in the village,” said the health officials from the rural health department. Vijayanand Sharma, the sub-divisional officer of Malegaon has announced containment zones in the village which has taken almost the entire village in its grip. The health teams have fanned out in the village to trace people who came in contact with the patients thus attempting to cut down the spread of the infection in the village. While the area with 100m radius from theCovid-19 patient’s has been marked as the core of the containment zone, another 1 km radius area has been marked as a buffer zone. The Covid patients reside in the core area of the village which is a market place and hence all efforts are being taken to restrict movement. State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse, who represents Malegaon in the state assembly, said, “Malegaon pattern has earned a place in the treatment of Covid-19 across the state. If people do not follow the health advisories, the administration should take strict measures including penalising people in West Malegaon and the rural areas of Vadel and Zodge”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/almost-entire-malegaon-village-declared-containment-zone/articleshow/77452336.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nashik||NMC serves show-cause notice to 9 private labs||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has served show-cause notice to nine private labs in the city for their negligence in recording correct information of people who tested positive for Covid-19. This comes after the NMC had to trace 253 people who tested positive and the private labs did not record their address and contact numbers, while taking their throat swabs in the last 15 days. NMC health officials said the address and contact number of those who test positive were needed to seal the building they reside in and trace the contacts of the Covid patients. But the labs had no such records. “We had to look for these patients at divisional and micro-levels with the help of Asha workers, health teams and our staff,” said NMC officials The private labs are expected to record detailed address and contact numbers of the people getting tested and provide the detailed information of the ones who test positive to the NMC. It will help the civic body to trace the high and low-risk contacts of the patients. Earlier, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) had made the OTP system in private labs compulsory. As per the process, one time password (OTP) is generated on the phone of the person getting tested, and only after providing the OTP, the throat swab samples is submitted, said NMC officials. But after the increase in the number of Covid cases, ICMR made OTP system optional. Thirteen private labs in the city have been given the approval to conduct Covid-19 testing, of which nine were showing negligence in recording information, said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-serves-show-cause-notice-to-9-private-labs/articleshow/77452338.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 10, 2020||Goa||To prevent +ve cases at GMC, patients to be tested before admission: Vishwajit||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Sunday that every admission at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, would henceforth be subject to Covid-19 testing, in order to prevent the spread of the infection to the state’s premier hospital. “Heads of department (HODs) have been asked to conduct rapid antigen testing of all patients before admission, and for those being admitted for surgery, an RT-PCR test as a second layer for confirmation,” he said, adding that the practice will now be followed even at the North and South Goa district hospitals. Since the pandemic began, 23 doctors and nurses at GMC have tested positive for the virus, and 12 of them have been cured. Cases have been reported from the departments of medicine, neurosurgery, ENT (ear nose throat), gynaecology, surgery and plastic surgery. However, dean Dr S M Bandekar said that one or two resident doctors or nurses from some departments have tested positive, not the entire departments. He also said some cleaning staff have also tested positive, clarifying that “the cases in GMC are spread over a month and a half, and not in a single day.” While Bandekar said that the hospital’s functioning has not been affected after some staffers were told to isolate, Rane said that all HODs have been asked to reduce their out-patient department (OPD) services to a bare minimum. He also asked patients not to visit GMC OPDs unless absolutely necessary. Meanwhile, Bandekar said that two patients from the Institute of Psychiatry and Human Behaviour (IPHB) have tested positive. They have been kept in isolation with an attendant, who has been given personal protective equipment. He said the patients can’t be shifted to a Covid facility without a magistrate’s order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/to-prevent-ve-cases-at-gmc-patients-to-be-tested-before-admission-vishwajit/articleshow/77453024.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Anti-terror cell probes ‘hate calls’ ahead of Independence Day||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s anti-terror unit, Special Cell, which is probing a series of hate calls made to people ahead of Independence Day, has lodged an FIR of sedition and conspiracy and is trying to track down the caller. Complaints about VoIP calls being made from international numbers were made to police stating that the caller, a man, was inciting members of some communities to take “steps” towards dividing the country into smaller nations. The calls, police claimed, were in retaliation to the construction of the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. Most of the complainants claimed that the calls and messages came between 12.30pm and 1pm on Saturday. The caller asked people to make a start by not allowing Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hoist the national flag at Red Fort on Independence Day. He also called for the formation of “Urdustan” on the lines of Khalistan. A prima facie probe revealed that the calls were being bounced through a server in the US. Police have been trying to track the originating IP addresses. It was also found that at least a dozen phone numbers were being used to make these calls. Cyber experts have been roped in to zero in on the suspects. Delhi Police would also examine similar complaints registered in Uttar Pradesh where voice messages with inciting messages were sent to journalists. An FIR was registered at Lucknow in this regard. Following the developments, central Delhi and northeast Delhi, where riots broke out in February this year, have been put on high alert. Police have roped in Aman committees and religious leaders to urge youths to refrain from circulating the call recordings or voice messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/anti-terror-cell-probes-hate-calls-ahead-of-i-day/articleshow/77451196.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Chenchus brew liquor from tamarind to eke out a living||HYDERABAD: Covid-19 may have disrupted many lives and affected businesses across the country, but some people have turned it into an opportunity. The members of Chenchu tribe have started making alcohol out of tamarind to make ends meet. What was first thought to be a temporary replacement for liquor during the lockdown has now turned into an asset to barter for salt, corn and other essential items among the tribal community. According to the Chenchus, the demand for alcohol made from tamarind rose after the tribal population, which used to depend on shops in nearby villages, stopped venturing out due to the fear of contracting Covid-19. “The tribals, who used to earn their living through MGNREGA work, used to buy alcohol from liquor shops in the village before returning to the forest. But Covid-19 fear has led them to brewing their own liquor using tamarind,” said Chigurla Mallikarjun, a primary contact of the Chenchus in Nallamala. “Initially, whoever used to make the alcohol would invite others from nearby hamlets for a small get-together and enjoy the drink once or twice a month. But now, they have started exchanging a small portion of the drink with the inhabitants of their hamlet or nearby villagers in case they are out of salt, rice, onions and other essentials,” said Mallikarjun. Another reason for the rise in demand of tamarind liquor is the difficulty in collecting Mahua flowers this year. “A few people who could not stock up on Mahua flowers used in distilling country liquor, medicines, oil and culinary dishes have also started making alcohol using tamarind this year. Mahua has always been an important part of the sustenance for the tribal population but more so this year. It is in demand in towns and cities to prepare sweets and other food items,” said Nimmala Bayanna, a resident of Medimakala hamlet. “Like Mahua, alcohol made from tamarind may also gain us some benefits in the long run,” said Bayanna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chenchus-brew-liquor-from-tamarind-to-eke-out-a-living/articleshow/77452340.cms||Moulika.KV
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Man ends life over ‘inflated electric bill’||Nagpur: A 56-year-old man, identified as Leeladhar Gaidhane, committed suicide by setting himself on fire at his residence at Pahune Layout in Yashodhara Nagar on Saturday. It is learnt, the jobless man was depressed after receiving an electric bill of Rs40,000. This is the first suicide reported in the city amid widespread protest over inflated electric bills issued by MSEDCL. “Leeladhar’s son told cops he was disturbed over the electric bill as the family had no means to settle it. The son is a labourer,” said asst sub-inspector Narendra Sanke of Yashodhara Nagar police station. Leeladhar’s son, Amit, rushed to get an auto-rickshaw but reportedly none cooperated with him. He also tried to call an ambulance by dialling ‘108’ but in vain. In the end, Amit alerted the control room following which cops from Yashodhara Nagar police reached the place. Sanke said that Leeladhar had succumbed to burn injuries when cops lifted him from the place. He was declared dead at Mayo hospital. Accidental death has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-ends-life-over-inflated-electric-bill/articleshow/77453030.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 10, 2020||Goa||Goa sees 506 Covid-19 cases in a day, next 60 days crucial, says health minister||PANAJI: The state’s active Covid-19 toll jumped to 2,642 on Sunday after the addition of 506 new infections, by far the highest single-day spike since the pandemic began. Health minister Vishwajit Rane called on people to “follow strict protocol to keep themselves safe” and said the next 45-60 days would be crucial. “The process is underway to introduce strict measures due to the spike,” said Rane. “I feel we must keep a tight vigil. A few days ago, some people held a party, and they were all educated people.”He was referring to a party recently held at Arpora, which culminated in a violent altercation. A senior health official said that the surge in case can directly be linked to increased social activity, and more so along North Goa’s coastal belt, which is famous for its party scene. The state on Sunday also saw its death toll rise to 75 after three persons succumbed to the infection. Two people — a 50-year-old man from Chorao and an 84-year-old woman from New Vaddem, both having comorbid conditions — died at the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. Also, a 77-year-old man from Taleigao died at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. While positive cases were reported throughout the state, areas that saw the largest rise were Margao, Vasco, Valpoi, Mapusa, Candolim, Chimbel and Porvorim. Margao’s urban health centre saw 49 case in a day, taking its tally up to 229. Valpoi, too, saw its tally rise by 19 to 104. Ponda saw a major spike as 45 new cases were detected, taking its total up to 172. Both Ponda and Dharbandora have seen a rise over the past few days as cases were detected among industrial workers. In Bicholim, where 28 new cases were detected, mamlatdar Pravinvijay Pandit said that work has started to sanitise the areas where infections were found. Vasco, meanwhile, inched toward the 400-case mark as 20 new cases were detected. In the capital, seven new cases were detected, mostly from residential complexes within the city, while a case each was detected in Caranzalem and Altinho. Rane said that people must opt for home isolation if possible. “It will help reduce the load on state infrastructure,” he said. “A health official keeps in touch with patients in home isolation.” He added that home isolation needs to be encouraged in view of the rise in cases. Rane said people must opt for home isolation if possible. “It will help reduce the load on state infrastructure. A concerned health officer keeps in touch with patients in isolation,” he said. He said home isolation has to be encouraged in view of rise in the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-sees-506-cases-in-a-day-next-60-days-crucial-says-rane/articleshow/77453021.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 10, 2020||Kozhikode||DGCA suspends wide-bodied flights from Karipur airport||KOZHIKODE: The Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has suspended the operation of wide-bodied flights from Karipur international airport after an Air India Express flight crashed here late on Friday. It is not clear whether the suspension of flights is a temporary measure in view of the ongoing air crash investigation or will it impact the operation of jumbo flights from the airport in the long run. DGCA had barred operation of wide-bodied aircraft (Code E) at the airport in May 2015 citing runway safety concerns and the permission was reinstated three years later in 2018 after Airports Authority of India (AAI) undertook mitigation measures including strengthening of runway and increasing runway end safety area (RESA) along with safety assessments done by airlines. Sources said that Saudi Arabian Airlines (Saudia), on Sunday, rescheduled its A-330 flight from Karipur to Kochi airport based on the directives from civil aviation authorities. Saudia was granted permission to operate jumbo flights in August 2018 for a three-year period and later AI, Emirates and recently Qatar Airways were granted NOC for wide-bodied flight operations. DGCA had specified a number of conditions for resumption of Code-E aircraft services and had stated that NOC will be reviewed after three years. The permission granted to Saudia was to operate Airbus 330-300 and Boeing 777-200 range aircraft and NOC had also imposed restrictions for operations of jumbo flights during night for the first six months. As a safety measure, AAI was told to carry out runway friction test periodically by AAI. Later, while granting NOC for Emirates for operating in July 2019, DGCA had stipulated that wide-bodied aircraft should not be operated when the visibility is less than 2,000m. Kozhikode MP, M K Raghavan said the decision to suspend wide-bodied operations at Karipur cannot be justified. He said the airport was able to comply with all stipulations mandated by DGCA. “Suspension of jumbo flight operations, even before the inquiry into the reasons for the accident is over, is unjustified. It also raises suspicion if some vested interest groups, who are interested in maximizing profits of airports with private investment in neighbouring districts, are viewing the tragedy for that end,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/dgca-suspends-wide-bodied-flights-from-karipur-airport/articleshow/77451159.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||IIIT-H to offer certificate course in online teaching for faculty||HYDERABAD: As educational institutions across the country are embracing online teaching, the International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIIT-H) will be offering a certificate course for college faculty in online pedagogy. Tools and skills required for recording video lectures, creating interactive content on popular Learning Management Systems (LMS), among other topics will be covered during the course, whose inaugural session will be held on August 17. “One of the most important aspects of online teaching is evaluation and grading, for which various options will be presented. The course will also cover the best practices for organizing tutorial and lab sessions,” read a release from the institute, adding that as the approaches, pedagogy models, techniques, tips and tricks of online education are still elusive, this course offered by IIITH faculty will attempt to address these challenges. During the course duration of one week, the faculty will learn pedagogical principles in an online setting, software tools for online teaching, LMS, video recording and editing, video conferencing platform, discussion forum and evaluation tools. They will be trained to set up a simple online classroom using a computer along with techniques to use camera, light and hardware tools. The course will also cover topics such as creating and sharing course material in a structured fashion on LMS, conducting interactive classes and tutorials, organising course flow such that it includes continuous evaluation like quizzes, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iiit-h-to-offer-certificate-course-in-online-teaching-for-faculty/articleshow/77453055.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Lockdown farming results in bountiful cucumber crop||PANAJI: There has been a sizeable increase in the cucumber crop this year after many farmers took to growing the greens during the Covid lockdown. “The overall production of vegetables this year is expected to be higher mainly because we have sold large quantities of vegetable seeds to farmers during the lockdown,” deputy director of agriculture, Chintamani Perni, said. A total of 1,100 kg of vegetable seeds were distributed during the lockdown as compared to the 300 kg of seeds distributed in the last financial year. Among the seeds distributed, cucumbers, lady finger and ridge gourd are being grown in large numbers. While many of them have yielded fruit, some more are yet to be harvested. A new technique taught to farmers by scientists from the Old Goa based ICAR- Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute’s (CCARI) Krishi Vigyan Kendra has also played a vital role. All the farmers have been urged to plant cucumber seeds in large plastic bags filled with equal parts of compost and soil. “This technique acts as a protection against flooding or wilting since the crop is being grown in a controlled environment,” ICAR-CCARI director, EB Chakurkar said. Vishwambar Gawas, a farmer from Amona said that he had briefly experimented with this technique last year. After tasting success, he decided to replicate the same this year. He has, so far, harvested five tonne of cucumbers and bottle gourds. “This planting technique has definitely yielded success. Even the ridge gourd planted in my farm has produced bountiful yield,” Gawas said. His fear, however, is that the incessant rain may play a spoilsport in the continued growth of these crops. “Such heavy rain is not good for vegetable crops that were planted recently. Lady fingers can dislodge due to heavy rain while other crops can even spoil due to prolonged inundation,” the deputy director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lockdown-farming-results-in-bountiful-cucumber-crop/articleshow/77453279.cms||Nida Sayed
August 10, 2020||Nashik||NIMA appeals to industries to maintain safety protocol||Nashik: The Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA), an apex body of industries in the district, has appealed to all the industries to maintain safety protocol to ensure the workers do not contract the infection. This comes after some of the workers tested positive for Covid-19 in over 40 industrial units in Dindori, Sinnar, Satpur and Ambad industrial estate of Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) and other in non-MIDC areas like Gonde and Wadiwarhe. Tushar Chavan, an office bearer of NIMA, said, “We have already given instructions to over 3,500 NIMA members to maintain the safety protocol and take all safety measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in their industrial units. We have already sent letters to all industrial units about all the measures to be taken by these units.” “There is a need to maintain social distancing, wear masks and wash hands frequently. Moreover, industrial workers should not have lunch or dinner together. Industries should ensure they do not call workers residing in containment areas,” said Chavan. According to industry sources, over 350 workers from 40 industrial units in Gonde, Sinnar, Satpur and Ambad industrial areas have contracted the infection so far. MIDC has formed teams of officials to check whether the industries are maintaining safety protocols. Satpur, Ambad and Sinnar are the major industrial estates of MIDC in the district which houses over 6,000 industrial units. Of which, Satpur and Ambad are located in the jurisdiction of Nashik Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nima-appeals-to-industries-to-maintain-safety-protocol/articleshow/77452352.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Bizman kills self over fear of Covid-19||HYDERABAD: A 29-year-old real estate businessman, who feared that he might have contracted Covid-19, hanged himself to a tree near Chotuppal on Saturday. A Pavan Sai of Antammagudem village in Pochampally mandal had developed Covid-19 symptoms. He went to a private hospital for testing but even before the results came, he killed himself. “Pavan was suffering from a life-threatening disease. Family members said that when he developed Covid-19 symptoms he was afraid that he would not survive,” Choutuppal inspector Ch Venkanna said. On Saturday morning, Pavan left his house in his car. “Near Toopranpet village, he parked the car next to a hillock and hung himself to a tree. There was no suicide note,” the inspector said. A suspicious death case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-kills-self-over-fear-of-covid-19/articleshow/77452368.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Trichy||New restaurants come up in Trichy braving lockdown blues||Trichy: The restaurant industry which took a beating post the lockdown is showing signs of revival in the city. A bunch of food outlets, particularly, those selling non-vegetarian items have opened up, braving the odds in recent weeks. The recently launched eateries aided with door-delivery option is finding many takers, even from families. In the past two weeks, at least half a dozen new non-vegetarian outlets have opened. Majority of them sell biriyani while the others sell snacks and gravies. Most of the entrepreneurs behind the new food outlets said that they came up with the plan to begin their business only after the lockdown was announced. Thillai Nagar, E Pudur, Karur bypass road and Thennur localities have seen new outlets cropping up since July.Although there are time restrictions for restaurants to function, residents visit the outlets in large numbers, mostly for take-away service. “Reception so far has been encouraging. In five hours, we are completing our day’s sales. We are offering home delivering throughout the city. We bank on the marketing through social media,” Mohammed Aslam, owner of AKM Biriyani, said. Aslam earlier had a shop on Thanjavur main road but he chose to relocate with a new banner and ambience after the lockdown relaxations were announced. The lockdown has also produced first-time entrepreneurs. Mohammed Kamil, who was employed as a supervisor in a Chennai-based automobile factory, has resigned his job to start his own food outlet ‘Kuzhambu Kadai’ with minimal investment in Thennur. “We sell only gravies and side dish, that too only parcels. While bachelors were our primary targets, families too have been visiting our shop,” Kamil said.Online food delivery services have also been helping the new restaurants to reach out to far off locations. “Bucket Biriyani is a hit during this lockdown as it can be consumed both for lunch and dinner. Families instead of preparing biriyani at homes are utilising our services,” said Syed Abuthakir, a working partner at Al Munnas Biriyani.Entrepreneurs said that non-vegetarian restaurants are doing better than their vegetarian counterparts as staple vegetarian dishes can be prepared at home. Residents prefer non-vegetarian restaurants to take a break from their household chores. These small-scale restaurants eye better sales, once more relaxations are announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/new-restaurants-come-up-in-trichy-braving-lockdown-blues/articleshow/77453047.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Bank, firm fined Rs 60,000 for error in credit report||HYDERABAD: Wrongly linking a vehicle loan has cost the ICICI Bank Limited and Trans Union CIBIL Limited dear as they have been directed to pay Rs 60,000 to the complainant for making an error in his CIBIL report, which is a detailed record of credit history consisting of personal information, contact details, employment information, loan account and credit card information, and enquiry information which in turn, resulted in the rejection of his loan application. K Vinod Kumar, the complainant, submitted that he has been using the credit card of ICICI bank for about one and a half years and that he has not availed any of their other services. Kumar said that when he approached another bank for availing a personal loan, the bank declined his application and informed him about defaults in his CIBIL. After the bank raised the issue, Kumar said that he checked his CIBIL score and was shocked to see that it was very low. He alleged that his CIBIL reflected a two-wheeler loan account for Rs 31,900 and that he was wrongly made a joint owner for the said loan by the ICICI and Trans Union CIBIL Limited. He claimed that because of the negligence of the opposite parties, his CIBIL score had declined from 800 to 607 as on October 22, 2018, because of which the personal loan was rejected. After coming to know about the negligence caused by the opposite parties, Kumar said he first approached the customer service of ICICI, followed by getting a legal notice issued. He said that both the parties had placed the blame on each other, but refused to accept their mistake. He also submitted that the ICICI and ombudsman held a conciliation meeting and refunded Rs 1,000 to the complainant for checking of CIBIL reports. Left with no option, he filed this complaint. Both ICICI and Trans Union CIBIL Limited, meanwhile, failed to appear and contest the matter despite receiving notices. During the trial, the bench noticed that Trans Union CIBIL Limited has categorically admitted that there was some error in the information provided in the CIBIL report of the complainant, and the said error was certainly unintentional. “This itself is sufficient to establish the deficiency and negligence in service on the part of the opposite parties,” said the bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bank-firm-fined-rs-60000-for-error-in-credit-report/articleshow/77453035.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||AAP protests power bills in front of Raut’s house||Nagpur: A large number of activists from the Aam Admi Party (AAP) staged a dharna opposite the residence of energy minister Nitin Raut on Sunday, protesting astronomical summer power bills. They were detained by cops and taken to the police station. The main demands of the activists were waiving power bills up to 200 units per month, and cancelling the power tariff hike imposed by Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) from April 1. They raised slogans asking Raut to resign if he failed to reduce power bills, and condemning MSEDCL. The activists said that earnings of most people had reduced drastically due to the lockdown and they were in no position to pay such high bills. They pointed out that the Arvind Kejriwal-led government in Delhi had waived power bills to give relief to common citizens. AAP has collected 10,000 signatures on a petition demanding reduction of power bills and sent it to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. AAP leader Devendra Wankhade and Bhushan Dhakulkar said the government had not taken cognisance of the petition so far. They also expressed unhappiness over Raut refusing to meet them when they were agitating in front of their house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aap-protests-power-bills-in-front-of-rauts-house/articleshow/77453063.cms||Ashish Roy
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Aarogyasri more comprehensive than Ayushman Bharat, says KTR||HYDERABAD: What will be the contribution of Telangana towards Ram Mandir construction, asked twitterati during an interaction with TRS working president and municipal and IT minister KT Rama Rao on Sunday. Pat came the reply, KTR said: “We will pray and hope for Ram Rajya where people of all faiths, castes and classes will be respected and treated equally as enshrined in the Constitution of our great country.” In a nearly 90-minute interaction on twitter, KTR replied to numerous queries, complaints and suggestions with a majority of them pertaining to complaints against private hospitals charging exorbitant sums of money for treatment of Covid-19 patients. We will pray and hope for Ram Rajya where people of all faiths, castes and classes will be respected and treated eq… https://t.co/MNokeWVQzv— KTR (@KTRTRS) 1596961499000He said the government was also coordinating on plasma therapy. On why the state government was not implementing Ayushman Bharat, KTR said Aarogyasri was more comprehensive than the central scheme which was actually modelled on the lines of Aarogyasri. KTR sought to assure the people that coronavirus tests would be increased to 40,000 per day soon. “Fear psychosis, stigma and social ostracism are causing a lot of grief. I am very pained to see the story of an old couple committing suicide recently to not infect their family,” he said.  KTR also sought to warn the private hospitals against charging huge sums of money for Covid-19 treatment. “The state government has already taken action against erring hospitals and will not hesitate to move against more,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aarogyasri-more-comprehensive-than-ayushman-bharat-says-ktr/articleshow/77452394.cms||Roushan Ali
August 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Rs 2,450cr aid from World Bank, KfW to get nod||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a relief to the several developmental projects announced by the state government after the 2018 floods, the Centre is all set to clear an assistance of Rs 2,450 crore jointly from World Bank and German development bank KfW for the state. The funds include Rs 1,700 crore from the World Bank and Rs 750 crore from KfW. The funds were stalled as the department of economic affairs (DEA) was unwilling to allow disbursal of state program loans for the current fiscal due to the exceeding of single borrower limit for the country and the Centre’s need to preserve space for national Covid-related projects. The Centre’s decision came after the state successfully negotiated a revised model for borrowing, which was agreed by the World Bank and KfW. Instead of providing funds to the state without any strings attached, under the revised model, the World Bank funds will be offered under the program-for-results (PfR) model of funding. The KfW funds will be treated as co-financing component of the World Bank’s fund and for supporting the state’s efforts to respond to Covid-19 crisis by keeping up public spending, resilient reforms and supporting economic activities. The clearance from the department of economic affairs (DEA) is expected soon. In September last year, the government had spent Rs 1,750 crores granted by the World Bank as loan for capital development for payment of pending bills, which cannot be done in the case of upcoming assistance under PfR model. The World Bank had introduced PfR in 2012, in which the disbursements to client governments are linked to their achievements or disbursement-linked indicators (DLIs) that are tangible, transparent, and verifiable. Each DLI is defined and agreed upon by the country in consultation with the World Bank, and has a verification protocol that sets out how it will be measured and verified. Disbursements of funds will be specified for each DLI and will be made according to achievement of DLIs. On the basis of the consensus reached between the agencies and the Centre, additional chief secretary (finance) Rajesh Kumar Singh has written to the DEA, requesting the Centre to give formal clearance to the proposal at the earliest, so that the projects envisaged under the next phase of Rebuild Kerala Initiative (RKI) also can roll on. Meanwhile, after making no significant strides for close to two years since RKI was launched, the first set of major road projects worth Rs 2,000 crore under the public works department has been tendered. This will also mark the beginning of expenditure of the funds earmarked under RKI under the Plan outlay. Sources in the government said that the detailed projects were under preparation mainly for roads under the public works department and local self-government department. “The DPRs are now ready and we have invited bids for PWD roads worth Rs 2,500 crore and tenders worth another Rs 2,000 crore will be published by this month end,” sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rs-2450cr-aid-from-world-bank-kfw-to-get-nod/articleshow/77451217.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Cab drivers trip on EMIs as rides screech to a halt, seek moratorium on loan repayment||HYDERABAD: Waiting outside the parking lot of a finance company in Habsiguda, M Narayana, a 39-year-old cab driver, was pondering over how to pay the two pending instalments of the vehicle loan he had taken from the private financier. Narayana, who was visiting the company from last three days, said he was trying to convince the financier to give him some more time. “I came here after waiting for two hours at Uppal crossroads for passengers. I did not even get a single booking. It’s the same even after the lockdown was lifted. I do not have the money to feed my family or to clear the loan amount. I am afraid the financier might confiscate my vehicle if I am unable to pay the pending loan amount,” he rued. Most cab drivers in the twin cities say that they are tripping on vehicle EMIs due to a sharp decline in number of passengers from the past four months since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the state. The app-based transport workers said that they are going to submit a representation to the RBI governor on Monday seeking an extension of EMI moratorium till December 31 this year, complete waiver of interest for this period and financial assistance up to Rs 5 lakh under Mathura loan scheme for transport permit vehicles. The cab drivers also submitted a representation to the transport department authorities for financial assistance to overcome the hardships they are facing due to lack of income from past four months. K Papa Rao, the deputy transport commissioner (vigilance, enforcement and IT) said, “They have given a representation which has been forwarded to the government. Any decision in this regard has to be taken by the government.” Hyderabad-based Indian Federation of app-based Transport (IFAT), said that as most consumers are opting to use their own vehicle to commute and corporates are working from home, the income from daily passenger rides has fallen by at least 60 % in the last three months. “There are hundreds of cab drivers in the city who are unable to pay their monthly EMIs. Although the cabs are operating, we are not able to find passengers because most of them are working from home and very few are going to malls, markets or other public places,” said Shaik Salauddin, national general secretary, IFAT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cab-drivers-trip-on-emis-as-rides-screech-to-a-halt-seek-moratorium-on-loan-repayment/articleshow/77453060.cms||Moulika.KV
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Water board to crack the whip on meter tampering||HYDERABAD: In the wake of the recent water meter tampering incidents, the vigilance wing of Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is all set to conduct raids on consumers. Of the 10 lakh consumers, nearly six lakh do not have automatic meter reading (AMR) meters. Due to faulty meters, HMWS&SB is losing nearly Rs 20 crore. Most of the consumers are using water meters which were installed about five years ago and the HMWS&SB does not have a mechanism to track defunct meters and depend on water meter readers to alert them about malpractices. “Despite repeated warnings by HMWS&SB officials to replace defunct meters, consumers are not paying any heed to it. Even threats of imposing penalties has fallen on deaf ears,” said a senior HMWS&SB official. The HMWS&SB, in order to make things easy for the consumers, had identified and empanelled nine agencies for supply of standard meters. However, the efforts failed to bear fruit. Fixing a meter to every new water connection is mandatory but there is no check on how many follow the rule. The special teams are conducting raids on illegal water connections and registering criminal cases. “Now, we have to crack the whip on tampering of water meters too. We have data on consumers having faulty meters and also those who do not have meters. We will pick on consumers who are getting minimum water bills and carry out inspections,” a senior vigilance wing official told TOI. The vigilance wing has warned consumers having faulty meters that they will be booked. “Informants can alert our special teams on 9989998100 and 9989992268. The details of the informants will be kept confidential,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-to-crack-the-whip-on-meter-tampering/articleshow/77453057.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Govt inaction killed 10 lakh tribals of treatable diseases, malnutrition since Aug 2018||Nagpur: Even as the government is going full steam in containing Covid-19 which has claimed over 43,000 across the country, apathy and inaction on the recommendations of an expert committee have killed over 10 lakh tribals in India since August 2018. The committee led by NGO Search’s founder Dr Abhay Bang, whose studies have shaped health care policies, had said health status and care in tribal areas were poorest in its report submitted on August 9, 2018. The biggest causes of death include preventable illnesses such as malaria, malnutrition, childhood pneumonia and diarrhoea, neonatal morbidities, tuberculosis, snake bites, alcoholism, suicides and non-communicable diseases such as hypertension, stroke and cancer, which are rising rapidly among tribal people. Dr Bang warned recently, the arrival of Covid-19 may play havoc because tribal people might be vulnerable due to lack of health care. In his reminder sent on World Indigenous People’s Day, on August 9, to the Centre, Dr Bang appealed to Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan to launch ‘Tribal Health Mission’ for the 11 crore tribals, as per the committee’s recommendations. He also suggested an action plan on tribal health by the health ministry and time-bound implementation. Ministries of health and tribal affairs had jointly appointed the committee on tribal health under the chairmanship of Dr Bang. After over four years of study, the committee of 12 experts submitted its report on August 9, 2018. Though both ministries welcomed the report and promised action, nothing has been done. The committee report ‘Tribal Health in India: Bridging the Gap and Roadmap for the Future’ had concluded that tribal people’s health status is worst in India, their health care system has a design mismatch, and it is a ‘low input, low output, low quality and low morale system’. The committee identified 10 specific health problems in tribal areas and suggested appropriate solutions. Most importantly, the committee recommended formulation of a tribal health action plan, and annually allocating Rs2,500 per tribal person or total Rs27,500 crore for tribal health, to be spent by the Centre and the states together. The NITI Ayog had also recommended to the health ministry to initiate action on the report. In 2011, an estimated 1,46,000 tribal children died. The health service delivery in tribal areas is extremely weak, as basic infrastructure and personnel needs have large gaps. The expert committee recommended some long-term structural measures, some solutions for the specific problems such as malaria or child mortality. In a press note, Dr Bang said, “Dr Harsh Vardhan, who himself is a doctor, and known for his crusades against polio and tobacco, was probably not aware of this report.” In response to Dr Bang’s letter, Dr Vardhan has replied, “Sure, due action will be initiated.” FINDINGS 30-80% doctor posts vacant, absenteeism common, morale low Low input, low quality, low output and low outcome system Record keeping and data on tribal health absent Indices like infant mortality rate and life expectancy not calculated for tribals Nobody in Centre or states care for these numbers Indifference to tribal health, not counted, not published, not monitored or evaluated RECOMMENDATIONS Launch Tribal Health Action Plan to raise tribal health to state levels by 2027 8.6% of the health budget be spent on tribal health Tribal Health Council, Tribal Health Directorate and Tribal Health Research Cell at national and state levels Shift primary health care delivery system towards tribal communities Facilitate integration of tribal medical system and modern medicine and public health systems Generate knowledge and data on aspects of tribal health through surveys, epidemiological research, maternal and child death audits and create Tribal Health Index||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-inaction-killed-10-lakh-tribals-of-treatable-diseases-malnutrition-since-aug-2018/articleshow/77453069.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 10, 2020||Trichy||Random testing done at G Corner market again||Trichy: After a public outcry over under testing at the G Corner wholesale vegetable market that attracts thousands of vegetable vendors every day, Trichy City Corporation has conducted a fresh round of random sample collection in which 94 samples were taken from people. Though fresh Covid-19 cases surfacing in Trichy city has come down by 30% in the past five days, the local body has plans to intensify mass and random testing at gathering places including fish markets. From reporting more than 100 positive cases per day last month, Trichy city has restricted the numbers to double digits in the few days. On August 8 (Saturday), the city saw only 59 new cases. Yet, not taking any chances for new clusters to emerge, the corporation authorities said that gathering places are under the Covid-19 scanner. In the first phase, G Corner makeshift market was screened for the second time in a month. Earlier on July 22 the corporation conducted a random testing in the market and collected only 32 samples, hardly 1% of people who visit the market. None of them tested positive, but the low number of testing in the market that functions between 9 pm and 5 am had disappointed local people. Hence, another round of screening was conducted on Saturday early morning in which around 270 people were screened. Swabs were taken from 94 vulnerable people. “Visitors with symptoms, above 50 years of age and retail vegetable vendors were screened as they are making direct contact with the public in retail vegetable markets,” a corporation official said. The civic body has deputed a health team with thermal temperature scanners to screen the visitors. Further, the fish market at Gandhi market vicinity and banana auction centre on EB Road are likely to be screened without prior notice, said civic body officials. “Based on the random test results, we will apply suitable regulatory measures at G Corner wholesale market. The mass screening will continue, we have not restricted the per day testing numbers,” Trichy corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. As many as 800 to 1,000 RT-PCR tests are being conducted by the corporation per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/random-testing-done-at-g-corner-market-again/articleshow/77453067.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Distancing norms to be followed during Janmashtami celebrations||Hyderabad: The Hare Krishna Movement-Hyderabad (HKM-H) will be organising two-day Krishna Janmashtami celebrations at Hare Krishna golden temple on August 11 and 12. In view of the pandemic, the organisers have said that the devotees will be allowed only for general darshan and in strict adherence to Covid-19 regulations. Satya Gaura Chandra Das, president, Hare Krishna Movement, Hyderabad said, “At the temple, all measures will be taken to ensure strict Covid-19 protocols like mandatory mask, temperature check and social distancing.Also, offerings like flowers or coconuts will not be allowed and children and elders have been advised to stay home.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/distancing-norms-to-be-followed-during-janmashtami-celebrations/articleshow/77453066.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Workers flag privacy concerns over use of Aarogya Setu app||HYDERABAD: The app-based transport workers and food delivery executives who are being mandated to install and use Aarogya Setu app to continue working have raised privacy concerns over how data is going to be handled by the private companies. The mobile application which is developed by the government to deal with coronavirus works on the basis of contact tracing and can help a user identify possible coronavirus ‘hotspots’ around his or her area. However, the app-based workers fear that allowing the company to monitor a particular individual or a group through their location might cause problems for them in the long run. Nagesh Kumar, state vice-president of Indian Federation of App-Based Transport (IFAT) said, “Since the app records the location of the individual, the company can monitor a particular individual or group of individuals they consider to be disruptive to their operations and can take punitive measures against them.” “The companies having access to the health data of the employee through this app could also effectively screen which individuals should be terminated from their positions or reduce their rides/deliveries if they report on the app of any ailment or discomfort. This would ensure that the companies don’t have to shell out any relief or insurance aid in case the worker is suffering from any ailment or has contracted the virus while working for them,” said Kumar. The cab and food delivery executives also stressed the need for a data protection law, the absence of which might lead to intimidate or exploit them using the data collected using the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/workers-flag-privacy-concerns-over-use-of-aarogya-setu-app/articleshow/77453068.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nashik||District covid hospital appoints 6 counsellors||Nashik: Additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane on Sunday informed that as many as six counsellors have been appointed on the premises of the district covid hospital to take care of the needs of the patients that are admitted there. The flow of patients at covid hospital is huge and once admitted, they get isolated from their family members until their treatment is complete. Meanwhile, the patient’s family members are also worried about how their ailing member admitted to the covid hospital is coping with the treatment. In view of all such things, the six counsellors would interact with the patients to ensure that they are happy with arrangements at the covid hospital. “We have also made available cellphones at the covid hospital. The relatives are eager to know how their ailing family member is doing in the hospital. If the patients request, they are allowed to make video calls to their kin,” Saindane said. “An apheresis machine has also arrived at the hospital for starting the plasma therapy process on covid patients. Symptomatic patients, who have successfully recovered are eligible for donating the plasma,” he added. The admitted patients will be counselled to volunteer for plasma donation once they have completed 21 days at home after the discharge from the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/district-covid-hospital-appoints-6-counsellors/articleshow/77452391.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||10 lakh migrant workers employed under MNREGS||Lucknow: Considered as one of the biggest job spinners in the time of the coronavirus crisis, the Centre’s flagship Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MNREGS) has managed to engage as many as 10 lakh migrants who came back to the state during the lockdown. Data from the rural development department reveals that as many as 30 lakh people have returned to the state after the lockdown rendered them jobless. Records, updated till August 1, show that MNREGS jobs were provided to the migrants at the level of gram panchayat in all 75 districts. Districts like Maharajganj, Deoria, Gonda and Gorakhpur, which are reported to have received most of the migrants, engaged them under MNREGS. Additional commissioner, MNREGS, Yogesh Kumar said that the number of migrants would increase gradually in the coming days. According to rural development department sources, as many as 5 lakh fresh MNREGS cards were issued to the migrants. This has now almost doubled, in a clear indication of the scheme being the biggest employer of migrants even as the state government aims to kickstart the economy dented by the pandemic. Records show that of the nearly 20 lakh unskilled labourers engaged by the department, more than 10 lakh are in the 36 orange zone districts, followed by over 5 lakh in 20 green zone districts. Likewise, in the 19 red zone districts, 4 lakh labourers have been engaged. “The scheme came in handy as most migrants opted to get employed under it. It has since seen diversification in many other departments,” a senior official said. Latest records show that the scheme is being implemented in 13,691 gram panchayats of 20 districts classified as green zone districts. Likewise, in 36 orange category districts, MNREGS jobs are being provided in 25,531 gram panchayats. The number, however, lessens to 10,745 gram panchayats in 19 red zone districts. In all, the MNREGS is being executed in around 50,000 gram panchayats, records said. In terms of man days, the 20 districts in the green zone saw around 6 crore man days, while in 36 orange zone districts around 10 crore man days have been generated. In the red zone, however, the number of man days dips to 3 lakh. In all, 18 crore man days of jobs have been generated under MNREGS. Employing migrants Top 5 districts where maximum number of migrants were engaged under MNREGS Siddharth Nagar: 53,551 Hardoi: 41,013 Azamgarh: 38,883 Gorakhpur: 36,293 Basti: 34,968||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10-lakh-migrant-workers-employed-under-mnregs/articleshow/77453070.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Patna||Over 87,000 more hit as flood scene remains grim in Bihar||PATNA: There was no respite from floods in the 16 north Bihar districts on Sunday. Over 74,19,802 people have so far been affected by the floods, an increase of 87,500 when compared to Saturday’s figure. Altogether 23 people have died in the floods in the state so far. The IMD forecast for rainfall with thunderstorm at many places and increase in the intensity of rainfall over the next two days is a matter of concern as Bagmati and Adwara group of rivers were still flowing above the danger level at most places in Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur and Samastipur. Similarly, Kosi river was above the danger mark in Saharsa, Bhagalpur and Katihar and Kamala in Madhubani and Darbhanga. However, the Mahananda in Purnea and Katihar and the Ganga at most of the flood gauges, except in Kahalgaon, were below the danger mark. Light to very heavy rainfall occurred at some places in Bihar during the past 24 hours. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was passing through Firozpur, Delhi, Fursatganj, Ambikapur and southeast to the centre of low pressure area over the northwest Bay of Bengal off north Odisha-Gangetic West Bengal coasts. Meanwhile, the campus of the world’s tallest Buddha Stupa at Kesariya in East Champaran district was still under chest-deep water. On Saturday, 50 metres of the boundary wall on its south-east side collapsed. The boundary wall was constructed in 2019. Founder member of Kesariya Buddha Mahotsav, Dr P Ojha, said the prolonged waterlogging would damage the stupa. State art, culture and youth department minister Pramod Kumar said he had informed the Archaeological Survey of India officials at Patna. The 17 blocks of East Champaran were still under the floodwaters. Although the Burhi Gandak, Lalbakeya and Gandak were showing a falling trend, lives of more than 8 lakh people remained miserable in the district. Khagaria DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh said the portion of the embankment damaged due to erosion by Burhi Gandak river near Chandpura under Ganagaur police station has been plugged. Private country boats were being used for ferrying passengers and goods as the road link was disrupted following overtopping of floodwaters at several points in the district. The district administration said 1,06,270 people under 39 panchayats were hit by the floods. (With inputs from C B Pandey in Motihari and N P Thakur in Khagaria)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-87k-more-hit-as-flood-scene-remains-grim-in-bihar/articleshow/77451596.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Min should meet people: Telangana Congress||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy on Sunday asked IT Minister KT Rama Rao to share his office address, along with a time-frame during which people could meet him to express their grievances. “KTR is holding important portfolios. He must provide access to the common people,” said Reddy. Reacting to the interaction by KTR on twitter (AskKTR), Narayana Reddy said the campaign was a publicity stunt. “A minister should be available to the people at his office and home all the time. Chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao hardly meets common people in Pragathi Bhavan and even ministers and MLAs do not have easy access. Sf the ministers are operating from temporary offices,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/min-should-meet-people-t-cong/articleshow/77452427.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana maintained lead in fatalities, cases in week that was||Ludhiana: With 65 more succumbing to Covid-19 over the last seven days alone, the pandemic situation continues to be alarming in Ludhiana district. The number is the highest for a week in the district since the outbreak of disease.As per the government’s health bulletin on Saturday, the 65 casualties in Ludhiana district in the last seven days account for 41.1% of the total deaths in the state during the period. Last Saturday, the number of the deaths in the district in the preceding seven days was recorded at 45 — 39.47% of the total fatalities in the state in that period.The state bulletins also suggest that Ludhiana district had a case fatality rate (CFR) of 3% in the last seven days, which is higher than the CFR for the state at 2% in the same period. The CFR for India stands at 2.03%.According to the latest government data, the number of new cases in the last seven days has been highest in Ludhiana district compared to any other district in the state. In all, 5,867 new cases were reported in the state in the last seven days, to which Ludhiana alone contributed 1,511. Patiala with 734 new cases and Jalandhar with 620 stand at number two and three among the districts.The media bulletins also suggest that the Ludhiana district leads other districts in terms of active cases as well with 1,649 cases. Jalandhar and Patiala districts are at number two and three spots with 920 and 879 such cases, respectively. The district has a cured percentage of 63%, which is 2% lower than the state’s percentage. Jalandhar and Amritsar districts have much better cured percentages than Ludhiana at 67% and 75%, respectively. Hoshiarpur district tops the list with 89%, highest for any district of the state. The doubling rate, or the number of days it would take for the cases to double based on the last seven days’ growth rate, dropped to 13 days on August 8 from 18 on July 25. Given the grim situation, many residents here say the government needs to take pro-active steps to check the number of fatalities as well as cases.“Many people have died due to lack of proper treatment and the cases are rising in Ludhiana district. This suggests that the government’s strategy to check the fatalities and cases has not yielded much. On the ground, we don’t see that much strictness in enforcing the safety norms like wearing masks and social distancing. Things are pretty bad in posh areas and markets as police violations keep taking place in the presence of cops,” said Keemti Rawal, a social activist, who lost his brother-in-law to Covid-19 allegedly due to improper treatment.‘Covid peak nearing in dist’Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga could not be contacted for his comments, but another health department officer said the main reason for high fatality rate in Ludhiana is the nearing of Covid-19 peak in the district. He said they have increased the number of beds for Level 3 patients (critical patients). The officer requested people to follow preventive measures so that cases and fatalities can be reined in. There is still a sizeable number of people, who do not wear masks and do not following social distancing norms, including the educated ones, he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-maintained-lead-in-fatalities-cases-in-week-that-was/articleshow/77451238.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Protesters on chimney threaten to jump down||Chandrapur: Protesters perched on a platform of a chimney at Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS) for the last five days on Sunday threatened to jump down or self-immolate if attempts are made to end their agitation forcefully. The protesters received food and water on Sunday following media reports that they were starving for over 30 hours after the plant authorities allegedly cut the supply. In the warning issued through video messages, the protesters claimed that in the afternoon CISF jawans forcefully tried to flush out their supporters staging a sit-in under the banner of Vijnirmiti Pragatkushal Kruti Samiti at the base of the chimney. Meanwhile, the agitation is gaining support from various quarters. Local units of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi and Ulgulan Sanghatna stated they will fight for justice to the protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/protesters-on-chimney-threaten-to-jump-down/articleshow/77453074.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19 growth rate dips in Bengaluru, says professor||BENGALURU: The effective reproduction number of Covid-19 — the mean number of infections caused by a single infected person at this stage of the pandemic — in Bengaluru has not only dipped since July, but also appears to be in control, according to a professor from the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. The city’s effective reproduction number (or simply R) fell below 1 between August 2-5, but has increased slightly since then. “As any intervention normally takes between 10 days to two weeks to show up in the incidence data, the improvement of the situation in Bengaluru is the fruition of efforts put in place by July 18 or so,” said Prof Sitabhra Sinha, professor with the institute, who has authored a paper titled ‘Epidemiological Dynamics of Covid-19 in India’. Incidentally, there was a lockdown in place in Bengaluru and several other districts from the night of July 14 to the early hours of July 22, which possibly resulted in the drop in R. R is considered the rate of growth of the pandemic. Sinha says the reproduction number has to be greater than 1 for an epidemic to occur, and larger the number, the faster the disease spreads. In Bengaluru Urban, the R was almost 1.4 between July 4 and 23. It fell slightly to 1.2 during July 25-29. By August 2-5, it further reduced to 0.8. For the more recent period, it has increased slightly above 1, said Sinha. In Karnataka overall, the R value is 1.1 for the period of August 5-8. In India, the R value was marginally above 1 between August 1 and 6. In their latest data, both Mumbai and Chennai have the value below 1, while Delhi, which had a value lower than 1 for nearly a month, has now increased to 1.08. Kolkata also has a figure above 1. In several other states, the values continue to be over 1 (see box). In order to understand how the value of R ranged in other countries when the pandemic peaked, the value was 2.6 in the US in March, 2.7 in Italy in last week of February and 4.8 in Turkey in the third week of March. R is affected by measures like lockdown and other social distancing norms adopted by states and countries. The paper points out that the growth rate of the disease continued to be low despite lockdown norms being lifted to a large degree. “As India is still very far from achieving herd immunity, and there appears to be no evidence that the pathogen has shown any change in its ability to infect, it is possible that the voluntary adherence to public hygiene has been responsible,” the paper states. “If true, this may suggest that, under certain conditions, citizens can be mobilized to engage in a mass effort to achieve desirable public health outcomes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pandemic-growth-rate-dips-in-bengaluru-says-professor/articleshow/77451251.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: 67-year-old man held for murdering son||COIMBATORE: A 67-year-old Periyanaickenpalayam resident killed his 37-year-old son on Sunday. Police identified the deceased as P Dhanabal of Sri Bharathi Nagar at Gudalur Kavundampalayam in Periyanaickenpalayam. Dhanabal, a wall painter, was staying with his parents after separating from his wife 12 years ago, police sources said. “He was addicted to alcohol and often fought with his father U Palamalai, a wall painter. On Saturday night, Dhanabal came home drunk and started a fight with his father. When he demanded money to buy liquor, Palamalai refused and asked him to go to bed. When an angry Dhanabal tried to attack him, Palamalai retaliated and hit him on his head with a wooden log. Dhanabal, who went out of the house, was found dead on the road on Sunday morning,” a police officer said. The Periyanaickenpalayam police sent the body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem and arrested Palamalai. He was booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/67-yr-old-man-held-for-murdering-son/articleshow/77452448.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal inaugurates Covid Care Centre at Thakker’s Dome||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Sunday inaugurated the new 350-bed Covid Care Centre (CCC) in the city. The facility has been set up for the city by the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) Nashik. While infrastructure has been created by the real estate body, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will recruit the staff and use this facility once its previous centres are used to their full capacity. Bhujbal said that after Mumbai and Pune, there has been a spike in Covid-19 cases in the city. Hence, the number of beds is being increased in the city by the civic authority. “At this juncture, setting up of a new CCC by CREDAI Nashik is commendable,” he said. Bhujbal said that Covid-19 cases are increasing by the day in the city due to the rise in contact tracing and testing by local authorities, but they should continue more tracing and testing to break the chain of the Covid-19. Moreover, there is also a need to take more measures to prevent the Covid-19 pandemic in the city, said Bhujbal. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game said coronavirus cases in slum areas have reduced and are under control. Now, new cases are being reported from residential societies and industrial estates. “A total of 1,200 teams comprising health officials, employees and other staff are working in the city to stop the spread of Covid-19,” said Game.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-inaugurates-covid-care-centre-at-thakkers-dome/articleshow/77452423.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Bizman held in Hyderabad, cigarettes worth Rs 16 lakh seized by cops||HYDERABAD: Task Force police have busted a gang selling foreign cigarettes illegally and arrested a person. They also seized Rs 16 lakh worth foreign cigarettes. The Task Force sleuths arrested businessman Sandeep Singh Baweja, a native of Delhi, for procuring, transporting and selling the banned cigarettes from a shop in Goshakat Street, Jummerath Bazar. He worked in different transport companies before starting his own transport service, Nagpur Bhopal Transport in Jummerath Bazar in 2019. During the past one year, Sandeep had been transporting all general items from Delhi to Hyderabad through his cargo carriers. But his earnings were not sufficient to meet his expenses and Sandeep decided to purchase banned foreign cigarettes from Delhi and sell them to customers in Hyderabad, Task Force inspector Gattu Mallu said. According to police, Sandeep was buying a cigarette packet in Delhi for Rs 20 and selling it in Hyderabad for Rs 40. “Sandeep Baweja has been fraudulently procuring cigarettes to avoid customs duty and also to avoid GST, causing wrongful loss to the exchequer. The accused along with the seized Rs 16 lakh worth cigarettes were handed over to the Shahinayatgunj police for further investigation,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bizman-held-cigarettes-worth-rs-16l-seized-by-cops/articleshow/77453073.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Kochi||AAIB to submit report this week||KOCHI: The preliminary inquiry to ascertain the cause for the AIE plane crash at Karipur airport suggested that loss of control of the aircraft and ineffective braking during landing on a waterlogged runway might have led to the accident. Sources associated with the probe said Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) team reportedly found evidence of waterlogging on the runway at the time of landing. The team is probing whether air traffic control (ATC) noticed the waterlogging at the time of landing and tested the severity before giving landing clearance to AIE flight (IX 1344). Also, the team is checking whether ATC and pilot adhered to the rules that are to be followed during landing on a tabletop runway at night during inclement weather. AAIB officials, camping in Kozhikode, inspected the wreckage on Sunday in the presence of officials from Air India and Airports Authority of India. They held discussion with ATC, fire and rescue team, CISF and the ground staffs who were on duty the night the plane crashed. The preliminary report of the accident will be ready this week as transcripts from the black box and recording of cockpit voice recorder (CVR) will soon be recovered at DGCA’s lab in Delhi. The wreckage will not be removed until a detailed investigation is done. It is also learnt that a technical team from Boeing will reach India next week and assist the probe. DGCA will request the team to visit the crash site to inspect the aircraft original equipment for defects. It is also learnt AAIB is looking at Aug 4, 2017, accident in Kozhikode airport when a SpiceJet aircraft veered off the runway while landing on a rainy day on runway 10 before coming to a halt, safely. The two accidents have similarities as pilots requested permission to land on runway 10 amid inclement weather though runway 28 was the designated one. Also, the cause of veering off the runway, as cited by investigation report, was the excessive rudder input by the pilot to steer the aircraft to the runway centreline while landing during moderate rain. Commendation for three CISF officersOn Saturday, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) announced the award of Director General (DG) commendation disc to three officers for their outstanding efforts during the rescue operations at Karipur airport. “DG CISF Rajesh Ranjan has announced DG’s commendation disc to deputy commandant/ chief airport security officer Kishore Kumar AV, ASI Ajit Singh and ASI Mangal Singh, in recognition of their outstanding efforts during the rescue operations at Karipur airport,” stated a press note issued by CISF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/aaib-to-submit-report-this-week/articleshow/77451247.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Man arrested for forgery||Hyderabad: Syed Abdul Khaled, who had lodged a complaint against former Sheikpet tahsildar Ch Sujatha a few months ago, was arrested by the central crime station (CCS) sleuths on Sunday for allegedly forging land documents. The ACB had lodged a police complaint against Khaled for forging land documents to lay claim over 4,865 square yards of government land in Banjara Hills. “Khaled had submitted forged documents to revenue and other government departments. He was assisted by his associate Allu Ashok Reddy, who posed as a legal advisor and helped the accused,” CCS officials said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-forgery/articleshow/77453076.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||People throng dam, don’t give a damn about Covid||Coimbatore: The Chithirai chavadi check dam, which is brimming with water, saw large crowds flouting lockdown and social distancing norms on Sunday.Several people were found bathing and sitting on the embankment. Some were clicking pictures. While some of them had brought their family members including children with them, other had come with friends. Most of them were not wearing face masks, throwing government guidelines to the wind. “I am working to a tight schedule and wanted to relax on Sunday. So, I stepped out of house with my family to relax a bit. As cops were found nowhere in the vicinity, we drove till the check dam and were excited to find people bathing. So, we joined them,” said a Selvapuram resident.As a liquor outlet on the Siruvani Road was open, some of them were under the influence of alcohol.Huge crowds used to throng the dam during the monsoon season. Despite the complete lockdown and virus scare, some people seem to continue the tradition. “The number of Covid-19 cases and deaths is increasing in the district. Those people have no regard for others. They are yet to realize the seriousness of the situation and needs to be sensitized,” said R Raveendran, secretary of the Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore. “Officials should take stringent action against the violators to prevent another mass gathering next Sunday.”District revenue officer T Ramadurai Murugan assured to look into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/people-throng-dam-dont-give-a-damn-about-covid/articleshow/77452456.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Rain intensity eases in Valparai||Coimbatore: People in Valparai heaved a sigh of relief as the intensity of rain came down on Sunday. A few days ago, the district administration had sounded flood alert in the region following heavy rain. The district administration has set up three helpdesks - at tashidlar office (04253-222305), municipality office (04253-222394) and Valparai police (9498101201) – that would function round the clock, to assist the people affected by the rain and floods. At least 11 houses were partially damaged in rain-related calamities. Valparai tahsildar Raja said financial assistance would be provided to the homeless people soon. “On Saturday morning, there was heavy rain and its intensity reduced by 3pm. The rainfall drastically came down on Sunday morning,” he said. Pollachi sub-collector Dr R Vaithinathan had convened a meeting with revenue, municipality, police and fire department officials on Saturday and instructed them to evacuate people from landslide areas and river banks, restore traffic by clearing uprooted trees from and ensure uninterrupted power supply. As per the metrological department, Chinnakallar recorded 33mm rainfall, Valparai town 58mm, PAP 59 mm, Sholayar 41mm and Cinchona 45 mm for 24 hours that ended on Sunday 6am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-intensity-eases-in-valparai/articleshow/77452453.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Clash outside Bittu’s house: LIP workers booked||Ludhiana: A day after Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) members and Congress workers clashed and their turbans were tossed outside Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu’s house in the presence of police force, a case has been registered against LIP workers on Sunday. The FIR under sections 188, 269, 148, 149, 323, 506 has been filed against LIP’s Sunny Kainth, Gagandeep Singh, Jaswant Singh, Ranjodh Gill and about nine unidentified persons at Division 8 police station on the complaint of Tarvinder Singh of Jhande village. After the clash on Saturday, Kainth along with others had complained to the police and sought a case against Congress workers. They had even got their statements recorded. Meanwhile, LIP MLA Balwinder Singh Bains has demanded an FIR against Bittu, SHO who was on duty outside his residence and the accused Congressmen. Bains has warned police commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal that in case of a failure to register an FIR by Tuesday, his party would stage an indefinite dharna outside his office and move the HC. Speaking to the TOI, Bains said, “Registration of an FIR against our workers has confirmed our doubts that the attack was a planned conspiracy of which Ludhiana police too was a part. Our workers got several phone calls from some police officials, including an SHO, to come outside Bittu’s house so that they could help them hand over a memorandum to Bittu or his representatives. The moment our workers reached there, they were shocked to see 150-200 Congress workers present inside and they attacked our workers. Turbans of our workers were tossed and caste remarks were passed against them. All this happened right in front of the police personnel who stood as mute spectators. Ironically, our workers have been booked. Bittu is responsible for this act and should be booked along with the attackers and police officials.”Ashu condemned attack: KainthLIP’s Sunny Kainth, who was leading the protest against Bittu, said immediately after the attack on him and his associates, cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu called him and condemned the incident. He said that Bittu was wrong and he even apologised on behalf of the Congress. Kainth said the minister also said that these attackers were expelled by him from his office long back, but now they were close to Bittu. He also promised to extend help to Kainth. Kainth alleged that he suspects that one of the attackers, who tossed his turban, was a notorious out-on-parole gangster. SAD flays Cong Leaders of LIP’s archrival Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) condemned the attack on the LIP workers. SAD’s MLA from Dakha Manpreet Singh Ayali posted a picture of the attack on social media and criticised Congress workers for sacrilege of turban. Saturday’s protest by LIP was against unavailability of ventilators at the civil hospital. And to mock the MP for his “inaction”, the LIP workers had collected donations from public at Bharat Nagar Chowk, which were to be handed over to him as a mark of protest.Shocked over ‘gundagardi’ outside my house: MPThe MP, who since Saturday was not commenting on the clash, said, “I condemn this incident. I am shocked how ‘gundagardi’ took place outside my house in my absence. Both the warring groups have known each other for years. I am not aware why and how this incident took place. At present, I am out of town. After recovering from an injury, I will return, speak to both the groups and take action against those responsible for this shameful act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/clash-outside-bittus-house-lip-workers-booked/articleshow/77451254.cms||Mohit Behl
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist logs 217 Covid cases, tally inches closer to 7K||Coimbatore: The district reported 217 new cases of Covid19 on Sunday, taking the count to 6,670, of which 1,665 are active cases. The toll, meanwhile, touched 125 as the state included 13 more deaths that occurred in the district in the past two days in its bulletin.A health official said they have been witnessing an increase in the number of patients with symptoms. “During the initial days of Covid-19 outbreak, most of the patients were asymptomatic. The pattern changed gradually and a few weeks ago we started seeing more patients had mild symptoms. Now, the number of patients with symptoms has risen to 30%-40% of the daily count. And at least 10%-15% of them suffer from high temperature, cough and breathing difficulties.”The official said most of the patients who succumbed to the virus were aged above 50 years and had comorbidities. “We have data for 120 patients who died of Covid-19. Only 12 of them were aged below 50 years. At least 86 patients had comorbidities. Among the 13 deaths reported on Sunday too, only one was below 50 years. Nine of them had comorbidities.”Of the 217 new cases, the official said, 167 were reported from the city corporation limits, 15 from Sulur and 14 from Mettupalayam. In city limits, Ramanathapuram, PN Puthur and Selvapuram, among other areas, saw fresh cases.“Close to 90% of the cases was identified through contact tracing and fever camps that were conducted by the city corporation. There is a slight shift in the geographical position of the virus spread. Earlier, most of the cases were reported from the city limits. Now, we are seeing a sprout in cases from semi-urban areas such as Mettupalayam and Thondamuthur,” the official said.Meanwhile, 185 patients recovered and were discharged from the facilities they were undergoing treatment on Sunday. The total number of cured patients now stands at 4,880.The neighbouring Tirupur district reported 42 fresh cases on Sunday, taking the tally to 1,154, of which 330 are active cases. The district has reported two Covid-19 deaths – a 23-year-old man, who was admitted to Tirupur government hospital on August 2 and died on Friday and a 73-year-old man, who was admitted to the hospital on Friday and died on Saturday – taking the toll to 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-logs-217-covid-cases-tally-inches-closer-to-7k/articleshow/77452454.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 10, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Over 18,000 booked for not wearing masks||NASHIK: The city police has intensified their action against people who are still violating lockdown-related norms such as maintaining social distancing and wearing face mask while moving around in public places. So far, police has taken action against 18,016 people for not wearing masks. The action against lockdown rule violators started from March 22. By July 4, police had taken action against more than 6,000 people for not wearing masks. In just over a month’s time, the number of people booked for the same reason increased to over 18,000. With cases of coronavirus spreading at a faster rate, police are coming down heavily on people who are not following rules which, in turn, is resulting in rapid spread of the virus. “There is a huge rush in market places and city streets ever since the unlock began. While people are making rush to buy essential and other commodities, they are also overlooking the importance of social distancing and wearing face masks. Many bikers are also seen moving around without wearing masks,” said police officials. Senior police officials said that such people are seen everywhere despite spreading awareness among them. They have been booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Prevention Act for disobedience to the order duly promulgated by a public servant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-18000-booked-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/77452461.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Bairamalguda flyover to be opened today||HYDERABAD: IT minister KT Rama Rao will inaugurate the Right Hand Side (RHS) Bairamalguda flyover in LB Nagar constituency on Monday. The flyover, which has been built at a cost Rs 26.45 crore under Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP), is 780 metres long and 12 metres wide. Mayor Bonthu Rammohan said that world-class technology has been used to construct the flyover at Bairamalguda Under the Strategic Road Development Programme (SRDP), the State government is constructing flyovers, underpasses and skywalks at different junctions in the city. As per the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) records, the flyover will ease traffic congestion at inner ring road. The flyover is expected to facilitate free flow of traffic from Secunderabad to DMRL crossroads, Santosh Nagar, Secunderabad to Owaisi junction, on Srisailam road and Sagar road. By 2034, the projected peak hour passenger car unit (PCU) at Bairamalguda junction will be 18,653, according to the municipal corporations’s records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bairamalguda-flyover-to-be-opened-today/articleshow/77453080.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Untreated sewage flowing into lakes||Coimbatore: Activists have demanded the city corporation, which has been spending crores of rupees on beautifying lakes in its limits, to take necessary steps to prevent both household and industrial sewage from entering the waterbodies. S P Thiyagarajan, an activist, says, “All the lakes in the city limits are filled with domestic sewage, industrial effluent and solid waste. Most of the residents are letting household sewage into storm water drains that are connected directly to the nearest lake. In certain cases, they are letting sewage directly into the canals or the Noyyal itself.” He had recently written to the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, environment department and the ministry of environment, forests and climate change, seeking their intervention to address the situation.While it has been close to a decade since the city corporation started implementing underground drainage project, no significant changes have been seen on the ground, he says while questioning the efficiency of the project.“The city corporation has been pulling all the stops to beautify lakes. Its efforts would go in vain if steps are not taken to clean the lakes. If they are not clean, public might not visit them over a period of time,” Thiyagarajan says. The quick-win lake projects at Ukkadam Periyakulam and Valankulam in the city were inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami just a month ago.Another activist, who requested anonymity, says people often dump household waste along the waterbodies. “It not just pollutes the water but also clogs the channel and prevents the flow of water. Because of sewage, which contaminate underground water, plants like water hyacinth are growing in waterbodies.”Pointing out that barely a year has lapsed since the city corporation desilted the canal carrying water to the Vellalore lake, the activist says owing to indiscriminate dumping of waste the canal continues to be clogged and only 5% rainwater has reached the lake despite incessant monsoon showers.“Commercial fishing activities are carried out at the lakes. How healthy is it for the people to consume the fishes reared in polluted water?” he asks.In several places such as Perur, Pallapalayam and Alandurai, some government bodies have set up dump yard near waterbodies, says the activist. When contacted, a city corporation source said, “We have started providing household sewage connections. To prevent sewage water from entering the lakes, households around them are being given the preference. We would also construct sewage treatment plants along the lake bunds as part of the lake beautification and rejuvenation project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/untreated-sewage-flowing-into-lakes/articleshow/77452459.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 10, 2020||Ludhiana||With cowsheds full, commuters bear brunt of stray cattle menace||Ludhiana: Even as the number of stray cattle roaming the city roads is rising with each passing day, causing immense trouble to the commuters, the practice of shifting such bovine to various cowsheds stands almost discontinued.While the management of the cowshed at Govind Godham has now started lifting only accidental or sick cattle due to shortage of space, owing to the same problem, other cowsheds also express their inability to accommodate anymore cattle.Further, while the cowshed being constructed by the government in Burj Pawat, Macchiwara is yet to be ready in all respects, the fate of a proposed cowshed, which the municipal corporation was supposed to construct, lies in limbo.In the midst of all this, the commuters — the harried lot — have been left to fend for themselves. The stray cattle rule not just the main roads of the city, but also the residential areas. Sometimes bulls fighting in the middle of the road make it impossible for the people to cross the stretch. In the past, there have been several incidents of commuters losing their lives to the stray cattle menace. Chairman of Govind Godham Sunder Das Dhamija said, "We are lifting only accidental and sick cattle from roadsides as there is a shortage of space in the cowshed. Besides, since the lockdown, we have been managing fodder for the cattle with much difficulty." He held dairy owners responsible for the increasing number of uncared animals in the city, saying when the cattle stop giving milk, they are left on the road. People from nearby villages also leave their cattle on the outskirts of the city, he said. When contacted, senior veterinary officer of the corporation Dr Y P Singh said, "Cowsheds in the city are short of space. That is why, we had decided to construct one cowshed in Noorpur on MC land and another at Burj Pawat. But, the Covid-19 pandemic has slowed down the pace of work.”BOXNo action against illegal dairiesIn November last year, the civic body had decided to impose a penalty on the defaulters, who are running illegal dairies in residential areas. Notices were served to 197 such units in the city, but no action was taken against even one of them for reasons best known to the civic officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-cowsheds-full-commuters-bear-brunt-of-stray-cattle-menace/articleshow/77451244.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Muted celebrations mark Eid-e-Ghadeer||Hyderabad: The Shia community observed Eid-e-Ghadeer in various parts of Old City on Sunday. As part of the celebrations, special prayers were offered, keeping in mind the physical distancing norms. Syed Hamed Hussain Jaffery, the president of Shia Youth Conference told TOI that in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, no procession or rallies were taken out by the community this year. “Special prayers were offered at the places of worship and adequate initiatives were taken to ensure safety of all devotees. Sanitiser dispenser were made available at various places and masks were distributed,” said Hussain Jaffery. Mir Firasat Ali Baqri, spokesperson of BJP Telangana Minority Morcha said that devotees cut the cake to celebrate Eid-e-Ghadeer at Darab Jung Lane, Dabeer Pura, Darulshifa, Noor Khan Bazar, Namaz at Masjid-e- Jafferi and Kotla Ali Jah among other places “The event holds great significance for those who celebrate it. It is also often referred to as Eid Alla al-Akbar (the greatest Eid of god),” said Firasat Ali Baqri. Eid-e-Ghadeer is celebrated on the 18th day of the Islamic month zil-Hijjah, which is the 12th and final month of the lunar-based Muslim calendar. Eid al-Adha and Hajj also take place in the same month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/muted-celebrations-mark-eid-e-ghadeer/articleshow/77452463.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||TASK launches guidance cell for tribals||Hyderabad: On the occasion of World Tribal Day (Adiwasi Divas) 2020, Telangana Academy for Skill and Knowledge (TASK) launched a career guidance cell for the indigenous communities. Inaugurating the cell, IT department principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said, “The government is dedicated to the upliftment of the undeserved indigenous communities of the state. With the right kind of facilities, our tribal youth will be able to scale great heights in their career. The initiatives by TASK will definitely help empower the tribal youth.” Shrikant Sinha, CEO of TASK, said, “We have launched a special career guidance hotline number for youth from the underserved communities. Youth in need of career guidance can call 040-48488241 to get expert guidance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/task-launches-guidance-cell-for-tribals/articleshow/77452499.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Bareilly||169 more test Covid-19 positive in Bareilly, 5 kids infected in Meerut||Bareilly/Agra/Meerut: At least 169 more people were tested positive for Covid-19 and three more deaths were reported in Bareilly district on Sunday. In Shahjahanpur district, 80 people were tested positive taking the district tally to 1,653 while 14 people have died due to Covid-19 infection so far. In Meerut district, at least 37 people, including a jeweller and five children, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total tally to 2,485 here, according to Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO). Moreover, an executive engineer of Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) along with an employee of civic body’s finance wing were tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday. The wife of the employee was also found positive. So far, four civic body staff have tested positive. At least 38 new Covid-19 positive cases also surfaced in Agra district on Sunday, taking the district tally to 2,103. These include three patients suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome, two patents of influenza-like illness, two patients of severe acute respiratory infection, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. CMO RC Pandey said, "At present, there are 308 active Covid-19 cases in Agra district. So far, 1,694 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/169-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-bareilly-5-kids-infected-in-meerut/articleshow/77450238.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nashik||Sewage treatment plant inaugurated in Cantt area||Nashik: Member of Parliament Hemant Godse on Sunday inaugurated the underground sewerage scheme and sewage treatment plant at the Cantonment Fund Trenching Ground, Deolali. The inauguration programme was presided over by president of the Cantonment Board, Deolali, Brig J S Goraya, while MLA Saroj Babulal Ahire was the special guest. Expressing his views on the occasion, Godse said that underground sewerage scheme and sewage treatment plant would only add to the beauty of Deolali Camp and its healthy environment. A senior officials of the board said that the project has been executed under the technical supervision of IIT Bombay which was engaged by the board as Third Party Inspection (TPI) agency. Cantonment Board’s CEO Ajay Kumar said that the total length of the pipeline is approximately 60 km and would benefit a population of around 50,000. Owing to the absence of underground drainage system in the cntonment area, untreated sewage entered river Darna that resulted in pollution and absence of sewerage line was leading to poor sanitation for the residents of the cantonment. In order to get rid of these issues, the proposal of underground sewerage scheme with sewerage treatment plant for phase 1 was forwarded to the higher authorities for getting funds. After the sanction of funds, the work commenced in October 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sewage-treatment-plant-inaugurated-in-cantt-area/articleshow/77452487.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 10, 2020||Trichy||Residents struggle to use road left half done in Trichy city||Trichy: A road project near Renga Nagar on Vayalur Road was sanctioned months ago by the Trichy corporation, but the work was left midway by the workers citing rain. This has left the residents struggling with the partially completed road.Falling under ward number 53, a peripheral locality in K Abishekapuram zone, Renga Nagar, a developing residential neighbourhood, had demanded a proper access road to reach Vayalur Road. After representations were made, the civic body had sanctioned a sum of Rs 75 lakh from the general fund to lay a bituminous road in the vicinity for 900 metres covering the cross streets. The ground layer for the fresh road was cleared and wet mix macadam using gravel was laid in the residential neighbourhood a couple of months back.However, as rains interrupted, the corporation suspended the work pointing out that quality of road might be compromised if taken up during a wet environment. “Two-wheeler riders face more struggle than before. To buy groceries and vegetables, we rely on the road but the gravel-filled layer makes us lose the balance of the vehicle while riding,” S Ramanathan, a resident of Vayalur Road said. The residents said that the civic body could have launched the work much earlier to avoid being interrupted by rains. “There was rain for consecutive days last month which made us stop work. We will resume the work soon, the contractor is ready to complete the work,” an official with the corporation added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-struggle-to-use-road-left-half-done-in-trichy-city/articleshow/77453094.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 28-year-old petty thief stabbed to death by rivals||HYDERABAD: A petty thief was murdered by his rivals due to previous enmity near the railway tracks at Malakpet late on Saturday night . The victim was identified as Sajid, 28, a resident of Chaderghat. Sajid, previously involved in multiple property offences including thefts, had a suspect sheet against him at the Chaderghat police station. The murder took place near railway tracks abutting a GHMC ground in Malakpet around 11 pm on Saturday. “Sajid was consuming liquor along with some others sitting in the ground near the railway tracks. While consuming alcohol, an argument took place between Sajid and others over previous differences. During the argument, members of the other group attacked him with knives and stabbed him twice in the stomach and chest,” Chaderghat inspector P Sateesh said. Around 11.20pm, Chaderghat police received an alert about the injured man lying in a pool of blood near the railway tracks and they quickly reached the spot. “He was declared brought dead at a nearby hospital,” the inspector said. Police formed a special team to nab the offenders and they picked up three suspects, including one Khader from Chaderghat for their likely role in the murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/28-yr-old-petty-thief-stabbed-to-death-by-rivals/articleshow/77453083.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Hospital refused to hand over body, says Covid-19 victim’s brother||BENGALURU: Bereaved family members of a 62-year-old Covid-19 victim alleged that a private hospital declined to release his body till they cleared the bill (close to Rs 9 lakh) towards his treatment and relented only after they went to media and the health minister intervened on their behalf. The hospital refuted the charge. Nagaraj V, a resident of Vijayanagar, developed fever and was admitted to Sagar Hospitals in Kumaraswamy Layout on July 19. Five members of his family had by then tested positive, with three being hospitalised and two put in home isolation. Incidentally, Nagaraj worked as a cashier in the same hospital till retirement. Srinivas V, a retired bank employee, told TOI doctors initially told them that his younger brother, Nagaraj, too had tested positive. They later told them that Nagaraj had kidney issues and was being treated in the ICU. “On Friday, a woman doctor called me and said he was no more,” Srinivas added. “I sent my brother-in-law the same day so that he could perform the last rites. But the hospital authorities clearly refused to hand over the body until we paid the bill amounting to almost Rs 9 lakh. As it was a Covid case, my brother-in-law argued that BBMP would take the custody of the body, but the hospital said that they would allow that only if the bill was paid,” said Srinivas. In the bill, the hospital had charged Rs 2,48,015 for investigations, Rs 70,000 as room rent, Rs 1,00,850 for equipment, Rs 70,000 as nursing charges, Rs 66,000 for consultations and Rs 56,785 for procedures, among other heads. “On Sunday morning we had no option but to go to the media. Health minister B Sriramulu contacted us and helped us get the body and the final rites were performed later in the day,” Srinivas said. Medical education minister K Sudhakar tweeted that money should not be the priority during corona times. “I will speak to the head of the hospital and provide justice to the family,” he said. However, by then the body had been released. Two of the other family members who were also admitted to Sagar Hospitals were shifted to other facilities. This is because the first hospital demanded Rs 1.2 lakh to treat them for two days. Srinivas regretted his decision to get his brother admitted to this particular hospital thinking they might offer some discount to their former employee. Dr Venkatesh Vikram, medical director, Sagar Hospitals, denied the allegation. “The patient was admitted on July 19 and his condition was critical. We have done our best. On Friday, we called the family and informed them that he was dead and the family members agreed to pay the bill and take the body. But after that they did not take our calls. Today (Sunday), around 4pm, a BBMP team arrived at the hospital and took the body for cremation in the presence of family members. We never declined to hand over the body over bills as the patient’s family had already agreed to pay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hosp-refused-to-hand-over-body-says-covid-19-victims-brother/articleshow/77451314.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Hit by truck, elephant suffers minor injuries||Coimbatore: A team of forest department officials are closely monitoring a wild male elephant that suffered minor injuries after a truck hit the animal near Madukkarai forest range on Saturday. A locomotive driver of a train noticed the injured elephant, aged abour four years, standing near the railway track (B line) at the reserve forest in Madukkarai forest range and informed the Palakkad railway department officials, who in turn informed the forest department officials. The frontline staff of the forest department had noticed the footprint of the elephant and they were not able to locate it immediately. District forest officer D Venkatesh, assistant conservator of forest M Senthilkumar and a veterinary officer visited the spot along with the frontline staff and found a herd of elephant. “A six-member team has been deployed to monitor the movement of the elephant. We used a drone camera to monitor the movement of the elephant, but it entered the deep reserve forest. However, our team is closely monitoring the elephant herd,” an official said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hit-by-truck-elephant-suffers-minor-injuries/articleshow/77452490.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Salary cut, incentives not paid’: Nursing staff protest||TNNLudhiana: The nursing staff of Satguru Pratap Singh (SPS) Hospital, near Sherpur Chowk, staged a protest against “salary cut and non-payment of incentives”, among others, outside its premises on Sunday.The protestors said for the past about a month, they were being put on duty in the Covid centre isolation ward. They were promised that in lieu of such duties, they would be given incentives. But despite working for 12 hours in PPE kits, they received nothing, they added.The protestors said their salaries were cut and even as they worked regularly, it was shown that they took a 15-day leave.“The hospital had promised us that our Covid tests will be done again after we tested positive. But even that promise was not met and we were made to join duty after nine days,” said a protestor. She added that their roster, which was prepared by their ward in-charge, was made by the HR department this time.A nurse accused an HR official of misconduct. An eyewitness said the stir started around 7.30am and continued till around 5.30pm. “In the morning, the protestors were agitating outside the hospital,” he added. Police reached the spot and tried to pacify the protestors. Later, an ADCP spoke to them.SPS Hospital medical superintendent Dr Rajiv Kundra said the matter has been sought out with the nursing staff. HR official Manish could not be contacted as his phone was switched off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/salary-cut-incentives-not-paid-nursing-staff-protest/articleshow/77451280.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||City student to be trained for Olympics||Coimbatore: A badminton player, who is studying in a city college, has been selected for the Target Olympics Podium Scheme (TOPS), whereby young sports talent would be groomed for 2024 and 2028 Olympics by the Sports Authority of India (SAI).K Sathish Kumar, a third year B Com student of Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science in the city, is among the 258 who have been selected from across the country for TOPS.Sathish said he was selected based on his performance in tournaments last year. He had won two bronzes, a silver and a gold medals, and had also come first nationally in singles at the All India Junior Ranking Badminton Tournament held in Bengaluru last year.TOPS would offer him an allowance of Rs 25,000 per month and would also allow him to train at SAI academies free of cost. “My aim is to get trained and represent the country at the 2024 Olympics to be held in Paris, if not that, then at the 2028 Olympics to be held in Los Angeles,” he said. The 19-year-old had been playing in Under-19 category till last year and he would be playing in senior category from this year. The Chennai native says he has shifted his training to an academy in Coimbatore. A swimmer as well, Sathish says he got inspired by his brother, who was a badminton player, to take up the sport seven years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-student-to-be-trained-for-olympics/articleshow/77452486.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Loan process made easy for budding entrepreneurs||Coimbatore: The District Industries Centre (DIC), which facilitates loans for aspiring entrepreneurs under loan subsidy schemes such as the New Entrepreneur-cum-Enterprise Development Scheme (Needs), Unemployed Youth Employment Generation Programme (UYEGP) and the Prime Minister’s Employment Generation Programme (PMEGP), said the schemes will not involve the mandatory interviews or training this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown.Applications for the schemes are slow to come in, DIC general manager B Karthigaivasan said. “As banks have a limited number of staff members and as they can’t conduct personal interviews and inspections, the process of uploading the applications is slow,” he said.This year, DIC has a target to disburse subsidies up to 185 lakh for UYEGP to start businesses with a total investment of Rs 740 lakh. The scheme is for unemployed youth to start manufacturing units at an investment of Rs 10 lakh or service or trading units at an investment of Rs 5 lakh. The beneficiaries must put in 5% of the total project cost and the state will provide 25% of the cost, up to Rs 1.25 lakh.Subsidy target of Rs 490 lakh has been set for the Needs scheme in the district. Beneficiaries can start manufacturing or service businesses with an investment of Rs 10 lakh to Rs 5 crore. Under the PMEGP scheme, general beneficiaries will be given 25% and 15% loan subsidies for starting businesses in rural and urban areas respectively. Special category beneficiaries will get 35% and 25% subsidies respectively. Doing away with the interview and training might prompt more aspiring entrepreneurs to make use of the schemes, industrialists here said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/loan-process-made-easy-for-budding-entrepreneurs/articleshow/77452462.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Surat||Gujarat man calls helpline to save 6-year-old daughter from his wife||SURAT: It was a strange call that 181 Abhayam women’s helpline received from a village near Vyara of Tapi district on Saturday, leaving the counsellors puzzled and curious. Nonetheless, they rushed to spot and to their horror found a six-year-old girl bleeding from being tortured physically. Upon seeing the team, a man rushed forward, identifying himself as the caller, Amarsinh Gamit, (name changed). The diamond artisan pleaded the helpline officials to save his daughter Divya (name changed) from the wrath of his wife, the girl’s biological mother. Gamit then explained that he stayed in Surat, while his family stayed in the village. However, every week when he came home he would find his daughter battered, bruised and bleeding. When asked, the sobbing girl would always point at her mother Sonal (name changed). It was a daily ritual, Gamit’s neighbours would tell him as they feared that Sonal vents her frustration of not having a male child on the poor girl. He tried, each time, to make Sonal understand that she couldn’t torture her own daughter in that extreme manner but this would only end up in an argument between the two. This time, however, when things went beyond control he wanted to take his girl with him to the city despite him staying in a shared accommodation sans proper facility. However, Sonal even objected to this and was in no mood to accept her mistake too. Helpless, Gamit turned to Abhayam to help to save his girl. The counsellors tried to explain to the mother that she cannot beat her daughter inhumanly. However, even their advices and warnings failed to evoke any positive response from the woman, who was allegedly very short-tempered. “When the counsellors discussed the issue with her family as well as neighbours, they discovered that Divya was beaten up black and blue almost daily in absence of Gamit,” said an official of Abhayam helpline. Abhayam officials then contacted the District Child Welfare Committee and shifted the girl to a government facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujarat-man-calls-helpline-to-save-6-year-old-daughter-from-his-wife/articleshow/77451292.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Ban on back-burner, focus on EPR policy to tackle plastic||PANAJI: Environment minister Nilesh Cabral had expressed a keen interest in imposing a ban on the use of plastics in Goa from 2020. However, Cabral said that given the practical difficulties in imposing such a blanket ban, his ministry is now focused more on bringing about an extended producer responsibility or EPR policy for the state. The policy will ensure that the manufacturers themselves take responsibility or contribute to the state in processing the plastic waste generated from the use of their products. Cabral also said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, many activities in the state, including the tourism sector, have come to a standstill and that this has brought down the amount of waste generated drastically. He further said that as economic activities have been affected, it would be a wrong time to bring into effect any kind of ban. Therefore, Cabral said that a new approach was needed to curb the plastic menace in Goa. “The economy is in a very bad state and imposing bans is not the solution.But we are trying to prepare a comprehensive EPR policy. Instead of banning plastic we are trying to identify people who will pay us to collect this plastic. That is our focus now,” the environment minister said. He said bringing about a plastic ban would not be rational without giving people an alternative for it. “Banning something is easy. But we need a replacement for everything we ban. It is not very easy unless people cooperate. People need to bring about a lot of changes in the lifestyle that they have developed. In my constituency, I have distributed six lakh reusable carry bags for free, thinking that the people will reuse them. But they are not reusing it. So we are thinking of something that compatible with the present-day lifestyle,” Cabral said. He said that various stakeholders have been brought on board in forming the EPR policy for Goa. “The people who bring things to Goa and generate waste will be involved. We are finding out ways. It will take some time. We are involving FDA, department of commercial taxes, Goa state pollution control board and all such stakeholders who are directly concerned, in finding a practical solution to plastic,” Cabral said. He added that along with the organised sector, the unorganised sector like ragpickers or scrap dealers are also set to be involved in implementing the EPR policy. “Enforcement of a ban becomes very difficult. It is better we find a different mode. In my childhood, old beer bottles would be exchanged to get a discount on new beer bottles. But now people do not want to return and do not mind paying extra. So we are trying to bring in something more concrete and based on the mindsets of the people today,” Cabral said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ban-on-back-burner-focus-on-epr-policy-to-tackle-plastic/articleshow/77453285.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Six dists most vulnerable to substance abuse: Study||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Six districts in the state have been found to be most vulnerable to substance abuse, as per an analysis of the Centre. They are Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Ernakulam, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Idukki. The ministry of social justice and empowerment has zeroed in on these six districts among the 272 districts identified across the country, to launch its national action plan against substance abuse, ‘Nasha-Mukt Bharat’. “These 272 districts have been identified based on the inputs from Narcotics Control Bureau and the findings on a national survey done by the ministry,” the Centre’s communiqué to the state government said. The action plan devised for 2020-21 is a three-pronged strategy combining the supply curb by the Narcotics Control Bureau, outreach, awareness and efforts to reduce demand and by treatment. The funds provided under the national action plan for drug- demand reduction can be used for operationalization of the programme. The ministry will also provide Rs 10 lakh per district as grant-in-aid. The programme will be formally launched on August 15 and will continue till March 31. The drug abuse is also substantiated by the excise department’s figures over the recent years. Since 2016 to 2019, the seizure of ganja in the state by the excise department has been steadily on the rise. From 1,012 kg of ganja seized in 2016, it rose to 1,332kg, 1,884kg and 2,797kg in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. In the last four years, the excise department had seized 166.98kg hashish, 31.48kg methylenedioxy methamphetamine (MDMA) and 26,055 tablets of nitrazepam. MDMA and nitrazepam are widely circulated among the youth, excise officials said. In 2019, Malappuram accounted for the largest quantity of ganja seized. The excise department had seized 242.9kg of ganja from Malappuram, followed by Ernakulam (202.13kg), Thiruvananthapuram (158.34kg), Idukki (134.58kg), Kollam (105.92kg) and Kozhikode (77.5kg). Synthetic drugs are widely in use in Ernakulam, Malappuram and Kozhikode. “While Ernakulam is fast adopting a cosmopolitan culture and experimenting with newer drugs, the other two districts have a large population that have religious considerations and are averse to liquor use,” excise sources said. In the case of Thiruvananthapuram, the drug use is increasing in the areas like Varkala and Kovalam targeting the tourists, while Aryankavu check-post in Kollam is a major point through which it is transported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/six-dists-most-vulnerable-to-substance-abuse-study/articleshow/77451303.cms||KP Saikiran
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||Migrant workers are human capital, assets for us: Yogi||Covid has posed many challenges, but the biggest one was the influx of over 38 lakh migrants into UP. Known for his unorthodox way of functioning, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has taken the problem head on. His mantra here has been to turn the challenge into an opportunity. “Labourers and workers who have returned to the state from other states due to the coronavirus scare are our own people. They are our assets, a human capital,” he told TOI in an exclusive interview. When asked how he would make it possible considering the sluggish economy due to the Covid-induced lockdown, he said: “We are bringing banks and the state machinery to the workers’ doorsteps. The government has launched a mobile app to provide a common platform to skilled and semi-skilled workers and representatives of factories and industries.” UP government has done well in offering immediate help like Rs 1,000 support to over 53 lakh workers, and ration kit to them, but what about a permanent solution? “We are helping them in three ways—giving them direct jobs or work like in the construction sector or MNREGS, linking them to employment opportunities or helping them get loans to start their own enterprise. For this purpose, we skill mapped over 28 lakh of them to assess their suitability. They are involved in major developmental projects like Purvanchal Expressway. Industries too are coming forward to hire them as per their skills,” he said. “Besides, the state government has constituted a migration commission to address such issues permanently. Apart from this, the one district, one product (ODOP) scheme has been started with an aim to revive the traditional arts and handicraft which would give employment to the population in cities, towns and semi-towns. Not only in the state, but even outside, ODOP is getting popular and exports from the state are rising. The ODOP scheme would go a long way in generating more jobs,” he added. When asked about his government’s plan to tackle overall joblessness, Yogi said: “Unemployment is not as big an issue as it is being projected to be because in the past two months, the PM has launched a scheme to provide employment to over 1.25 crore people. Thirty-one districts of UP are part of it. The state government has signed MoUs with business organisations which have also promised creation of over 2 crore jobs in the days to come. The government and business organisations are working collectively.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/migrant-workers-are-human-capital-assets-for-us-yogi/articleshow/77453092.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Hit by truck, elephant suffers minor injuries||Coimbatore: A team of forest department officials are closely monitoring a wild male elephant that suffered minor injuries after a truck hit the animal near Madukkarai forest range on Saturday. A locomotive driver of a train noticed the injured elephant, aged abour four years, standing near the railway track (B line) at the reserve forest in Madukkarai forest range and informed the Palakkad railway department officials, who in turn informed the forest department officials. The frontline staff of the forest department had noticed the footprint of the elephant and they were not able to locate it immediately.District forest officer D Venkatesh, assistant conservator of forest M Senthilkumar and a veterinary officer visited the spot along with the frontline staff and found a herd of elephant. “A six-member team has been deployed to monitor the movement of the elephant. We used a drone camera to monitor the movement of the elephant, but it entered the deep reserve forest. However, our team is closely monitoring the elephant herd,” an official said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/hit-by-truck-elephant-suffers-minor-injuries/articleshow/77452468.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Kochi||Akkara appeals to governor for CBI probe into UAE-agency aided flat project at Wadakkancherry||THRISSUR: Congress MLA Anil Akkara on Sunday appealed to the governor to initiate a CBI probe into alleged irregularities in the construction of flats with the help of UAE Red Crescent at Wadakkanchery. In a letter addressed to the governor, Akkara said as per media reports, Swapna Suresh, an accused in the gold smuggling case, had allegedly received commission in the flat-construction deal. Akkara alleged that as per the reports, the agreement for the construction of the flats at Charaparambu was signed between the officials of Red Crescent and the Life Mission in Thiruvananthapuram in 2019. He claimed that he had published a post in Facebook pointing out the lapses in the land acquisition and construction of the flats, and demanding a visit by the chief minister on December 4, 2019. The flats to be constructed to house 140 families were located in a land without proper environmental safeguards and water supply. The land for constructing the approach road to the flat complex was acquired after acquiring two acres for the construction of the main project. These actions are totally illegal, Akkara alleged. Also, Swapna had reportedly disclosed to the investigating officials that among the crores of rupees found in her bank locker, Rs 1 crore was the commission she received for arranging the funds for the flat construction from the UAE Consulate, Akkara said. She had also reportedly disclosed that this commission was routed through the Unitac group, which was the project execution agency. The boards displayed near the flat construction also describe Unitac as the execution agency, he said. The project was assigned to the private group Unitac even when other government agencies like the PWD as well as the cooperative societies are actively engaged in the construction sector in the state. Also, the project must have been executed through the Central agencies as the fund was coming from a foreign institution, he argued. Akkara appealed to the governor to take steps for a CBI enquiry into the allegations against the flat complex project, including the conspiracies to pocket funds allocated by a foreign agency and violation of the diplomatic norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/akkara-appeals-to-governor-for-cbi-probe-into-uae-agency-aided-flat-project-at-wadakkancherry/articleshow/77451332.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ludhiana||PPCB issues order on extending consents to run factories||Ludhiana: The much awaited order of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) on extending the deadlines for obtaining mandatory consent from it for operating factories have finally been issued on Friday evening, after which the path has been paved for businessmen to operate their factories till March 31, 2021, with the existing consent, which had expired some months ago. Businessmen are jubilant over the move and have thanked PPCB. According to the orders issued by the PPCB chairman, SS Marwaha, “The lockdown, curfew restrictions due to outbreak of Covid-19 have created unprecedented conditions. Entrepreneurs were finding it difficult to comply with regulatory requirements. Therefore, the board has extended the validity of consent to establish, operate, authorisation, registration and any other mandatory regulatory clearances which come under the domain of the PPCB and have expiry on and after March 15, 2020, upto June 30, 2020. In view of the prolonged unprecedented situation created due to Covid-19 and to facilitate the industry, the board has decided that the consents and clearances which come under the domain of the PPCB and having expired on and after June 30 shall be extended to March 31st, 2021. Welcoming the decision, Rahul Ahuja, chairperson of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Punjab chapter, said, “The notification regarding extension of deadlines of pollution control board to March 31, 2021, is a very welcome step by the Punjab government and PPCB. We are thankful to principal secretary, environment, chairman, pollution control board and member secretary Krunesh Garg for their kind efforts on this demand of ours. We expect that the state government will keep taking initiatives for the welfare of the industry.” Kulpreet Malhotra, bicycle and parts manufacturer and trader, said, “This is a revolutionary step taken by the PPCB under which the expired consents have been extended till March next year. The entire industry was in a dilemma after expiry of the consents as it was not possible for the industry to fulfil the formalities for getting the consent renewed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ppcb-issues-order-on-extending-consents-to-run-factories/articleshow/77451315.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nashik||Forest dept installs 2 cages, 4 cameras to trap leopard||Nashik: The forest department has installed two cages and four cameras to trap the leopard that killed a 65-year-old woman in Chinchakkhaire village near Igatpuri late on Friday. The woman was the fourth victim of leopard attack in the district in the past five months. The incident took place when the woman was sleeping outside her house. According to a forest official, the leopard dragged the woman while she was asleep and ate part of her neck and chest. “Her family members, who were sleeping inside the house, came to know about the incident on Friday morning. Police and forest department was informed about the incident. The woman’s body was sent to Nashik district civil hospital for post-mortem,” he said. “The incident has led to panic in and around the village. We have installed two cages and four cameras in the areas to trap the leopard after the incident,” he added. Earlier, a 12-year-old boy was also killed on the spot in an attack by a leopard on April 19 at the sugarcane farm in Hinganvedhe village. On May 1, a four-year-old boy was killed in a leopard attack in Donwade village. This was followed by an attack on a 75-year-old man in Donwade village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/forest-dept-installs-2-cages-4-cameras-to-trap-leopard/articleshow/77452528.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 10, 2020||Nashik||Govt concerned about education in rural areas||Nashik: State agriculture minister Dada Bhuse on Sunday said that the government is committed for bring about development in education system in rural areas so that children from these areas can compete with those from the urban regions. Representing outer Malegaon in the assembly, Bhuse was speaking at a program organised for laying of the foundation of three new zilla parishad primary schools in Nilgavhan, Hatane and Jalku villages in Malegaon taluka. The three schools were being constructed by Syngenta India Limited – an agrochemical company, under its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in the taluka. Speaking on the occasion, the minister pointed out that the state government had taken up various measures to improve the infrastructure in education sector in the rural areas so that the children going to zilla parishad schools did not develop the feeling of inferiority complex among them and were equally competitive as their counterparts from the urban areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/govt-concerned-about-education-in-rural-areas/articleshow/77452497.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: 65% Covid victims were retired persons, housewives; 84% aged 40-80||NAGPUR: Though known for staying at home for the maximum time, retired persons and housewives account for 65.29% of the Covid-19 deaths in the city due to comorbidities. Also, 85% deaths are in the age group of 40-80 years. The city had registered 215 Covid-19 positive deaths as on Sunday. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has completed analysis of 170 of these deaths. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had ordered the analysis to concentrate more on vulnerable segments and chalk out measures to control the number of deaths. The civic body’s analysis shows the city had registered 11 deaths during full lockdown between March 16 and June 3. After that, 159 deaths were registered after easing of full lockdown till August 6. Based on occupation, 60 of total 170 deceased were retired persons (35.29%), followed by housewives 51 (30%), unemployed 16 (9.41%), private job 15 (8.82%), business 14 (8.23%), labour 4 (2.35%), student 4 (2.35%), driver 3 (1.76%), government job 1.17% and doctor 1 (0.58%). This means 22.91% deceased were in working sectors. As per NMC’s analysis, the ratio of non-working sector in deaths is high due to age factor and also comorbidities. Going by age, highest 43.53% deaths are in the age group of 61-80 years, followed by 40.59% in 41-60 years, for a total of 84.12%. However, 10.59% deaths are in the age group of 21-40 years, which is alarming, while only 4.71% deaths are above 80 years and 0.59% in 0-20 age group. Of total 170 deaths, 85% were patients with comorbidities. Some 38% patients had breathlessness with fever and cough while 38% were suffering with fever, cold and cough, 8% were asymptomatic, 5% had gastric symptoms, and 11% had other symptoms. Highest number of 119 deceased had diabetes and hyper tension (BP). Five deceased were suffering with diseases related to kidney, six with COPD-asthma-pulmonary TB or lung related illness, two with liver disease, two were cancer patients, and one had schizophrenia. In overall deaths in the state, 70% deceased were patients with comorbidities while remaining 30% had no comorbidities. As far as gender-wise deaths is concerned, highest number of deceased were male. Of total 170 deaths, 112 (66%) were male and remaining 58 (34%) were female. Across the state, the ratio is similar — male 65% and female 35%. Among 10 NMC zones, Gandhibagh-Mahal zone had highest 19% cases. Deaths are from Mominpura, Timki, Golibar Chowk, Juni Mangalwari, Mahal and other areas. With 14% deaths, Ashi Nagar zone is second highest followed by Satranjipura (12%), 11% each in Dhantoli and Mangalwari zones, Nehru Nagar zone (9%), Lakadganj (8%), Hanuman Nagar (7%), Dharampeth (6%) and Laxmi Nagar (3%). There were 6.29 deaths per 1 lakh population in the city. In this ratio, Gandhibagh-Mahal zone is leading with 16 deaths per 1 lakh population followed by Satranjipura zone 11, Dhantoli zone 9, Ashi Nagar zone 8, Mangalwari zone 7, Dharampeth 7, Nehru Nagar zone 6, Hanuman Nagar 5, Lakadganj 4 and Laxmi Nagar 0.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/65-covid-victims-were-retired-persons-housewives-84-aged-40-80/articleshow/77452494.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 10, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru steps up efforts to add more beds for Covid-19 patients||Mysuru: The surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in Mysuru has forced the district administration to pull all stops to ensure adequate number of beds to accommodate all patients. The delay in the setting up of many Covid Care Centres (CCCc) to house asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms has compelled the authorities concerned to make alternative arrangements, which includes increasing the number of beds for people testing positive for the novel coronavirus. As of now, there are 750 beds across the CCCs in the district, while there are 350 at the designated Covid-19 hospitals. The number of active Covid-19 cases in Mysuru district now stands at 3,886, while 2,747 patients, after recovering from the infection, have been discharged thus far. There are plans afoot to transform the Seth Mohandas Tulsidas Maternity Hospital on JLB Road in Lakshmipuram into a Covid-19 hospital, wherein 200 patients will be housed, and 150 beds have been arranged at the PKTB Hospital. Dean and director of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) Dr CP Nanjaraj said that hospitals would need to have adequate ventilators, oxygen supply, in addition to a well-equipped intensive care unit (ICU) for them to function efficiently in the capacity of a Covid-19 hospital. “We will ensure that the hospitals we have chosen will get the necessary facilities from the state and central governments,” Dr Nanjaraj said. Mysuru district nodal officer for trauma care centre Neelana Gowda Patil told TOI that, at the behest of the district administration, they were preparing to turn the trauma centre at PKTB Hospital on KRS Road into a Covid-19 hospital. “All the work that was pending such as electrification, et al has been completed. We will be able to provide 200 patients for Covid-19 patients in two weeks,” she said. She said that the hospital could house 40 patients in its ICU, and 16o more beds had been set up for Covid-19 patients in the four-storey structure. Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar has written to the state government seeking assistance in transforming the chosen healthcare institutions into Covid-19 hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-steps-up-efforts-to-add-more-beds-for-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77450311.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Video of youth jumping into Nethravati river goes viral||Mangaluru: Amid concerns over flooding in areas along the riverbanks, a video of youths jumping into the Netravati river from the old Panemagalore bridge in Bantwal of Dakshina Kannada district has gone viral on social media platforms. Due to heavy rains, the river’s water level has risen, and the youth are seen taking turns and jumping from the bridge as locals watch them perform the stunt. In the video, three youth are seen jumping from a height of approximately 40 feet and swimming in the river. While some people are engaged in recording the stunt video, others watch the youth and one person is also seen managing the traffic. Last year, a similar video had gone viral. Locals maintained that they were not sure if the video was an old or a recent one. Unconfirmed reports suggested that youth had performed the stunt on Saturday. The Bantwal Town Police has taken note of the incident. The police have warned the youth against performing such stunts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/video-of-youth-jumping-into-nethravati-river-goes-viral/articleshow/77451330.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hubballi||Student body opposes online examination||Dharwad: The All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) has opposed the move by the universities of agriculture, horticulture, sericulture and veterinary sciences in the state to conduct examinations online. In a memorandum submitted to the vice-chancellors of these universities, AIDSO said the online examination will prove most inconvenient to the students because only 30% of the syllabus has been covered online in several subjects and many students, particularly those in rural areas do not have facilities like smartphones, internet and uninterrupted electricity supply. The organization also pointed out that only 10%-20% of the practicals were conducted before the lockdown. When premier institutions like IIT have decided not to conduct examinations online and to promote the students to the next semester based on their performance in the previous semester, why the universities in the state are insisting on conducting examinations online, the members stated in the memorandum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/student-body-opposes-online-examination/articleshow/77451590.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 12,000 active Covid-19 patients in high-risk category||BENGALURU: As the state strives to reduce the Covid-19 mortality rate and bring it under 1%, the focus is on treating high-risk patients. As of Saturday night, at least 11% of all patients in the state had influenza like illness (ILI) or severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), according to the state covid war room data. Another 12% of the patients were aged more than 60, which is also a high-risk category. While 16,267 patients as on Saturday had ILI, 3,346 had SARI and over 20,000 were aged above 60. As per the state government, in the 24-hour period ending Saturday, the fatality rate among high-risk patients was 7.1% while the overall rate was only 1.9%. There were 12,317 active patients who fall in the high-risk category, which was likely to change as of Sunday. Public health experts like Dr MK Sudharshan, Dr Giridhar Babu and others have been stressing the need to strategise on treatment of acute cases and early admission of ILI/SARI patients so as to manage their health. “In the most ideal situation, the mortality rate must be 1% or less. While testing more and identifying as many patients is key, we must also focus on appropriate treatment protocols for high-risk patients and ensure that they are admitted to hospital early,” Dr CN Manjunath, member, Karnataka Covid-19 task force had earlier told TOI. Babu pointed out that the state must also focus on patients with other comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension among others. As of August 6, 44% of patients had diabetes and 23% had hypertension, while 28% had hypertension along with other ailments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/more-than-12k-active-patients-in-karnataka-in-high-risk-category/articleshow/77451335.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nashik||Woman duped of Rs 2.83 lakh||Nashik: The Indiranagar police have booked a Mumbai-based man for duping a Nashik resident of Rs 2.38 lakh on the pretext of offering her a job in a finance company and collecting money through her by providing fake loans to people. Police said that the suspect also cheated three other women in the same manner. The incident came to light when Ranu Patil approached the police with a complaint. She told police that while looking for jobs on the internet, she got in touch with the conman who explained to her the scheme about giving loans to people at affordable interest rates through his finance company Global Trust Services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-duped-of-rs-2-83-lakh/articleshow/77452549.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Bareilly||First Amaria cane field tiger count to begin soon||Pilibhit: For the first time big cat count will be conducted in the agricultural belt of Pilibhit's Amaria tehsil, where a tigress and three cubs had moved into eight years ago Foresters estimate that some 10 tigers have made around 400 square km of the sugarcane fields their home The premise is based on pictures captured by camera traps installed by World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) for studying the movement and behaviour of these felines. H Rahamohan, field director of Pilibhit Tiget Reserve (PTR), said, "The official estimation is to begin within two-three days with the approval of principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) of UP, Sunil Pandey. With this, the precise number of resident as well as the transit tigers in Amaria area will be ascertained. These tigers will then officially be included in departmental records.” PTR has authorized the WWF to begin the counting of these tigers In November 2012, a tigress along with three cubs had migrated from Mahof forest range of PTR, 18 km away, to settle down among the shrubs and reeds along the banks of river Devha and sugarcane fields near Deuni dam. The presence of plentiful prey, water and shelter made it an ideal big cat habitat. Foresters surmise that over the years, the tigress may have traversed to and fro to the forest for mating, probably resulting in males to follow. Now, the cane field tiger population has increased. Giving details, regional coordinator of WWF Mudit Gupta said, “The territorial area of tigers will be divided into grids measuring 4 sq km each.” The WWF field teams will also take those distant spots into consideration where occasional movement of tigers has been reported, he said. “A minimum of 100 camera traps are to be installed covering all prominent trails of tigers by the end of monsoon. We will collect the tiger pictures at least for 45 days, downloading them every seven days," said Gupta. The data of Amaria tigers will be shared with Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India and the forest department, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/first-amaria-cane-field-tiger-count-to-begin-soon/articleshow/77450272.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Mysuru||DULT launches hashtag challenge to promote cycling in 9 cities||Mysuru: The Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) has launched a hashtag challenge to promote cycling in nine cities in Karnataka, including Mysuru, Shivamogga, Bengaluru, Tumakur, Kalaburugi, Hubballi-Dharwad, Davanagere and Belagavi According to the authorities, the best hashtag will be used for IndiaCycles4Change campaign by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. DULT is planning to launch an aggressive drive next year to promote cycling in all the cities as a solution for air pollution and traffic congestion. According to officials, in all the major cities in the state, including those being developed under the Smart City scheme, proposals to promote public bicycle sharing system, dedicated cycle lanes and making the city cycle-friendly among others are under consideration. “Promoting cycling will help the cities in several ways, including helping contain the air pollution. Cycling is becoming popular among youngsters too. Keeping all this in mind, new schemes are designed at the city levels. The hashtag campaign is part of such an exercise,” explained DULT officials. “Seven smart cities and the two city corporations are part of this campaign. The objective is to promote cycling in these cities,” explained DULT commissioner V Manjula. We are looking at short, quirky, catchy hashtags that effectively convey the idea. The selected hashtags will be used to brand our cycling initiatives,” she said. The IndiaCycles4Change campaign is being launched after consultation with the citizen groups and the experts beside smart city officials and city corporations, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/dult-launches-hashtag-challenge-to-promote-cycling-in-9-cities/articleshow/77450374.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ludhiana||MLA, DC flout social distancing norm at Covid centre opening||Ludhiana : A Covid care centre was opened at Lord Mahavira Homoeopathy College and Hospital, Hambran road, by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Sunday. It was inaugurated by Bharat Bhushan Ashu, cabinet minister for consumer affairs, civil and food supplies. During the inauguration, social distancing norms were flouted by top officials.Varinder Sharma, DC, Sandeep Kumar, ADC (D), Dr Rakesh Bagga, civil surgeon, and Balkar S Sidhu, mayor, and many senior doctors of the IMA, Ludhiana unit, were present. Seeing the increase in number of cases in our district, IMA, Ludhiana, came forward to open this facility. This centre will be run and managed by it. It has 25 beds on level 1 and level 2. Dr Sunil Katyal, president, IMA, Ludhiana, said, “If the need will arise we can increase the capacity of beds and will do our best to serve society. To increase the capacity of this facility, we will need manpower and finances. So, NGOs, public and doctors should come forward to donate for the cause and contact the IMA.” He said that Ludhiana IMA was thankful to its members for their support in the setting up of this facility. Besides, it is also thankful to the management of Lord Mahavira Homoeopathy College and Hospital for providing the infrastructure and related support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mla-dc-flout-social-distancing-norm-at-covid-centre-opening/articleshow/77451323.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen demand completion of work of Jaimal Road||Ludhiana: City businessmen are up in arms against the municipal corporation and administration for failure to complete the work of Jaimal Road due to which they are facing many problems as this road is one of the major one passing through the industrial and commercial areas and has large number of factories and shops located nearby. A delegation of the businessmen led by Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Harbhajan Singh Dang met Ludhiana mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu on the issue and demanded his intervention on the issue. Giving more information, Kular said, “The construction work of Jaimal Road was started on the February 13, but till date no work has been done, rather the road has been dug up from both ends, obstructing the movement of traffic. There are around 124 shops and establishments on both sides of the road also there are hundreds of factories and shops nearby, whose business has been completely affected.” He further said, “Businessmen have just started their operations after suffering huge losses due to lockdown of two months and now what they are staring at is further losses just due to non-completion of work of this crucial road. After our repeated attempts to get the work started by the officials concerned went futile, we were forced to approach the mayor and request him to get the work completed on war footing and felicitate the trade and industry.” Kular also added that, “Besides the issue of Jaimal Road we have also requested the mayor to ask the fire department to waive the fee of Rs 20,000, which is payable by the businessmen for getting NOC or licence from the fire department. The fee is very high and, moreover, what is the need for it when already we are paying the fire cess. Both these issues were listened to very patiently by the mayor, who assured us that action in this regard would be taken at the earliest and businessmen would be given the required relief.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-demand-completion-of-work-of-jaimal-road/articleshow/77451334.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Rajkot||Fresh wet spell brings cheer to worried kharif farmers||Palanpur: After playing truant in the early phase, moderate but steady spell of rainfall since the last two days has spread joy in the farming community in North Gujarat.The incessant rains since Saturday evening has raised hopes of a good crop among farmers just when worries of kharif sowing were rising. Even though the delayed monsoon has left majority of rivers and dams in North Gujarat nearly empty, farmers in the region said the wet spell will provide them some relief in cultivation. “We have now got some relief. I use a sprinkling system to irrigate my farm. It will work efficiently now,” said Bhikha Chaudhary, a farmer hailing from Ghadiyal village of Banaskantha’s Vadgam taluka. “If the showers continue, the water levels will rise. Also, we will also get relief from soaring temperatures and rising humidity levels,” he said. Almost 70 % of the millet crop that was sown has got a new lease of life. “The region has witnessed substantial rains which is good for cultivation,” said deputy director of agriculture Banaskantha PK Patel. Almost all talukas in neighbouring Patan, Sabarkantha and Aravalli district has witnessed a fresh round of rains. With increase in power consumption, scheduled and unscheduled power cuts in rural and urban areas had become frequent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fresh-wet-spell-brings-cheer-to-worried-kharif-farmers/articleshow/77450307.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Wait for vending zones gets longer||Ludhiana: The wait of roadside vendors for vending zones is getting longer as even after finalising the sites for establishing the same for the second time, the municipal corporation officials are yet to get the sites notified. Earlier, they were waiting for the MC general house meeting and now when the meeting could not take place, they have decided to send the proposal to the local bodies department without holding of a house meeting. The officials claimed that they were sending the proposal as in case there would be some kind of objection, then they would come to know about it and it could be removed. If they keep on waiting for a house meeting and after that they send the resolution to the local bodies department and the latter raised any objection, then it would become problematic for them. The proposal of these vending zones has been pending for a long time. While earlier the officials had identified over 100 sites for vending zones, now they have reduced these sites to 64. Even out of these sites some belong to Ludhiana Improvement Trust(LIT) and Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada), for which the civic body officials have not received the NOC The officials claimed that they were trying for the NOCs side by side and hopefully they would get the same soon. While giving the information the secretary of MC, Neeraj Jain, said, “Earlier, we were waiting for a house meeting as the proposal needs approval from house members, but now it seems that the meeting cannot be called up due to the ongoing situation. So, after discussion with the senior authorities we have decided to send the file to the local bodies department to check whether they have any objection.” He said it would take time to remove the objections and if there would be any objections, they could at least remove those and by that time the house meeting could also be organised. He claimed that they also wanted to develop the vending zones in the city as soon as possible but it could not be done without fulfilling the formalities. Meanwhile, the civic body has also started taking applications from the roadside vendors under Atam Nirbhar Scheme of the central government. Under this scheme, there is a provision of Rs 10,000 loan for the vendors for establishing their business. The officials claimed that they had already uploaded 350 applications online and more applications were expected in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/wait-for-vending-zones-gets-longer/articleshow/77451347.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Aurangabad||Centre to follow Aurangabad pattern of testing for traders||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s move of making Covid-19 tests mandatory for all businesses in the city is now set to be implemented across the country.The Union health ministry has issued a communication asking all states and Union Territories to test vendors and grocery store owners, so that they do not become the source for the spread of the contagion.Authorities acknowledged the fact that opening the markets has fuelled a surge in the number of cases being reported across the country.The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) was the first in the country to make it mandatory for businesses (under six different heads) to undergo Covid-19 tests and obtain Covid-19 negative certificates before starting their businesses.The decision in this regard was taken by AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey, towards the end of the strict lockdown that was imposed from July 10 to 18 in Aurangabad city. Since then, about 27,000 vendors, traders, businessmen and their employees have undergone the tests and about 1,750 have tested positive. Pandey told TOI, “We were the first in the country to make it mandatory for six different categories of businesses to mandatorily undergo the Covid-19 test. Now, the Union health department is implementing it.”He said early detection of cases has helped put a check on the further spread of the contagion. It has also helped the administration provide timely medical intervention, thus saving precious lives. The civic body has categorically asked the staffers, management and owners of grocery stores, meat vendors, vegetable and fruit vendors, retailers, milkmen and traders to undergo the testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/centre-to-follow-aurangabad-pattern-of-testing-for-traders/articleshow/77450318.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ludhiana||In absence of NGT directions on waste mgmt, biz goes on as usual||Ludhiana: Though clear directions about the revised deadline for implementation of Solid Waste Management Rules-2016 are yet to be announced by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), at the ground level not many things have changed since the first deadline of March 31 fixed by the tribunal. Whether source segregation, door to door garbage collection or settlement of waste, things remain the same. The officials, however, blamed the prevailing conditions due to coronavirus as they are unable to move freely in field and check door to door for the implementation. They claimed residents should support the civic body in making this drive successful. The last meeting of the NGT panel was held on February 13 and the committee members had passed the instructions to the officials for fulfilment of all works as per the NGT guidelines. Earlier, from April 1, the civic body was supposed to pay Rs10 lakh per month for its failure in implementing the action plan. Even the erring officials were supposed to face action. Though it was only a week left to the deadline when the lockdown was announced due to coronavirus cases, it gave a chance to the civic body officials to seek more time for finishing the tasks. The civic body still needs to work in these fields. 100% door-to-door garbage collection In papers almost in 97% of areas door-to-door garbage collection is taking place but most of the garbage is being lifted through private garbage collectors while private company A2Z waste management Limited is only carrying out garbage collection in 35% area of the city. A2Z was hired in 2011 and despite several attempts the company could not reach out to people in all areas. The sources revealed that the civic body had virtually bowed down to the pressure of various unions of MC employees, which raised a hue and cry against this decision. Even in the NGT this issue was taken up and the MC had showed helplessness in helping out the firm in this case. However, the company has also requested the civic body to remove the term door-to-door garbage collection from their agreement as it is not working out. The informal sector is not regular in lifting garbage from households and there is no suitable timing when they will lift the garbage. Moreover, there are no fixed charges as rates for garbage collection vary from area to area. As compared to this, A2Z is charging Rs 50 per house. A resident of Civil Lines, Karamjit Singh, said, “The private garbage collectors come three days in a week and they ask for at least Rs 100 per household and festivals are additional burden on residents.” He said the garbage collectors come very early in the morning as they have some other works to do during the day, so in case one is not able to wake up early then garbage will not be lifted from his house that day and in case garbage collector does not come the next day then the problem aggravates all the more. He said there was need to make things uniform. 100% source segregation Before lockdown the civic officials had started a special drive to implement the source segregation in the entire city. At secondary garbage collection points too wet and dry waste was being thrown separately. However, now during Covid-19 times, regular checking came to an end and residents also returned to their earlier routine. The source segregation at some of the garbage dumps is also not properly done. There is provision to impose penalty on those residents who are unable to do source segregation but till date officials did not implement the same. After lockdown the checking in some of areas was conducted but without any strict action against violators. Rs 100 crore hurdle in treating legacy waste The NGT has directed the civic body to treat legacy waste as well. The civic body officials got the survey done at Jamalpur garbage dump to check quantity of waste and it was found to be close to 16 lakh tonnes. The officials claimed that it would require at least Rs 100 crore to settle this waste where they have to separate the sand and RDF lying together for the past so many years. The officials further claimed that like Ludhiana, cities like Amritsar, Jalandhar and Patiala are also doing the same thing and now they are looking for the best model that can be adopted. The previous deadline for settling the legacy waste was April 2021. No action against illegal dairies The NGT committee members had asked the civic body officials to seal the illegal dairy units as soon as possible. The officials had identified 197 such units in residential areas and served the dairy owners notices to stop their business but nothing happened. Requesting anonymity, one of the officials claimed that they had served the notices, but after that coronavirus scare happened and everything came to a standstill. Meanwhile, when asked about the ongoing issues, the secretary of the MC, Neeraj Jain, said, “Things were going on smoothly and we had covered almost all things but due to coronavirus the staff got busy in sanitisation and distribution of ration.” He said they could not achieve anything unless the residents do not mend their ways and support the civic body in making this city neat and clean. He further said the deadlines would be revised, but they were yet to receive anything from the NGT or committee members. Only after that they could chalk out the next course of action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-absence-of-ngt-directions-on-waste-mgmt-biz-goes-on-as-usual/articleshow/77451371.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Madurai||HC imposes Rs 15,000 on petitioner for hiding facts||Madurai: Observing that a litigant is expected to approach the court with clean hands, Madras high court imposed a cost of Rs 15,000 on a man for filing a petition suppressing the fact that a suit was pending with regard to the ownership of a property. A person named Abbas had filed a petition before HC Madurai bench in 2017 urging a direction to Trichy corporation authorities to provide water connection to his house situated in Muslim Street at Periyapalayam, which he claimed was gifted to him by way of a registered gift deed. He said the connection was disconnected due to lapses of the previous occupants. The single judge disposed of the plea by directing to provide the water connection after Abbas paid the entire arrears. Challenging the order, S Asak Basha filed the present appeal in 2018. Basha said through his counsel that Abbas had filed a suit before the Trichy district munsif court with regard to the ownership of the property and this was suppressed by Abbas while filing his petition in 2017. Hearing the appeal, a division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam observed that the pendency of the civil suit may have a bearing on the request for water connection, but it was not disclosed by Abbas in his petition. Though Abbas in his writ petition claimed absolute ownership of the property, he cannot make such an averment until he gets declaratory relief in the pending suit. Hence, the judges allowed the appeal filed by Basha and set aside the order of a single judge. Since Abbas had deliberately suppressed the finding of the suit and made the court to pass some orders in his favour, the judges imposed a cost of Rs 15,000 on him payable to additional registrar general (in-charge) / registrar (judicial) for purchasing necessary equipment for the court dispensary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-imposes-rs-15000-on-petitioner-for-hiding-facts/articleshow/77452559.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 10, 2020||Madurai||High court fines petitioner who encroached land||Madurai: Madras high court has imposed a fine of Rs 3,500 on a man for filing a petition seeking removal of encroachment, which he himself had done on a portion of land in a village in Sivaganga district. The petitioner, M Malaisamy, who is the president of the Cleanliness Workers Welfare Association, sought the Sivaganga municipality officials to allot free house pattas for the cleanliness workers. Based on the demands, a GO was passed in 1992 to acquire land at Paiyoor Pillai Vaiyal village in the district. Since, land was allotted to several ineligible people, the petitioner filed a petition before Madurai bench of the HC in 2015 seeking to allot pattas for eligible people. The court disposed of the petition directing the authorities to consider the representation submitted by the petitioner. Subsequently, 64 people were identified. However, the encroachments by the illegal occupants have not been removed. Hence, the petitioner filed a public interest litigation seeking the removal of encroachment on the land. During the course of hearing, special government pleader V R Shanmuganathan submitted that in the light of the irregularities, the originally granted pattas were cancelled and 64 eligible people, which include the petitioner, were identified and land was allotted to them. He submitted that steps are being taken by the authorities to remove the encroachments. He further submitted that the petitioner himself is guilty of encroachment and he has failed to approach this court with clean hands. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam observed that once a person approaches this court alleging encroachment of a public land, he is expected to state truth that he did not cause encroachment on the land belonging to the government or local body. The judges observed that though the petitioner was shown benevolence in the form of allotment of land, he became greedy and encroached on other lands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/high-court-fines-petitioner-who-encroached-land/articleshow/77452561.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Woman infected with Covid escapes from KIMS hospital||BENGALURU: A 43-year-old Covid-19 positive woman escaped from Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) Hospital, Bengaluru, on Friday evening and is yet to be traced. VV Puram police have registered a criminal case against Suma (name changed) from Doddabasti. In his complaint to VV Puram police, Dr Samarth, a casualty medical officer at KIMS hospital, said the woman was admitted to the hospital on July 25 after her Covid-19 test report confirmed the infection. She was housed in the Covid ward in B Block of the hospital. The hospital staff found her missing on Friday evening. Police have registered a case against the woman under IPC section 269s (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/woman-infected-with-covid-escapes-from-kims-hospital/articleshow/77451379.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||District crosses 300 Covid deaths, last 200 reported in just 11 days||Nagpur: The Covid-19 death toll of the district has crossed the 300-mark. The district on Sunday registered 23 deaths to take the number of fatalities to 315. It took 141 days (March 11 to July 29) for the district to cross 100 fatalities while, alarmingly, the next 200 deaths were reported in just 11 days (July 30 to August 9). The district had registered first positive case of novel coronavirus on March 11. By June end, district’s case fatality rate (CFR) was 1.66%. It increased to 2.27% when the district crossed 100 deaths. At that time, CFR of India was 2.23% while 3.62% of state and 3.98% of world. As on Sunday, CFR of the district was 3.21% which is well above the country’s CFR (2.01%) and slightly less than state (3.45%) and world (3.73%). The current scenario is even more worrying for the district. Of the total 315 deaths, 189 (60%) were registered in first nine days of August. Among 35 districts in the state, the district is 10th to cross 300 fatalities despite being on 5th position as far as population is concerned. On the day the district had crossed 100 deaths, it was 12th in state and 2nd in Vidarbha after Akola. The highest 6,799 deaths have been registered in Mumbai, followed by Thane-3,008, Pune-2,728, Jalgaon-611, Solapur-580, Nashik-569, Aurangabad-545, Raigad-510 and Palghar-424. With population of around 90,000, Kamptee town has registered highest 21 deaths in the district. The town also leads with 752 positive cases. With around similar population, Mominpura, Timki, Hansapuri and Golibar Chowk areas in the city have registered 17 deaths each. Of the total deceased, over 75% were patients with comorbidities and majority of them were reported in the critical stage. Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) registered 148 deaths while 864 recovered/discharged and 237 are under treatment. Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) DCH recorded 144 deaths while 953 recovered/discharged and are 370 under treatment. The AIIMS DCH has not registered a single death. It has discharged 297 patients and 44 are under treatment. DCHs at five private hospitals have registered 23 deaths with having 237 patients recovered/discharged and 211 are under treatment. Guardian minister Nitin Raut has announced four-T programme — tracking, tracing, testing and treating — for controlling the deaths. “All who develop any type of symptoms should immediately go for testing. Majority of deaths have occurred due to late reporting at hospitals,” he said. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has started 21 centres for ‘Walk-in test for Covid-19’ in the city. “Target is to increase number of tests every day. Deaths can be controlled if positive patients are detected at an early stage and given treatment from initial phase. Isolation of positive patients at early stage will also help in containing spread of the disease,” he said. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has also started contacting high-risk persons and testing them at nearest centre. The high-risk persons comprising senior citizens, those with comorbidities, pregnant women etc are considered as the most vulnerable to this disease. They were identified and their contact numbers taken by the NMC during door-to-door survey conducted in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/district-crosses-300-covid-deaths-last-200-reported-in-just-11-days/articleshow/77452556.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 10, 2020||Hubballi||Youth washed away in river||Haveri: A 25-year-old youth, was washed away after he slipped into Varada River at Inamlakamapur village in Hanagal taluk on Saturday evening. The incident took place when he was trying to rescue his cattle. The missing youth is Chandru Dalawai from Inamlakamapur village. He had gone to the river to bathe his livestock. As some of the cattle slipped into the river, Chandru rushed to their rescue but was washed away. Police and fire personnel reached the spot and began the rescue operation. Search was on till Sunday evening. “Heavy water flow has been a hurdle in the rescue operation,” said SB Ganachari, CPI, Hanagal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/youth-washed-away-in-river/articleshow/77448860.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Madurai||HC sets aside Rs 10Kcost on man who stalled HT line plan||Madurai: Madras high court has set aside the Rs 10,000 cost imposed on a man by a single judge as he had obstructed the drawing of a high tension electricity line by putting up a tin shade over his house in Kanyakumari district.K Balakrishnan, a resident of Methukammal village, filed a petition before HC Madurai bench in 2017 against the order passed by the authorities to draw a high tension electricity line over his house. The single judge by an order on March 6 this year had dismissed the petition and imposed the cost saying he had obstructed the drawing of the line for three years by putting up a temporary tin shade over the first floor of his house.Challenging the order, Balakrishnan filed the present appeal which was heard by a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice P Rajamanickam. The judges observed that the single judge had also rightly found that the authorities had exercised their jurisdiction fairly and strictly in accordance with the statutory provisions and imposed a cost on the petitioner for his conduct. Hence the judges confirmed the order of the single judge and dismissed the appeal preferred by Balakrishnan. The appellant said through his counsel that he had shown over-indulgence in his acts as he was advised on the alleged imminent danger posed by the drawing of the electricity line. Hence he sought to set aside the cost imposed. It was also informed that the appellant had removed the tin shade. Taking cognizance of the submissions, the judges set aside the cost imposed on the appellant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-sets-aside-rs-10kcost-on-man-who-stalled-ht-line-plan/articleshow/77452587.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Madurai||Woman’s body found burning in Madurai||Madurai: The burning body of an unidentified woman was recovered by the Tirumangalam Town police on Saturday noon.. The body was found burning in the backyard of a match box iunit on PT Rajan Street. An investigation has been launched to identify the deceased. It was K Rajkumar, 32, from the same street who noticed the body. Police sources said that Rajkumar runs a grocery store in his house and had gone to the spot to relieve himself when he found something was burning. When he noticed that it was a dead body being burnt, he alerted the local police. A team led by inspector Parameswari rushed to the spot and sent it for postmortem. “We have launched an inquiry to find out the identity of the deceased person. Missing complaints lodged in police stations in and around Madurai district are being perused,” said a police officer. Based on a complaint from Rajkumar, a case was registered under CrPc section – 174 (suspicious death) and a detailed probe was underway, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/womans-body-found-burning-in-madurai/articleshow/77452601.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Trichy||Apps developed by Trichy students bag Smart India Hackathon prizes||Trichy: Two teams of final year BTech IT students of University College of Engineering (BIT Campus), Trichy, were the winners in the grand finale of the Smart India Hackathon in the software edition in their respective problem statement area.This year, Smart India Hackathon, a 36-hour digital India competition launched by MHRD, was a complete virtual event held from August 1-3. A mobile application developed by the students of University College of Engineering to guide entrepreneurs to select the best location for setting up food processing units and an innovative idea on efficient zoonotic disease alert and outbreak control system for farmers were the top picks.The winning team will receive Rs 1 lakh and the opportunity to implement their ideas with the help of various Central Government departments.A seven-member team ‘Maargadarshak Mandal’ led by J Jerish final year BTech student created a virtual assistance that will guide entrepreneurs to find the ideal location in the state to set up a food processing unit. The students formulated an algorithm that will process a variety of data on production of crops in a region and popular food habits.During the hackathon, they were asked by jury members to include regional language and details of crops grown according to different seasons. “We could effectively do it. There were 30 teams working on the same problem statement on food processing industry and we came first,” said J Jerish Obed, final year BTech IT student.Another team ‘Tech Kings’ headed by R Suwathi won the hackathon on the problem statement from animal husbandry department of Government of Andhra Pradesh. The team developed an application that will provide efficient zoonotic disease alert and outbreak control system to help farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/apps-developed-by-trichy-students-bag-smart-india-hackathon-prizes/articleshow/77453099.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||State seeks term extension of environment bodies||Panaji: After the Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar recently named Goa as one of the few states which did not presently have either one functional of the two environment impact assessment bodies, state environment minister Nilesh Cabral said on Sunday that the state has already sent a letter to the Centre seeking extension in the term of the bodies. tTe environment minister said that another letter has also been sent for formation of new panel for the two bodies — the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) and the State Environment Assessment Committee (SEAC). Cabral said that extension in term has been sought as formation of new committee requires time. He said that Goa had both a SEIAA and a SEAC functional and that only the three-year term had come to an end during the pandemic. “The term ended on June 27. Usually, a letter seeking extension has to be sent at least two months in advance. The letter should have gone from Goa in April. But there was Covid crisis and also the Centre had given additional time to renew the committees,” Cabral said. “We sent the letters a bit later. But we have sent them. We have asked for extension in term of the committee by six months,” he said. The environment minister said forming new committee takes time as the Centre has to verify biodatas of the suggested members by the state to be part of the SEIAA and SEAC.  SIEAA and SEAC in states are constituted by central government to grant environmental clearances for various projects at state level. The SEAC scrutinises and refers project proposals to the SEIAA for its appraisal. Based on the recommendations of the Expert Appraisal Committee, the SEAC decides the issue of environmental clearance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-seeks-term-extension-of-environment-bodies/articleshow/77453287.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Teachers ensure no gap in learning for students of five Kolar villages||KOLAR: More than hundred high school students in and around a village in Kolar taluk are already in the thick of academic activity, notwithstanding uncertainty over reopening classes and the delayed clearing of the state’s continuous learning programme, Vidyagama. The feat has been made possible by Government High School in Arabhikotthanur, 15km from Kolar town and off the Bangalore Chennai National Highway. While 102 Class 9 and 10 students of the school from Arabhikotthanur and the neighbouring villages of Kendatti, Chunchadenahalli, Cheluvanahalli and Maderahalli are attending online classes conducted by their teachers in association with Manipal Foundation for three weeks now, 32 other Class 8 students are being taught in groups under trees and in the temples of the villages under what is being described as ‘Vatara Shale’, a kind of community schooling. This programme kicked off on August 3. Under ‘Vatara Shale’, teachers are going to doorsteps of their wards, while motivators, all locals, keep track of the activity of students. The Class 8 students are being joined in ‘Vatara Shale’ by students of other schools too. It may be recalled that the state government last week cleared its Vidyagama project to cushion the impact of the pandemic on academics of school children. According to CL Srinivasalu, a teacher in the school, the Manipal Foundation, Udupi, has been conducting online classes for the past four years for their students. After having stopped classes during the lockdown, the foundation resumed classes recently and is now conducting two hours of classes daily in core subjects of science, mathematics and English. Six Class 10 students who do not have smartphones have been asked to watch Chandana TV programmes and teachers have been following up, said Srinivasalu. The teachers are also making video clips of various topics pertaining to lessons and are forwarding them to students, said Srinivasalu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/teachers-ensure-no-gap-in-learning-for-students-of-5-kolar-villages/articleshow/77451423.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 2020-end opening for Shahdara lake picnic spot||NEW DELHI: East Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to inaugurate the Shahdara lake-cum-recreation centre on December 25, which happens to be the birth anniversary of former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The project is funded by the Centre under its AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) scheme and the civic agency has decided to name the facility after the late PM only. “This is a big 30.7-acre green space, of which the lake occupies 14 acres. Once developed, this will be the first such picnic spot in east Delhi with provisions for boating, eateries, huge lawns, walking tracks, etc,” said a senior EDMC official. The official added that with the beginning of the unlock period in Delhi, the work on the project picked up pace and gradually the number of labourers started increasing. “We have levelled the place with soil and completed the work on excavating the lake bed. Now, work on making partial permeable lining around the lake is going on so that water doesn’t get absorbed easily. A provision for water supply till the lake has been made, apart from biological plantation for treating the wastewater done,” said the official. “Work on creating parks, walking areas and plazas will be taken up soon. In the final phase, the jheel will be made attractive with artificial bridges, LED lights, decorative planters, etc,” added the official. Due to lack of funds, the project conceived in 2008-09 kept on getting delayed. “In 2012, EDMC had engaged National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) and prepared a plan for the lake’s revival in two phases. Under Phase-I, a phytorid technology sewage treatment system was to be set up. The civic body obtained Rs 4 crore from the Trans-Yamuna Area Development Board for the job and got a Pune-based company to do it,” said another official. A full-fledged sewage treatment system was installed in 2016-17. “Plants, which absorb sewage as nutrients to clean the dirty water, were planted then and these are still there,” added the official. But after TYADB become defunct, funds for the second phase of the project could not be released and the project was put on hold again. Finally in July 2019, the Centre decided to allocate Rs 15 crore for revival of the lake and the civic body announced to complete the work by July 2020. “But due to the pandemic, ban on construction activities and riots in northeast Delhi, work got impacted again. We are now aiming to inaugurate the facility on December 25,” said the official further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2020-end-opening-for-shahdara-lake-picnic-spot/articleshow/77451422.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 10, 2020||Madurai||South TN toll nears 1K with 47 deaths||Madurai/Trichy: The number of Covid-19 deaths in the southern region is inching towards the 1,000-mark as it reported 47 deaths on Sunday, which took the toll to 999. Virudhunagar district (13) reported the highest number of deaths in the region. With 14,463 active cases, the tally crossed the 65,000-mark on Sunday. Meanwhile, the central region of the state recorded 620 fresh cases taking the tally to 18,300, which include 5,140 active cases. The region also recorded six deaths taking the toll to 209. As many as 1,614 fresh cases were reported in the south on Sunday. Among them Theni reported the highest with 360 cases, followed by Tuticorin, 251. As many as 50,084 people have been recovered in the region. Madurai reported 107 new cases on Sunday crossing the 12,000-mark. The number of days taken to reach 12,000 from 11,000 is nine days, a clear indication that the curve is flattening in the district that was once seen as the source of the Covid-19 outbreak in the southern districts. While Madurai took 94 days to add the first 1,000 cases on June 24, on several occasions 1,000 cases were added in just 2 to 4 days. On two other occasions it took five and six days, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-toll-nears-1k-with-47-deaths/articleshow/77452615.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Bareilly||Police constable, accused of raping a constable & homeguard, arrested||Pilibhit: A team of Pilibhit police on Saturday evening arrested constable Satyajeet Singh (28) from his native village Moradabad under Sikandarabad police station in district Muzzaffarnagar. Singh had been booked on February 7 at one police station in the city, where he was then placed, for raping a lady constable, but instead of being penalised, he had been transferred to another police station within Pilibhit, where, a fortnight later on February 22, he raped a 25-year-old lady homeguard. The accused was on the run since the second FIR was lodged against him on February 22 under sections 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation), 420 (cheating and dishonesty) and 406 (criminal breach of trust). Pilibhit Kotwali SHO Shrikant Dwivedi said in both cases, the accused outraged the modesty of the survivors on the pretext of marrying them. In the case of the lady homeguard, he had also sold her scooterette and misappropriated the sale amount. He is also accused of duping her of a major part of her monthly salary. He was sent to jail on Sunday, added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/police-constable-accused-of-raping-a-constable-homeguard-arrested/articleshow/77448839.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada fire: Private hospitals roped in without verification||AMARAVATI: With Covid-19 cases rising by the day, the state government has started granting permission to private hospitals and NGOs to run Covid Care Centres to ease the burden on government healthcare institutions. However, no authority has undertaken a field inspection of these private Covid Care Centres before they begin to serve Covid-19 patients. Sources said more than 60 private hospitals in various cities and towns have been granted permission to treat Covid-19 patients. Surprisingly, the permission letters issued by district collectors to private agencies do not mention anything about carrying out pre-inspection by line departments, including the medical and health, police, fire services and electricity departments. Many district collectors have granted permissions to private hospitals and NGOs based on the self-declarations submitted by them. The fire mishap, which broke out at a hotel being used as a Covid-19 hospital in Vijayawada, has exposed the lapses on part of the authorities, who were blind to the operations of the private agencies. It is being alleged that district collectors are rushing through the process of granting permissions to more private Covid Care Centres as they are under severe pressure to provide beds to patients in government-run hospitals. According to a confidential report readied by the medical and health department, private hospitals and NGOs are handling around 12,500 beds in the state. “While 50% of the beds are available in the existing hospitals, the managements of private hospitals and NGOs have taken hotels on lease and converted them into paid Covid Care Centres. Neither any inspection by the authorities nor monitoring is mandatory as per the permission letter issued to private agencies,” said a senior official of health department. Although, bringing in more beds and facilities available in private setups has helped the well-off sections, it has, however, allowed private hospitals to exploit the situation as they are charging exorbitant fees, said an electricity employee, who was recently discharged from Swarna Palace Covid Centre. “The hospital management clearly told me before admission that the entire treatment will be done only through video-conference and no doctor will visit. They have kept nursing staff at our disposal and provided facilities including food. The very thought of the fire mishap is frightening,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pvt-hosps-roped-in-without-verification/articleshow/77451425.cms||Samdani MN
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||A million SHGs under livelihood mission to employ 1cr by 2024||Lucknow: To provide job opportunities, especially to migrants hit by the lockdown, the State Rural Livelihood Mission (SRLM) has managed to expand its footprint in 23 more districts to cover the entire state in the last two months. Until now, the mission, conducted by the rural development department, had its presence in 52 districts. However, as SRLM attained a major role in providing job opportunities, the state government decided to implement in the remaining 23 districts. The newly added districts include Amroha, Ballia, Bulandshahr, Etah, Ayodhya, Farrukhabad, Ghazipur, Hathras, Jaunpur, Kanpur Dehat, Kasganj, Kaushambi, Kushinagar, Mathura, Mau, Muzzaffarnagar, Pilibhit, Rae Bareli, Rampur, Sambhal, Sant Kabir Nagar, Shahjahanpur and Sitapur. Mission director Sujit Kumar said that the 23 districts cover 139 new blocks. With this, 593 blocks covering all 75 districts have been covered over the past few months. He said that around 40 lakh people are associated with 3.65 lakh self-help groups. “The target is to expand SRLM to constitute 10 lakh self-help groups with an aim to get 1 crore people associated to SHGs by 2024,” he said. “The number of SHGs therefore needs to increase gradually as per the requirement,” an official said. The development comes even as the rural development department works overtime to constitute more SHGs and even join them to form a bigger conglomerate in a bid to expand its activities under National Rural Economic Transformation Project which is proposed to be conducted in 31 districts. Amid the pandemic, the department roped in SRLM to manufacture face masks and personal protection equipment kits, especially khadi masks, which the department wishes to sell at Rs 5 per piece. “A lot of people have been buying products manufactured by the SHGs,” Kumar said, adding that the aim is to provide a mask to every individual in the state. In Lucknow alone, around 427 women associated with different SHGs have manufactured more than 3 lakh masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-million-shgs-under-livelihood-mission-to-employ-1cr-by-2024/articleshow/77453104.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal municipal corporation orders fire safety review of hospitals, Covid centres||BHOPAL: After the fire incident in Covid centre in Andhra Pradesh on Sunday, the Bhopal municipal corporation ordered a review of fire safety preparedness of all hospitals and Covid-19 quarantine centres. BMC additional commissioner Shashvat Meena said, “National building code which includes safety norms has to be abided by all. Building permission is not complete just with the installation of fire safety infrastructure.” All the 225 private hospitals and nursing homes in Bhopal had submitted their fire safety certification after an extensive drive last year. “The issue not about installation of fire safety infrastructure. The staff and employees should be trained and regular maintenance of the equipment is required,” said BMC fire safety expert, Sajid Khan. Urban development experts in the past have pointed out that there are no provisions for penalty as MP Fire Safety Act has not been amended by the Vidhan Sabha. Fire safety requirements as per National Building code of India 2016, do not constitute provision of penalty as the MP does not have an Act. Current provisions and regulations for fire service management has not been made under Municipal Corporation Act, 1956. It envisages that the Commissioner shall make regulations. However, regulations for fire service management have not been made by urban local bodies. “Old buildings are the issue. New constructions, are enforcing the fire safety norms,” said a senior BMC official. As per National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) guidelines, 2012, states which had not enacted their own Fire Act, should immediately enact a suitable Fire Act within a year. A recent audit scrutiny revealed that the MP government did not enact its own fire act. The state’s fire services were incorporated under Municipal Corporations Act 1956 and Municipalities Act 1961. However, the respective municipal acts did not provide for various necessary provisions included in Model Fire Bill, such as, -penalties and punishments for violation of duty of fire service personnel, failure of person in communicating information on outbreak of fire, false report of the outbreak of a fire; and, liability of property owner, whose property catches fire due to deliberate or negligent action, to pay compensation to any other person suffering damage to his property. “Every three years a private hospital is supposed to renew their registration. When three years are complete, all hospitals will be fire safety compliant. The process is online now. CMHO office has no data,” said nursing home in charge Praveen Sharma at CMHO Bhopal. Hamidia hospital: There are multiple exists in GMC building. I do not see any reason for mortality on account of fire, said a GMC official. GMC purchased 376 fire extinguishers worth Rs 15.81 lakh, after the 2013 Kolkata hospital fire. JP hospital: The fire department had identified major deficiencies in the hospital’s fire safety preparedness as well as bases of potential disaster. Since 2018, JP hospital has been expanded. New building is equipped with latest fire safety mechanism. AIIMS Bhopal: The hospital campus is connected to automated fire extinguishing system. Regular inspection is carried out. Earlier in 2016, AIIMS audit had detected some flaws, which have been overcome since. Quarantine centres: According to BMC, most of the quarantine centres are in central or state government run institutes which have adequate fire safety measures. BMC also points out that most of the quarantine centres are not densely populated as the students are not on campus. Covid Care Centres, which are mainly hostels of students of three prestigious educational institutions of the city-IISER, MANIT and RGPV-the district administration, which took over the buildings for the purpose, said that the buildings have the fire safety certificate of the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC). IISER has provided 750 rooms of 3 hostels with the accommodation of 250 each. MANIT has provided the second highest number of rooms for Covid facilities. A total of four hostels wilh accomodation for 600 people have been provided. “Fire safety norms were followed before the hostels were taken over. MANIT has no control on the buildings now, so can’t say about the present status,” said MANIT registrar, Prof ND Mitta. RGPV has provided two hotels. Accommodation in one hostel is 212 while other has 150. "We have no clue about fire safety provisions available at the moment there,” said RGPV’s PRO Shashi Ranjan Akela. District administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore, while talking to TOI said that all the buildings taken over for Covid-19 patients are hostels and have fire safety certificate of the BMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bmc-orders-fire-safety-review-of-hosps-covid-centres/articleshow/77452602.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Only 10% Covid patients in hospital; CCCs taking bulk of load in district||NAGPUR: Though the Nagpur district and city are witnessing huge surge in new cases and fatalities since one week, the admissions of moderate to critically ill Covid patients in IGGMCH, GMCH and AIIMS is just 7.5% of the 8,406 cases recorded by the district civil surgeon. Against a total bed capacity of 1,260 in Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs) at these three facilities, 633 are currently occupied. Another 191 patients, requiring specialized medical care, are admitted to five private DCHs in the city. This takes total admissions ratio to 9.8% against positive cases. The admissions in government and private (824) is almost equal to highest single day surge of over 800 cases recorded on Saturday. The analysis refers to only the data provided by the civil surgeon (CS), who is district nodal officer for Covid, as on August 8, 2020. The actual number of cases, discharge and active cases may vary due to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and the CS following different cut offs for daily reporting. According to the CS press note, Nagpur district has 8,406 cases with 4,556 discharged as of Saturday. This indicates 3,860 are currently active. Excluding the total hospitalizations 824, the remaining 3,036 active cases or 36% are either in Covid Care Centres (CCCs) for initial screening or have proceeded for home isolation. The hospitalizations account for 21% of active cases. As of Saturday, the 18 CCCs in city and different tehsils had 1,477 admissions which is 17.5% of total cases. Another 2,091 are in process of admissions which means 54% of newly-found cases are yet to be shifted to any facility. This is mainly because of the district administration and civic body revising their policy for hospitalizations on July 27. Only those complaining of breathlessness, co-morbities and critically ill are getting preference in both government and private hospitals. As a precautionary measure, the administration started basic screening facility at MLA Hostel CCC where ECG, oxygen saturation level and blood tests are being done to clinically ascertain if a patient requires DCH admission. So far, 2,098 patients have been discharged from the three government hospitals and 220 from private hospitals. A whopping 2,228 were discharged from the CCCs, which is 57% of the active cases. This has given a huge relief to the stressed DCHs staff as earlier all types of patients were admitted there. The CCCs in city and district are now hosting major caseload. The district though having sufficient equipment and ICU beds in government DCHs, is yet to substantially use them mainly because of lack of manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-10-covid-patients-in-hosp-cccs-taking-bulk-of-load-in-dist/articleshow/77452584.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Three more deaths, 127 positive in Yavatmal; lockdown lifted||Yavatmal: Since August 1, 20 deaths were recorded and on Tuesday, three more deaths took the toll to 52. Of the three deceased, one was a 50-year-old man from Wadgaon locality of the city, a 65-year-old man from ward number 1 of Umarkhed and a 40-year-old man from Mominpura area of Arni tehsil. Total 127 new positive patients were reported on Tuesday of whom 69 are men and 58 are women. 142 persons are admitted in the isolation wards of GMC Yavatmal while 60 swab samples have been sent to the local VRDL for testing. Meanwhile, the district administration has succumbed to the pressure tactics applied by a local BJP turned Shiv Sena leader who opted to lie in the middle of the road in Pandharkawda of Yavatmal to stress his demand for lifting the unwanted and uncalled lockdown in the town sans any proper planning which led people of all sections to suffer. He also threatened to convert his token stir into an indefinite hunger strike if his demands are not met.The administration has finally lifted the lockdown from Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-more-deaths-127-positive-in-yavatmal-lockdown-lifted/articleshow/77488659.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Bareilly||Man held for inflammatory post on Facebook||Bareilly: A man in Khuthar area of Shahjahanpur district landed in jail for an inflammatory post involving a deity on his Facebook wall. The man was arrested after several members of a community staged a protest and an FIR was registered on the orders of a senior police. He has been booked under section 66 of the IT Act and section 295a of the IPC. The FIR was registered on the complaint of local activist MP Singh who protested at the Khuthar police station along with the members of Hindu Yuva Vahini against a local printing press owner Mohammed Yusuf. Yusuf allegedly wrote that people should start visiting mosques because Lord Rama is also living there. Station house officer (SHO) Khuthar Jai Shankar Singh said, “The post was immediately deleted after the complaint was received. The accused has been arrested and we are questioning him. His post was provoking and may have led to violence between the members of two communities in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-held-for-inflammatory-post-on-facebook/articleshow/77448854.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 10, 2020||Hubballi||Congress protests to mark Quit India||Hubballi: Members of Hubballi-Dharwad Central Congress Committee staged a protest demanding jobs for youths by cleaning the premises of Mahatma Gandhi statue here to mark Quit India day on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion, Rajat Ullagaddimath, general secretary, City District Congress Committee, said that Modi government has neglected the demands of the youths in the country. “Following unemployment problem, hundreds of youths have committed suicide in past 6 years. Due failure on part of the government in handling Covid-19 pandemic, many more youths have lost jobs,” he alleged. Another leader Shazman Mujahid asserted that Modi government is snatching jobs from existing employees by privatising the railways and other public sectors. NSUI national coordinator Mohammad Husain Hazi and others were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/congress-protests-to-mark-quit-india/articleshow/77451599.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Bhopal||‘Mask is your biggest shield even at home; be positive, self-disciplined to beat Covid’||BHOPAL: “Face shields are not a substitute for wearing face masks. There is a need to put on a mask at home too,” said Suraj (named changed), who was under home quarantine during the early stages of the pandemic in late May. “Covid-19 virus can be spread by people who do not have symptoms and do not know that they are infected,” he explained. Suraj believes he contracted the infection when he volunteered to distribute food during the lockdown. “Preventing respiratory droplets to infect another at home was my primary goal. I was lucky to get the option of home quarantine. Constant updates on the health department’s app and staying in my room at all times did the trick,” he said. Narrating his experience, Manish, a businessman, said: “I developed fever, cough and difficulty breathing and promptly sought medical advice. After the Covid-19 test, I requested the local SDM to give me the option of home isolation. The authorities checked my residence and permitted me to live on the top floor which had a separate restroom.” He probably contracted the virus during a trip to a wholesaler in Bairagarh. “Infection is a serious condition. It takes a toll on self and a mental toll on the family. The option for home quarantine was best suited for my situation. Hospitals have a heavy viral load and come with an added risk,” he added. The duration of home quarantine is 14 days from contact with a confirmed case or earlier if a suspect case of whom the index person is a contact and turns out negative on laboratory testing, according to MoHFW guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mask-is-your-biggest-shield-even-at-home-be-positive-self-disciplined-to-beat-covid/articleshow/77452631.cms||Jamal Ayub
August 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Lack of fire safety tools cause for wilful neglect||Vijayawada/Visakhapatnam: The swanky private hospitals and hotels-turned-Covid care centres claim to have all the modern healthcare systems, infrastructure and amenities. But a majority of them do not obtain the mandatory no-objection certificate from fire officials for want of fire safety equipment. According to officials, the fire mishap at the Swarna Palace Hotel in Vijayawada on Sunday was only waiting to happen given its non-adherence to fire safety norms and electrical issues. In Visakhapatnam city, as per the data procured from Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) and district fire officials, only some 82 hospitals have fire NOC out of more than 300 hospitals. According to Vijayawada Hoteliers’ Association, there are around 20 private hotels, which have been leased to private hospitals, to be operated as paid quarantine facilities, while the hospitals are still in discussions with the hotels in Visakhapatnam to convert them to treatment centres. According to the National Building Code of India, 2016 and Fire Services Act, hotels would not require a NOC from the fire department if the building height is less 18 metres. However, the fire officials point out that once the space is leased out to a private hospitals as a quarantine centre, then it does not stand as a hotel but as a medical facility. Speaking to TOI, assistant district fire officer of Krishna district, A Sekhar, who was part of the rescue operations at Swarna Palace pointed out that due to the fire breaking out during the early hours of the day, it took several minutes before the staff and patients noticed the fire spreading on the ground floor. “Had there been a smoke alarm in place or even an emergency staircase, things could have been different and no one would have to die,” Sekhar told TOI. In the wake of the fire accident in the hotel-turned-Covid Care Centre, the Visakhapatnam district administration constituted separate committees for each Covid-19 hospital, quarantine centre and care centre, apart from the community health centres, area hospitals and district hospitals to take stock of electrical connections and other safety aspects in these treatment facilities. Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand said the teams will submit their inspection reports on electrical connections and safety measures in the next two days. “The teams will work in coordination and visit all the 79 Covid-19 treatment facilities in the district,” said Vinay Chand. GVMC regional fire officer Niranjan Reddy said GVMC holds the responsibility of issuing fire NOCs to hospitals with a height of less than 15 metres. “The GVMC issued the NOCs to 50 hospitals and 14 dental clinics, while notices have been issued to about 50 hospitals,” said Reddy. Visakhapatnam district fire officer J Mohana Rao said they would launch a drive from Monday to check on fire safety measures at all the hospitals in the district. “There are 18 high-rise hospitals with fire NOCs,” said the fire officer. “Fire NOCs are not mandatory for hotel buildings that are below 18 metres. However, we had internally advised the 20 hotels to audit fire safety norms and have a provision to have alternate staff to ensure such incidents don’t occur,” Vijayawada Hoteliers’ Association secretary Sanjay Mehta told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/lack-of-fire-safety-tools-cause-for-wilful-neglect/articleshow/77451432.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt issues treatment advisory to ‘defeat’ Covid-19 as cases rise||BHOPAL: Following chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s brainstorming with ministers and officials of departments concerned, dean of medical colleges and expert doctors, state government on Sunday issued an advisory on treatment of Covid-19 patients so that death rate of Coronavirus-infected persons in the state could be minimised. The chief minister while stating that there was nothing acceptable less than “defeat” of Coronavirus said that the exercise was not to find fault with doctors and medical staff but to tighten the system so that death rate due to Coronavirus could be reduced to minimum. Chouhan said that the Coronavirus is spreading from bigger cities to towns and villages and best practices for treatment of the infection must be followed to contain it. He said that provision of entertainment, sports, yoga, dhyan and motivational speakers should be made at Covid hospitals so that the patients don't go into depression or nourish negative thoughts. Minister for medical education, Vishwas Sarang said that detailed guidelines on home quarantine norms should be issued. Health minister, Prabhuram Chaudhary, suggested that services of psychiatrists can be hired to keep the Coronavirus patients in good spirits. The chief minister stressed on the need to make people aware of Coronavirus protocol and said a campaign for the purpose would be undertaken from the Independence Day. Chouhan, who had himself contracted Coronavirus infection, said at the meeting that he must have antibodies to fight the deadly virus and he would donate plasma for use to cure other patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-issues-treatment-advisory-to-defeat-covid-19-as-cases-rise/articleshow/77452659.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||More cops fell victim to Covid than docs: HM||Nagpur: More cops have fallen victim to Covid-19 than doctors in the onslaught of the pandemic, said state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Sunday. Till Sunday, around 115 cops had died statewide due to Covid, including two in the city last week. Statewide, more than 10,750 cops have tested positive and 1,891 are still positive, including 43 in the city. Deshmukh said in all Rs65 lakh is being disbursed to cops falling victim to Covid. The state home minister also said cops mostly contracted Covid-19 while helping lakhs of migrants return to their native places during lockdown. “Cops were instrumental in sending 40-50 lakh migrants across the state to their native places, including almost 18 lakh in 850 special trains and another 6,000 buses,” he said. “The cops helped the migrants with food, shelter and transportation round the clock, and in the process contracted the viral infection in large numbers, which even we had not anticipated in the beginning,” said the home minister. Deshmukh said he had toured 31 districts after taking charge and reviewed Covid situation along with law and order with equal priorities. “Everywhere, I had issued strict instructions for the best possible treatment facilities for cops with a grant of Rs1 lakh and cashless facility under special health schemes of the police department at reputed hospitals and Dedicated Covid Care Centres,” said Deshmukh, adding that he would try to incorporate more hospitals under the police health scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-cops-fell-victim-to-covid-than-docs-hm/articleshow/77452634.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 10, 2020||Madurai||Six robberies in 2 days keep cops on their toes in Madurai||Madurai: At least six robbery incidents reported in the city on Friday and Saturday have kept rural police on its toes. The offenders targeted gold jewellery, cash and mobile phones. While a few people have been arrested, investigations are underway to trace more suspects.Three unidentified men who came on a two-wheeler robbed cash and a phone worth Rs 15,000 from truck driver Martin Stalin, 37, from Tuticorin district. The incident happened at Malayalathanpatti bus stop on the Madurai-Trichy highway, when Martin stopped the truck for a repair early on Saturday. The gang robbed his belongings after threatening him with a sickle.In another incident, two youths robbed a bike belonging to P Boominatham, 30, from Poigaikaraipatti on Alagarkovil Main Road at Ramachandra Madam on Saturday. A police team from Appanthirupathi police station swung into action and arrested V Guna, 21, and C Nagesh, 23, from Sundararajanpatti and recovered the vehicle.A gang of four people assaulted N Lakshmanan, 35, from Kattayanpatti and robbed his belongings including a bike, mobile phone, cash and silver articles all worth Rs 50,000 from him. The incident happened on Saturday evening on Thiruvathavur-Kattayanpatti Road. Similarly, three back to back chain snatching incidents were reported in one hour on Friday in which the culprits targeted lone women at Vadipatti and Alanganallur police station limits. Based on complaints from the women, separate cases were registered on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/six-robberies-in-2-days-keep-cops-on-their-toes-in-madurai/articleshow/77452660.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Two committees set up to probe Vijayawada fire incident||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has set up two high-level committees to probe the fire accident at the Covid Care Centre managed by a private hospital in the city. Deputy chief minister (health) Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas (Nani), home minister Mekathoti Sucharitha, transport minister Perni Nani and endowments minister Vellampalli Srinivas on Sunday visited the centre and took stock of the situation. Nani told the media that 10 persons were killed and 18 were rescued by the fire department. Three patients and 13 staff members came out of the centre without any assistance, the minister said, adding the government would not spare those found guilty. “We have appointed two separate committees, one each from home and health departments, with senior officials to probe the incident. We have asked the committees to submit comprehensive reports within 48 hours,” said Nani. He said the police had registered an FIR against the private hospital which has been managing the Covid Care Centre in the hotel. The hospital management had requested for permission to run the Covid Care Centre out of the private hotel in May, Nani said, but was given the go-ahead last month. The state government has permitted 15 private hospitals in the city to treat Covid-19 patients. The minister said the fire broke out at 4.45 am and the fire department got an alert at 5.09 am. Fire tenders reached the spot by 5.13 am, less than five minutes of receiving the call and started the rescue operation, said Nani. “The committees have been directed to go into all issues, including permissions the hotel and hospital secured to run the Covid Care Centre,” said home minister Sucharitha. The government will inspect treatment facilities offered by all private hospitals, she said. Health minister Alla Kalikrishna Srinivas said a committee each from the home and health departments will probe and submit a report on the incident in 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-committees-set-up-to-probe-accident/articleshow/77451435.cms||Samdani MN
August 10, 2020||Agra||198 more test Covid-19 positive in Bareilly, 5 kids infected in Meerut||Bareilly/Agra/Meerut: At least 198 more people were tested positive for Covid-19 and three more deaths were reported in Bareilly district on Sunday. In Shahjahanpur district, 80 people were tested positive taking the district tally to 1,653 while 14 people have died due to Covid-19 infection so far. In Meerut district, at least 37 people, including a jeweller and five children, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total tally to 2,485 here, according to Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO). Moreover, an executive engineer of Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) along with an employee of civic body’s finance wing were tested Covid-19 positive on Sunday. The wife of the employee was also found positive. So far, four civic body staff have tested positive. At least 38 new Covid-19 positive cases also surfaced in Agra district on Sunday, taking the district tally to 2,103. These include three patients suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome, two patents of influenza-like illness, two patients of severe acute respiratory infection, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. CMO RC Pandey said, "At present, there are 308 active Covid-19 cases in Agra district. So far, 1,694 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/198-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-bareilly-5-kids-infected-in-meerut/articleshow/77450389.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Madurai||2 road projects proposed to cover 85 wards in Madurai||Madurai: Madurai Corporation has proposed two road projects at an outlay of Rs 35 crore covering 85 wards under separate funding agencies. The proposals are being apprised by the agencies and work will commence as soon as approvals come in, said officials.The projects include a Rs 20 crore road under Tamil Nadu State Urban Development Program (TNSUDP) and Rs 15 crore road under Integrated Urban Development Mission (IUDM), covering a total distance of 67km. A corporation official said that 25.7km will be covered under IUDM covering 13 wards and 40km under TNSUDM project covering 72 wards. “35 roads have been proposed under IUDM and 69 roads under TNSUDM. Work will commence as soon as the nod for the projects is received,” he said.Another official said that roads usually get damaged during the rainy season and hence new projects would be taken up after the monsoon. “Due to the lockdown, road works could not be concentrated this summer. It has resulted in the increase in number of complaints over bad roads. Commuters will have better roads once these projects are completed,” he said.Meanwhile, roads proposed under 14th Central Finance Commission (2019-20) at the cost of Rs 34.7 crore is picking up pace. Of the works proposed under 42 separate packages, four have been completed. The work which began a few months ago hit a road block due to lockdown. Officials said that work has resumed and is gaining pace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-road-projects-proposed-to-cover-85-wards-in-madurai/articleshow/77452658.cms||V Devanathan
August 10, 2020||Trichy||Students find preparing for Neet tough without study material||Trichy: In the absence of study materials, students of government and government-aided schools are finding preparation for Neet challenging this year.The school education department had tied up with private publishers to get study materials for students preparing for Neet a few years back. Aspirants were given residential training and the study material was helpful for preparation. As residential training was ruled out this year due to the pandemic, pre-recorded classes are being streamed online for the students. While 300 odd students of Class XII from various schools across the district are preparing for Net this year, some of them could not get the study material.Trichy district chief education officer S Shanthi said that they were able to distribute the study material with some of the books in store from the study material received from the school education department last year. According to government school teachers, the study material in store were not sufficient and many students could not get the books. To help government school students in their preparation for Neet, one mentor each for four students was appointed for effective preparation. A Neet aspirant said that it would have been helpful if they could get the study material when they are confined at home in the absence of classroom teaching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/students-find-preparing-for-neet-tough-without-study-material/articleshow/77453105.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Madurai||Cancer patients hit hard by e-pass issue, transport troubles||MADURAI: Many cancer patients across the state are increasingly finding it difficult to access life-saving treatment in hospitals due to difficulty in getting e-pass, absence of public transport and fear of Covid-19 spread. Hospitals and doctors from across districts said that the number of cancer patients coming for treatment has declined by at least 30%. “Fear of Covid-19 spread is keeping away at least 20% of patients. Furthermore, cancer patients are affected due to lack of public transport. Poor patients don’t understand the seriousness of the disease as delay in treatment can result in death. For many of them, instead of spending additional money to arrange for transport and procure e-pass, they are more likely to wait till public transportation resumes, which is dangerous,” said Dr B K C Mohan Prasad, former national president of Indian Association of Surgical Oncology. As Madurai is one of the few centres with quality facilities for radiotherapy in south Tamil Nadu, it often sees patients coming from across southern districts like Dindigul, Theni, Ramanathapuram and Kanyakumari. “In our hospital, we are seeing a 30-40% drop in patients. Many patients are calling us over phone but are not turning up. Getting an e-pass has also been challenging and time-consuming for patients, especially for new patients, as they need proof to get approval. When their local doctors refer the patients to us, that document is not being accepted. Patients above 50 years also fear stepping out due to Covid-19 fear,” said Dr Krishnakumar Rathnam, senior consultant of medical oncology at a private multi-speciality hospital in Madurai. In Coimbatore, 63-year-old Shaju Menon hailing from Kochi, who was diagnosed with throat cancer in February was prescribed 12 cycles of chemotherapy at a private hospital. However once the lockdown began, getting e-pass every fortnight to come to the state and district became a nightmare. He finally ended up taking the treatment at a local hospital based on his doctor’s referral in Kochi. He finally got help from a source in the district collectorate who gave him passes to come for a review and chemotherapy twice in the last four months. In Chennai, Adyar Cancer Institute is seeing only around 30-40% of the total patients who were coming in before the Covid-19 lockdown. “We are ready to provide all treatment. However, lack of public transport has hit both patients as well as the staff. Now, we are working with limited staff and beds. Further, it is taking more time and energy for doctors to complete consultations,” said Dr V Shantha, chairman of the institute. The doctor added that tele-consultations are also not very effective in case of cancer patients. In Trichy, doctors however said that a majority of cancer patients are still able to come for treatment. “Since cancer patients need to undergo regular check-up and care, most of our patients visit the hospital. We have patients even from Ramanathapuram down south and Villupuram districts too. People residing far away are finding it difficult. Others are regularly visiting our hospitals,” said Dr Govindarajan, from a private multi-speciality hospital. (With inputs from Pratiksha Ramkumar and Vincent Arockiaraj)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cancer-patients-hit-hard-by-e-pass-issue-transport-troubles/articleshow/77452666.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||More Kolkata hospitals ready to set up plasma banks||KOLKATA: After Medical College Hospital (MCH), at least two private hospitals in the city are ready to set up plasma banks, following encouraging results from the initial stages of clinical trials. But with ICMR allowing hospitals to use plasma as an ‘off label’ therapy, some hospitals have started using it on a few patients. The Bengal government had earlier announced the setting up of a plasma bank at Medical College Hospital. It already has a repository from where plasma is used for clinical trials at ID Hospital. AMRI Hospitals, too, will have its own plasma bank soon. Now, they are gearing up to meet the rising demand for plasma. Medica has also announced its intention to set up a plasma bank. AMRI has launched a Covid Warriors’ Club, perhaps the first private hospital to create a roster of plasma donors for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The club includes as its members staffers of AMRI Hospitals who have recovered from the disease. Around 150 such employees have pledged to donate plasma for clinical management of the Covid-infected. Hospitals, such as Apollo Gleneagles, Medica Superspecialty and RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, have used the therapy on a few patients so far. But doctors and the health department have warned against indiscriminate use of such therapy. “I tested positive for Covid-19 in mid-May and was in home isolation. I’m very happy that our hospital has taken up such an initiative. I’m ready to donate plasma to help others,” said Sushmita Mondal, a nurse who has now recovered. Ritam Chakraborty, transfusion medicine specialist who heads the department of transfusion medicine and blood bank at AMRI, Dhakuria, said, “We shall use an advanced cell separator machine to extract plasma from donors through the apheresis method, which is currently the only government-notified way of extracting plasma in West Bengal.” “There have been cases where it was seen that a patient, who was not responding to the usual treatment process, had shown signs of improvement through plasma therapy,” said Rupak Barua, CEO, AMRI Hospitals. “There is so much hype about the therapy that patients’ relatives ask for the therapy. Doctors, however, should restrain from using the therapy randomly,” said a doctor of another private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-city-hosps-ready-to-set-up-plasma-banks/articleshow/77452663.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 10, 2020||Bareilly||39 newly recruited constables test Covid-19 +tive in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Out of 200 newly recruited constables at reserve police lines in Pilibhit, 39 have tested positive for novel coronavirus. They are among the 102 positive patients in the district whose test reports were received by the health department late on Saturday night.Jai Prakash Yadav, superintendent of police, said the infected constables will be confined to isolation at their quarters in the reserve police lines till they test negative twice.Yadav said the samples of the newly recruited constables had been collected randomly to ascertain their status with reference to coronavirus. “The step had been taken to stop the transmission of the infection to the staff of other police stations where they were likely to be posted from the reserve police lines,” said Yadav.“We are striving to get all staff members of police department in the district tested for Covid-19 to ensure their own protection as well as those they come in direct contact with,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/39-newly-recruited-constables-test-covid-19-tive-in-pilibhit/articleshow/77448870.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada fire: Did sanitizer stock trigger the blaze?||VIJAYAWADA: Dozens of sanitizer cans stored near the reception of the Covid-19 care centre in Vijayawada, could have triggered the devastating fire that killed 10 people, said officials of the directorate of electrical safety (DES). After a preliminary probe carried out by the Central Power Distribution Company Limited (CPDCL) on Sunday, G Vijayalakshmi, director of electrical safety cum chief electrical inspector, said chances of spilled sanitiser from the cans could have increased the intensity of the fire. “We came to know that sanitizer cans were stored at the reception where electric fuse boxes are located. Some of the people, who work in the hotel kitchen handled the stocks in an apparent attempt to supply them to the patients early morning. We suspect that a sanitiser spill in the fuse box area might have triggered the fire as sanitizers are highly inflammable,” Vijayalakshmi told TOI.” She said the fire started at the ground floor where the reception and sanitiser stocks were located. She, however, was quick to mention that it was only a preliminary suspicion and they would come up with the exact cause of the mishap after the investigation is over. CPDCL authorities said there were no fluctuations in power supply at the time of the mishap. A Jayakumar, SE (operations), CPDCL, said the high-tension meter box and air-break switch at the hotel were intact. “We found that the meter in the hotel and AB switch on the supply pole and supply lines were intact and did not catch fire. We also inspected supply levels in the area that did not witness any abnormal fluctuation between 4 am and 5 am, the suspected time of fire mishap,” Jayakumar told TOI.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/did-sanitizer-stock-trigger-the-blaze/articleshow/77451440.cms||Samdani MN
August 10, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: Theni moves from green to red zone, looks for causes||MADURAI: Theni district has been witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases in the past two weeks unlike the other southern districts, which have been reporting a considerable dip in numbers. The district started reporting over 100 cases only on July 3 when it logged 128. The daily tally started crossing 200 on July 24, 300 on August 1and went up to 454 on August 8. Authorities say the testing capacity had also risen from just over 500 initially to 3,750 samples a day on August 8. It has 3,014 active cases now out of a total 7,898 and has reported 94 deaths as of Sunday. Having been in the green zone during April/May and taken the lead in the state in certain disease-control initiatives, the recent trend has come as a dampener to the stakeholders. While authorities claim increased testing is one reason for the rise in cases, it’s a fact that the district had dropped its guard. Theni’s first 20 cases were those who attended the jamaat congregation in New Delhi, which the district administration deftly contained with focused testing. It was also in Theni that the first initiative in the state to deliver vegetable bags at doorsteps was launched to prevent people from coming out. Thereafter, a localized app was launched to help people obtain passes for movement within the district. Next, a “gold reward scheme’’ was launched to encourage people to get their groceries delivered at doorstep, though it could not be implemented properly. Authorities say though there are three check posts to monitor people coming into the district, many continue to take inner roads to escape screening. “People come on two-wheelers through the numerous ways and many antenatal mothers also tested positive in the district after coming from other districts including Chennai,’’ said a health department official. The positivity rate which was as high as 30% about a week ago has come down to 15% though the cases remain high. Theni Government Medical College dean, Dr M Ilangovan, said as many as 174 pregnant women and 165 antenatal mothers had tested positive till August 7. In all, 112 delivered, including 64 through caesarean section. About 50% of people in the district are found to be wearing masks in public and social distancing is a challenge in the villages. Two days ago, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who was conducting inspections in the district, saw a funeral crowd of about 500 at Vadugapatti, all of them sans face masks. He summoned the police personnel on duty and admonished them for not enforcing rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/theni-moves-from-green-to-red-zone-looks-for-causes/articleshow/77452665.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
August 10, 2020||Agra||Agra varsity offers free online French language course||Agra: Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University’s Institute of Tourism and Hotel Management (ITHM) will be offering a one-month online French language course free of cost. Those interested can enroll for it on the institute's official website. University administration has launched the course as part of its "social responsibility". Professor Luvkush Mishra, director ITHM told TOI, “Following the increased demand for basic knowledge of French in tourism and hospitality industry and general interest of people, we have decided to offer a free online course in the French language. The 60- minute class will be held daily."He said people of all age groups can apply for the course starting on August 11. Minimum qualification is Class VIII pass. ITHM will provide a certificate to students successfully completing the course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-varsity-offers-free-online-french-language-course/articleshow/77450399.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 10, 2020||Delhi||As govt funds dry up, RWAs struggle with parks’ upkeep||New Delhi: M K Gupta is worried about the maintenance of his colony’s well-maintained park because of a paucity of funds. The head of the residents’ welfare association of S Block in Greater Kailash I said funds from the government had dried up in the past year, and the struggle to pay the park staff of five could turn the pride of the colony into an urban jungle. To encourage public participation in greening the city, Delhi government provides assistance at an annual Rs 2 lakh an acre to RWAs and NGOs registered with the Delhi Parks and Gardens Society for the upkeep of green spaces. But for 8-12 months now, RWAs that opted for this public-private partnership scheme have not received their dues. RWAs claim to have been left with the burden of paying the park workers from their own funds when they are also coping with additional expenses created by the Covid-19 exigencies. Gupta said, “The amount pending to us is now Rs 4.8 lakh. Ours is one of the most beautiful parks in south Delhi, but we fear it will turn into a jungle since it is difficult to spend Rs50,000 every month in wages for the two safai karamcharis and three gardeners.” Gupta claimed to have approached the government and Delhi Parks and Garden Society for redress — to little avail. A Delhi Parks and Gardens Society official assured of normalisation of the assistance soon. “The funds were stuck due to the situation arising from the Covid lockdown,” he said, “but the process of funding will resume soon.” In Janakpuri, Raj Kumar Tarani, president of the Block C2 RWA, said his colony maintained four parks. “We are hiring private gardeners to maintain parks on a day-to-day basis,” said Tarani. “While RWAs in our locality that went the PPP way haven’t got financial support for many months, those that didn’t take up the government scheme are also facing problems because the municipal corporation does not have adequate horticulture staff to maintain their parks.” Rajiv Kakria, member of GK I RWA and of Save Our City campaign, disclosed they too haven’t received the promised assistance for six months, but corporation gardeners were helping in grass mowing and hedge trimming. Possibly the greenest capital in India, Delhi boasts a 20% green cover, and has over 18,000 parks and gardens spread across 8,000 hectares. But the funds crunch is now starting to tell on the effort to keep the city green. “The pending dues are affecting the health of parks,” said Chetan Sharma, general secretary, Confederation of NCR RWAs. “The departments should not have come out with the partnership schemes if funds were going to be a problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-govt-funds-dry-up-rwas-struggle-with-parks-upkeep/articleshow/77451453.cms||Paras Singh
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Woman ends life with 3-year-old son||YAVATMAL: A 26-year-old woman in village Mhaisdodka in Maregaon tehsil of Yavatmal ended her life with her 3-year-old son on Sunday afternoon. She jumped into the farm well about a kilometre away from her house in the village. The deceased was identified as Monali Laxman Parkhi. Police said Monali left her home along with her 3-year-old son Jayesh. She told the family she was going to the farm. When she didn't return home, a search was launched and their bodies were found floating in the well. Maregaon police were summoned and fished out the bodies. The reason for the woman taking the extreme step is not known. Police suspect a family feud led to the incident. After spot panchnama, the bodies were sent for post mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-ends-life-with-3-yr-old-son/articleshow/77452655.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||Covid-19 delayed MGP MLAs’ case, speaker tells SC||Panaji: In his affidavit before the Supreme Court, Speaker Rajesh Patnekar stated that he issued notices to the MLAs facing disqualification petition immediately to decide the matter in view of a ruling by the apex court, but due to Covid-19 pandemic further hearing could not be held in the case against the two MGP MLAs, now ministers in the state cabinet. Speaker filed the affidavit in response to the petition filed by MGP leader and MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar in the apex court. Dhavalikar has sought a direction from the SC to the speaker to decide the disqualification plea filed against ministers Manohar Ajgaonkar and Deepak Pauskar within a period of three months. Dhavalikar has also sought a direction from the court to restrain the duo from participating in the proceedings of the legislative assembly and prohibit them from functioning as ministers in the government during the pendency of the disqualification petition. MGP leader has sought these directions citing a precedent set by the apex court in Manipur legislative assembly case. On March 26, 2019, the two MLAs, who formed 2/3rd of the legislative party of the MGP decided to merge it with the BJP. Patnekar mentioned that he was not the Speaker at that time and the deputy speaker made the appropriate arrangement for them to sit with the BJP legislative party in the assembly. The speaker stated that when he came to know the decision of the apex court in the Manipur case, he immediately issued notices to the MLAs in the case. He pointed out that Goa is witnessing rapid rise in Covid-19 infections and a member of the legislative assembly and a sentinel of Indian Reserve Battalion posted at the assembly was also tested Covid-19 positive. The speaker said that in view of this, the assembly session was curtailed to only one day and this decision was taken during an all-party meeting held on July 3 in the Speaker’s office. The affidavit states that petitioner is a member of business advisory committee, which has recorded that the session would be held only for one day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-19-delayed-mgp-mlas-case-speaker-tells-sc/articleshow/77453290.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Meerut||Youth’s body fished out of Kali river, a day after he drowned while taking a dip||Muzaffarnagar: A 20-year-old youth’s body was fished out of the Kali river on Sunday, a day after he drowned while taking a dip with two of his friends on Saturday afternoon. The friends told police that the deceased, Shahdeen, drowned after he slipped while in deep water. Police launched a search operation for him on Saturday, but found his body only on Sunday. According to sources, Shahdeen and his two friends were residents of Khalapar under Kotwal police station. After he drowned, his friends informed his family and police. On being alerted, a team from Nagar Kotwali police station rushed to the spot and launched a search drive till late night but to no avail. SHO of Nagar Kotwali police station, Anil Kaprwan, said, “We called divers to recover the body and finally managed to find it. Family members of the dead were not keen to conduct a postmortem, so no police complaint was filed in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youths-body-fished-out-of-kali-river-a-day-after-he-drowned-while-taking-a-dip/articleshow/77450390.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 10, 2020||Madurai||DVAC to probe malpractices in MKU’s distance edu wing||Madurai: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) will soon initiate a probe into malpractices by the MKU directorate of distance education (DDE) with the help of Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC). MKU vice-chancellor M Krishnan said that discrepancies were found in answer scripts of the previous semester exams from some of the distance education centres.“We are now checking all 9,000 answer scripts and then hand it over to DVAC for investigation. So far, we found 29 answer scripts from distance education centres with discrepancies,” he said. The VC added that there have been reports of malpractices in some of the distance education centres in Kerala. These distance education centres were allegedly said to have paved way for students to write their exams outside the exam centres and submit the answer scripts. An internal committee, which is already probing certain examination related incidents, will also be conducting an inquiry and submitting a report.DVAC is already investigating the matter of fake marksheets and certificates being issued to around 500 distance education students. There are graft charges against MKU controller of examination O Ravi for receiving bribe from various owners of distance education centres. In January this year, there were allegations of an unauthorised individual from a distance education centre in Theni accessing consolidated marksheets at the office of the controller of examination. In February, there was reports of a bundle of semester examination answer scripts going missing and later being found in a bus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dvac-to-probe-malpractices-in-mkus-distance-edu-wing/articleshow/77452685.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||State records 1,211 positive cases||Thiruvananthapuram: The total Covid-19 cases reported in the state capital has now become 7,145 of which 3,213 are active cases. The state reported 1,211 more new cases of which 1,057 are contact cases. The total number of cases reported in the state has become 34,331, of which 12,347 are active cases. Two more deaths were recorded on Sunday; Abdul Khader (67) from Kasaragod who died on August 4 and K V Rafi (64) from Ernakulam who died on August 6 are the deceased. The total number of deaths in the state have become 109. While 970 persons have recovered from the disease, the source of 103 people who acquired the infection through contacts have not yet been traced. As many as 76 cases are returnees from foreign countries and 78 from other states. The state capital continues to record the highest number of positives with 292 more new cases reported in the day. Malappuram reported 170 cases, 139 from Kottayam, 110 in Alappuzha, 106 from Kollam, 78 in Palakkad, 69 from Kozhikode, 56 in Kasaragod, 54 from Ernakulam, 41 in Kannur, 30 from Pathanamthitta, 25 in Wayanad, 24 from Thrissur and 17 are from Idukki. Those infected through contacts are 281 in Thiruvananthapuram, 145 in Malappuram, 115 in Kottayam, 99 in Alappuzha, 88 in Kollam, 56 in Kozhikode, 49 each in Palakkad and Kasargod, 48 in Ernakulam, 28 in Kannur, 24 in Wayanad, 17 in Thrissur, 14 in Idukki and 13 in Pathanamthitta. Among the contact cases 27 are healthcare workers; five in Thrissur, four each in Kollam, Ernakulam and Kozhikode, three in Thiruvananthapuram, two each in Palakkad and Kannur, and one each in Malappuram, Wayanad and Kasaragod. One Air India Express cabin crew member in Malappuram, two DSC personnel in Kannur and an INHS personnel in Ernakulam are also among those infected through contacts. At present, five districts have more than thousand active cases. Thiruvananthapuram (3,213), Malappuram (1,191), Kozhikode (1,191), Ernakulam (1,158) and Alappuzha (1,050). So far, 21,836 people have been cured from coronavirus infection and presently there are 12,347 active cases undergoing treatment at various designated hospitals. As many as 1,49,357 people under observation in various districts of the state, 1,37,615 in home or institutional quarantine and 11,742 in hospitals. 1,278 persons were hospitalized on Sunday. In the last 24 hours, 22,745 samples were tested. A total of 9,84,208 samples have so far been sent for testing and the results of 4,989 samples are awaited. As part of sentinel surveillance, 1,37,683 samples were collected from priority groups, including health workers, guest workers, and individuals with greater social contact and the testing of 1,193 samples are in process. There has been an increase in the total number of hotspots in the state to 524 as 34 new places were demarcated as hotspots while eight were excluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-records-1211-positive-cases/articleshow/77450474.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Trichy||Police want car dealers to advise buyers to install GPS device to prevent theft||Trichy: The city police have appealed to showrooms and sales agencies of four-wheeler in the city to fix GPS device in the vehicles at the time of sales to help police track them in the event of theft.At a meeting convened on Saturday by the police in the city in which there were 16 participants, they were asked to persuade customers to fix GPS tracking device by explaining its importance as it would help the police track the car within hours of theft.DCP (crime and traffic) R Vetharathinam said recovering stolen cars has become a challenge while GPS devices have become a standard feature in cars. Global positioning system (GPS) devices not only gives directions but can also be used remotely to pinpoint a car’s location, police officials said.Police officials stressed the role of agents of automobile showrooms who have direct contact with their customers to convince them to install the device. “The fact that stolen cars can be tracked down within hours of theft using of GPS may deter car thieves. Sometimes we can also safeguard the vehicle when anyone attempts to steal the same,” a senior police official said.As people spend lakhs of rupees to buy a car, they can definitely spare some more to install the device as it might only come to around Rs 5,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-want-car-dealers-to-advise-buyers-to-install-gps-device-to-prevent-theft/articleshow/77453128.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Agra||UP: Co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar cremated in Mathura, wife finally told||AGRA: After being kept in the dark for a day and a half, Megha could not come to terms with her husband's death when it was finally broken to her. "Who is he?" she asked when the body of 32-year-old co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar, who died in the Air India Express crash at Calicut International Airport, was brought home on Sunday. On Saturday night, about 200 pilots and ground staff members gathered at the airport to pay their respects when Akhilesh's body was flown in to Delhi from Kochi. He was then taken home to Mathura by road on Sunday. His wife was unprepared and in disbelief. "This is not Akhilesh. It can't be. Akhilesh is at Nayati (hospital) where we have to go when our child comes," said Megha, over and over. She is pregnant, less than a month from her due date -- the reason Akhilesh's family cited for not telling her sooner. Akhilesh would have been home for the delivery. He had sought leave from August 21. "The last time we saw him was on a video call for Raksha Bandhan. He was going to be here," said his brother-in-law Vijay. "But not like this." It was only when his body was being taken away for cremation that Megha was shaken out of her stupor. "What will happen to our child?" she asked her father, KD Sharma, breaking down. He was cremated at Mathura's Moksha Dham in the morning. A medical team from the district hospital, meanwhile, checked on Megha. "She is fine now, but lost consciousness several times," said a doctor. The cremation done, the bustle died down and the void hit the family hard. Akhilesh's father, Tulasi Ram Sharma, hoped the government would help the family. "He died on the front lines of the Covid emergency. He was a martyr."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/co-pilot-akhilesh-kumar-cremated-in-hometown-mathura-pregnant-wife-finally-told-he-is-no-more/articleshow/77450463.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 10, 2020||Delhi||New-age exams giving sleepless nights? Delhi University says dial us for help||NEW DELHI: With Delhi high court clearing the road for the online Open Book Examinations of Delhi University from Monday, colleges are trying to assist final-year students and allay their anxiety. Besides setting up control rooms, colleges are staying in touch with students through WhatsApp groups to keep them motivated. Late on Saturday, DU issued a notification giving out details and processes to be followed by the undergraduate and postgraduate candidates during the examinations. While many students are still worried about possible glitches on the examination portal, the university has assured everybody that their problems will be resolved. Hindu College has set up a control room through which students can be in constant touch with department teachers. A WhatsApp group has also been created for resolution of any problem during the examinations. “I will personally send a message to my students as they may be anxious about the exams,” said principal Anju Srivastava. The college is also ready to provide its computers to the students who may want to take the papers on the campus. SGTB Khalsa College principal Jaswinder Singh said DU had deployed nodal officers who could be contacted for any issue. “The college will also be in constant touch with students all through the three examination slots. We are doing our best but there is always a concern about the internet connectivity. Hopefully the exams will go smoothly,” Singh said. School of Open Learning (SOL) director U S Pandey told TOI that they had set up 32 phone lines for students. SOL has uploaded frequently asked questions and their answers on its website and also sent it to the students to clear their doubts. “The exams will go smoothly,” claimed Sanjeev Singh of DU’s computer centre. The duration of each examination has been increased to allow students extra time to download and upload question papers and answer scripts. “DU is hopeful of a good operation and if students face any problem, they will always have the option of an offline exam,” he said. The high court on Friday cleared the examinations after DU had changed the dates twice owing to the Covid-19 conditions and the glitches faced by students during the mock tests. While several students feel they are not “mentally prepared”, many teachers and students have accepted the idea despite having reservations. Jaishree Kumar, a final-year history (H) student at Ramjas College, said “there are still chances of glitches. Our teachers have told us that the question papers will be set leniently and I hope the checking is also lenient.” On her preparation, Kumar said many students had expected the court to strike down OBE. “It is not an easy environment to study with the raging pandemic.” Another student alleged that “we are sure there will be lapses and many students are worried about the possibility of an offline exam in September”. Pankaj Garg, who teaches mathematics at Rajdhani College, still have objections. Not only the court has pointed out many loopholes in the examination procedure, the attitude of UGC and DU has been “callous as students do not have much reading material”, he alleged. Political science teacher Tanvir Aeijaz felt the absence of any form of teacher training to deal with the queries “could be disastrous as teachers may have to handle these for over 12 hours daily till August 31”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-age-exams-giving-sleepless-nights-du-says-dial-us-for-help/articleshow/77451496.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||JAC: KCR must clear stand on Secretariat mosques||Hyderabad: Members of the Joint Action Committee Bazyabi Secretariat (JACBS) have urged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to make clear his stand on the reconstruction of demolished Secretariat mosques at the same place. A meeting, headed by Mushtaq Malik, president of Tahreek Muslim Shabban (TMS), was held on rehabilitation of mosques issue.It was attended by political party presidents, scholars, clerics to back an agitation programme scheduled in coming weeks at different places in Telangana. “We have undertaken a one million signature campaign to register our protest against the demolition of either masjids at secretariat,” said Malik. The JAC members also announced they will organise protests outside mosques after Friday prayers. “CM KCR must break his silence to make clear his stand on the issue - whether the masjids will be rebuilt at their same site or not. The government even does not have any authority to raze any mosque as the land comes under Waqf control,” added Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jac-kcr-must-clear-stand-on-sectt-mosques/articleshow/77451507.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sree Chitra to build clinical registry of Covid patients||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Sree Chitra Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology (SCIMST) will be doing a clinical registry of Covid patients in Kerala as part of the national clinical registry being formed by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The duration of the study will be one year. SCIMST has been asked to create the clinical registry of Covid patients of Lakshwadeep and Andaman and Nicobar Islands too. The national clinical registry for Covid-19 aims at collecting good quality real-time clinical data to inform evidence-based clinical practice, research, formulating guidelines and policy making. ICMR plans to use this registry for formulating appropriate patient management strategies and predicting disease severity. The registry will be a collection of systematic data on clinical signs and symptoms, laboratory investigations, management protocols, clinical course of Covid-19 disease, disease spectrum and outcomes of patients. “It is undoubtedly a significant study being conducted since immense clinical data can be collected. But it has come very late. Most countries have conducted the study before the caseload started increasing. But it is important to have such a study since epidemiological analysis can decide on future course of action. ICMR has decided to have weekly updation of data such that we all will be able to have access on the epidemiological analysis done,” said Dr N Sulphi, vice-president, Indian Medical Association. Any Covid-19 lab-confirmed and hospitalized patient of any age and meeting the inclusion criteria for the study will be enrolled. Institutes with high inpatient Covid-19 admission will be preferred (admission rate should be a minimum of 100/month for consideration; region-wise decision regarding the number of patients admitted will be taken). The previous track record of biomedical research, human resource management, investigators experience while interacting with clinicians who were directly involved in patient care management, etc, will also be considered as part of forming the clinical registry. ICMR has invited hospitals or institutions identified as dedicated Covid-19 hospitals that want to join this study as primary sites. These hospitals will be trained, mentored and supervised by SCIMST. The objective is to study the frequency, clinical and laboratory features, treatments, and outcomes of Covid-19-related multisystem inflammatory disorder in children and adolescents. It has been decided to utilize the data to answer research questions on Covid-19-like natural course of disease, disease spectrum, prognostic factors, risk factors, medications, health systems, etc. The study will serve as a platform for additional clinical research studies in selected sites and also to collect follow-up data of discharged Covid-19 patients, if possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sree-chitra-to-build-clinical-registry-of-covid-patients/articleshow/77450503.cms||Rajiv G
August 10, 2020||Rajkot||Twelve held from night liquor party in Rajkot||Rajkot: Rajkot police arrested 12 persons in a liquor raid at an apartment on New Ring Road on Saturday night. Cops from University police station said that they had received information about gathering of persons in an apartment based on which they conducted a raid. Police found 12 persons in an inebriated condition and seized two bottles of liquor and three other empty bottles. Those arrested have been identified as the apartment owner Jayesh Sitapara, Parshottam Sitapara, Bhavesh Umbal, Dharmesh Chavda, Bharat Shiyal, Jagdish Sitapara, Sagar Machhiya, Laxman Jogal, Kana Jogal, Dinesh Chavda, Ramesh Sitapara and Jayesh Balasra. According to police, all accused are connected with real-estate business. “A huge real-estate deal involving all accused had been successful and they had decided to celebrate it,” said sub-inspector M V Rabari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/twelve-held-from-night-liquor-party-in-rajkot/articleshow/77450479.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada hotel fire: ‘Thought I’d jump out the window but was scared’||VIJAYAWADA: At around 4.30 am on Sunday, Subba Rao, kept in isolation in room number 309 at the Covid Care Centre run out of Hotel Swarna Palace, woke up to screams and sounds of chaos. His first thoughts were that staff were shifting some of the patients but when he opened the door, thick smoke engulfing the corridor forced him to shut the door immediately. “At that moment, I realised that there was no scope for me to get out of the place through the main door. So, I opened the window and sat next to it trying to breathe,” Subba Rao narrated. For the next two-and-a-half hours, Rao sat by the window, flashing the torch light from his mobile phone to draw people’s attention. Finally, he was lowered to the ground by fire department staff at 7 am and taken to Ramesh Hospital. “I was on the first floor and I could see some onlookers asking me to jump and save myself. Few other patients managed to do that, but I couldn’t. I was scared,” Rao recalled. In a selfie video, another patient, Pavan Sai Krishna can be heard saying he ‘feared for his life’. “I didn’t know which way to go, thick black smoke engulfed the place and finally, I broke open the window and sat on the sill, screaming ‘help me, help me’. After I came to my senses, I informed fire officials and police who reached the spot and managed to save me,” Krishna said. While Sunday’s survivors have had a narrow escape, a pall of gloom descended at the Vijayawada Government General Hospital (GGH) mortuary with families waiting to collect the bodies of the deceased. N Ramesh (50), an insurance officer who sustained injuries and died of asphyxiation had been admitted to the centre three days ago. He is survived by his wife and two sons. “We thought it would be better if he (Ramesh) undergoes treatment at a quarantine facility. We thought the private facility would be better. But everything turned into a nightmare,” Ramesh’s sister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/thought-id-jump-out-the-window-but-was-scared/articleshow/77451504.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 10, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 norms often flouted in crowded UPSRTC buses||AGRA: Flouting social distancing norms during Covid pandemic has become quite regular in Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) buses in Agra these days. Despite all seats being already occupied, extra passengers are allowed to board the bus and also travel standing very close to each other. Video clips of one such crowded UPSRTC bus went viral on social media on Sunday. In the video, several passengers could be seen travelling without any face mask. Even the bus driver and conductor are seen without any face covering. The bus shown in the video was "UP85AT0427" - attached with Idgha bus depot and operating from Jagner block on Agra city route. Vinod Kushwah, a regular commuter on Agra city-Bah block route said, "Excess passengers are being allowed to board the bus on a regular basis. People often travel standing in the bus. Those who raise any objection to overcrowding are asked to step down by the driver and conductor. Buses continue to remain unclean. I have not seen a conductor spraying sanitizer on the hands of any passenger." Talking to TOI, UPSRTC regional manager Manoj Pundir said, "After this video, an investigation has been initiated. Time-bound action will be taken. We have communicated the state government orders to all drivers and conductors. Passengers should not be allowed to travel while standing in a bus or without a face mask. However, the buses can operate at full seating capacity. All the buses are being frequently sanitized at the workshop."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-norms-often-flouted-in-crowded-upsrtc-buses/articleshow/77450476.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 10, 2020||Goa||Ponda facility will leave locals with no hospital: Sudin||Panaji/Ponda: Madkai MLA Ramkrishna Dhavalikar said that around 3.5 lakh people residing in Ponda, Dharbandora and Sattari talukas have been left with no hospital for treatment of ailments, after the state government on Sunday suddenly declared the sub-district hospital in Ponda a Covid facility. “It is wrong to say I am protesting setting up of Covid facility in Ponda. If that was the case, I would not have allowed Covid care centres in Farmagudi. I have taken an issue with the state government taking such a decision without consulting anyone from the area. Hundreds depend on the hospital for basic treatment. The OPD sees a rush of cases everyday, where will these people go now,” said Dhavalikar. He said that when he spoke to chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday, the CM said that those presently undergoing treatment at the Ponda sub-district hospital would be shifted to Goa Medical College. Dhavalikar said this is irrational. “These are poor people from the talukas of Ponda, Dharbandora and Sattari, who depend on the sub-district hospital in Ponda for treatment. You want to shift them so far away to GMC. But there are two carers required for each patient. How will they travel to and fro each day? They cannot afford these travel costs and it is a major inconvenience to them,” said Dhavalikar. He said that the people have no private practitioners in the area to turn to for general treatment at present during the Covid crisis as the doctors have stopped practice for their safety during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-facility-will-leave-locals-with-no-hospital-sudin/articleshow/77453140.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Meerut||Family in jail for 9 months for her 'murder', woman, 21, turns up alive||MEERUT: Unable to work out the case of a missing woman, a bunch of policemen in UP’s Amroha district assumed her dead and booked her father, brother and another close relative for “honour killing”, sending them all to jail in December 2019. Cops had then claimed to have collected "hard evidence" to support their claim, which included confessions allegedly extracted after several rounds of thrashing, a country-made gun which the accused had never seen before and a dress the 21-year-old woman had never owned. The "murdered victim" appeared in her village a few days ago even as her kin continue to languish behind bars. The woman, whose murder had turned the life of her family upside down, was living peacefully in Delhi with her boyfriend. Her return to the village recentally stunned her family members and local residents alike, all of whom had accepted the police's theory. The SHO who led the investagion into the "murder" has now been suspended and an inquiry set up. Amroha’s superintendent of police (SP) Vipin Tada confirmed Ashok Sharma, the then SHO of Adampur police station, has been put under suspension. Senior officers of the department told TOI that murder charges against the woman’s family members will now be dropped and they will soon be out of jail. “The woman will be produced before a court where her statement will be recorded. The then SHO will be probed for dereliction of duty. An investigation under the additional superintendent of police has been initiated,” Tada said. The woman had gone missing in February last year and the family suspected that she might have run away with her lover. After months of "probe", the local police then booked and arrested her father Suresh, brother Roop Kishore and a relative, Dinesh, for "honour killing". Rahul Kumar, one of the brothers, said, “First they tortured Dinesh and recorded a forced confession. And then they tortured my father and brother after showing them the video of Dinesh’s confession. All of them were beaten till they accepted before police that they had indeed killed my sister,” he alleged. This comes days after a married woman, who was also presumed dead by police in Bulandshahr, turned out to be alive. Her husband and parents-in-law were booked for her murder and sent to jail. Though the murder charges have now been dropped, they remain charged under various sections of the IPC for harassment and seeking dowry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/family-in-jail-for-9-months-for-her-murder-woman-21-turns-up-alive/articleshow/77449683.cms||Piyush Rai
August 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Wife and spouse accompanying her perish in flames||VIJAYAWADA: A patient discharged from the Covid Care Centre at Hotel Swarna Palace on Saturday morning, but who stayed back to accompany his wife who was still receiving treatment, passed away along with his wife in the fire accident on Sunday. Authorities of Krishna district health department said Sabbili Ratna Abraham (48), a resident of Jaggiahpet and his wife Sabbili Rajakumari had tested positive for Covid-19 10 days ago and were admitted to the Covid Care Centre. Abraham recovered before Rajakumari and was discharged on Saturday morning but stayed on keep his wife company. Both of them were staying in room number 204-1 and suffered severe burns and died on the spot in Sunday’s fire accident. “We cannot predict our destiny. Abraham, who got discharged on Saturday, stayed back to give moral support to his wife, who is still fighting Covid-19. He would have saved his life if he had gone back home. But he died in the mishap after he decided to accompany his wife,” said district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz. Rajakumari’s body was burnt beyond recognition and was identified by family members on the basis of the jewellery she wore. “Abraham is a believer of god and he always wanted to be with his wife Rajakumari. They are together even in death. We hope that their souls find peace,” said Abraham’s family. — Venu Lanka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/wife-and-spouse-accompanying-her-perish-in-flames/articleshow/77451520.cms||Venu Lanka
August 10, 2020||Bareilly||Man held for inflammatory post on Facebook||Bareilly: A man in Khuthar area of Shahjahanpur district landed in jail for an inflammatory post involving a deity on his Facebook wall. The man was arrested after several members of a community staged a protest and an FIR was registered on the orders of a senior police. He has been booked under section 67 of the IT Act and section 295a of the IPC. The FIR was registered on the complaint of local activist MP Singh who protested at the Khuthar police station along with the members of Hindu Yuva Vahini against a local printing press owner Mohammed Yusuf. Yusuf allegedly wrote that people should start visiting mosques because Lord Rama is also living there. Station house officer (SHO) Khuthar Jai Shankar Singh said, “The post was immediately deleted after the complaint was received. The accused has been arrested and we are questioning him. His post was provoking and may have led to violence between the members of two communities in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-held-for-inflammatory-post-on-facebook/articleshow/77448939.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 10, 2020||Agra||Inflammatory audio goes viral on social media, DGP office sounds alert||Agra: A minute-long audio addressing Muslims to stop PM Narendra Modi from hoisting nation flag on August 15 – Independence day – at Red fort went viral on Sunday. In the audio, a man, introducing himself as Ali, said, “Modi government is developing a Ram temple in place of Babri Masjid. This is the start of making India a Hindu Rashtra.” The audio also mentions that Indian Muslims should work to get a separate nation ‘Kurdistan’. Following an alert passed from the DGP office, Agra police have started an investigation. The UP ATS is also probing the source of the audio and is trying to identify people circulating it on social media. Meanwhile, several people in Agra district have complained of receiving calls playing the same pre-recorded audio. Some police officials, including additional superintendent of police (ASP) Saurabh Dixit, also received the call. Talking to TOI, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Babloo Kumar said, “We are investigating the circulation of the inflammatory audio. People are advised against forwarding the audio. We are closely monitoring social media. Stringent action will be taken against those who tried to spread communal hatred and disturb the public peace.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/inflammatory-audio-goes-viral-on-social-media-dgp-office-sounds-alert/articleshow/77450493.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar's Covid tally crosses 79,000-mark, toll up to 429||PATNA: The Covid-19 cases in Bihar crossed the 79,000-mark on Sunday as 3,934 more people tested positive for the virus in the past 24 hours. With 10 more official deaths, the toll mounted to 429 while the number of positive cases reached up to 79,720. The health department claimed to have tested 75,628 samples in the last 24 hours and over 10 lakh so far. Altogether 4,73,734 samples, which is about 40% of the total collected, have been tested between August 1 and 7. Patna recorded the maximum 786 new cases on Sunday. The health department has reported 81 Covid deaths in Patna district so far. There were 4,055 active cases while 8,570 had recovered from the virus infection in the district so far. Other districts which reported a large number of Covid cases were Begusarai (244), Katihar (177), East Champaran (162), Saran (160), Samastipur (146), Vaishali (132), Rohtas (131), Muzaffarpur (128), Gopalganj (115), Bhojpur (109). Saharsa and West Champaran each registered 108 cases and Nalanda reported 103 fresh cases. According to IPRD secretary Anupam Kumar, 2,642 persons recovered in the last 24 hours and 51,315 persons have been discharged from the hospitals so far. “There are 27,976 active cases. Bihar’s recovery rate stands at 64.37%. The total samples tested in Bihar reached up to 10,21,906,” he said in a press communiqué. On Sunday, 11 Covid-19 patients died at AIIMS-Patna. They included a 65-year-old doctor from Dalsinghsarai in Samastipur district. The nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said eight of the deceased were from Patna district, including four women aged 45, 50, 65 and 67 from Ramkrishna Nagar, Khusrupur, Phulwarisharif and Kankarbagh respectively. Four men aged between 45 and 80 from Patel Nagar, Rajeev Nagar, Danapur Cantonment area and Anisabad respectively also died there. The other two deceased were from Saran and Purnea. The NMCH administration reported three more deaths on Sunday, while 24 new Covid patients were admitted and 18 discharged from the hospital after full recovery. Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer of Covid at NMCH, said a 55-year-old woman from Bhojpur, who was suffering from pneumonia and tested positive on July 28, died on Sunday. Among the other deceased were a 72-year-old man from Buxar and another 42-year-old from Siwan. Meanwhile, a 63-year-old former RJD MLA and the son of a former Bihar CM was discharged from AIIMS-Patna. Three doctors, including a city-based gynaecologist and two medical staff from Darbhanga were also discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-covid-tally-crosses-79k-mark-toll-up-to-429/articleshow/77451525.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Now, govt eyes 11-acre MLA quarters for HoD’s complex||HYDERABAD: After bulldozing the secretariat buildings, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS government has now set its eyes on the nearly 11-acre MLA quarters campus at Adarshnagar for construction of a new complex for all heads of departments (HoDs). There are 104 HoD offices such as commissioners and directors of school and collegiate education, industries, agriculture, handlooms and textiles, municipal administration and various other departments located at various places in the city. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao wants them to be brought at one place for the convenience of governance and administration. The MLA quarters site at Adarshnagar is in close proximity of the “to be constructed new Secretariat complex” and the chief minister is of the view that the campus would be a suitable location for the construction of HoDs office complex. On the directions of the chief minister, officials of the Roads and Buildings department also inspected the site recently to see whether it would be feasible to construct HoDs complex. The MLA quarters were constructed in the 1960s and most of the quarters are vacant after the legislators were allotted quarters in the new complex constructed for them at Hyderguda. Sources said that though KCR initially wanted to construct the Constitution Club on the lines of the one in Delhi at Adarshnagar MLA quarters campus here, he has asked the officials to study the feasibility of constructing the HoDs building at this site. “The Constitution Club is likely to be accommodated in the erstwhile building that accommodated Ritz Hotel on Hill Fort Road, which is located a furlong away from MLA quarters. Depending upon the structural stability of the building on Hill Fort road, it would be decided to accommodate the Constitution Club in the old building or demolish it and go for a new one,” a senior official said. “Everything is in the nascent stages. There was also a proposal to construct Assembly building at MLA quarters site as the state government did not get a green signal to construct new building at Irrum Manzil site. A final decision would be taken by chief minister KCR after tenders for the new secretariat complex construction are invited by month-end,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-govt-eyes-11-acre-mla-quarters-for-hods-complex/articleshow/77451523.cms||Roushan Ali
August 10, 2020||Delhi||Kashmir students fret over poor internet connectivity||NEW DELHI: For Kabir Bhatt (name changed), a resident of South Kashmir’s Anantnag, academic life has been extremely difficult for over a year because of erratic internet connectivity. The third-year student of Delhi University’s St Stephen’s College would be facing an uphill task from August 10 when his final-year open book online exams would begin. Like others, even he had hoped that the exams would be called off after the intervention of Delhi high court, but now he has no other option but to appear for them. As a precautionary measure, he has asked his relatives to lend him their car to travel to a cyber cafe in Srinagar in case he loses internet connectivity on the day of the exam. Bhatt is among those students from J&K, particularly South Kashmir, who brave militancy and the luxury of the internet is often absent from their lives. Worried over the problems that students had faced during the mock exams, these students have prepped up for travelling large distances, hunting for Wi-Fi facilities at homes of relatives or requesting government officials to provide them with the service. “Whenever counter-insurgency operations occur, we lose internet connectivity for days. We have learnt to live without 3G connectivity for over a year, but losing internet on the day of the exam is scary,” said another Kashmiri student pursuing BA (programme) at Zakir Hussain College. He added that if they had been in Delhi, they wouldn’t have faced this problem. “Almost all students from outside Delhi had to leave their hostels or paying guest accommodations and rush back home during or before the lockdown. We have now been requesting relatives, friends and even government officials for help,” he said. Sani Asnain, a BA (programme) final-year student at Dyal Singh College, said, “Even the Common Service Centres are far from my house. I’m quite sure that we’ll face internet connectivity issues over the next 21 days. I fear that I will be unable to sit for the exam if this occurs.” DU’s computer centre head Sanjeev Singh said, “Students can always mail us their answer sheets. They have been given an extra hour to upload it. If they face a problem even after that, the students can always inform us and can sit for the exam later.” However, Asnain said, “Sitting for exams in offline mode later would be a problem as it will take a few more months for the pandemic to ease. As it is, our graduation has been delayed. Most of us are also looking for jobs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kashmir-students-fret-over-poor-internet-connectivity/articleshow/77451524.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
August 10, 2020||Meerut||Hapur horror: Three sketches of same suspect who raped 6-year-old girl made||MEERUT: Police in Hapur district of Uttar Pradesh have released three sketches of the same man suspected to have raped a six-year-old girl, based on inputs of different witnesses, who saw him luring the minor to his bike on August 6. The girl was later raped, brutalised and abandoned in a forest area where she was recovered by one of the search and rescue teams the following day, almost 12 hours after she had gone missing. She is currently in critical condition in Meerut hospital after having sustained severe injuries in her private parts, leading to sustained blood loss. According to sources in the police department, the accused has been identified based on one of the sketches and police teams are trying to zero in on him. "He (the accused) is trying to hoodwink the police by consistently changing his location and not using his mobile phone. He visited the district and has relatives here in one of the neighbouring villages where the incident took place," an investigating officer said. The massive manhunt entered the third day on Sunday, with senior police officials sounding confident of having identified the accused. The health of minor rape survior -- who, the local police had claimed, was stable -- has started deteriorating. Apart from abrasions on her outer body, she continuously lost blood and her condition became worse due to injuries on her private parts. After her primary treatment in Hapur, she was referred to Meerut on August 7 where she continues to be under medical observation. “Her private parts have been significantly damaged. It can't be immediately treated as the tissues got scattered. A separate tube has been surgically placed to ensure disposal of faecal matter,” a doctor at LLRM had told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hapur-horror-three-sketches-of-same-suspect-who-raped-6-year-old-girl-made/articleshow/77450467.cms||Piyush Rai
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||10 die in fire at AP Covid care hotel||VIJAYAWADA: Barely four days after eight Covid-19 patients were killed in a fire at a hospital in Ahmedabad, 10 people were killed when a fire broke out at a hotel-turned-Covid-care in Vijayawada early on Sunday morning. Authorities blamed the devastating fire on a short circuit in the air-conditioning unit on the ground floor of Swarna Palace Hotel. The hotel had been taken on lease by Ramesh Hospitals to treat Covod-19 patients with mild symptoms. As many as 30 patients and 13 medical and hotel staff were in the building when the fire broke out. The incident is strikingly similar to the fire in Shrey Hospital in Ahmedabad where the flames were sparked by a short circuit in the ICU unit of the Covid ward early on Thursday morning, catching the vulnerable patients by surprise. Vijayawada police have registered a case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against the management of Ramesh Hospitals and Swarna Palace Hotel based on a complaint given by Vijayawada urban tehsildar. B Srinivasulu, Vijayawada city police commissioner, said that their control room received a call around 5:15 am. “The fire and quick response teams rushed to the spot and started rescue operation,” he said. “It took about 25 minutes to control the flames which started at around 4.45 am.” By then, however, two of the patients were burnt alive while eight others choked to death because of the intense smoke either on the spot or while being treated in hospital. Most of the victims, who were residents of villages around Vijayawada, were on the first or second floor of the five-storey hotel. The survivors were brought out using ladders as the staircase was engulfed in fire and smoke. Fire personnel broke open the windows to rescue the patients who were then rushed to other hospitals in special ambulances. M Srinivas Reddy, district fire officer (DFO), said five fire tenders were used to control the flames. He added that the fire personnel did not have PPE kits and safety gear and yet rescued the patients. After the operation was completed, all the personnel involved were sent into quarantine. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy announced Rs 50 lakh ex-gratia to the families of each of the deceased and ordered a high-level probe into the incident. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too called up the chief minister and offered help from the Union government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-die-in-fire-at-ap-covid-care-hotel/articleshow/77453289.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Trichy||Recreational facilities galore at Karur siddha Covid care centre||Trichy: For those entering Siddha Covid care centre (CCC) in Karur for the first time, it may appear more like a recreational centre than a treatment facility.Asymptomatic patients admitted to the facility could be seen playing chess and carroms at the centre. Light music could be heard in every ward, which helps patients help anxiety and stress under control. Patients can be seen reading newspapers and magazines, while maintaining social distancing.This 300-bed facility set up at the old government hospital has more than 100 asymptomatic patients. The first batch of around 24 patients was discharged within 6-7 days of their admission two weeks ago, said doctors in the ward.“More than Covid infection, I was worried about the isolation at hospital as I have never been in such conditions,” said a patient who was admitted to the facility three days ago. But here, there is no isolation and indoor games are really helping us kill time rather than using phones, he said.More than the treatment, the asymptomatic people need counselling as they come with immense stress of getting infected by the virus, said district collector T Anbalagan.The idea was to create an atmosphere where they don’t feel like a patient. This would certainly help their speedy recovery, said the collector.Most of them glued to the mobile phone, which would create stress. We have kept magazines and newspapers so that they can be aware of the happenings around, said S Kamaraj, district siddha medical officer for Trichy, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/recreational-facilities-galore-at-karur-siddha-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77453134.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||GFP eyes St Andre for ’22 elections||Panaji: GFP on Sunday fired a shot across the bow clearly indicating its plans to make inroads into St Andre constituency, a Congress turf. GFP appointed the executive committee for the St Andre block and plans to prepare a vision document for the 2022 assembly elections. Making a pitch as the alternative, GFP office-bearers said that the St Andre MLA Francis Silveira has switched parties multiple times in the name of development but the constituency’s basic needs continues to be ignored. “We are competing with national parties because we have seen the mess they have made in Goa,” Jagdish Bhobe said.  GFP has appointed Sanjay Kundaikar as the St Andre block president and has held meetings with people, lawyers, religious heads and experts. “We are now in the process of drafting a vision plan for St Andre, vision 2022,” Bhobe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-eyes-st-andre-for-22-elections/articleshow/77453292.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hundreds of trees buried under rubble at old Secretariat in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The demolition drive at the old Secretariat ensured hundreds of trees get buried under tons of rubble, turning the green complex into a grey landscape. Suddenly, in a span of a few days a massive green cover vanished from the middle of the city, causing alarm among environmentalists. A number of ashoka, banyan, neem and peepal trees that dotted the complex were reduced to a rubble along with ornamental plants and neatly cut bush gardens that resembled a green carpet on the way to the administrative buildings. Varieties of plants were also found near the post office, chief security office (near Samatha Block) and other blocks (allotted for AP and Telangana governments). When so many trees (more than 600) are set to be affected, it’s a norm to contact the department of forests, horticulture and urban bio-diversity wing of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and relocate at least a few trees, if not all. It is learnt that none of these departments were approached by the state government. When TOI contacted district forest officer, Hyderabad, M Ashok Kumar, and deputy director, horticulture, P Somi Reddy to enquire if they had received any requisition from the government, they replied in the negative. City-based environmentalist, captain J Rama Rao said that he was concerned with these developments. “Water bodies, lung spaces and greenery are important for urban habitation. If we lose them we cannot lead a quality life,” Rama Rao said. Another environmentalist, professor K Purushotham Reddy opined that sustainability of development will be adversely affected if such large greenery disappears from the heart of the city. Strongly condemning government’s neglect in protecting trees, civic forums said that on one hand the Telangana is implementing Haritha Haram programme by planting 230 crore saplings but it is doing nothing to protect hundreds of trees in the Secretariat complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hundreds-of-trees-buried-under-rubble-at-sectt/articleshow/77451532.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: 8 out of 10 dead were about to be discharged||VIJAYAWADA: Eight out of 10 who died in the fire at Swarna Palace hotel had recovered from Covid-19 and had tested negative. They would have been discharged in a couple of days and would have been with their families again had they not died in the fire. The authorities conducted rapid antigen tests on the bodies of the victims before sending them for post-mortem which confirmed that only two of them tested positive. Collector A Md Imtiaz said that most of the patients being treated at the hotel were low-risk cases and had recovered by Saturday. “It is heartbreaking that they died just when they had won the battle against the virus,” he said. Sources added that most patients were recovering within two to five days. Many were however staying back at the Covid care centres as extra precaution and also to avoid infecting their families just in case they have traces of the virus left in them when they go back home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/8-of-10-had-won-battle-against-virus-died-before-discharge/articleshow/77453291.cms||Venu Lanka
August 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar inaugurates R-Block flyover||PATNA: Two of the three arms of the R-Block flyover in the state capital were opened for traffic soon after CM Nitish Kumar inaugurated it near the Vidhan Sabha main gate on Sunday. The flyover connects Beerchand Patel Path to Vidhan Sabha. Its third arm under construction over August Kranti Marg (Hardinge Road) will connect the Mithapur flyover. The new flyover will reduce the traffic load on Bailey Road as the vehicles going to the airport will now prefer to turn from the Income Tax roundabout and make a hassle-free drive through the R-Block flyover. “The R-Block flyover has three arms. The first arm falls on the GPO road while the second on the Beerchand Patel Path. The third arm falls near Saptmurti on way to the Vidhan Sabha main gate. The two arms as well as the main rotary were opened today,” R-Block flyover’s senior project manager Khurshid Karim told TOI. He said the third arm was still under construction and would be completed in the next six months. Karim said the total length of the two arms opened on Sunday is 960 metres. The two arms and the main rotary were constructed at the cost of Rs106 crore. After inaugurating the R-Block flyover, the CM, accompanied by some ministers and officials, went to the Mithapur flyover to inspect the ongoing work on its Sipara-Mahuli arm. The CM also inquired about the status of unfinished works of the Mithapur flyover and the Karbighaiya flyover. He asked the RCD officials to expedite construction work on all unfinished flyovers and roads. Road construction department’s additional chief secretary Amrit Lal Meena informed the CM that the four-lane road from R-Block to Digha Road would be connected with the R-Block flyover near the GPO roundabout. Meena said the commuters would be able to access the Digha-Sonepur JP Setu and the Ganga Path via the new flyover once it was connected with the R-Block-Digha Road near the GPO. Nitish asked the RCD officials to connect the R-Block-Digha Road with the new flyover through an elevated road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-inaugurates-r-block-flyover/articleshow/77451583.cms||Madan Kumar
August 10, 2020||Agra||On weekend lockdown, 20,000 write BEd entrance test in Agra division||AGRA: On a day of weekend lockdown, over 20,000 BEd aspirants on Sunday hopped on to various modes of private vehicles to reach their exam centres (numbering 60) in Agra division alone to write the entrance test conducted by Lucknow University. Social distancing norms were largely ignored, and many students were not wearing face mask. Arrangement for thermal screening and sanitisation was made only at a few examination centers out of total 42 in Agra district. A large number of students were accompanied by their kin, who had also gathered outside exam centers early in the morning. Circles for maintaining distance were not marked, and students were seen standing in close proximity while queuing up to enter the centres. In Agra city, after the exam was over at 5 pm, there was a traffic jam on MG Road. The number of students who applied for BEd entrance test conducted by Lucknow University was over 4.31 lakh this year. The test was held in two shifts at 1,081 centres across 73 districts of Uttar Pradesh. Vineeta Kumari, who had come with her 18-month-old child and husband to appear for the exam at RBS College, said, “I was expecting that the exam would be cancelled as the number of Covid-19 cases are increasing by the day. It is unfortunate that students had to write the exam by risking their lives. My husband was not in favour of me taking the test but I somehow convinced him. I had studied hard and could not afford to miss it.” Mukesh Verma, who had accompanied his daughter to Agra from Firozabad district so that she can write the exam at Fatehchand Inter College centre, said, “There was no arrangement for maintaining social distancing. Students were not sanitized at the time of entering in the exam centre. Thermal screening was also not done. I am very worried about the safety of my child. I will isolate her and myself at home and will get our Covid-19 test conducted.” Professor Sanjeev Sharma, exam coordinator in Agra division, said, “A total of 24,892 registered applicants were eligible to appear for the exam at 60 centres in Agra, Mathura, Firozabad and Mainpuri. Around 4,700 students skipped the exam.” President of Federation of Uttar Pradesh University College Teachers Association (FUPUCTA) Virendra Chauhan said, “Conducting BEd entrance exam amid increasing number of Covid-19 cases is a mindless exercise. The total number of BEd seats in government and private institutes of UP is much higher as compared to the total number of applications received. There is no valid reason to conduct the exam at this point of time. Now, many students and officials and other staff who conducted the exam might get infected.” Meanwhile, in past 24 hours till 3pm on Sunday, the number of fresh Covid-19 positive cases reported in Uttar Pradesh was 4,687. Agra district reported 38 fresh cases. Flouting social distancing norms despite strict police vigil, at least 18,800 students registered in Meerut, along with nearly 20,000 of their family members, caem to appear for the BEd entrance exam on Sunday. The district was divided into 17 sectors, and 44 sector magistrates were on duty. However, social distancing norms were hardly followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/on-weekend-lockdown-20000-write-bed-entrance-test-in-agra-division/articleshow/77450530.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Delay in release of bodies from hosps upsets kin||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: An 83-year-old woman had died in the state capital on August 1. She was bed-ridden for the last five months and the death occurred at home. The body was taken to medical college hospital and antigen test was done immediately and it tested positive. For confirmation RT-PCR was also done, the result had come after three days which was also Covid-19 positive. Then the sample was sent to NIV, Alappuzha. The result has not yet come. The body is kept at the mortuary since the last eight days. This is not an isolated incident being reported in the state. The practice of hospitals referring samples of all Covid-19 death suspect cases for confirmation at NIV, Alappuzha, is causing difficulties to relatives of the deceased. Doctors are of the opinion that the dead bodies need not be kept at the mortuary waiting for results when the first test result itself becomes positive. “There is absolutely no need for sending the samples again for testing to NIV, Alappuzha,” said Dr Arun N M, internal medicine expert. In most cases, test results arrive between 7 to 12 days and dead bodies will have to be kept in the morgue till the receipt of result. Even if the result of the RT-PCR test done in another lab finds the case covid-19 positive, hospitals insist on sending samples to NIV, Alappuzha. “We are totally clueless when the result will come. Everyday, we are contacting hospital authorities to know the status. Even they are clueless about it,” said a relative of the woman. The health department is following the protocol that samples of all deaths should be sent to NIV, Alappuzha for final confirmation. Only then it is determined whether it is Covid death or not. But the delay in getting the results are also delaying release of the bodies from hospitals. “The sample load has increased and hence there is a huge backlog at NIV, Alappuzha. Hence there will be delay. But the question is whether it is necessary to conduct repeat checking of samples to confirm Covid deaths. The protocols have to be changed,” said a doctor from medical college hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/delay-in-release-of-bodies-from-hosps-upsets-kin/articleshow/77450549.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada fire: Families call for action against hospital, hotel managements||VIJAYAWADA: Scenes of despair and loss pervaded the mortuary of the Government General Hospital (GGH) on Sunday morning when the bodies of the 10 patients who died in the fire accident at the Covid Care Centre at Hotel Swarna Palace were brought in for identification. Officials who brought the bodies to the mortuary initially permitted relatives to identify the deceased. Three of the 10 bodies were burnt beyond recognition and could be identified based on ornaments and other marks. Families of the deceased demanded action against the managements of the hotel and the hospital for ignoring the safety of patients and called for an inquiry into the incident. “We spoke to my brother last night and he said that he was recovering well. He expressed satisfaction over the treatment provided by the hospital authorities. But the incident happened all of a sudden. We lost the breadwinner of our family. Police should take stringent action against those responsible for the mishap,” said Srinivas, relative of Majji Gopi, a deceased patient, from Machilipatnam. Meanwhile, police deployed forces at the mortuary and closed off the main road. Only two family members of each deceased patient were allowed into the mortuary while others were restricted at GGH main entrance. Officials shifted the bodies to the hometowns of the deceased after completing the postmortem at around 5 pm on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/families-call-for-action-against-hospital-hotel-managements/articleshow/77451528.cms||Venu Lanka
August 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Five held for ‘sword brandishing’||PONDA: Following a complaint by Goa Dairy, Ponda police arrested the five milk tempo drivers between Saturday and Sunday. Two of the arrested persons are residents of Avantinagar, Tisk-Usgao, a Covid containment zone. Police said they arrested Salman Shaikh, 32 and Jabrin Shaikh, 28, both from Avantinagar, and Sanjay Kumar, 29 from Curti on Saturday. Shahbaz Munaf, 18, a resident of Haveli and Firoz Kayo, 32, presently residing in Shantinagar-Ponda were picked up later. Irked by birthday celebrations organised by a group of youths in front of its gates late Tuesday evening, Goa Dairy approached Ponda police on Saturday seeking swift action against the group.  The dairy’s administrative committee chairman, Durgesh Shirodkar, said he asked the vehicle contractor not to allow the drivers brandishing a sword on milk tempos. Ponda police booked the group under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act. All the accused have been released on bail by a Ponda court, police said. Lady PSI Rashmi Bhaidkar is investigating the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/5-held-for-sword-brandishing/articleshow/77453293.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||BJP launches campaign on Twitter||Jaipur: Drawing a coincidence with the anniversary of the Quit India movement on Sunday which becomes synonymous with the slogan Angrezo Bharat Chodo, the state BJP launched a campaign on Twitter Gehlot_Kursi_Chodo.BJP state president Satish Poonia led the campaign by making the first tweet: “Now the people of the state will not tolerate the oppressor, anarchist and corrupt government. The slogan Anrgrzo Bharat Chodo was raised on August 9, 1942, similarly, the slogan for August 9, 2020, is Gehlot_Kursi_Chodo.The hashtag was immediately picked up by the senior party leaders and party workers. It within two hours started trending nationally. Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat tweeted “The magical clouds on the desertland should disappear.” Here he referred magical to the CM Ashok Gehlot. His one line tweet attracted much attention on the micro-blogging site.The MP from Rajsanamd Diya Kumari tweeted that ‘People of Rajasthan fighting Corona pandemic, locust attack and messed up the system is saying Gehlot_Kursi_Chodo.” The success of first coordinated attack by the BJP on the present political crises in the state promises many more to come, says a BJP media cell functionary.The commoners have also taken a swipe on the Congress government using the hashtag. Yashwant Mandawara @yash1m “Heartfelt congratulations and best wishes to Gehlot Sarkar on successfully completing 1 month’s time in two-phase, five-star hotel, having fun, walking, eating dishes and watching movies”Gaurav Pradhan, who claims to be a son of a farmer expressed his anger on the conduct of the Congress MLAs holed in hotels says “The scenes of the Congress legislators enjoying the music and the banquet in the Suryagarh Palace like the wedding processions are hurting for the people of Rajasthan fighting the Corona epidemic, and tiddi issues.”The Quit India Movement was launched on August 8, 1942. It spread across the country on August 9, 1942.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-launches-campaign-on-twitter/articleshow/77452736.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Jathedar blames discrepancy in records for 267 missing saroops||Patiala: The issue of 267 missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib from Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib took an entirely new turn on Sunday as Akal Takht acting Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh claimed that the entire confusion is owing to irregularities in the maintenance of records. He said various kinds of rumours are being spread, but the reality remains that the saroops of Sri Guru Granth Sahib have not gone missing from Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib, as they were never printed and there are simply some irregularities in the store records. Sources in the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) said the manager of records at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib on his retirement had been asked to deposit a sum of Rs 5 lakh due to mismatch of funds. But, the manager had claimed that the said amount had been spent on the printing of 267 saroops of Sri Guru Granth Sahib, though the same were probably never printed. This led to a rumour that the saroops had gone missing, the source added. Earlier, during a recent visit to Damdami Taksal, the acting Jathedar had said a detailed inquiry into the difference of total number of saroops at Gurdwara Ramsar Sahib is underway. In a video, which is now available on various social media platforms, Harpreet Singh is seen claiming that various agencies are working against the Sikh Panth and trying to bring down the Sikh institutions in Punjab. He is also seen alerting the Sikh community against the attempts being made by various forces to discredit Sikh institutions in Punjab. The matter of missing saroops has been hogging the limelight for some time now and became a talking point. The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has also been staging continuous dharnas at Patiala against the "failure” of the state government to investigate and recover the rare miniature scripture of Sri Guru Granth Sahib that went allegedly went missing from Ardaspur Gurdwara in Kalyan village, recently. The SAD dharna was, however, not held on Sunday and is likely to resume from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jathedar-blames-discrepancy-in-records-for-267-missing-saroops/articleshow/77452757.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jaipur||BJP directs MLAs to gather in Jaipur on August 11; likely to call for a floor test||JAIPUR: Ahead of the special session at the Rajasthan Assembly which is scheduled to begin on August 14, the state BJP has directed its MLAs to gather in Jaipur on August 11. With the aim to keep its flock together to ensure that none of its MLAs get poached and the party appears in the assembly with its full strength, the BJP lawmakers would be moved to a private hotel in Jaipur on August 11. All the 72 MLAs of the party are expected to gather at 4 PM on that day for a meeting. The BJP is then likely to decide its future course of action on the basis of the High Court’s ruling on the merger of BSP MLAs which is also expected on the same day. Post-meeting the MLAs will be asked to stay put at the hotel till at least August 14. Sources in the party confirmed that the BJP is likely to move a no-confidence motion against the Ashok Gehlot government, depending on the court’s verdict and the possibility of support from the rebel camp of the Congress, which is led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot. “If the court puts a ban on allowing BSP MLAs to participate in assembly proceedings including the floor test, it will give us a perfect opportunity to call for a floor test. Also, if the Pilot camp MLAs remain absent during the floor test or pledge support to us, it will create a room for us to seek a floor test,” said a BJP party source. The senior party leaders are not disclosing their cards and maintaining the entire exercise to be a normal phenomenon. “The party MLAs are called here to participate in the meeting which is a routine affair before every assembly session. Those who went to Gujarat due to harassment by the state government will also participate in the meeting,” said the deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore. The party leaders may not be admitting their strategy in open but leaving enough hints of having a say in the political crises based on the constitutional provisions. Leader of opposition, Gulabchand Kataria said that their party and ally RLP together may be a way short of a majority but in event of government losing the majority mark, they can have a say on the situation. “Our total figure is 75 which can play a leading role if the situation turns favourable,” said Kataria. BJP has 72 MLAs and support of three RLP MLAs in the 200-seat assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-directs-mlas-to-gather-in-jaipur-on-august-11-likely-to-call-for-a-floor-test/articleshow/77452758.cms||Shoeb Khan
August 10, 2020||Ranchi||RMC office sealed for 5 days as deputy municipal commissioner tests positive||Ranchi: The Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) on Sunday sealed its office for the next five days and asked all its employees to work from home in the wake of one of its deputy municipal commissioners (DMC) testing positive for Covid-19 on Saturday night. Talking to TOI, DMC Rajnish Kumar said, “Around 150 staff members have been asked to work from home as the office has been sealed for sanitisation because one of our colleagues tested positive for Covid-19.” An RMC official on anonymity said, “We have been asked to work from home and keep ourselves isolated for the next five days. The authorities have asked us to inform them immediately if we experience any symptoms of the virus in the next five days.” He added, “After August 13, we will give our samples for a Covid test since the civic body is planning to conduct a testing camp.” The DMC, who tested positive, was supervising sanitisation works throughout the city and on Friday, he sent his swab samples for a test after experiencing mild symptoms of Covid-19. The senior official’s test report came out on Saturday night, confirming that has contracted the virus. Meanwhile, the RMC commissioner, Mukesh Ranjan, late on Saturday issued an order directing all the officials to be available on their phones 24/7 while working from home. In order to coordinate the day-to-day affairs and supervise the staff, which include cleanliness workers, labourers, supervisors, etc., the civic body has appointed DMC Rajnish Kumar and health officer Dr Kiran Kumari as nodal officers for this purpose. “As preparations for Independence Day celebration by the RMC workers are ongoing at several places in Ranchi, we have been directed by our senior officials to supervise the work by coordinating with the supervisors and the zonal officials on phone,” said RMC’s city manager Rupesh Ranjan. Sources in the civic body said that all the counters dealing with property tax and other services have been closed and people have been advised to check online portals for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rmc-office-sealed-for-5-days-as-deputy-municipal-commissioner-tests-positive/articleshow/77451215.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 10, 2020||Ranchi||Tribal, Dalit rights being trampled upon, rues Ranchi archbishop||Ranchi: On the occasion of World Indigenous People’s Day and National Youth Day, Ranchi archbishop Felix Toppo said while people are fighting against Covid-19, rights of tribals, dalits and minorities are being trampled upon in the country. Delivering his homily at the virtual Sunday Mass held at Christ the King Church at Kanke, Ranchi, Toppo pointed out that on December 23, 1994, the United Nations General Assembly decided that the International Day of the World Indigenous People shall be observed on August 9 every year. The UN had deemed that people from around the world should be encouraged to spread the message of protection and promotion of the rights of tribals and indigenous people. “In the (Covid) backdrop, it seems that the principles of equality, unity and brotherhood, as enshrined in our Constitution, are being steadily eroded. There is a spurt in disbelief, anger and tensions among people of all faiths. The rights of tribals, dalits and minorities are being trampled upon. It seems that the pillars of democracy — legislative assemblies, judiciary, administration and even the communication channels are caught in a web of politicking. Even in such times, God tells us not to be afraid, but to remain steadfast in our belief in him,” he added. Toppo was assisted by Fr Clement Kullu, parish priest, Kanke and Fr Augustus Ekka, secretary, Jharkhand and Andaman Youth Commission during the mass. He added, “We record our appreciation of the tribal society, which due to their way of life, has continuously ensured protection of the environment. Today, we offer our prayers for all tribals, so that they may be aware of their identity, rights and their belief in God. More than 140 years ago, God had despatched Belgian missionaries to Chotanagpur to ensure protection of the rights, identity and security of the tribals. We are thankful to God and the Belgian missionaries.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tribal-dalit-rights-being-trampled-upon-rues-ranchi-archbishop/articleshow/77451329.cms||Tapas Biswas
August 10, 2020||Ranchi||National flag-themed masks banned in Ranchi||RANCHI: Additional district magistrate (law and order) Akhilesh Kumar Sinha on Sunday issued a strict ban on the sale of masks based on the Tricolour and warned of stringent action against violators in accordance with the national flag code. Issuing the order ahead of the Independence Day, Sinha asked all officials, including local police, to keep an eye on markets under their jurisdiction to curb the sale of such masks that are themed on the Indian flag. Sinha said the ban was issued following instances of rampant sale of designer masks themed on the Tricolour. “The idea behind the ban is to curb any sort of disregard to the Indian flag. It has come to our notice that rampant sale of such masks have picked up in the flea markets ahead of the Independence Day. While government has mandated masks to curb the spread of Covid-19, there is a possibility of improper disposal of such masks which will be disrespectful to the national flag as per the flag code.” The Flag Code of India, introduced in 2002, is a set of laws, practices and conventions that apply to the display of the national flag. The code is divided into three parts — general description of the national flag, its display by members of public, private organisations, educational institutions, etc., and displays by Union and state governments and their affiliates. The code is in effect from January 26, 2002 superseding the earlier code. It also prescribes that only khadi or hand-spun cloth should be used to make the flags and the use of any other material is punishable with an imprisonment up to three years along with a fine. However, the code allows paper flags to be waved by public on occasions of important national, cultural and sporting events. After use, they shouldn’t be discarded on the ground, but disposed of with dignity. Notably, this year’s I-Day Day celebrations is expected to be a low-key affair in view of the pandemic. While Ranchi district administration will host the state programme at Morhabadi ground, the districts will hold programmes in accordance with the Covid protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/national-flag-themed-masks-banned-in-ranchi/articleshow/77451249.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 10, 2020||Ranchi||Time to ponder why tribals are lagging behind: CM||RANCHI: On the occasion of International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples, state finance minister and president of Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee (JPCC) Rameshwar Oraon on Sunday announced that a fresh proposal will soon be sent to the Union government for a separate Sarna Code ahead of the 2021 census, a move that will give sarna following tribals a separate religious identity. The demand for a separate code by tribals is long-pending and various organisations associated with it have staged numerous protests and demonstrations both at the state and the national level over the years. “We shall soon get a proposal passed through the state assembly and send it to the Union government,” Oraon said, but didn’t specify the timeline with the monsoon session heading for a washout in the wake of the ongoing pandemic. To mark the day for tribals, Congress, an ally of the Mahagathbandan government, also held elaborate programmes in Ranchi and elsewhere to celebrate the day, which also coincided with beginning of the Quit India movement led by Mahatma Gandhi for India’s freedom struggle. Oraon along with a host of Congress workers in the morning garlanded a Gandhi statue in Morhabadi and later held a seminar at the party office themed on tribals and their rights followed by a ceremony to felicitate tribal achievers. Battling the ongoing pandemic, Jharkhand also witnessed many low-key events centred around the day in form of garlanding statues of the tribal icons, holding webinars and talks by various organisations and parties. Chief minister Hemant Soren also garlanded the statue of tribal freedom fighter Nilamber-Pitamber located at Oxygen Park in Morhabadi in Ranchi. Clad in traditional dhoti and shirt, Soren reached the venue driving his car from his Kanke Road residence while his security followed him in separate vehicles. Hemant, who announced a state holiday on this day from next year, promised to hold gala events from next year. He, however, appealed tribal communities for introspection to explore answers on why Adivasis in the state continue to suffer on various development indices. He said, “Even the Constitution has given special place to tribals, but it’s time to ponder on why tribals are still lagging behind in various sectors. It’s time to look forward with a resolve. The resolve to embrace the changes around, prioritise education and stay together to grow together.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/time-to-ponder-why-tribals-are-lagging-behind-cm/articleshow/77451310.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 10, 2020||Kochi||17 more bodies recovered, Kerala landslide toll at 43||IDUKKI: Following intensified search operations, as many as 17 bodies of Pettimudy landslide victims were recovered on Sunday, taking the death toll to 43. “We recovered 17 bodies, including the body of a six-month-old baby boy. Of the 17, 10 bodies were found with the help of sniffer dogs. By evening, we had to stop all operations due to heavy rainfall. As of now, 27 people are still missing,” Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan said. The landslide on Friday had taken away 30 houses in four tea estate layams (workers’ quarters). At least 82 people were reported missing, of whom only 12 could be rescued. Bulldozers and other equipment were used on Sunday to clear the huge boulders, mud and slush in the area where houses of the plantation workers stood. Union minister of state V Muraleedharan, who visited the site on Sunday, said the central government had already announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased. He highlighted a disparity in Kerala government’s assistance to victims of Karipur air-crash and Pettimudy landslide, hinting at higher compensation to the former. “I do not understand why there is a selective assistance on the part of the Kerala government... I hope the CM will explain the matter,” he said. The state government had announced a compensation of Rs 10 lakh each to air-crash victims as opposed to Rs 5 lakh each to landslide victims. CM Pinarayi Vijayan had refuted the “disparity” charges on Saturday, saying the compensation announced was only part of the state efforts to assist the landslide victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/17-more-bodies-recovered-kerala-landslide-toll-at-43/articleshow/77453675.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||20-year-old youngest Covid victim; 102 test positive||Amravati: A 20-year-old from Morshi town on Tuesday became the youngest Covid casualty of the district taking the death toll to 90 even as a spike of 102 cases, the fifth 100-plus spike of the month, took the count to 3237.The number of recovered patients reached 2054 as 110 patients got discharge. This left 1093 active cases, including 21 taking treatment in Nagpur.The rural belt also reported 45 cases to take its count to 806. Teosa reported the highest cases (17) while Anjangaon Surji had six which took their count to 27 and 49 respectively. Achalpur, too, had six cases and took its count to 47 while Chandur Bazar tehsil recorded five to take its tally to 41. Morshi reported two cases to take its count to 49. A case each was reported from Paratwada, Bhatkuli, Daryapur and Dhamangaon Gadhi in the district while one case from Karanja Lad was also recorded.In the city, Rampuri Camp and Shankarnagar reported four cases each to take their tally to 55 and 30 respectively.Three cases each came from Deorankarnagar, Pote Township, Namuna and Badnera took their count to seven, three, 19 and 239 respectively.Two cases each came from Krushnagar, Mangilal Plot, Motinagar, Jewadnagar, Mahendra Colony, Ambapeth and Kalyannagar taking their score to 28, six, eight, nine, 11, 16 and four respectively. Single cases were reported from 23 other localities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/20-year-old-youngest-covid-victim-102-test-positive/articleshow/77491447.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ranchi||Septic tank’s toxic fumes kill 6 in Jharkhand||DUMKA: Six people, including three labourers, died on Sunday after inhaling toxic gases in a septic tank which was being constructed in in Deoghar district of Jharkhand. The property belongs to one Brajesh Chandra Burnwal. The accident happened when one of the victims, Lilu Murmu, 27, went inside the 12-foot tank to remove some material. When he did not respond, Govind Majhi entered the tank to check on him but did not himself surface for some time. Thereafter, the other four went inside the tank in succession to rescue the others, only to perish themselves. An excavator was later arranged to remove the bodies from the tank. Piyush Pandey, area SP, said, “All six were taken to the hospital where they were declared brought dead.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/septic-tanks-toxic-fumes-kill-6-in-jharkhand/articleshow/77453690.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 10, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra adds over 12,000 cases for a second day, highest deaths in 24 hours||MUMBAI: Continuing with its high daily additions, Maharashtra on Sunday reported 390 deaths, its highest so far in five months of the pandemic, while for the second day in a row, the state added over 12,000 Covid-19 cases. The cumulative death toll of the state stood at 17,757 on Sunday. With the addition of 12,248 cases, the overall Covid-19 tally jumped to 5,15,332. The highest daily addition was reported on Saturday with 12,822 cases. Mumbai's contribution was 1,066 cases and it accounted for 12.3% of deaths reported on Sunday. Total cases in the city are now 1,23,382; with 48 fatalities on Sunday, overall toll rose to 6,799. And active cases in Mumbai are at 19,700. In a silver lining though, the state reported more discharges than daily additions- a record 13,348 people were discharged on Sunday, taking total discharges to 3,51,710, crossing the 3.5 lakh mark. The state's rate of recovery was 68.2%. In terms of new cases, Pune division continued to drive the state's Covid graph with the highest addition - 3,680 cases were added and 113 deaths reported. Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said senior doctors from the state taskforce in Mumbai are guiding districts to reduce their case fatality rates, but if that does not suffice, the state is thinking of sending expert doctors to districts with higher death rates. The state's positivity dropped to 18% after hovering above 19% for all of July. An expert, however, attributed this to the growing use of antigen tests. MMR region reported 2,183 cases and 64 deaths; total cases in MMR were 1,43,486 and 3942 deaths. Kalyan-Dombivli had 297 new patients, taking total here to 22,452. The twin cities also reported nine deaths, taking the toll to 440. On Sunday 305 patients also got discharged, taking discharges to 17,345 and remaining active cases to 4,667. In Thane, 202 fresh Covid cases were reported, taking the tally here to 21,172 and three new deaths took the toll to 676 till date. Nearly 36% of all cases found in Thane on Saturday were from the plush Majiwada-Manpada ward area. The Naupada-Kopri ward, comprising largely of middle class neighbourhoods, also has been reporting more cases. In sharp contrast, Mumbra ward, which was contributing some of the highest numbers, has consistently reported single digit numbers since last few weeks. On Friday, not a single positive patient was reported from here. In Navi Mumbai, there were 332 positive cases on Sunday, taking total count to 18,481. Eight deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 469. As on Sunday, over 10 lakh people in the state were under home quarantine and only 34,957 people were in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-adds-over-12000-cases-for-a-second-day-highest-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77453717.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 10, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra adds over 12,000 cases for a second day, highest deaths in 24 hours||MUMBAI: Continuing with its high daily additions, Maharashtra on Sunday reported 390 deaths, its highest so far in five months of the pandemic, while for the second day in a row, the state added over 12,000 Covid-19 cases. The cumulative death toll of the state stood at 17,757 on Sunday. With the addition of 12,248 cases, the overall Covid-19 tally jumped to 5,15,332. The highest daily addition was reported on Saturday with 12,822 cases. Mumbai's contribution was 1,066 cases and it accounted for 12.3% of deaths reported on Sunday. Total cases in the city are now 1,23,382; with 48 fatalities on Sunday, overall toll rose to 6,799. And active cases in Mumbai are at 19,700. In a silver lining though, the state reported more discharges than daily additions- a record 13,348 people were discharged on Sunday, taking total discharges to 3,51,710, crossing the 3.5 lakh mark. The state's rate of recovery was 68.2%. In terms of new cases, Pune division continued to drive the state's Covid graph with the highest addition - 3,680 cases were added and 113 deaths reported. Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said senior doctors from the state taskforce in Mumbai are guiding districts to reduce their case fatality rates, but if that does not suffice, the state is thinking of sending expert doctors to districts with higher death rates. The state's positivity dropped to 18% after hovering above 19% for all of July. An expert, however, attributed this to the growing use of antigen tests. MMR region reported 2,183 cases and 64 deaths; total cases in MMR were 1,43,486 and 3942 deaths. Kalyan-Dombivli had 297 new patients, taking total here to 22,452. The twin cities also reported nine deaths, taking the toll to 440. On Sunday 305 patients also got discharged, taking discharges to 17,345 and remaining active cases to 4,667. In Thane, 202 fresh Covid cases were reported, taking the tally here to 21,172 and three new deaths took the toll to 676 till date. Nearly 36% of all cases found in Thane on Saturday were from the plush Majiwada-Manpada ward area. The Naupada-Kopri ward, comprising largely of middle class neighbourhoods, also has been reporting more cases. In sharp contrast, Mumbra ward, which was contributing some of the highest numbers, has consistently reported single digit numbers since last few weeks. On Friday, not a single positive patient was reported from here. In Navi Mumbai, there were 332 positive cases on Sunday, taking total count to 18,481. Eight deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 469. As on Sunday, over 10 lakh people in the state were under home quarantine and only 34,957 people were in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-adds-over-12000-cases-for-a-second-day-highest-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77453716.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 10, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra adds over 12,000 cases for a second day, highest deaths in 24 hours||MUMBAI: Continuing with its high daily additions, Maharashtra on Sunday reported 390 deaths, its highest so far in five months of the pandemic, while for the second day in a row, the state added over 12,000 Covid-19 cases. The cumulative death toll of the state stood at 17,757 on Sunday. With the addition of 12,248 cases, the overall Covid-19 tally jumped to 5,15,332. The highest daily addition was reported on Saturday with 12,822 cases. Mumbai's contribution was 1,066 cases and it accounted for 12.3% of deaths reported on Sunday. Total cases in the city are now 1,23,382; with 48 fatalities on Sunday, overall toll rose to 6,799. And active cases in Mumbai are at 19,700. In a silver lining though, the state reported more discharges than daily additions- a record 13,348 people were discharged on Sunday, taking total discharges to 3,51,710, crossing the 3.5 lakh mark. The state's rate of recovery was 68.2%. In terms of new cases, Pune division continued to drive the state's Covid graph with the highest addition - 3,680 cases were added and 113 deaths reported. Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said senior doctors from the state taskforce in Mumbai are guiding districts to reduce their case fatality rates, but if that does not suffice, the state is thinking of sending expert doctors to districts with higher death rates. The state's positivity dropped to 18% after hovering above 19% for all of July. An expert, however, attributed this to the growing use of antigen tests. MMR region reported 2,183 cases and 64 deaths; total cases in MMR were 1,43,486 and 3942 deaths. Kalyan-Dombivli had 297 new patients, taking total here to 22,452. The twin cities also reported nine deaths, taking the toll to 440. On Sunday 305 patients also got discharged, taking discharges to 17,345 and remaining active cases to 4,667. In Thane, 202 fresh Covid cases were reported, taking the tally here to 21,172 and three new deaths took the toll to 676 till date. Nearly 36% of all cases found in Thane on Saturday were from the plush Majiwada-Manpada ward area. The Naupada-Kopri ward, comprising largely of middle class neighbourhoods, also has been reporting more cases. In sharp contrast, Mumbra ward, which was contributing some of the highest numbers, has consistently reported single digit numbers since last few weeks. On Friday, not a single positive patient was reported from here. In Navi Mumbai, there were 332 positive cases on Sunday, taking total count to 18,481. Eight deaths were also reported, taking the toll to 469. As on Sunday, over 10 lakh people in the state were under home quarantine and only 34,957 people were in institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-adds-over-12000-cases-for-a-second-day-highest-deaths-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77453697.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 10, 2020||Mumbai||Fear factor on: Non-Covid treatment continues to lag in private, public hospitals in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Non-Covid treatment and surgeries continue to lag both in the private and public sector as patients still fear to step into hospitals and insist on deferring procedures. While semi-emergency and elective surgeries have marginally risen in July and August, the numbers are barely 30-40% of the original volumes. Non-Covid bed occupancy is under 50% in nearly all private hospitals. "People are still apprehensive of visiting the hospital though we have separate sections for Covid and non-Covid patients. They prefer going to a consultant's clinic," said Dr R Dastur, director (medical), of Bhatia Hospital. Before the pandemic, the 200-bed facility at Tardeo clocked around 25 surgeries a day. "It's down to 4 to 5 per day, which is also leading to a revenue loss," said Dr Dastur. At Jaslok Hospital, surgeries and procedures dropped to 32 in April from a monthly average of 700-800. It increased to 89 in May, 157 in June and 289 in July. Wockhardt in Mumbai Central started a separate 30-bed arrangement for non-Covid patients a month ago, but is yet to start offering surgeries. When Covid cases began to trickle in in March, government asked hospitals to focus on Covid and emergency cases, leading to a halt in elective surgeries, a situation further hit by healthcare workers testing positive. And despite creating separate entrances and segregating staff for non-Covid cases, the situation has not changed. Doctors said many patients have seen an aggravation of their condition owing to the delay in seeking care. Aishwarya Gopalakrishnan (15) went on ventilator soon after arriving at Nanavati Hospital, gasping, in April. What was suspected to be Covid, turned out to be a complication arising out of a worsening spinal curvature due to advanced scoliosis. "It compressed her lungs causing extremely low oxygen saturation. After a week of being on ventilator, we operated on her," said spine surgeon Dr Mihir Bapat, adding that while the girl was lucky to have come at the right time, many may have suffered irreversible damage. "My message to people is that hospitals have green zones now and nobody knows how long the pandemic will last, so don't delay," he added. Nanavati, from an average of 600 surgeries a month, saw a 78% decline in April, 82% in May and 81% in June. Even with some improvement in July, the dip was 73%. Dr Santosh Shetty, COO of Kokilaben Ambani Hospital, said cancer, neurosurgeries, critical care, urology are departments that have started getting patients. "Things improved with unlocking but it's nowhere close to normal," he said. Having a separate building for Covid patients helped Bombay Hospital, which carried out 411 surgeries during the lockdown. "We assured people over phone and during consultations that it was safe to get operated as we have separate staff and protocols," said Dr Gautam Bhansali. BMC's Sion Hospital, which had between 80-100 major and minor surgeries in a day, has now started doing over 30. "We started routine work about a week ago and anticipate an increase in footfall as more Covid patients are shifted to jumbo centres," said dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fear-factor-on-non-covid-treatment-continues-to-lag-in-private-public-hospitals-in-mumbai/articleshow/77453703.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 10, 2020||Nagpur||Aaditya urges coal minister to halt Marki-Mangli coal block auction||Nagpur: Maharashtra tourism and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray has urged Union coal and mines minister Pralhad Joshi to stop auction of Marki-Mangli II coal block, which falls in the tiger corridor of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) and Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary.Earlier, on Thackeray’s plea the Bander coal blocks, falling in the buffer zone of TATR, was withdrawn from the auction list. Both, Bander and Marki-Mangli-II figured in the list of 41 coal blocks put out for auction on June 18. While Bander was stuck off the list on July 21, Marki-Mangli still stays. The auction is slated for August 18.TOI on July 20 was first to report how Marki-Mangli-II block in Mukutban forest range in Zari-Jamni tehsil under Pandharkawda forest division was not only in middle of the corridor but also falls in the notified tiger conservation plan (TCP) of Tadoba by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA).“Like Bander, Marki-Mangli too threatens wildlife in the region since it falls in the corridor and of the about 250 hectares of the coal block area, 50% is part of reserve forests,” Thackeray has pointed out. He also thanked Joshi for heeding to his request to withdraw Bander coal blocks.The environment minister also highlighted TOI report which stated that in 2015, the MoEFCC had declared the proposed blocks as ‘inviolate’. “Keeping in perspective the genuine concerns of potential destruction of our precious conservation zones, I request to reconsider the auction of Marki-Mangli,” said Thackeray.“Our thriving tigers will not only lose their natural habitat but will also have to face massive disturbance due to mining activity followed by increased presence of humans. The mining activity will also cause irreparable damage to the entire ecosystem,’ said Thackeray.“As a government, I firmly believe that we must work on development that is eco-friendly and sustainable. We should facilitate our industrial progress, achieve economic prowess and also cater to the ever-increasing spread of human needs. However, while doing so, we should ensure that at least the wildlife reserves and corridors earlier earmarked and notified for conservation by our own government machinery, are not given away to projects that have potential to destroy them,” Thackeray stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aaditya-urges-coal-minister-to-halt-marki-mangli-coal-block-auction/articleshow/77481544.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 10, 2020||Mumbai||Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe's remains flown into Mumbai, last rites on Tuesday||MUMBAI: The mortal remains of Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe, the commanding pilot of the ill-fated Air India Express Dubai-Kozhikode flight which crashed at Karipur airport in Kerala, were flown to Mumbai on Sunday in an Indigo flight. His family, including his wife, younger son Dhananjay, sister and other relatives, travelled by another flight from Kozhikode to Mumbai. Pilots and senior officers of Air India paid their respects to Captain Sathe at gate 5 of the international airport. The pilot's body was then taken to Bhabha Hospital morgue where it will be kept till Tuesday. His older son, Shantanu, who works at Amazon, will fly in from Seattle on Monday. Captain Sathe's cremation will take place on Tuesday. "There is a small pooja at home on Tuesday after Captain Sathe's mortal remains are brought home from the morgue by the Air India Express team," said a family friend. Due to the rains, residents are seeking permission to keep his body in the auditorium of Nahar International School where people can come to pay their last respects. "The family has received calls that some dignitaries, senior defence officers and course-mates are planning to visit to offer condolences. On Sunday, his wife Sushma's elderly father and sister arrived from Pune. Keeping in mind the Covid situation and the presence of a senior citizen at home, the family has requested curbs on the number of visitors," said another friend who resides in the building. "To keep a check on the number of people, we have floated a Google form among residents of Nahar Zinnia building and also kept a book for anyone who may want to pass on their condolences to the family. It will be later handed over to Captain Sathe's wife," said a family friend who is helping co-ordinate the final rites. The Indian Air Force will send a small contingent of officers to pay tributes and also help conduct the last rites as per protocol. The cremation will take place at Edwardnagar crematorium in Vikhroli East. On Sunday, a local MLA visited the grieving family to offer condolences. At the airport on Sunday afternoon, Air India pilots and officers paid homage to Captain Sathe and assured his family of support. "It is a huge Air India Express family and anything that you may require, we are there for you. We have had a beautiful association with Captain Sathe and we are going to miss him," said Harpreet A De Singh, chief of air safety, Air India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/captain-deepak-vasant-sathes-remains-flown-into-mumbai-last-rites-on-tuesday/articleshow/77453737.cms||Hemali Chhapia
August 10, 2020||Goa||Pernem tunnel repair on, rain likely to hamper schedule in Goa||MARGAO: The work of restoration of the tunnel at Pernem along the Konkan Railway (KR) route is underway even as a number of trains on the route have either been cancelled or diverted through the South Western Railway (SWR) line. Heavy rains that have been lashing Goa for the past few days have also hampered the restoration work to an extent. A 5m stretch of the lined wall inside the tunnel caved in the early hours of Thursday, paralysing train traffic along the KR route. Baban Ghatge, deputy general manager, public relations, Konkan Railway Corporation (KRC) said that the track is likely to become operational by August 20 though heavy rains could delay completion of the work. Senior KRC officials are supervising the repair and restoration operations inside the tunnel. “As the working area inside the tunnel is small, only a certain number of labourers can be deployed for the work. However, adequate number of men and machines are engaged for the task,” Ghatge said. Sources said that as multiple cracks have developed in the lined wall, water gushes out through these cracks during heavy rain which hampers repair work. The railway board has cancelled Thiruvantapuram – Lokmanya Tilak (T) – Thiruvantapuram Special Express and New Delhi – Thiruvanatapuram Central – New Delhi Rajdhani Express upto August 20. Madgaon – Nizamuddin – Madgaon Goa Express will originate from Hubbali instead of Madgaon upto August 23 and for the return journey, it will terminate at Hubbali instead of Madgaon, states a press note by KR. Similarly, the Ernakulam – Nizamuddin – Ernakulam superfast special Express is diverted via Madgaon – Londa – Miraj – Pune – Panvel –Kalyan, while the Nizamuddin – Ernakulam – Nizamuddin Duranto special Express is diverted via Pune – Wadi – Guntakal – Renigunta – Melpakkam – Jolarpettai. The 1.56km-long Pernem tunnel was built largely in soft soil strata. The collapsed portion lies 300m from the Mangalore end of the tunnel. Sources said that while the tunnel already had a 50km/h permanent speed restriction, a 20km/h restriction was imposed at the spot of the collapse since last year. Works on this tunnel commenced in mid-1992 and was completed on January 10, 1998. Sources said that engineers faced a daunting task during the tunnelling work at Pernem as the substrata of the soil altered between soft schist rock, slanting rock, hard laterite and soft clay, with constant water seepage. There were problems of mudflow, collapses, cavity formation and squeezing of supports. Techniques such as fore-poling, insertion of perforated pipes for draining out water, and grouting were employed for the tunnelling work in Pernem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pernem-tunnel-repair-on-rain-likely-to-hamper-schedule/articleshow/77453013.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
August 10, 2020||India||‘Returnees are human capital, assets for us’||A battle against the invisible enemy coronavirus is on and would be conquered, with the biggest challenge being the influx of 38 lakh migrants into UP, CM Yogi Adityanath tells Subhash Mishra. Excerpts: The influx of lakhs of migrant workers in the state during early phases of the lockdown posed a major challenge. What are your plans for them? I would say it in a different way. Labourers and workers who have returned to the state from other states due to the corona virus scare are my own people. They are my assets, a human capital. To provide them job opportunities, the state government has already started mapping their skills and they are being offered jobs accordingly. How would you ensure employment for them. Stagnant economy and slump in markets are leading to lay-offs. We are bringing banks and the state machinery to the workers’ doorsteps. The government has launched a mobile app to provide a common platform to skilled and semi-skilled workers. During the influx, 65,000 tailors and 50,000 drivers had returned to the state. Banks are being told to offer loans to drivers so that they can purchase vehicles. Did the Covid situation worsen because of sudden arrival of migrant workers? Uttar Pradesh unka ghar hai. Unka pura adhikar hai pradesh per (Uttar Pradesh is home to these migrants. They have full right on all its resources). I am thankful to the government of India for providing Shramik Special trains, which made such a huge movement possible. I also thank our UPSRTC officials and workers, drivers and helpers. They presented a great example of humanity without caring for infection and risking their own lives. Besides, there are surveillance committees in villages. Handling such a huge influx is not an easy job. Over 35 lakh people can form a district. As far as Covid situation is concerned, it is under control in UP. We are doing much better than other states as far as the number of cases as part of population are concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/returnees-are-human-capital-assets-for-us/articleshow/77453741.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 10, 2020||Goa||Smart City to ‘smarten’ road from St Inez to Adarsh circle||Panaji: The 2.4km stretch from St Inez junction to Adarsh circle will be redeveloped as a model “smart” road by Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd (IPSCDL) along the lines of the 200m stretch developed on a pilot basis adjacent to the St Inez creek, said authorities. The road will involve creation of common utility ducts, underground power cabling and shifting of some critical service pipelines, said Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) mayor Uday Madkaikar. Officials said that the present tarmac road, which is replete with potholes and uneven drains, would be replaced by sections of paver blocks with new cross drains created to prevent water logging. “St Inez junction to Adarsh circle will be developed like a model road with services ducts,” said Madkaikar. “The St Inez bridge at Tonca which is very old and blocking the flow of water, will also be replaced. A decision has been taken to give this project to the Smart City.” Officials said that the main concept of the “smart” road is to put an end to frequent digging of the road. The paver blocks will enable authorities to open up manholes wherever required while the dedicated utility ducts will ensure that utility pipelines and dedicated service cables can be routed through the ducts. Madkaikar said that estimates for the work are being prepared and the tender for the project could be floated in a few weeks. The work, which could begin by November, will be funded through funds allocated under the Smart City Mission. A source said that a three-tiered storm water drainage system with silt traps will also be built to prevent water logging. Redevelopment of the 2.4km stretch was not part of the initial Smart City proposal, but on the insistence of Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate, IPSCDL has taken up key roads in line with the thrust on better mobility. Speaking to TOI, Monserrate said, “Panaji needs these kind of projects and I think such work should continue.” The “smart” road will be constructed as per the ministry of housing & urban affairs (MoHUA) guidelines and accessibility guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/smart-city-to-smarten-road-from-st-inez-to-adarsh-circle/articleshow/77453053.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: With dip in Covid-19 cases, Wadarwadi to lose containment zone tag||PUNE: With around 35 cases reported in the past three weeks, Wadarwadi — a containment zone since May 18 — could soon be open up. The densely populated slum pocket — home to 18,000 people — had surged ahead of Patil estate and other slums in Shivajinagar after an index case was detected on May 18. Experts said the contagion spread rapidly due to the congested living conditions. So far, Wadarwadi has seen 500 Covid-19 cases and 28 deaths. Stringent containment measures, including a strict watch on movement, provision of mobile toilets, and doorstep delivery of foodgrain and other essentials have reined in spread, experts involved in the surveillance activity said. “Since the past three weeks, Wadarwadi has been reporting cases only sporadically,” Shivajinagar MLA Siddharth Shirole said. “Wadarwadi will lose its containment tag if this trend persists for a few more days,” Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health of Pune Municipal Corporation, said. This comes has a relief to the residents of the area, who have been hemmed in by restrictions for 84 days and counting. They said they were ready to make a fresh beginning after a long, distressing shutdown. “Everything has reopened, but our area is still sealed,” said Laxmibai Koli, who works as a domestic helper. Koli has been out of work for over four months. “I’m ready to go to work, but many families and housing societies will not allow me due to the containment zone tag. Survival has become difficult,” she said. Laxman Gaikwad, another resident, has also been struggling to earn a livelihood. “I operate a school van, but schools have not opened. I started selling vegetables out of my van, but I don’t earn enough to make ends meet. I used to borrow money from friends, but that too has dried up. I hope things improve now,” Gaikwad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-with-dip-in-covid-19-cases-wadarwadi-to-lose-containment-zone-tag/articleshow/77453743.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 10, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dedicated OPDs at 3 hospitals to help patients cope with virus aftermath||MUMBAI: Three city hospitals-BYL Nair at Mumbai Central, KEM at Parel and Fortis at Mulund-have started dedicated post-Covid OPDs (outpatient department) to help patients deal with the lingering effects of the infection. Sion Hospital and a few other private ones are likely to follow suit as doctors see more patients with after-effects following discharge. The OPDs at Nair and Fortis were started on Saturday. Nair Dean Dr Mohan Joshi said patients are grappling with breathing issues as well as neurological, cardiac and kidney problems. The hospital was the country's first medical college to be converted into a dedicated Covid hospital and has treated over 3,000 Covid patients. While problems of lethargy, bodyache, weakness have been found in several, many patients have also suffered from stroke to serious cardiac complications after discharge. KEM dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said the follow-up OPD will be led by the chest department as most people are returning with lung complications. "We plan to start it this week and are working on picking a day. It will be open to patients who have undergone treatment in private hospitals too," he said. The hospital is believed to have seen over 20 cases of lung fibrosis where the lung tissue is scarred. "We have had Covid patients coming with peripheral vascular disease, heart attacks. These are patients who have had a severe form of the disease and were on oxygen or ventilator support," he said. At the post-Covid OPD in Fortis, a multidisciplinary team will assess the survivors post discharge on day 14, day 28, and in the third and sixth month. The OPD that will work every Wednesday and Saturday will make a detailed clinical, physical and psychological assessment of patients. Dr Rahul Pandit, head of critical care at Fortis Hospital, said they have noticed significant changes in patients who have battled Covid-19, like lack of exercise tolerance, disturbed sleep pattern, muscle wasting, lack of appetite. "While the neuropsychiatric implications like depression, insomnia, are immense, some of these patients tend to develop worsening of their existing comorbidities. We will re-evaluate pre-existing conditions too," he said. Dr Santosh Shetty, CEO of Kokilaben Hospital, said while they did not have a dedicated follow-up OPD, doctors from chest, cardiac and neurology departments are seeing patients with Covid residual issues. "Sometimes, patients who haven't had a very serious bout of Covid are also returning with respiratory issues after two to three weeks of discharge. "We are doing a pulmonary function test on such patients. The disease is known to give rise to blood coagulation issues which can cause strokes to heart attack," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-dedicated-opds-at-3-hospitals-to-help-patients-cope-with-virus-aftermath/articleshow/77453750.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP police kill Mukhtar aide in encounter, his family cries foul||LUCKNOW: Rakesh Pandey, a sharp-shooter of don-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, was shot dead in an encounter with Special Task Force in Sarojininagar area of Lucknow on Sunday. Pandey was an accused in the murder of BJP MLA, Krishnanand Rai, in 2005. Police said Pandey carried a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head, while his family alleged he was shot after he was forcibly whisked away by cops from his Gudumba home and that there was no bounty on him. In three other encounters across the state, Bulandshahr police shot at and arrested two criminals in separate operations while Noida police arrested five criminals after an encounter. The criminals arrested in Bulandshahr are Amit, an accused in 31 cases of loot and murder, and Saddam, also a history-sheeter. Amitabh Yash, IG of UP STF, said Pandey was accused in at least 12 cases committed since 1993, including the sensational murders of Krishnanand Rai in 2005 and contractor Ajay Singh in 2009. Police recovered a 9mm pistol, a .30 bore countrymade pistol, and cartridges from Pandey. An officer privy to the development, said a police team camped near Sarojininagar after a tip-off. “When police tried to stop an SUV, its occupants opened fire. Police fired in retaliation after which the SUV rammed into a tree,” the officer said. Pandey sustained gunshot wounds and died on the spot while his aides managed to flee, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-police-kill-mukhtar-aide-in-encounter-his-family-cries-foul/articleshow/77453752.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||Earn & learn programme on cards for ITI||Panaji: To give ITI students a greater hands-on exposure to the hospitality sector, directorate of skill development and entrepreneurship has prepared a roadmap to allow ITI students to work while studying as part of an earn-and-learn programme, director for skill development Dipak Desai said. With this industry integration project, hospitality students at the Panaji, Margao and Canacona centres will be allowed to train and work at restaurants or hotels that sign up with the ITIs. “This was a preliminary meeting and we are exploring how to go ahead,” Desai said. “Sitting in the class, it is very difficult to get real life, practical experience.” Some of the proposals made at the meeting are on the job training twice or thrice a week, guest lectures from sector representatives, tie-ups with hospitality partners for joint certification and introduction of newer courses. The virtual interaction was organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry. The aim, said an industry representative, is to increase the number of hospitality courses available at ITI’s and to increase industry participation. “After the students finish the basic theory bit, we may send the students to hotels for maybe one out of the six days. During the season time, the students could even help out the hotels and restaurants full time and this can be mutually beneficial,” Desai said, adding that skill development minister Vishwajit Rane has directed the department to improve the level of training.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/earn-learn-programme-on-cards-for-iti/articleshow/77453058.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||Shrishtal BMC for botanical garden at Chapoli dam||Poinguinim: The Shristhal Biodiversity Management Committee (BMC) has pitched for a botanical garden near the Chapoli dam in Canacona. The committee said that creating a tourist attraction in the area will help create employment opportunities for local youth. The dam, which was commissioned nearly 20 years ago, is located at a distance of around 2km from Chaudi town, and 10km from Cotigao Wildlife sanctuary. It has a command area 212.7 ha in the scenic Western Ghats. There is ample space for development and, if the government takes a little interest, revenue can be generated by converting the command area into a botanical garden, which would surely attract tourists, the BMC said. Shirish Pai, one of the members of the BMC, said that this area could be made into a tourist attraction just like the Selaulim dam which is visited by tourists and locals. Not only could it become a place of attraction for tourists staying at Agonda, Palolem and Patnem-Colomb, it would generate employment opportunities for the youth of Canacona, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shrishtal-bmc-for-botanical-garden-at-chapoli-dam/articleshow/77453071.cms||Albert Fernandes
August 10, 2020||Goa||NCP slams govt over Arpora party||Saligao: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Friday condemned the government, especially the home department, for allowing a party to be organised at Arpora recently.  NCP general secretary Sanjay Barde said that most of the youth attending the party had not worn masks and were not maintaining social distancing. “The chief minister should clarify how the party was allowed to be held during the ongoing pandemic. BJP is only interested in making the party stronger, but is not bothered about the common man who is suffering due to the Covid-19 crisis,” said Barde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncp-slams-govt-over-arpora-party/articleshow/77453065.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Thane||Expect heavy rain till Thursday; Mumbai surpasses yearly average rain||MUMBAI: Till Sunday morning, the city received total rainfall of 2,526mm-surpassing the annual average with over 50 days of monsoon still left. With 18.6mm rainfall recorded by IMD Santacruz observatory in the 24 hours ending at 8.30am on Sunday, the annual average of 2,514mm was breached. IMD Colaba recorded total rainfall of 2,447.2mm in the same period. While the weekend was relatively dry, IMD forecast that the south west monsoon is likely to be active on west coast again. IMD issued a 'yellow' alert for Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in Mumbai, Thane and Raigad. A yellow alert means heavy rain at isolated places is very likely. "The conditions are likely to continue for a week," said K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD. For Monday, the IMD has forecast generally cloudy skies with few spells of light to moderate rainfall. As the onset of monsoon was declared in Mumbai on June 14, rain began to pick up pace soon after the month ended. The active monsoon spell that the city witnessed over the last few days gave Mumbai August's average rain in the first seven days of the month itself. Last year, the city surpassed the annual average rainfall on August 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/expect-heavy-rain-till-thursday-mumbai-surpasses-yearly-average-rain/articleshow/77453762.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 10, 2020||Mumbai||Expect heavy rain till Thursday; Mumbai surpasses yearly average rain||MUMBAI: Till Sunday morning, the city received total rainfall of 2,526mm-surpassing the annual average with over 50 days of monsoon still left. With 18.6mm rainfall recorded by IMD Santacruz observatory in the 24 hours ending at 8.30am on Sunday, the annual average of 2,514mm was breached. IMD Colaba recorded total rainfall of 2,447.2mm in the same period. While the weekend was relatively dry, IMD forecast that the south west monsoon is likely to be active on west coast again. IMD issued a 'yellow' alert for Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday in Mumbai, Thane and Raigad. A yellow alert means heavy rain at isolated places is very likely. "The conditions are likely to continue for a week," said K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD. For Monday, the IMD has forecast generally cloudy skies with few spells of light to moderate rainfall. As the onset of monsoon was declared in Mumbai on June 14, rain began to pick up pace soon after the month ended. The active monsoon spell that the city witnessed over the last few days gave Mumbai August's average rain in the first seven days of the month itself. Last year, the city surpassed the annual average rainfall on August 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/expect-heavy-rain-till-thursday-mumbai-surpasses-yearly-average-rain/articleshow/77453756.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 10, 2020||Goa||Power bills: Congress to launch online campaign||Panaji: Congress on Sunday decided to launch a social media campaign to convince the state government to reduce the power bills. The party said the exorbitant bills are an additional burden on people who have either lost jobs or their source of income and are preparing for Ganesh festivities. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that instead of assisting those who have lost their source of livelihood because of the pandemic and subsequent economic crisis, the state has put an additional financial burden. “The government needs to help people, it has got money from the Centre. If it does not help people now when Ganesh Chaturthi is near, then what is the use,” he said.  “The government pretends to be blind and deaf so to highlight all this we have started a social media campaign asking people to upload short one minute videos appealing to the government to waive off the bills,” Chodankar said, adding that the electricity department should either waive off bills for two months or subsidise 50% of the power bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-bills-congress-to-launch-online-campaign/articleshow/77453075.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||HC upholds acquittal of accused in 2016 rape of minor case||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has upheld the acquittal order passed by the trial court in a rape case of a minor in 2016. The court observed that the possibility of false implication of the accused cannot be ruled out and also raised a doubt over the investigation conducted by the police. According to the prosecution, the sexual abuse took place on the evening of October 30, 2016 . The incident had come to light during a counselling session conducted by an NGO at a crèche for children of labourers. Later, the mother took the child to the doctor. The prosecution argued that the children’s court, which exonerated the accused, did not believe the testimony of the mother as she was in the sex trade. During the hearing, lawyer Vibhav Amonkar, who was representing the accused, submitted that there was no illegality in the judgment passed by the children’s court. There was a dispute between the father of the accused and mother of the victim, as she was involved in the sex trade and as such the relation between the two families was not good, he added. “Thus, the possibility of false implication cannot be ruled out considering the fact that the house of the complainant and that of the accused are adjacent to each other,” the high court observed. A division bench comprising justices M S Sonak and M S Jawalkar noted, “Investigation is also not beyond suspicion as the statement of the material witnesses were recorded after two months, specifically when their involvement is there since lodging of the complaint.” The material witnesses were NGO workers who had taken up the issue after the minor informed them about the incident. The court also stated that since the houses of the accused and complainant are situated in a densely populated area, it would be very difficult for a person to commit such an act during the day, and that too when other family members are present in the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-upholds-acquittal-of-accused-in-2016-rape-of-minor-case/articleshow/77453081.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chennai||Four Tamil Nadu medical students in Russia drown in river||The dreams of a unani practitioner from Dharapuram in Tirupur district to make his son a doctor was shattered on Sunday as four medical students from Tamil Nadu drowned in a river in Russia. The family of a sub-inspector from Thalaivasal in Salem district and two other families from Cuddalore and Chennai, too, were devastated by the tragedy. “It was a big dream for us to see my son as a doctor and a bigger dream for him to become one. From a very young age he wanted to become a doctor,’’ a grieving Mohammed Rafi of Dharapuram said soon after the news of his son Mohamed Ashiq’s death reached him. Along with Ashiq, Manoj Anand, son of Anand, a sub-inspector, R Vignesh from Thittakudi in Cuddalore district, and Stephen from Chennai, all final-year students at Volgagrad State Medical University, drowned in river Volga. “We were expecting him to return in six months after completing his studies,’’ Rafi said. Vignesh’s cousin, A Sarath, said it was his passion for medicine that landed him in Russia. Weekend trip takes a tragic turn for TN students in Russia; others escapeSarath said he was particular on pursuing medicine and hence did not mind going to an unfamiliar country. “But we never thought that he will never return,’’ Sarath said. According to information given to the family of deceased, 10 students had gone to river Volga to spend the weekend and had ventured into the river. There was a sudden flooding and they were washed away. While six managed to escape, four of them drowned. “Vignesh attempted to save their friend, but he too was dragged into water,” said Sarath. “He (Vignesh) spoke to his mother and sister on Saturday, before he ventured out. He used to visit India every year during vacation in July-August. He was keen to return, but his mother insisted him not to travel during Covid times,” said Sarath. The other victim, M Stephen, is the elder son of Mohankumar and Bakiyam couple living at Otteri in Chennai. He completed Class XII in Doveton school and pursuing medicine abroad was his dream, said a family member. The bodies of the four youth have been retrieved from the river. Manoj’s father Anand and his family members met chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami who is at Salem and appealed to him to take steps to bring the bodies. The CM assured him of all necessary support through the Centre to bring the bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/four-tamil-nadu-medical-students-in-russia-drown-in-river/articleshow/77453751.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||IMD issues heavy rainfall alert for state till August 11||Panaji: Goa is expected to receive rain heavily at a few places till August 11, experts from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) have said. The heavy rain is likely to be accompanied by wind speeds of up to 30-40 kmph. The state is expected to receive 6cm to 12cm rain in 24 hours, IMD said. A low-pressure area has formed over the Bay of Bengal on Sunday, thus ushering the showers to the Goan coast. There is also an offshore trough over the west coast which is likely to contribute to this phenomenon. “With the combined effect of low pressure area and off shore trough, rainfall activity will increase and the state can expect heavy rainfall at a few places up to August 11,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. The intensity of the showers, however, will not be as strong as the very heavy showers experienced in the past week. “As of now, IMD’s observations show the possibility of heavy rainfall only and a yellow colour warning has been issued,” Rahul said. Meanwhile, the Pernem rain gauge station has become the first in the state to cross the 3,000mm mark. Some others are on the brink of reaching the mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/imd-issues-heavy-rainfall-alert-for-state-till-august-11/articleshow/77453093.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||Goa government trying to suffocate tiatr academy, says Tomazinho Cardozo||PANAJI: The government is trying to suffocate the tiatr academy, its first president Tomazinho Cardozo stated. By not constituting a committee/ council for the tiatr academy, all its activities have come to a standstill, he said. “I feel there is an attempt to suffocate the tiatr academy and then kill it,” he said while speaking at the inauguration of the website www.tiatr.in. “A few days ago the government nominated Bramanand Shankwalkar as the chairman of the Goa football development council. If the government can do this why can’t they nominate members to the tiatr academy. It’s a sad situation,” he said. He called for the artistes to come together and get the government to constitute the committee. He told TOI that the tiatr academy meant to promote and develop various aspects of tiatr, is being left to die a natural death, with no members nominated. He said there are 36 schemes which aren’t being implemented as a result of members not being nominated. Covid cannot be an excuse for not nominating members, he said, adding that the government hasn’t done so for two and a half years now. Director of art and culture Sagun Velip told TOI that schemes that don’t require public participation will continue at the academy. He also said formation of the new committee is difficult during the pandemic. “The government is presently concentrating on how best they can fight Covid. Government gatherings are being avoided. All these autonomous bodies will have to wait sometime till the government comes on track,” he said. The brain child of Joel Fernandes, www.tiatr.in, the online site for tiatr features history, various tiatr staged, directors, actors, musicians, light men, backstage workers, including transport organisers for various groups and is now available to lovers of tiatr all over the world. Cardozo said the website is not complete and appealed to those with information to contribute to it. “Anyone with information needs to come and share. He urged for the printing of books on tiatr and research on the subject to continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-trying-to-suffocate-tiatr-academy/articleshow/77453095.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: Melauli villagers once again protest proposed IIT, erect ‘no entry’ sign at site||By- Afaq KhanVALPOI: Dissatisfied with the government’s decision to construct an IIT in their village, hundreds of livid villagers from Melauli in Sattari, as well as neighbouring villages coming under the jurisdiction of the Guleli village panchayat, on Sunday erected a warning board at the proposed site. The board reads ‘No entry for IIT in Melauli’ and ‘Any person visiting this area to support IIT will be responsible for his/her own security’. The board, which was installed after a traditional pooja, was unveiled by village elders. Villagers from Melauli, Shel, Maingine, Murmune, Dhada and Paikul participated in the agitation. “This is a warning to all those entering Melauli with the intention of hurting our sentiments, livelihood, devotional places and rich biodiversity,” Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan, convenor, Shashikant Savordekar said. Calling this step “just the beginning”, the group’s co-convenor, Shubham Shivolkar, said that the government will have to face dire consequences if it tries to go ahead with the IIT project. Few days ago, in another unique form of protest, the women from Melauli-Sattari had tied rakhis to the trees marked for felling for the proposed IIT. Villagers said that they will continue their protests till the project is shifted out of their village. “We are not against the IIT project, but it should not be built at the cost of our sustenance and environment,” Shivolkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/melauli-villagers-once-again-protest-proposed-iit-erect-no-entry-sign-at-site/articleshow/77453096.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||Industry bodies ask Goa government to tweak SOP for units||PANAJI: A week after the health department asked the industrial units in the state to adhere to certain standard operating procedures, including a suggestion to conduct random sero testing, the industry bodies have sought certain changes. In a joint representation, industry bodies have stated that industries, especially small SMEs, lack the ability to carry out sero surveillance in industrial estates and want the department to drop it from the SOP. The state government had also made thermal screening and the Arogya Setu app mandatory, which is not only impractical but also dangerous, said industry leaders. Confederation of Indian Industry, Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Goa State Industries Association and Verna Industries Association have submitted a joint representation to chief minister Pramod Sawant and health minister Vishwajit Rane. Sero surveillance provides estimates of antibody levels against infectious diseases and is considered the gold standard for measuring population immunity due to past infection. At present, sero surveillance is being utilised by the health department to assess the spread of Covid. The SOP issued by the health department on July 30 had made it mandatory for each industrial unit to conduct thermal screening for all staff thrice a day, including at the workplace after lunch. In addition, the Arogya Setu app should also be monitored. Industry representatives stated that thermal screening in the office areas is not a concern, but similar screening in the manufacturing area is unsafe and can lead to accidents. The industry associations have stated that many contract staff cannot afford smartphones. They have stated that since N-95 masks are not available in adequate quantities, organisations should be allowed to use FFP2 masks for persons working in critical and packaging areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/industry-bodies-ask-govt-to-tweak-sop-for-units/articleshow/77453097.cms||Newton Sequeira
August 10, 2020||Goa||7 improve with plasma therapy||Panaji: Seven Covid patients undergoing treatment at the ESI hospital in Margao have shown marked improvement after they were administered convalescent plasma therapy. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that after giving them plasma, the health of seven patients has improved while there was a status quo in three patients. The health minister also appealed recovered covid patients to come forward to donate plasma. More than 39 have donated plasma so far. “A perception has been created that we are not taking adequate measures for treatment of Covid patients. We need more people to donate plasma as it will save more lives,” Rane said. He also said those donating plasma will not face any health issues. GMC, where the plasma bank has been set-up, already has a team in place that contacts people who have recovered from novel coronavirus. However, a GMC official said that the response is still not very impressive as people are hesitant to donate plasma. He said 200ml of plasma is administered to a critically ill Covid-patient at least twice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/7-improve-with-plasma-therapy/articleshow/77453098.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Mumbai||Home isolation not for 60+ and for those with other ailments in Mumbai||MUMBAI: To reduce the Covid mortality rate in the city, the BMC has asked its officials not to allow home isolation for asymptomatic Covid-positive patients with a co-morbidity or those who are above age 60. Officials said there are instances of such patients opting for home isolation and later developing serious health issues at home. Often, late hospitalization led to death. On Sunday, the BMC issued a directive to all civic ward officers, asking them to strictly follow guidelines put out by Indian Council for Medical Research. The directive says 'home isolation facilities be allowed only to asymptomatic positive patients having no co-morbidities like hypertension, diabetes etc and age is below 60 years'. An officer said, "Covid patients with any comorbidity need urgent medical attention. At home it is not possible, so they are always at risk. It is better to get them admitted to a medical facility for timely treatment in an emergency. The death rate of positive patients with co-morbidities is high in the city." TOI reported on Sunday that the city's death rate is 5.5%, second to Ahmedabad (5.9%) in the country, which has emerged as a worry and embarrassment for the BMC. On Friday BMC chief I S Chahal had met ward officers and medical experts to discuss Covid deaths. Wards officers said despite availability of ambulances, healthcare facilities and adequate ICU beds, the mortality rate is not reducing. -Vijay V Singh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/home-isolation-not-for-60-and-for-those-with-other-ailments-in-mumbai/articleshow/77453773.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Mumbai||94% Covid deaths in Mumbai among middle-aged patients, senior citizens||MUMBAI: Middle-aged persons and senior citizens constitute 94% of Mumbai's Covid-19 dea-ths, while children and those in the 20-39 years age group make up for the remaining 6%. The findings are based on an analysis by the BMC of the city's Covid-19 data up to August 6. Half of the total 6,645 coronavirus deaths reported in the city till the date are of those in the age group of 60-79 years. The group has a case fatality rate (CFR) of 13%, which is over twice the city's average of 5.5%. While those aged above 80 years account for 7% of the deaths, in the city, they have the highest Covid-19 CFR of 21%. "The high CFR in these groups is because of their lower immunity levels. Right from the beginning, we have informed that senior citizens comprise a high-risk group when it comes to Covid-19. This is true the world over," said BMC's deputy executive health officer Dr Daksha Shah. CFR, informally called mortality rate, is the ratio of total reported deaths to total reported cases in the category being referenced. The word 'reported' is significant in the definition, as CFR may not give a true picture of a pandemic's deadliness: mild cases could go unreported, and conversely, deaths too. Among age groups in Mumbai, CFR is lowest among those under twenty (0.6%), followed by those aged 20-39 years (1%). In terms of absolute numbers, Covid-19 patients in the age group of 40-59 years constitute the second highest deaths (36%) after senior citizens, but their CFR is 5.3%, which is marginally less than the city's average. Official said that in the higher age segments, those with comorbidities -- hypertension and diabetes -- are common in most cases and thus constitute a risk group as well. An official said that keeping this in mind, the BMC had early on decided not to allocate Covid-related field work to employees aged above 55 years. In some cases, senior officials, due to the nature of their responsibilities, have not been able to adhere by the age bar. For instance, Ashok Khairnar, the 57-year-old assistant municipal commissioner of H-East Ward (the eastern stretch of the Bandra, Khar, Santacruz belt) contacted the virus last month and died after a few days in hospital. But his efforts on the ground bore fruit and the ward has recorded the lowest viral growth rate in the city for a month, though the ward's mortality rate, 7%, remains above the city's average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/94-covid-deaths-in-mumbai-among-middle-aged-patients-senior-citizens/articleshow/77453775.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 10, 2020||Trichy||Districts log more Covid-19 deaths than Chennai||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases remained below 1,000 for the third day in Chennai and the city’s daily death toll dropped to 12 on Sunday, one less than in Coimbatore and Virudhunagar. This is the first time other districts are reporting more deaths than Chennai. Overall, the state had 5,994 new cases and 119 deaths on Sunday. With 6,020 people getting discharged following treatment, TN has 53,336 active cases — a 6.4 % drop compared to last week. Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur together registered 1,186 cases compared to Chennai’s 989. A health official from Coimbatore said, "We have been witnessing a change in pattern among the patients. During the initial days of the outbreak, most of the patients tested positive for the virus were asymptomatic. But for the past few weeks, we had started witnessing more patients with mild symptoms. The number of patients with symptoms rose to 30 to 40% and of which, at least 10 to 15% of them are found with high temperature, cough and breathing difficulties.” While the western region on the whole registered 624 cases (including 217 cases in Coimbatore) on Sunday, southern TN had 1,614 cases. Theni reported the highest 360 cases, followed by Tuticorin with 251. Madurai crossed 12,000 on Sunday, with 107 new cases. The district took nine days to reach 12,000 from 11,000. “This is a clear indication that the curve is flattening in the district that was once seen as the source of the Covid-19 outbreak in the southern districts,” said a health official from Madurai. The state tested 68,179 people for Covid-19 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/districts-log-more-covid-19-deaths-than-chennai/articleshow/77453803.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Districts log more Covid-19 deaths than Chennai||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases remained below 1,000 for the third day in Chennai and the city’s daily death toll dropped to 12 on Sunday, one less than in Coimbatore and Virudhunagar. This is the first time other districts are reporting more deaths than Chennai. Overall, the state had 5,994 new cases and 119 deaths on Sunday. With 6,020 people getting discharged following treatment, TN has 53,336 active cases — a 6.4 % drop compared to last week. Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur together registered 1,186 cases compared to Chennai’s 989. A health official from Coimbatore said, "We have been witnessing a change in pattern among the patients. During the initial days of the outbreak, most of the patients tested positive for the virus were asymptomatic. But for the past few weeks, we had started witnessing more patients with mild symptoms. The number of patients with symptoms rose to 30 to 40% and of which, at least 10 to 15% of them are found with high temperature, cough and breathing difficulties.” While the western region on the whole registered 624 cases (including 217 cases in Coimbatore) on Sunday, southern TN had 1,614 cases. Theni reported the highest 360 cases, followed by Tuticorin with 251. Madurai crossed 12,000 on Sunday, with 107 new cases. The district took nine days to reach 12,000 from 11,000. “This is a clear indication that the curve is flattening in the district that was once seen as the source of the Covid-19 outbreak in the southern districts,” said a health official from Madurai. The state tested 68,179 people for Covid-19 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/districts-log-more-covid-19-deaths-than-chennai/articleshow/77453800.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Erode||Districts log more Covid-19 deaths than Chennai||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases remained below 1,000 for the third day in Chennai and the city’s daily death toll dropped to 12 on Sunday, one less than in Coimbatore and Virudhunagar. This is the first time other districts are reporting more deaths than Chennai. Overall, the state had 5,994 new cases and 119 deaths on Sunday. With 6,020 people getting discharged following treatment, TN has 53,336 active cases — a 6.4 % drop compared to last week. Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur together registered 1,186 cases compared to Chennai’s 989. A health official from Coimbatore said, "We have been witnessing a change in pattern among the patients. During the initial days of the outbreak, most of the patients tested positive for the virus were asymptomatic. But for the past few weeks, we had started witnessing more patients with mild symptoms. The number of patients with symptoms rose to 30 to 40% and of which, at least 10 to 15% of them are found with high temperature, cough and breathing difficulties.” While the western region on the whole registered 624 cases (including 217 cases in Coimbatore) on Sunday, southern TN had 1,614 cases. Theni reported the highest 360 cases, followed by Tuticorin with 251. Madurai crossed 12,000 on Sunday, with 107 new cases. The district took nine days to reach 12,000 from 11,000. “This is a clear indication that the curve is flattening in the district that was once seen as the source of the Covid-19 outbreak in the southern districts,” said a health official from Madurai. The state tested 68,179 people for Covid-19 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/districts-log-more-covid-19-deaths-than-chennai/articleshow/77453801.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Salem||Districts log more Covid-19 deaths than Chennai||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases remained below 1,000 for the third day in Chennai and the city’s daily death toll dropped to 12 on Sunday, one less than in Coimbatore and Virudhunagar. This is the first time other districts are reporting more deaths than Chennai. Overall, the state had 5,994 new cases and 119 deaths on Sunday. With 6,020 people getting discharged following treatment, TN has 53,336 active cases — a 6.4 % drop compared to last week. Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur together registered 1,186 cases compared to Chennai’s 989. A health official from Coimbatore said, "We have been witnessing a change in pattern among the patients. During the initial days of the outbreak, most of the patients tested positive for the virus were asymptomatic. But for the past few weeks, we had started witnessing more patients with mild symptoms. The number of patients with symptoms rose to 30 to 40% and of which, at least 10 to 15% of them are found with high temperature, cough and breathing difficulties.” While the western region on the whole registered 624 cases (including 217 cases in Coimbatore) on Sunday, southern TN had 1,614 cases. Theni reported the highest 360 cases, followed by Tuticorin with 251. Madurai crossed 12,000 on Sunday, with 107 new cases. The district took nine days to reach 12,000 from 11,000. “This is a clear indication that the curve is flattening in the district that was once seen as the source of the Covid-19 outbreak in the southern districts,” said a health official from Madurai. The state tested 68,179 people for Covid-19 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/districts-log-more-covid-19-deaths-than-chennai/articleshow/77453804.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chennai||Districts log more Covid-19 deaths than Chennai||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases remained below 1,000 for the third day in Chennai and the city’s daily death toll dropped to 12 on Sunday, one less than in Coimbatore and Virudhunagar. This is the first time other districts are reporting more deaths than Chennai. Overall, the state had 5,994 new cases and 119 deaths on Sunday. With 6,020 people getting discharged following treatment, TN has 53,336 active cases — a 6.4 % drop compared to last week. Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Thiruvallur together registered 1,186 cases compared to Chennai’s 989. A health official from Coimbatore said, "We have been witnessing a change in pattern among the patients. During the initial days of the outbreak, most of the patients tested positive for the virus were asymptomatic. But for the past few weeks, we had started witnessing more patients with mild symptoms. The number of patients with symptoms rose to 30 to 40% and of which, at least 10 to 15% of them are found with high temperature, cough and breathing difficulties.” While the western region on the whole registered 624 cases (including 217 cases in Coimbatore) on Sunday, southern TN had 1,614 cases. Theni reported the highest 360 cases, followed by Tuticorin with 251. Madurai crossed 12,000 on Sunday, with 107 new cases. The district took nine days to reach 12,000 from 11,000. “This is a clear indication that the curve is flattening in the district that was once seen as the source of the Covid-19 outbreak in the southern districts,” said a health official from Madurai. The state tested 68,179 people for Covid-19 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/districts-log-more-covid-19-deaths-than-chennai/articleshow/77453769.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||Mangor Hill denotified, 2 micro zones created||Vasco: South Goa district magistrate Ajit Roy late Sunday night notified two micro containment zones at Chota Mangor and Bada Mangor in Mangor Hill, Vasco. Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Dessai said, “The Mangor Hill containment zone has been denotified and two areas from it have been converted into micro-containment zones.” The notification stated that the Bada Mangor micro containment zone is from ‘Mallikarjune Arc Temple to Durgadevi Temple of Mormugao Municipal Council’ and at the Chota Mangor one is from ‘Ruby Bar to Bullet Enfield Showroom’. The South Goa district magistrate also stated in the notification that 69 days have been already passed since the declaration of the area as a containment zone, and ‘presently there are no any active Covid-19 cases in containment zone’. An official from the municipality stated that the last cases reported here were on July 27. Movement of public within the micro containment zones shall be strictly prohibited by the police personnel adequately deployed there, the notification stated. Earlier on Sunday, the South Goa district magistrate held a meeting along with the Mormugao deputy collector, Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida and DySP Raju Raut Dessai. The meeting was held at the Mormugao deputy collector office in Vasco. A decision had been taken to allow residents of the containment zone to report back to work from Monday onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mangor-hill-denotified-2-micro-zones-created/articleshow/77453120.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 10, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 'Of 10 doctors with virus, 8 took hydroxychloroquine but it didn't help'||MUMBAI: A survey of 176 infected doctors revealed that prophylactic doses of hydroxychloroquine could not protect them, as 76% got the infection despite being on the anti-malarial drug. It appears that BCG and measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccination too taken in childhood were not too helpful. Most of the infections took place in May and June when Mumbai is believed to have seen its peak.  The survey carried out by the Association of Medical Consultants (AMC) found that of the doctors who got infected, 55% were inoculated with both the BCG and MMR vaccines, while 23% had got only BCG. "BCG and MMR vaccination taken in childhood were not protective," said Dr Deepak Baid, president, AMC. Studies world over are looking at whether a repeat shot of these vaccines can generate an immune response in adults and help in the fight against Covid. In nearly a third of the cases, the doctors believed they got the infection from patients or relatives not wearing masks.  About 40% of the doctors infected were in the age bracket of 36 to 50 years, which is consistent with the trend seen in the general population. The gender disparity seen in general population was also seen among doctors where about 67% of the infected were men. Importantly, the survey found that 80% of doctors were infected while seeing patients in their private clinics and hospitals, and were not a part of the government's Covid workforce.  "This also showed us that the Covid death cover of Rs 50 lakhs extended to healthcare workers by the government does not cover the private sector where doctors are equally vulnerable," said Baid. The average cost of admission was around 1.75 lakh for doctors. However, the survey also found that 20% of doctors enrolled with public Covid facilities were not offered quarantine facility. Around 11% of the surveyed doctors required ICU care, the study found out. While fever, cough, bodyache and weakness were found to be the common symptoms, around 17% complained of breathlessness.  KEM dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said that doctors who are joining Covid workforce now are not willing to take hydroxychloroquine. "Those who took initially have finished their 8-9 week course. Not many are taking it now," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-of-10-doctors-with-virus-8-took-hydroxychloroquine-but-it-didnt-help/articleshow/77453786.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||Ponda facility will leave locals with no hospital: Sudin||Panaji/Ponda: Madkai MLA Ramkrishna Dhavalikar said that around 3.5 lakh people residing in Ponda, Dharbandora and Sattari talukas have been left with no hospital for treatment of ailments, after the state government on Sunday suddenly declared the sub-district hospital in Ponda a Covid facility. “It is wrong to say I am protesting setting up of Covid facility in Ponda. If that was the case, I would not have allowed Covid care centres in Farmagudi. I have taken an issue with the state government taking such a decision without consulting anyone from the area. Hundreds depend on the hospital for basic treatment. The OPD sees a rush of cases everyday, where will these people go now,” said Dhavalikar. He said that when he spoke to chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday, the CM said that those presently undergoing treatment at the Ponda sub-district hospital would be shifted to Goa Medical College. Dhavalikar said this is irrational. “These are poor people from the talukas of Ponda, Dharbandora and Sattari, who depend on the sub-district hospital in Ponda for treatment. You want to shift them so far away to GMC. But there are two carers required for each patient. How will they travel to and fro each day? They cannot afford these travel costs and it is a major inconvenience to them,” said Dhavalikar. He said that the people have no private practitioners in the area to turn to for general treatment at present during the Covid crisis as the doctors have stopped practice for their safety during the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-facility-will-leave-locals-with-no-hospital-sudin/articleshow/77453130.cms||---
August 10, 2020||India||Any type of visa good for ‘air bubble’ nations||NEW DELHI: India has begun lifting restrictions on the categories of people who can travel to and from countries with which it has created air bubbles. Now, Indian nationals can travel to countries with which air bubble arrangements have been finalised on any type of visa, the aviation ministry Tweeted Sunday. At present, India has travel bubbles with US, UK, France and Germany. This list of countries is likely to expand in coming days. “Restrictions on the entry into India of Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) card holders from countries with which aviation ministry has air bubble arrangements have been removed. They are welcome to enter India… foreign nationals belonging to countries with which (India) has air bubble arrangements can now avail Indian visa facility for business, medical and employment purposes in the country,” the aviation ministry Tweeted Sunday. “In another huge step for Indian nationals wishing to travel abroad, they may travel to countries with which air bubble arrangements have been finalised by (India) on any type of visa,” it added. Aviation minister H S Puri had recently said India is establishing air bubbles with neighbouring countries; places in Africa like Egypt, Tanzania and South Africa; Canada and Japan. Indians with valid visas to the UAE may soon be able to travel there under the special arrangements India is working out with several countries. Indian ambassador of India to UAE, Pavan Kapoor, tweeted on Saturday: “I understand that a decision to this effect has now indeed been taken by MHA (Union home ministry) in India. This will come into effect only after the formal notification from the (Indian) aviation ministry in the next couple of days. Please book your tickets to UAE only after that.” Dubai, the biggest destination for Indian travellers, had conditionally reopened its doors for tourists from July 7, 2020. On Wednesday (August 5), Ambassador Kapoor had Tweeted that “since the UAE has recently started issuing new visas, we have recommended to authorities in India to consider allowing Indians with valid visas to travel to the UAE. We are hopeful for an early decision.” Every country has its own set of evolving entry requirements in these pandemic times. For instance, anyone flying to Dubai must have a negative Covid-19 PCR test certificate to be accepted on the flight. This test must be taken a maximum of 96 hours before departure from labs designated by the UAE government in India. This excludes children under the age of 12 and passengers who have a moderate or severe disability. “You may need to take another Covid-19 PCR test on arrival. If you take a test at the airport, you must remain in your hotel or residence until you receive the test result. If the test result is positive, you will be required to undergo isolation and follow the Dubai Health Authority guidelines. You must also download the Covid-19 – DXB Smart App,” Dubai-based Emirates’ website saying about the current entry requirements for Dubai. Germany also now requires passengers coming from “high risk” countries like India to be tested for Covid on arrival. Given the increase in travel these air bubbles are expected to lead to, India is also streamlining the process of international arrivals to fast-track clearance time at airports in these pandemic times. Now people with Covid negative reports of tests conducted within 96 hours of leaving for India and certain categories of distressed arrivals can seek exemption from paid or institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/any-type-of-visa-good-for-air-bubble-nations/articleshow/77453782.cms||Saurabh Sinha
August 10, 2020||Coimbatore||In Tamil Nadu, institutional quarantine must for flyers from abroad||CHENNAI: Passengers who arrive by Vande Bharat flights from abroad at Chennai airport will continue to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine as the state government has not implemented the new standard operating procedure (SOP) put out by the Union ministry of health that allows home quarantine for thosewith a Covid-19 negative certificate. The new SOP is valid from August 8. The state government says it will examine the SOP and will decide on it later. However, several passengers who did not know that the state government is not following the new SOP by the Centre arespending money to get Covid-19 negative tests abroad to avoid institutional quarantine. This absence of uniformity in policy is impacting especially those who are returning after losing their jobs from the Middle East. The tests are expensive abroad and people are forced to spend their savings for a certificate. "Peoplespend around$200 for Covid-19 test and wait for four days to get the results. When they land here and learn that the report is of no of use, they get disappointed,” said an official. A senior bureaucrat said that they would examine the advisory from the Centre and deliberate on it and arrive at a decision. Based on this, a report will be submitted to the chief secretary K Shanmugam. Following this, TN government would take the final call. “There is no change in the quarantine rules yet. Though passengers have certificates, a swab test is taken and they are taken to a hotel or a government facility. Only one or two international flights arrive now every day,” said an airport official, noting that the state health officials, who screen international passengers, continue to send them into institutional quarantine. However, the new SOP issued by the union government will be useful when scheduled international flights begin, said the airport official. In that case, there will be more flights per day and finding accommodation for all the passengers who arrive willbedifficult.Oneflightcan bring at least 250 to 300 passengers. Though the second test is supposedtobetaken after seven days, in some cases there is a delay because there may be too many passengers. However, a 23-year-old medical student who arrived from Kazakhstan was lucky as she was sent to her hometown for institutional quarantine. “My swab sample was taken and I was in a quarantine centre in Chennai for two days. After that they sent me to Perunthurai for a week. The second sample was taken on the seventh day there. After the second sample returned negative, I was asked to be in home quarantine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/in-tamil-nadu-institutional-quarantine-must-for-flyers-from-abroad/articleshow/77453791.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
August 10, 2020||Trichy||In Tamil Nadu, institutional quarantine must for flyers from abroad||CHENNAI: Passengers who arrive by Vande Bharat flights from abroad at Chennai airport will continue to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine as the state government has not implemented the new standard operating procedure (SOP) put out by the Union ministry of health that allows home quarantine for thosewith a Covid-19 negative certificate. The new SOP is valid from August 8. The state government says it will examine the SOP and will decide on it later. However, several passengers who did not know that the state government is not following the new SOP by the Centre arespending money to get Covid-19 negative tests abroad to avoid institutional quarantine. This absence of uniformity in policy is impacting especially those who are returning after losing their jobs from the Middle East. The tests are expensive abroad and people are forced to spend their savings for a certificate. "Peoplespend around$200 for Covid-19 test and wait for four days to get the results. When they land here and learn that the report is of no of use, they get disappointed,” said an official. A senior bureaucrat said that they would examine the advisory from the Centre and deliberate on it and arrive at a decision. Based on this, a report will be submitted to the chief secretary K Shanmugam. Following this, TN government would take the final call. “There is no change in the quarantine rules yet. Though passengers have certificates, a swab test is taken and they are taken to a hotel or a government facility. Only one or two international flights arrive now every day,” said an airport official, noting that the state health officials, who screen international passengers, continue to send them into institutional quarantine. However, the new SOP issued by the union government will be useful when scheduled international flights begin, said the airport official. In that case, there will be more flights per day and finding accommodation for all the passengers who arrive willbedifficult.Oneflightcan bring at least 250 to 300 passengers. Though the second test is supposedtobetaken after seven days, in some cases there is a delay because there may be too many passengers. However, a 23-year-old medical student who arrived from Kazakhstan was lucky as she was sent to her hometown for institutional quarantine. “My swab sample was taken and I was in a quarantine centre in Chennai for two days. After that they sent me to Perunthurai for a week. The second sample was taken on the seventh day there. After the second sample returned negative, I was asked to be in home quarantine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/in-tamil-nadu-institutional-quarantine-must-for-flyers-from-abroad/articleshow/77453794.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
August 10, 2020||Erode||In Tamil Nadu, institutional quarantine must for flyers from abroad||CHENNAI: Passengers who arrive by Vande Bharat flights from abroad at Chennai airport will continue to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine as the state government has not implemented the new standard operating procedure (SOP) put out by the Union ministry of health that allows home quarantine for thosewith a Covid-19 negative certificate. The new SOP is valid from August 8. The state government says it will examine the SOP and will decide on it later. However, several passengers who did not know that the state government is not following the new SOP by the Centre arespending money to get Covid-19 negative tests abroad to avoid institutional quarantine. This absence of uniformity in policy is impacting especially those who are returning after losing their jobs from the Middle East. The tests are expensive abroad and people are forced to spend their savings for a certificate. "Peoplespend around$200 for Covid-19 test and wait for four days to get the results. When they land here and learn that the report is of no of use, they get disappointed,” said an official. A senior bureaucrat said that they would examine the advisory from the Centre and deliberate on it and arrive at a decision. Based on this, a report will be submitted to the chief secretary K Shanmugam. Following this, TN government would take the final call. “There is no change in the quarantine rules yet. Though passengers have certificates, a swab test is taken and they are taken to a hotel or a government facility. Only one or two international flights arrive now every day,” said an airport official, noting that the state health officials, who screen international passengers, continue to send them into institutional quarantine. However, the new SOP issued by the union government will be useful when scheduled international flights begin, said the airport official. In that case, there will be more flights per day and finding accommodation for all the passengers who arrive willbedifficult.Oneflightcan bring at least 250 to 300 passengers. Though the second test is supposedtobetaken after seven days, in some cases there is a delay because there may be too many passengers. However, a 23-year-old medical student who arrived from Kazakhstan was lucky as she was sent to her hometown for institutional quarantine. “My swab sample was taken and I was in a quarantine centre in Chennai for two days. After that they sent me to Perunthurai for a week. The second sample was taken on the seventh day there. After the second sample returned negative, I was asked to be in home quarantine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/in-tamil-nadu-institutional-quarantine-must-for-flyers-from-abroad/articleshow/77453792.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
August 10, 2020||Puducherry||In Tamil Nadu, institutional quarantine must for flyers from abroad||CHENNAI: Passengers who arrive by Vande Bharat flights from abroad at Chennai airport will continue to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine as the state government has not implemented the new standard operating procedure (SOP) put out by the Union ministry of health that allows home quarantine for thosewith a Covid-19 negative certificate. The new SOP is valid from August 8. The state government says it will examine the SOP and will decide on it later. However, several passengers who did not know that the state government is not following the new SOP by the Centre arespending money to get Covid-19 negative tests abroad to avoid institutional quarantine. This absence of uniformity in policy is impacting especially those who are returning after losing their jobs from the Middle East. The tests are expensive abroad and people are forced to spend their savings for a certificate. "Peoplespend around$200 for Covid-19 test and wait for four days to get the results. When they land here and learn that the report is of no of use, they get disappointed,” said an official. A senior bureaucrat said that they would examine the advisory from the Centre and deliberate on it and arrive at a decision. Based on this, a report will be submitted to the chief secretary K Shanmugam. Following this, TN government would take the final call. “There is no change in the quarantine rules yet. Though passengers have certificates, a swab test is taken and they are taken to a hotel or a government facility. Only one or two international flights arrive now every day,” said an airport official, noting that the state health officials, who screen international passengers, continue to send them into institutional quarantine. However, the new SOP issued by the union government will be useful when scheduled international flights begin, said the airport official. In that case, there will be more flights per day and finding accommodation for all the passengers who arrive willbedifficult.Oneflightcan bring at least 250 to 300 passengers. Though the second test is supposedtobetaken after seven days, in some cases there is a delay because there may be too many passengers. However, a 23-year-old medical student who arrived from Kazakhstan was lucky as she was sent to her hometown for institutional quarantine. “My swab sample was taken and I was in a quarantine centre in Chennai for two days. After that they sent me to Perunthurai for a week. The second sample was taken on the seventh day there. After the second sample returned negative, I was asked to be in home quarantine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/in-tamil-nadu-institutional-quarantine-must-for-flyers-from-abroad/articleshow/77453790.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
August 10, 2020||Salem||In Tamil Nadu, institutional quarantine must for flyers from abroad||CHENNAI: Passengers who arrive by Vande Bharat flights from abroad at Chennai airport will continue to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine as the state government has not implemented the new standard operating procedure (SOP) put out by the Union ministry of health that allows home quarantine for thosewith a Covid-19 negative certificate. The new SOP is valid from August 8. The state government says it will examine the SOP and will decide on it later. However, several passengers who did not know that the state government is not following the new SOP by the Centre arespending money to get Covid-19 negative tests abroad to avoid institutional quarantine. This absence of uniformity in policy is impacting especially those who are returning after losing their jobs from the Middle East. The tests are expensive abroad and people are forced to spend their savings for a certificate. "Peoplespend around$200 for Covid-19 test and wait for four days to get the results. When they land here and learn that the report is of no of use, they get disappointed,” said an official. A senior bureaucrat said that they would examine the advisory from the Centre and deliberate on it and arrive at a decision. Based on this, a report will be submitted to the chief secretary K Shanmugam. Following this, TN government would take the final call. “There is no change in the quarantine rules yet. Though passengers have certificates, a swab test is taken and they are taken to a hotel or a government facility. Only one or two international flights arrive now every day,” said an airport official, noting that the state health officials, who screen international passengers, continue to send them into institutional quarantine. However, the new SOP issued by the union government will be useful when scheduled international flights begin, said the airport official. In that case, there will be more flights per day and finding accommodation for all the passengers who arrive willbedifficult.Oneflightcan bring at least 250 to 300 passengers. Though the second test is supposedtobetaken after seven days, in some cases there is a delay because there may be too many passengers. However, a 23-year-old medical student who arrived from Kazakhstan was lucky as she was sent to her hometown for institutional quarantine. “My swab sample was taken and I was in a quarantine centre in Chennai for two days. After that they sent me to Perunthurai for a week. The second sample was taken on the seventh day there. After the second sample returned negative, I was asked to be in home quarantine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/in-tamil-nadu-institutional-quarantine-must-for-flyers-from-abroad/articleshow/77453795.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
August 10, 2020||Chennai||In Tamil Nadu, institutional quarantine must for flyers from abroad||CHENNAI: Passengers who arrive by Vande Bharat flights from abroad at Chennai airport will continue to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine as the state government has not implemented the new standard operating procedure (SOP) put out by the Union ministry of health that allows home quarantine for thosewith a Covid-19 negative certificate. The new SOP is valid from August 8. The state government says it will examine the SOP and will decide on it later. However, several passengers who did not know that the state government is not following the new SOP by the Centre arespending money to get Covid-19 negative tests abroad to avoid institutional quarantine. This absence of uniformity in policy is impacting especially those who are returning after losing their jobs from the Middle East. The tests are expensive abroad and people are forced to spend their savings for a certificate. "Peoplespend around$200 for Covid-19 test and wait for four days to get the results. When they land here and learn that the report is of no of use, they get disappointed,” said an official. A senior bureaucrat said that they would examine the advisory from the Centre and deliberate on it and arrive at a decision. Based on this, a report will be submitted to the chief secretary K Shanmugam. Following this, TN government would take the final call. “There is no change in the quarantine rules yet. Though passengers have certificates, a swab test is taken and they are taken to a hotel or a government facility. Only one or two international flights arrive now every day,” said an airport official, noting that the state health officials, who screen international passengers, continue to send them into institutional quarantine. However, the new SOP issued by the union government will be useful when scheduled international flights begin, said the airport official. In that case, there will be more flights per day and finding accommodation for all the passengers who arrive willbedifficult.Oneflightcan bring at least 250 to 300 passengers. Though the second test is supposedtobetaken after seven days, in some cases there is a delay because there may be too many passengers. However, a 23-year-old medical student who arrived from Kazakhstan was lucky as she was sent to her hometown for institutional quarantine. “My swab sample was taken and I was in a quarantine centre in Chennai for two days. After that they sent me to Perunthurai for a week. The second sample was taken on the seventh day there. After the second sample returned negative, I was asked to be in home quarantine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-tamil-nadu-institutional-quarantine-must-for-flyers-from-abroad/articleshow/77453785.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
August 10, 2020||Madurai||In Tamil Nadu, institutional quarantine must for flyers from abroad||CHENNAI: Passengers who arrive by Vande Bharat flights from abroad at Chennai airport will continue to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine as the state government has not implemented the new standard operating procedure (SOP) put out by the Union ministry of health that allows home quarantine for thosewith a Covid-19 negative certificate. The new SOP is valid from August 8. The state government says it will examine the SOP and will decide on it later. However, several passengers who did not know that the state government is not following the new SOP by the Centre arespending money to get Covid-19 negative tests abroad to avoid institutional quarantine. This absence of uniformity in policy is impacting especially those who are returning after losing their jobs from the Middle East. The tests are expensive abroad and people are forced to spend their savings for a certificate. "Peoplespend around$200 for Covid-19 test and wait for four days to get the results. When they land here and learn that the report is of no of use, they get disappointed,” said an official. A senior bureaucrat said that they would examine the advisory from the Centre and deliberate on it and arrive at a decision. Based on this, a report will be submitted to the chief secretary K Shanmugam. Following this, TN government would take the final call. “There is no change in the quarantine rules yet. Though passengers have certificates, a swab test is taken and they are taken to a hotel or a government facility. Only one or two international flights arrive now every day,” said an airport official, noting that the state health officials, who screen international passengers, continue to send them into institutional quarantine. However, the new SOP issued by the union government will be useful when scheduled international flights begin, said the airport official. In that case, there will be more flights per day and finding accommodation for all the passengers who arrive willbedifficult.Oneflightcan bring at least 250 to 300 passengers. Though the second test is supposedtobetaken after seven days, in some cases there is a delay because there may be too many passengers. However, a 23-year-old medical student who arrived from Kazakhstan was lucky as she was sent to her hometown for institutional quarantine. “My swab sample was taken and I was in a quarantine centre in Chennai for two days. After that they sent me to Perunthurai for a week. The second sample was taken on the seventh day there. After the second sample returned negative, I was asked to be in home quarantine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/in-tamil-nadu-institutional-quarantine-must-for-flyers-from-abroad/articleshow/77453793.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
August 10, 2020||Goa||Bambolim Covid care centre capacity 70% occupied||Panaji: Within less than a week of its opening, the new Covid care centre that has been set up at the Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee stadium at Bambolim is at 70% occupancy. As of Sunday, 202 of the 275 beds were occupied. “There are cases coming to us from across the state. Going by the rising number of cases, we may be able to fill it up to capacity,” nodal officer at the centre, Dr Kedar Raikar said. The care centre currently has only asymptomatic patients. They will be sent home on recovery or referred to a Covid hospital if they show symptoms. A dedicated ambulance is parked at the premises to ferry patients that start to show symptoms. So far, seven from this centre have been referred to either the Goa Medical College or Covid ESI hospital at Margao. “We have a team of paramedics, nurses and a doctor at any given time. We are able to handle the situation with this strength now,” Raikar said. The care centre had 210 patients as on Saturday, however, some asymptomatic patients opted for home quarantine. Explaining the admission protocol, Raikar said that the health centre checks if the patient has a separate toilet to himself, whether he lives in a joint family to consider the possibility of home quarantine. If the criteria are not met then the health centre contacts the care centre to check the occupancy level and if beds are available then the patient is brought in following a no-contact system. There are demarcated beds for male and female patients at the stadium, as well as for paediatrics and senior citizens. A separate enclosure of 20 beds has been earmarked for relatives and caretakers of very old patients. All these beds have been placed in the central area of the hall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bambolim-covid-care-centre-capacity-70-occupied/articleshow/77453131.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||CCP forms separate garbage collection team for +ve at home||Panaji: More than 25 people detected with Covid in the capital city of Panaji have opted for home isolation. The corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) has been entrusted with the task of pasting stickers on the doors of those who are Covid positive and have been isolated at home. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar told TOI that a separate team has been put in place to collect garbage from these homes. “It’s a completely different team that collects the garbage from those in home isolation. The vehicle used for the garbage collection is also different. The workers wear the full PPE suit while collecting their waste,” he said. The CCP is 100 workers down as around 80 from Chimbel (drivers and those involved in road work) have been asked not to report to work, while another 25 live in the St Inez bandh area, which has been sealed. “We received respite from the desealing of Camrabhat area. Around 80 workers from Camrabhat have resumed work of collecting door-to-door garbage and various road works,” he added. Vegetable and flower vendors from Chimbel have been permitted to sell their produce at Panaji market after obtaining Covid negative certificates he said. ‘There haven’t been any more cases reported over the past 15 days in the fish and meat market building. The vendors from Chimbel have been allowed to sit at Panaji market only after they got tested and received negative results,” he said. The corporation immediately sanitises an area where a positive case has been found, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-forms-separate-garbage-collection-team-for-ve-at-home/articleshow/77453141.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Goa||Spike in Margao hits Chaturthi biz||Margao: Margao and surrounding areas have been witnessing a rapid rise in Covid-19 cases over the past week, which has caused panic among residents, hitting the pre-Ganesh Chaturthi business. Areas under the jurisdiction of the Margao urban health centre saw the highest spike in Covid cases on Sunday with 49 new detections. Shopkeepers in the new market and Gandhi market said they have been seeing unprecedented low volume of sales over the past 10 days. “This is the time we normally see a large number of customers making purchases ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi. This time the festival purchases have yet to begin,” a trader from the new municipal market said. Echoing similar observation, a trader from Gandhi market said, “People are in no mood to make purchases.” Meanwhile, as a staff tested positive, the ESI dispensary Margao will remain closed on August 10 and 11 for patients “as a precautionary measure”, it was informed. The dispensary will be sanitised on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spike-in-margao-hits-chaturthi-biz/articleshow/77453135.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro steel giants affected by Covid, inform admin||BOKARO: The two prominent steel companies here — Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) and Electrosteel Steel Limited (ESL) — seem to have been affected by Covid-19 after a few employees of the steel giants tested positive in the recent weeks, Chas SDO Sashi Prakash Singh said on Sunday. “Of the three male employees of ESL detected with Covid-19, one has moved to his home town in Telangana and two are in isolation at ESL’s hostel,” Singh said. A team of the district health department headed by Dr Srinath conducted a contact tracing of the employees. “In the contact tracing, we identified seven ESL employees who are at high risk and have asked them to go for Covid-19 tests. About 20 others have been sent to quarantine,” said Srinath. Head of corporate communications, Vedanta ESL, Shilpi Shukla said, “The employees who tested positive for Covid are receiving proper medical treatment and care. The company is following all recommended protocols regarding safety of employees, including social distancing norms, sanitising the workplace, provision of masks and sanitizers, etc.” ESL on Thursday had also set up two health camps in Siyaljori and Babugram villages near its plant. Around 50 people received free health check-ups and treatment in these camps. The company also launched a free mobile health unit called Aarogya Rath to help improve access to quality healthcare facilities in the district. At BSL, a total of nine Covid cases have surfaced in one month. Of them, six are still active. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, “Employees from Hot Strip Mill, CCS, SMS and others were detected positive. Three employees have already recovers. A doctor of Bokaro General Hospital (BGH) is also in the list of Covid positive patients.” BSL sources said more than 60 employees featured in the contact tracing of different units inside the BSL plant but are at low risk. Adopting effective sanitation, contact tracing and proper standing operating procedures (SOPs), BSL claimed to have contained the virus from spreading inside the plant. “BSL is focused on revamping its production. Employees are working hard to meet requirements for steel in manufacturing of naval warship, LPG cylinders, railway wagons, diving support vessels used in submarines besides export orders,” said Dhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-steel-giants-affected-by-covid-inform-admin/articleshow/77451594.cms||Divy Khare
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Corporatisation key for desi def production: Experts||Kolkata: The embargo on the import of as many as 101 items by the ministry of defence (MoD) may have come as a shot in the arm for the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) with its headquarters in Kolkata, but the increased demand for ‘desi’ products may also herald in the corporatisation of ordnance factories, despite objections from employees. Among the items that the MoD will no longer import from December 2020 is a 7.62x51 mm sniper rifle, a version of which is now produced at Rifle Factory Ishapore near Kolkata. “Employees of ordnance factories have been claiming till now that there aren’t sufficient orders. Once the embargo comes into effect, there will be an urgent demand for equipment. The ordnance factories, in their present state, may not be able to meet the demands. The only option is to go in for major upgrades. If corporatisation is required for this, so be it. A laid-back attitude may no longer suffice,” a senior official of the defence ministry said. According to a retired Lt Gen, quality and time schedules will have to be maintained if this procedure to achieve self-sufficiency in defence production is to be successful. “The factories will have to pull up their socks and not only deliver the listed items but also develop new ones to prevent obsolescence. Assistance will have to be sought from external sources if required. I strongly believe that this will only be possible through corporatisation,” he said. According to another official, professionalism will have to be the key as the Centre takes up its Atmanirbhar policy seriously. More investments will have to flow in and new machineries and equipment procured. Funds will have to be utilised for enhanced R&D to develop new products. In the list are items such as shallow water anti-submarine warfare craft. Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers that has bagged a contract to build such vessels will benefit from this policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/corporatisation-key-for-desi-def-production-experts/articleshow/77452818.cms||Jayanta Gupta
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Show me UV: Covid-19 creates new class of eyewear customers||By Piyush Sarna CHANDIGARH: Anti-ultraviolet glasses are new hot-selling item for the eyes that ache from five months of screen stare. Online classes and work from home make the sockets burn. Parents are investing in the best lenses to save their children's eyesight. Ranpreet of Weldon Opticians in Sector 17 said: “Covid-19 and online classes created a new segment of customers for UV-safe pair of spectacles—the children.” Asked why these glasses were special, PGI director Jagat Ram said: "They block 95% of the harmful UV rays and protect the eyes from long-term damage." These lenses range from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000. The frame costs extra. Shopkeepers say the business of this item has compensated somewhat for the dip in the sales of sunglasses. Sector-34 optician Balpreet said: “The footfall in the market is poor of late. Going for only bare necessities, people have stopped spending on style items such as sunglasses. This year, there are no NRIs, who were our best customers. Children's daily screen dose of five hours has alarmed parents. They might buy a cheap frame but they want the best of lenses inside.” These expensive glasses filter the blue rays of electronic screens and soothe the weary eyes. Eye expert Dr Sartaj Grewal said: “Keep the screen at 50 centimetres and invest in a bigger size. Every 20 minutes, look 20 feet away to relax the eye muscles, and blink. Sector-22 shopkeeper Karan said: “Hordes of parents have been asking for the UV-safe spectacles, although they are also afraid that their child might break the glasses and ruin their big investment.” for the eyes that ache from five months of screen stare. Online classes and work from home make the sockets burn. Parents are investing in the best lenses to save their children's eyesight. Ranpreet of Weldon Opticians in Sector 17 said: “Covid-19 and online classes created a new segment of customers for the UV-safe pair of spectacles—the children.” Asked why these glasses were special, PGI director Jagat Ram said: "They block 95% of the harmful UV rays and protect the eyes from long-term damage." These lenses range from Rs 1,000 to Rs 5,000. The frame costs extra. Shopkeepers say the business of this item has compensated somewhat for the dip in the sales of sunglasses. Sector-34 optician Balpreet said: “The footfall in the market is poor of late. Going for only bare necessities, people have stopped spending on style items such as sunglasses. This year, there are no NRIs, who were our best customers. Children's daily screen dose of five hours has alarmed parents. They might buy a cheap frame but they want the best of lenses inside.” These expensive glasses filter the blue rays of electronic screens and soothe the weary eyes. Eye expert Dr Sartaj Grewal said: “Keep the screen at 50 centimetres and invest in a bigger size. Every 20 minutes, look 20 feet away to relax the eye muscles, and blink. Sector-22 shopkeeper Karan said: “Hordes of parents have been asking for the UV-safe spectacles, although they are also afraid that their child might break the glasses and ruin their big investment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/show-me-uv-covid-19-creates-new-class-of-eyewear-customers/articleshow/77453132.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Pinjore, Kalka cops go after mask-less people in new Covid-19 hotspots||PANCHKULA: In a campaign to catch maskless covidiots after multiple cases of Covid-19 in two Haryana towns, the district police issued 461 challans in Pinjore and 175 in Kalka. Since the lockdown began, they have fined 5,030 people, so far, in both villages and towns, earning Rs 25.15 lakh in the process. Masks are mandatory at public places, so police have special orders to enforce the rule. By June, the Panchkula cops had penalised more than 2,000 people for not wearing masks. Since July, they have issued 3,030 more challans and used loudspeakers to create mass awareness every morning and evening about the need to wear a mask, maintain social distancing, and not spit in public. The traffic police have laid traps to check if the commuters have put on their masks. Panchkula deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa said: "We are in a special campaign to contain the spread of Covid-19. People must follow the rules to avoid fines and FIRs (first-information reports)." Citizen welfare association president S K Nayar said: "We support this penalising of the offenders. Everybody must wear a mask, maintain social distancing, and not spit in public. People should do self-examination and report anyone who comes to their neighborhood from another state, district, or country."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pinjore-kalka-cops-go-after-mask-less-people-in-new-covid-19-hotspots/articleshow/77453180.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Partha attends, Suvendu skips govt event on Adivasi Day||Jhargram: Trinamool leader and state transport minister Suvendu Adhikari gave a miss to a government programme in Jhargram on Sunday to mark International Day of World’s Indigenous People. Adhikari’s name was in the official invite along with education minister and Trinamool secretary general Partha Chatterjee. While Chatterjee turned up at Sido Kanhu Hall, the transport minister took stage at a private programme 8 km away at Sialgeria Maidan. The Sialgeria Club along with 45 other clubs had organized it. Adhikari’s absence raised eyebrows when the TMC leader has been frequenting Jhargram since 2009. “I have been coming to this district since 2009. I have travelled across this district sometimes by bicycle between 2009 and 2020 and took time off to attend Adivasi festivals badhna, tusu and makar. I have been and will be with you,” he said, while distributing sports equipment to Adivasi youths. Chatterjee didn’t want to rake up the issue “I don’t want any debate on this issue. I would have been happy if he (Suvendu) had made it to the government programme.” he said. PCPA-turned-Trinamool leader Chhatradhar Mahato attended the government programme. Chatterjee seized the opportunity to reassure Adivasis that the state was working to include Alchiki in higher education. “There is a growing need for Alchiki teachers in colleges after 124 students passed the HS writing in Alchiki. The state is setting up a teachers’ training college for Alchiki teachers. Sabang College has been asked to introduce Alchiki language,” he said. Adhikari said he had arranged for a job for archer Monika Soren at the Kolkata branch of Contai Cooperative Bank. “Promising footballer from Purulia Lakshmi Mandi, needed a job to run his family. He has qualified the written examination for recruitment in Vidyasagar Central Cooperative Bank We will absorb him,” the minister, who happens to be the chairman of cooperative banks, said. The transport minister also mentioned how he reached rations for a fortnight, masks and soaps to 3,100 Lodha-Sabar families in Jhargram, 4,800 such families in Purulia and 5,000 families in Bankura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/partha-attends-suvendu-skips-govt-event-on-adivasi-day/articleshow/77452846.cms||Sujoy Khanra
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Pilot colleagues try to decipher reasons behind Kozhikode crash||Kolkata: Pilots analysing the Air India Express plane crash in Kozhikode say the treacherous weather on Friday and poor condition of the runway were contributing factors to the accident. But they also acknowledge it was the captain’s decision to land that ultimately led to the tragedy. As per the statement issued by civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri and data from global flight tracking website Flightradar24, the aircraft had aborted landing once, did a fly-around and approached from the other end. It touched down a good distance ahead of where planes usually land, continued to run to till the end of the runway, plunged into the valley and disintegrated into three parts. Pilots reviewing the reason why an experienced colleague opted to land in the challenging condition felt a phenomenon known as Get-Home’itis may have played a part. It refers to a strong desire to get home, something that pilots experience after a long day. It can trigger a poor judgment that may prove fatal. “Probably every pilot would have experienced Get-Home’itis. The captain was aware that if he took a diversion, he would have had to go to Kochi or Coimbatore. There, the flight would have to wait till the weather improved before flying back to Kozhikode,” said a pilot of a private carrier. Another pilot reasoned that there was perhaps no reason for Capt Deepak Vasant Sathe to doubt his ability to land in the inclement weather. “He was an ace pilot at Air Force before he moved to civil aviation. He has over 10,000 flying hours under his belt. He had landed at the airport 27 times earlier. So, it wasn’t a big deal for him. What happened between the decision to land and actual touchdown is important,” said the captain of Boeing 737 aircraft like the one Sathe flew. Two things could have led to the plane landing near 3,000ft on the runway instead of 1,000-1,500ft: a patch of rain that blinded the pilots’ vision; and a gust of tailwind that thrust the aircraft forward beyond touchdown threshold. Some pilots wondered why he didn’t take off immediately after touchdown when the marker adjacent to the runway showed he was already at 3,000ft? “There is no punitive action for a decision to abort landing, go around or divert. Did Get-Home’itis play on his mind?” wondered another pilot who flies the Airbus A320 aircraft. Though some have suggested that the plane’s landing gear had malfunctioned and it did a belly landing, the pilots say that could not have happened as Capt Sathe would then have definitely reported the matter to ATC and diverted. “We are all waiting for investigators to decode the black box. There is always a lesson to learn from every tragedy,” said a veteran pilot. While pilots look forward to gaining insight from air crash investigation reports rather than experience a crash, Capt Sathe who flew the MiG-21 fighter aircraft when he was with Air Force and later became a test pilot had been in an actual crash before. He suffered injuries in the skull in a crash in the 1990s. It was his mettle that enabled him to overcome the trauma and return to the cockpit, till tragedy struck on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pilot-colleagues-try-to-decipher-reasons-behind-kozhikode-crash/articleshow/77452836.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Cycling gains weight in gymming-wary Chandigarh||By Piyush Sarna CHANDIGARH: A new trend since the unlock began has changed the entire picture of empty bicycle tracks in this city. Gymnasiums have reopened but people are still afraid to get back to indoor training, so they have taken to cycling in a big way to stay in shape. The good condition of bicycle tracks gives them confidence. Many people bought their bicycles in the later phase of the lockdown and then when the restrictions were lifted. Jayant, owner of Phirki Cycle Store in Sector 35, said: “Our sales peaked in May and June and made up for the losses we took in the first two months of the lockdown. The business almost doubled.” Bicycle retailers say the buyers come from no particular age group, which is why all types of bicycles, geared or non-geared, have sold well. Manjeet Singh, manager of the Firefox bicycle shop in Sector 22, said: “The business has increased about 50% from the pre-Covid times. The presence of proper and beautiful bicycle tracks in the city has also helped our sales. It's a big plus that cyclists believe they have a safe corridor to use.” Also back are those favourite long bicycle trips to the Himalayan Expressway, Morni, and Siswan dam. Gurjusjit, 45, of the Chandigarh Cycling Club said: “Wait till the gymnasiums open. These bicycles will then be resting back in the garages. Regarding safety, it's good to have a separate corridor but since the footpath space is still inadequate in the city, pedestrians continue to invade our bicycle tracks." Gymming freak Medhavi, 20, who never used to miss a single day of weight training before the lockdown, said: "I never liked cycling until the closure of gyms. The Covid-19 outbreak made me miserable. But I found cycling to be the best for burning calories and strengthening the legs and the back. Now I never miss my daily goal of cycling for 20 kilometres." The Chandigarh traffic police have an exclusive safety squad just to keep the cyclists to these tracks and to educate them about the road rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cycling-gains-weight-in-gymming-wary-chandigarh/articleshow/77453155.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Jamshedpur||Ruling, oppn leaders pay tribute to Nirmal Mahato on Martyr’s Day||JAMSHEDPUR: Both ruling and opposition leaders of Kolhan division paid tribute to Nirmal Mahato, one of the founders of JMM and leader of the Jharkhand movement, on his death anniversary observed as Martyrs' Day. On Saturday, the leaders gathered at Chamaria guest house in Bistupur area, where Mahato was gunned down by unidentified assailants on August 8, 1987. Mahato was 36 years' old when he was killed. The gathering of both ruling and opposition leaders on the occasion was seen as a move to woo Mahatos (Kurmis), who have a 25%-39% vote share in Jharkhand. Champai Soren, the seniormost JMM leader from Kolhan, and his supporters were the first ones to pay floral tributes at the guest house. After garlanding the bust of Mahato, Soren recalled the contribution of the late leader to the creation of a separate Jharkhand state. He said the dreams of the slain leader will be completed by the current Hemant Soren government. Mahato's sister-in-law and JMM's Ichagarh MLA Sabita Mahato also offered tributes to the late leader. State health minister and Congress leader Banna Gupta paid tributes to Mahato at his burial place in Uliyan. On the occasion, Gupta said, "The cry for a separate Jharkhand state by tribals was given from Jamshedpur by Nirmal da. It was through his efforts that the Jharkhand movement took shape." Two-time BJP MP from Jamshedpur Vidyut Baran Mahato along with his followers also went to the guest house to pay tribute to Mahato. Vidyut, who was also earlier with JMM, mentioned how Mahato with his limited resources fought for the creation of Jharkhand. Functionaries of Jamshedpur East MLA Saryu Rai's Bharatiya Janata Morcha were also seen at the guest house to offer tributes to the leader. Ajsu-P led by its district president Kanhiya Singh also took part in the programme. On the occasion, a section of the Kurmis demanded that statues of Mahato, along with other leaders of the Jharkhand movement like Raghunath Mahato, Binod Bihari Mahato and Chanuk Mahato, should be installed on the premises of Raj Bhavan in Ranchi. Some also made demands to rename the Kolhan University after Mahato. Notably, the political leaders, including MP, MLAs and their followers, were seen wearing masks on the occasion but did not abide by the social distancing protocols both at the guest house and at the burial ground of Mahato in Uliyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/ruling-oppn-leaders-pay-tribute-to-nirmal-mahato-on-martyrs-day/articleshow/77451641.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Police summon BJP leader in a 2-year-old complaint||KOLKATA: Behala police have issued summons to a senior BJP leader to appear before them for questioning in a rape complaint lodged on August 31, 2018. In the complaint, a woman, who said she was a BJP worker, had levelled charges against an RSS leader directly, and two others who are both senior BJP leaders. Police arrested the principal accused from New Delhi in September 2018. They said a part-chargesheet was later filed against this leader. On October 1, 2018, the Calcutta High Court granted anticipatory bail to the two senior BJP leaders. The HC had in that order said: “The petitioners in the two matters are associates of the principal accused. In the light of the complaint and the limited extent of these petitioners’ involvement in such matter, there may not be any ground to take them into custody for their interrogation.” The HC, however, asked both leaders to report to the investigating officer (IO) when called. In an email on Friday, police sent a notice under CrPC Section 41(A) asking the senior BJP leader to “appear in person” before IO at Behala police station within a week. DCP (Behala) Nilanjan Biswas said: “We want to complete the probe and we have sent the notice as per law.” Bengal BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu refused comment. “I am not aware of the present developments in the case. This is an old case. I will not like to comment on it,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-summon-bjp-leader-in-a-2-year-old-complaint/articleshow/77452760.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Activist Ilina, wife of Binayak Sen, passes away||Kolkata: Human rights activist Dr Binayak Sen on Sunday lost his wife Prof Ilina Sen, who was undergoing treatment at Tata Medical Centre. Ilina was a social activist and, as an academician, had been associated with TISS. She also taught at Mahatma Gandhi International Hindi University at Wardha. Ilina, who was in her late 60s, and had been closely associated with civil liberty movements and had authored two books on Chhattisgarh. She was well known for her activism in Chhattisgarh in support of mine workers. She also had voiced her protest against Salwa Judum , the militia deployed in the anti-insurgency movement there. As Binayak was jailed on sedition charges, Ilina took care of his social work and also took over the NGO run by her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/activist-ilina-wife-of-binayak-sen-passes-away/articleshow/77452830.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Ranchi||688 fresh Covid cases, 17 deaths in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported 688 fresh Covid-19 cases and 17 deaths in the last 24 hours with Garhwa emerging as the top district with the highest number of new infections. Of the total cases, 530 new infections and nine deaths are reported on Sunday. The others, 158 cases and eight casualties, were reported late on Saturday night. East Singhbhum reported the maximum casualties on Sunday, too, with three more deaths being reported from Jamshedpur. Late on Saturday night, the district had reported four casualties. Among the nine deaths on Sunday, three are from East Singhbhum, two from Ranchi and one each from Simdega, Pakur, Giridih and Deoghar. “All nine casualties reported on Sunday were above 55 years of age and were suffering from more than one co-morbidities and were admitted to various Covid hospitals in the state after testing positive for the viral infection,” a health department official said. The positive percentage of samples collected on Sunday stood at 10.7 with 530 samples returning positive out of the 4,953 tested on Sunday. Of the fresh cases reported on Sunday, Ranchi detected 71 next to Garhwa which reported 85 cases. Palamu (63) East Singhbhum (49) and West Singhbhum with 44 fresh cases were among the districts which reported a high number of cases . With the fresh cases on Sunday, the cumulative caseload in the state rose to 18,156, of which 9,175 are active, 8,998 have recovered and 177 have succumbed to the viral infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/688-fresh-covid-cases-17-deaths-in-state/articleshow/77451588.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Three charter flights to end international lull at Kolkata airport||KOLKATA: Three charter flights from the UAE, scheduled to land in Kolkata between August 13 and 15, are set to end a month-long lull in international flight arrivals at the Kolkata airport. The state had halted repatriation flights to the city on July 1, citing rising Covid infections. On Friday, it eased the restrictions by allowing international charter flights to operate with only Covid-negative passengers. Two days after the government gave the green light, private carrier IndiGo received requisitions for the three flights: from Dubai on August 13, Abu Dhabi on August 14 and Sharjah on August 15. The airline has asked the charter operator to ensure that all passengers comply with the precondition of a Covid-negative test, which has to be conducted within a 96-hour window prior to departure. That means, those boarding the August 13 flight have to be tested after August 9. “We are getting a lot of queries since the Bengal government announced a revision in its policy and allowed charter flights. As many as eight to 10 flights are proposed between August 13 and 31,” said an airline official. Other airlines like Emirates, SpiceJet and Accretion Aviation Services are also in the process of initiating international charter flights, said an industry insider. IndiGo officials said the flights were slotted after part payments were received. The airline will now require approvals from UAE authorities, the ministry of external affairs in India and the state government. “The approval-seeking process has been initiated. If we get the approvals in three days, the flights would be on course,” said the official. The embargo on Vande Bharat flights continues. But the easing of norms comes as a breather to those from Bengal and other eastern states, who have been stranded across the world for over four months now. While the charter proposal has been welcomed, there are apprehensions that stranded Indians who are at the end of their tether would have to pay through their nose to fly back home, as there are no caps on charter flight fares. “There have been a significant number of Kolkatans stranded in the UK, Dubai and Singapore for the last several months who are striving to come back to the city,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman (east), Travel Agents Federation of India. “They are even willing to pay premium rates.” and hence the initiation of charter flights to the city will help them. There are also some businessmen in Kolkata who have work abroad. I know a person who is willing to book a charter flight all by himself to travel to Bangkok for work, and he is willing to pay Rs 30 lakh for the one-way journey. But there are also others, who will be unable to pay such high fares to make the trip.” Journey on a private charter flight with 180 passengers from Dubai will cost around Rs 50,000 per head. For a one-way journey between Bangkok and Kolkata with 180-odd passengers, the price per ticket would be around Rs 20,000. The challenge, Punjabi said, would be to publicise the flight and get more passengers so that fares are lower.Twitter has been flooded with appeals from hapless Kolkatans pleading for resumption of flights to Kolkata. Maitreyee Sen Paul wrote tagging AAI and Kolkata airport: “My father is stranded in Dubai since Feb’ 2020. He is trying to come back to Kolkata but due to the lockdown in Kolkata airport he cannot. When you are planning to open the airport for international passengers?” Another Kolkatan, Ujjwal Dutta, has written tagging the PMO, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and civil aviation minister Hardeep S Puri. “We are stranded in Dubai and waiting to get flights to Kolkata. Kindly open Kolkata airport so that we can return home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-charter-flights-to-end-intl-lull-at-kol-airport/articleshow/77453164.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 10, 2020||Ranchi||Govt asks MNREGA workers to withdraw strike within 48 hours||RANCHI: The rural development department on Sunday issued a warning to the MNREGA workers, asking them to withdraw their strike within the next 48 hours or the government would terminate their contracts. The MNREGA employees have been on a strike from July 27 demanding for regularisation and their inclusion under social security schemes, among others. The agitators are yet to take a call on the matter. In a letter issued to the deputy commissioners and the deputy development commissioners of Jharkhand on Friday, the deputy secretary of the rural development department, Mithlesh Kumar, said the administration has received reports that in some districts the MNREGA employees have delayed the handing over of their the records, tabs, login ID and password which is affecting the MNERGA work. He added that under such circumstances, the district administration should immediately register FIRs against them for hindering government work. The letter stated that given the pandemic, providing employment to the poor workers under MNREGA is the topmost priority of the government. However, the delaying tactics of the employees has become a hindrance for the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-asks-mnrega-workers-to-withdraw-strike-within-48-hrs/articleshow/77451604.cms||---
August 10, 2020||India||Thaw as Bangladesh says ties with India ‘historic’ and ‘rock solid’||NEW DELHI: After reports of a slide in India-Bangladesh ties, Bangladesh foreign minister, AK Abdul Momen spoke to foreign minister S Jaishankar to express condolences over the Kozhikode crash. His deputy, Shahriar Alam, spoke to his counterpart V Muralidharan also on Saturday evening. "Deeply shocked about the tragic accident of Air India Express flight in Kozhikode, that took precious lives and injured many. I convey our deepest condolence. Our thoughts, prayers are with bereaved families," Momen told India's external affairs minister S Jaishankar. Momen, who has been recently very critical of India and the Modi government, described Dhaka's relationship with New Delhi as "historic" and "rock-solid”. "Our ties with India are historic. Rock-solid; it is a blood relation while economic issues mainly shaped our relations with China," Momen said. "Our victory is India's victory. Our development is India's development. Nothing can hinder this (Bangladesh-India) relations.” Momen has been quoted as being more positive on the China relationship than India in recent weeks., making statements that have raised eyebrows in New Delhi. While India was the original sinner, with home minister Amit Shah, describing Bangladesh illegal migrants as “termites,” there have been a number of adverse reports of the India-Bangladesh relationship. This included a former senior Bangla army officer accusing the government of getting too close to India. But on the Indian side, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee not only closed down the Benapole-Petrapole border which affected goods traffic to Bangladesh and other countries, she has refused to take back almost 2,000 Indian citizens stranded in Bangladesh for the past few months, leading many of them to contemplate drastic self-harm to attract the attention of the government of West Bengal. In addition, reports of China’s massive aid to Bangladesh has made it seem like India has not been up to speed in keeping Bangladesh on its side, particularly during the time of the pandemic and strained India-China relations. Indian officials are particularly excited at the development of new transport corridors to Bangladesh, including freight trains. Western Railway, in a statement over the weekend, said it would be running a parcel train from Ahmedabad to Bangladesh, a move that opens the Bangladesh market to Indian goods which can travel in far less time than road transport. Indian officials say about 17 railway sector projects have been included in the line of credit assistance extended by India to Bangladesh, with a commitment of close to $2.5 billion. “India has offered all LoCs to Bangladesh at a rate of interest of 1% p.a., repayment over 20 years with a moratorium for 5 years.” Railway projects under implementation using LoC assistance include - Kulaura-Shahbazpur railway line at a cost of $78 million and Khulna-Mongla railway line project worth $389 million. In addition, a cross border rail link of 12 Kms is being built between Agartala and Akhaura town on the Dhaka-Chittagong trunk line. This is likely to be completed by 2021 and will increase freight and passenger connectivity with the north eastern states. Meanwhile, the Bangladesh government appears to have paused a programme to conduct human trials for Chinese Covid vaccines inside Bangladesh, a project that was endorsed by some senior members of the Hasina government. Significantly, trial for transhipment through Chittagong to India’s northeast states was also completed in July, a feat that has taken many years but also a sign of growing trust. Watch Kozhikode air crash: How the dream of homecoming turned into a nightmare||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/deeply-shocked-about-tragic-accident-of-air-india-express-flight-bangladesh-foreign-minister/articleshow/77453808.cms||Indrani Bagchi
August 10, 2020||Chennai||Buy meat and fish only in local shops: Chennai corporation||CHENNAI: The corporation has urged people in the city to desist buying fish and meat from wholesale shops, and instead buy it from local shops in their area to contain overcrowding. GCC commissioner G Prakash said despite the presence of 15 meat and fish shops in each of the 200 wards of the city, many people still go to wholesale markets or the harbour to buy meat. There are 2800 meat/fish shops in the city, he said. This was in response to a question raised by journalists on over-crowding in fish markets on weekends. “Why people rush to these wholesale markets is a big mystery. I urge them to procure meat and fish locally from the shops in their area. We have ensured that supply chains continue uninhibited to the local markets,” Prakash said. The commissioner said local residents were mistaken that going to wholesale market would help them save money. “Apart from the obvious risks due to overcrowding, people spend on fuel to go to the market to save money. In the end, it will not be cheaper,” he said. Apart from Covid-19 regulations, people need to bring about a behavioural change in their lives when it comes to flocking to markets to buy fish or meat, he said. As far as vegetable and grocery shops were concerned, Prakash said that some departmental stores had brought in regulations which were more stringent that what was required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/buy-meat-and-fish-only-in-local-shops-chennai-corporation/articleshow/77453832.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Two held for snatching Rs 20,000 from 50-year-old||CHENNAI: Police on Saturday arrested two of the three men accused of robbing Rs 20,000 from a man near Padi a week ago. The hunt is on for the third member. Police said that the three of them attacked a 50-year-old man named Venkataraman, who is a resident of Padi Srinivasa Nagar, with a knife on July 30. Police said that Venkataraman, who works at a private firm, was returning home on his bike after work when the incident happened. The vehicle had run out of fuel along Chennai Thiruvallur High road, and he had begun pushing his bike. Three persons on a bike intercepted Venkataraman and demanded that he part with his cash by threatening him with a knife. When Venkataraman resisted, the trio started attacking him and injured him. They then took his wallet and fled the scene with cash amounting to ₹20,000. A passerby who noticed the injured man lying unattended on the road took him to a hospital nearby for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-two-held-for-snatching-rs-20000-from-50-year-old/articleshow/77453842.cms||---
August 10, 2020||India||Spike in cases due to high daily tests, trend may continue for 45 days: Govt||NEW DELHI: With daily testing hitting a new high of 7.2 lakh a day, the government said more testing will result in a high number of daily positive cases even as officials said detection was helping manage the disease and the current trend of cases was expected to continue over the next month and a half or so. A doubling rate of 20 days was helping ensure medical facilities were not overwhelmed and government sources said there was greater focus on tier II and III cities and towns where cases were being detected in increasing numbers. Efforts are on to work with high case load states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka to implement containment strategies and step up testing of sections of population seen to be at risk of exposure to the virus. The daily count of new cases has been rising — it was 62,482 on August 6; 61,163 on August 7 and 65,410 on August 8. This was a function of more testing and reflected an evolving strategy which, given limited resources and an evaluation of risks, initially focussed on foreign travellers returning to India, sources said. The trend is likely to continue for several more weeks before a tapering off can be expected. A total of 2.4 crore tests have been carried out so far with the increasing use of rapid antigen tests helping boost testing. “India has recorded the highest number of recoveries in a single day with 53,879 Covid-19 patients having recovered and discharged on Saturday. With this, the total number of recovered cases touched another high of 14,80,884 on Sunday. This is more than twice the number of active cases (6,28,747 Sunday),” a health ministry release said. The difference between recovered and active cases, indicative of higher number of recoveries as compared to those either in hospitals or in home isolation, was 8,52,137 on Sunday. The case fatality rate has further fallen, touching 2% on Sunday. Sources said these indicatorswere positive signs though the trajectory of the Covid-19 curve will depend on implementation of testing and containment strategies along with people’s compliance on use of masks and observance of social distancing. With concerns expressed over rapid antigen tests delivering a high number of false negatives, the government has advised states on proper procedures as collection of samples has to be done carefully with a nasal swab collected from deep inside the nostril with a 10 second rotation. Clinical observation of the tested person is also important besides following up a negative test with an RT-PCR test. Overall, the number of recovered cases was at 2.4 times the active cases, which were all under medical attention either in home isolation or in hospitals. As per health ministry, with a higher number of recovered patients, the recovery rate, which has continued on its growth graph, stood at 68.7% on Sunday. The government said 7,19,364 tests were carried out in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/spike-in-cases-due-to-high-daily-tests-trend-may-continue-for-45-days-govt/articleshow/77453845.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Inspections on hold for 5 months due to pandemic||HYDERABAD: Owing to the pandemic, the state disaster response and fire services had to stop inspections of high-rise buildings, including hospitals, to check if managements were adhering to fire safety norms. Current regulations mandate commercial buildings over 15 metres in height to obtain clearances under the Telangana Fire Service Act, 1999. Since 2017, the department had been conducting surprise inspections of such buildings. “Officials are randomly selected to conduct surprise inspections of high-rise buildings. It is the same for hospitals. Management and owners are served notices if any violations are found. However, for the past five months, no inspections have been conducted,” said fire services additional director, Lakshmi Prasad. “Every month, some 50 surprise inspections are conducted across the state. During these inspections at least five to six buildings are found violating fire safety norms. Currently, due to the pandemic, the inspection process has been put on hold. However, the department is planning to start inspecting the hospitals soon,” said a source from the department. Among the most common violations are hospital managements adding extra floors after obtaining NOC or misusing the cellar. “They also tend to keep pumps supplying water to the sprinkler system switched off when they are supposed to be on at all times. In some instances, the hospitals are also seen misusing the open spaces such as the basement or cellars for their physiotherapy or pathology centres. But that space should be used only as a parking area, and as an assembly point and escape route in case of fire,” said regional fire officer, V Papaiah. Papaiah added that it is important for hospitals to leave a few metres of space empty to make way for fire engines and rescue operations in case of an emergency. “But most hospitals are seen using that empty space as a storage room or canteen. We have also noticed that after obtaining NOCs, some hospitals fail to maintain fire safety equipment. However, we have also observed that in the past couple of years, several hospitals rectifying the issues within a given time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-inspections-on-hold-for-5-months-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/77453862.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Senior doctors to update critical patients' data in real time||KOLKATA: In a bid to arrest the deterioration of critical Covid patients at state-run facilities, three teams of four senior doctors will be checking on them every day from Monday to Saturday at Medical College Hospital, MR Bangur, Beliaghata ID Hospital, CNCI and Sagore Dutta Hospital. The experts will be working on real-time Covid Patient Management System (CPMS) database and will check all patients in intensive care units (ICU), cardiac care unit (CCU) and high dependency units (HDU)in these hospitals. According to sources, every morning the CPMS - in which the details, condition and treatment regimen of every Covid patient in Bengal is updated - will provide the experts a list of critical patients in the facilities they visit. The teams will be provided with a tablet linked to the CPMS and they will have to visit every patient whose data is provided. The experts, after checking out on the critical patients, will have to update their observations in the real-time CPMS module. The state health department has asked Aditi Dasgupta - a joint secretary in the department, now heading the data analysis cell - to provide the teams a list of critical patients that has been obtained from the CPMS. In an order, the health department said that the observations of the experts will be relayed to the hospital administration for immediate action. The CPMS module - touted to be one-of-its-kind in the country - aims to be a complete repository of patients being treated at the Covid facilities in Bengal. The module went live on August 1. Sources indicated the state had already asked the hospitals to update the vital parameters of all Covid patients in the CPMS module four times a day. Early warning scores (EWS) of every critical patient must be updated twice daily. EWS for others will be updated once a day. The state has also appointed a team of senior nurses who will be responsible for uploading this data in CPMS. Bengal reported 2005 Covid deaths on Saturday and the fatality rate at 2.1% was a shade more than the 2% across the country. But the reason for the focus on critical patients, sources said, was because the Covid deaths were significantly more in people with comorbidities in Bengal. July and August have also significantly seen a spike in Covid deaths in Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-senior-doctors-to-update-critical-patients-data-in-real-time/articleshow/77453865.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||90% hospitals in Hyderabad not fire-safety compliant||HYDERABAD: Several hospitals in the city are operating dangerously, records of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation have revealed. As per the civic body records, over 1,700 hospitals fall under its jurisdiction of which 90% hospitals are said to be non-compliant with fire safety norms. Most hospitals gave a selfdeclaration form to obtain and renew their fire no objection certificates (NOC) since October 2018. This, only after the enforcement, vigilance and disaster management (EVDM) wing served them notices warning them of stringent action which included sealing of establishment and criminal cases against management. There have been instances where residents have raised issue over hospitals in their locality not following adequate norms. “A hospital located in our colony is risking the life of people living in its vicinity. Government should not allow commercial establishments, especially hospitals, in residential localities,” said Ridhima V, a resident of MLA Colony in Banjara Hills Road Number 12. Another resident from new MLA quarters on Basheerbagh Road pointed out that a nursing home was operating out of a residential unit at Liberty Circle around 150 metres from the GHMC head office. Meanwhile, GHMC officials said that hospital managements have been warned. “After EVDM’s warning, 1,013 hospitals submitted a self declaration form with details of fire safety measures taken,” said a civic official. The plan was to verify details submitted by hospitals and issue an NOC if found compliant while sealing those that were violating norms. However, this process halted midway. “EVDM, in the months of January and February, turned its focus towards encroachments and since the lockdown, staffers have been deployed on Covid-19 duty so the process is pending,” said a GHMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/90-hospitals-in-hyderabad-not-fire-safety-compliant/articleshow/77453873.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: District, taluk hospitals to get 4,339 oxygen beds||BENGALURU: Realising the increasing need for oxygenated beds to tackle Covid-19, the Karnataka government is adding 4,339 oxygen beds in district and taluk hospitals in the next three weeks. With this, the state government would have nearly 9,000 such beds after the outbreak of Covid-19. Some 1,244 oxygenated beds were already available at various district hospitals. Experts told TOI the beds will address the shortage and enhance Karnataka’s medical infrastructure in the long run. Documents reviewed by TOI show the government had planned to provide medical gas pipeline systems (MGPLS) to 8,982 beds across 143 taluk hospitals and 17 district hospitals in 16 districts. Two hospitals in Bengaluru will get 255 such beds. 4,600 beds fitted with medical gas pipeline systems Of these, MGPLS has been added to 4,643 beds, while the remaining will be added in the next fortnight. Of the new beds with MGPLS, 1,384, including 500 at taluk hospitals, have been commissioned. “The remaining will be commissioned in a phased manner depending on the demand, but the idea is to have the capacity to treat all the people requiring oxygen,” one official said. An expert said not more than 10% of the total number of active cases would require such beds on any given day. Going by this assessment, which puts 10% as the upper limit, some 7,700 patients in the worst-case scenario would have needed oxygen on August 8. Given that most patients would be in Bengaluru, the state also has the luxury of private hospitals with oxygen beds. Apart from this, IAS officer Tushar Girinath had earlier told TOI that all the government medical college hospitals and private hospitals have been told to add this capacity. Another epidemiologist working with the government said that the fact that people will not need to come to places like Bengaluru or the regional headquarters will mean more lives will be saved. If you look at the districtwise data, 93% of districts in Karnataka have more than 1,000 cases, while 20% of the districts have more than 5,000 cases. “The fact that most of this burden can be handled at the district level would come as a huge relief for both patients and the authorities,” Babu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-district-taluk-hospitals-to-get-4339-oxygen-beds/articleshow/77453869.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 10, 2020||Hyderabad||15 hotels operating in Hyderabad as isolation centres sans govt consent||HYDERABAD: While the government is aware of 36 hotels across the state operating as quarantine facilities for various hospitals, top sources said there are an estimated 15 more in the city which are offering quarantine services on their own without the knowledge of the health department. Hotels operating as Covid care centres in the city are located in Gachibowli, Begumpet, Secunderabad, Somajiguda, Madhapur and Lingampally among others. Usually, hotel owners enter into agreements with major hospitals to operate these services. In such cases, the hospital places nurses at these centres, offers ambulance in case of emergency and even offers an assured bed if the patient turns serious. However, there are hotels which have tied up with charitable organisations and others that are offering the service on their own. Meanwhile, state health authorities have issued a directive to hospitals that have tied up for quarantine facility with hotels to ensure fire safety precautions. “...Yesterday a fire accident occurred in a hotel (covid care centre) in Vijayawada which resulted in loss of life. In view of this, as a mandate all hospitals/ covid care centres are instructed to see that covid care centres (hotels)...follow all fire safety norms. Any violation of fire safety norms will be viewed seriously,” read the order. However when it comes to the hotels which are running as care centres without the state’s knowledge, there is no one to check necessary permissions. “Some small hotels are running isolation services on their own and may not even have the necessary permissions from the health department. While they are offering services like they would to any other hotel, the only difference is that their staff would be taking basic precautions such as wearing masks, PPEs while serving. Given there are no food restrictions for Covid-19, it is easy for any hotel to turn into a quarantine centre,” said a hospital source. “After having incurred loses for so many months, hotels are keen on operating as Covid care centres,” said the source and added that there is no one to take responsibility to check such hotels While tying up with hotels, hospitals largely bank on the fact that an operational hotel will have been given the license after due checking by the government. “We do not run our own checks because basically any hotel which has been permitted to operate in the city would have been got all relevant approvals at the time of getting permission and yearly checks. We do ensure that we tied up with prominent and bigger hotels for the purpose,” said a senior official from a corporate hospital which has branches in several locations in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-hotels-operating-in-hyderabad-as-isolation-centres-sans-govt-consent/articleshow/77453883.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 10, 2020||India||10 ‘Beirut explosives’ containers shifted from Chennai to Hyderabad||CHENNAI: Customs have moved 10 containers with 181 tonnes of ammonium nitrate from the Manali Sattva Container Freight Station (CFS) on Sunday evening to a Hyderabad-based buyer, official sources said. The remaining consignment has 27 containers filled with 561 tonnes of the chemical, which will be moved out within a week, sources said. However, a Customs document dated November 13, 2019, shows the total weight of the consignment seized in 2015 to be only 697 tonnes, while a record in the Madras high court shows the consignment weighed 742 tonnes. The consignment in Chennai was brought in by a Karurbased company without proper licence from South Korea in 2015. Litigation ended last year and the chemical was stored in a Manali CFS for five years. The movement on Sunday was supervised by officials from Chennai police and Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), which had given a checklist of 12 instructions on how the consignment should be moved to Hyderabad. A few of the instructions being: 1) Each vehicle transporting the chemical should be provided with two extinguishers of 5kg each of dry chemical powder. Two bodyguards should also be part of the truck. 2) No smoking or fire or any artificial light or any other substance capable of creating fire should be allowed on the vehicle. 3) The vehicle should be taken away from any habitation of any godown or storage shed containing articles of flammable nature or other hazardous goods. 4) The driver shouldn’t stop the vehicle for long periods on roadsides and should avoid places where public safety may be in danger. The movement of the ammonium nitrate was necessitated due to heightened safety concerns in light of the blast at Beirut, Lebanon, where ammonium nitrate was the cause for huge destruction in a blast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/10-beirut-explosives-containers-shifted-from-chennai-to-hyderabad/articleshow/77453885.cms||Sindhu Kannan
August 10, 2020||Kolkata||Former civic volunteer held for extortion in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A former civic volunteer and his maternal uncle were arrested for threatening a former MMiC and present KMC ward coordinator from Jodhpur Park Ratan Dey and extorting money from bikers at the Lords Crossing last Friday. The cops have identified the accused as Santu Sarkar (22) and Shyamal Biswas (60). According to Lake police, Santu stopped a biker at the Lords crossing, claiming that he was a cop. The biker showed him all papers but was still asked to pay Rs 2,000 to avoid 'greater problems'. When Singh refused to pay and locals gathered, Santu fled from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/former-civic-volunteer-held-for-extortion-in-kolkata/articleshow/77453906.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 10, 2020||India||340km LoC road to put vales on tourism map||KUPWARA: A proposed 339-km border road running adjacent to the Line of Control is set to bring the picturesque mountains and Valleys of North Kashmir — Karnah, Keran, Machhil, Lolab and Gurez — as well as Mushkoh Valley in Drass Kargil on the tourist map. The starting point of the planned road will be the border village of Teetwal in Karnah tehsil of Kupwara district and the end point, Mushkoh Valley in Drass Kargil in the Union territory of Ladakh. The border road will be part of the proposed 600-km highway that will take tourists all the way from Gulmarg, a well-developed resort near Srinagar with winter sports facilities, to the beautiful, virgin Valleys of North Kashmir and Ladakh and shall be interspersed with almost a dozen tunnels. The estimated cost of the entire highway is Rs 8,000 crore, according to J&K chief secretary B V R Subrahmanyam. The plan is to not only construct the road but also develop the scenic spots it seeks to cover with the best tourist facilities so that visitors get to explore Kashmir beyond Srinagar, Gulmarg and Pahalgam and the immense tourism potential of mountains, valleys, passes and gushing rivers of Kupwara, Bandipora and Drass Kargil can be harnessed. Even though the road covers areas close to the LoC, the fact that these have good presence of the Army and other security forces is expected to take care of the safety and security concerns of tourists. The border road will also facilitate connectivity with forward locations. As per details accessed exclusively by the TOI, the border road shall traverse through Teetwal, a village adjoining PoK, to Keran sector in Kupwara district and reach Yegoban village bordering Kel area in PoK before reaching Duadi and Kasi villages in lower Gurez, Bandipora. From there it is proposed to reach Baktoor villages of Gurez and traversing through the beautiful Gurez Valley up to Kaw Bal Gali, it will hit Mushkoh area of Drass and proceed through Mushkoh Valley up to Drass Kargil. Areas touched by the proposed road include Keran, located on the bank of Kishanganga river that acts as the natural border with PoK; Gurez, famous for its pyramid shaped peak named after famous Kashmiri poetess Habba Khatoon; and Mushkoh Valley that had shot into prominence during the 1999 Kargil war as the hideout used by Pakistani intruders. The road will have a total tunnel length of 18 km, excluding the Sadhna Pass tunnel that has already been tendered. The tourist stops along the way include Karnah, Keran, Machil and Lolab Valley in Kupwara, Gurez in Bandipora and Mushkoh Valley in Drass Kargil. "Each of these tourist locations will be another Gulmarg," said Subrahmanyam while briefing a select group of journalists in Srinagar. As many as 106 villages and habitations will be benefitted by the Teetwal-Drass road, including 8 in Drass, 43 in Gurez, 20 in Kashe-Yegoban area, 15 in Yegoban-Keran sector, and 20 between Keran and Teetwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/340km-loc-road-to-put-vales-on-tourism-map/articleshow/77453907.cms||Bharti Jain
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab’s grim picture: More active cases than global average||CHANDIGARH: The Covid-19 situation continues to deteriorate at a rapid pace in Punjab as the alarming rise in the number of people getting infected has pushed the active cases in the state higher than the global as well as national average. With 7,506 patients undergoing treatment, the percentage of active cases in Punjab stands at 32.73% against the world average of 32.11% and national average of 29.21 %. Of the total active cases as on August 8, 5,867 cases and 158 deaths were reported in the last seven days, of which over 2,000 were added to the tally in the span of just two days. The growth rate of cases in the state from July 6 to August 8 ranged between 2% to 6% against the national growth rate of 3% to 4%. During the 31-day period, only on two days — July 7 and July 18 — the national growth rate was higher than Punjab’s average. On 13 occasions, the growth rate of cases in Punjab was similar to the national average. On the remaining days, Punjab posted a higher growth rate of cases than the national average. There were days when Punjab’s growth rate was 3% more than the national rate. With a figure of 1,649, Ludhiana has a higher number of active cases, followed by Jalandhar where 920 infected people are under treatment. In Patiala, 879 people are undergoing treatment. The surge in the number of cases has also taken a toll on the recovery rate, which plunged below the national average. The recovery rate of Punjab, which at one time was highest among the states most affected by the coronavirus outbreak, now stands sixth lowest in the country at 64.81% against the national recovery rate of 68.76%. ‘Increased testing behind rise in cases’The worst-affected states had considerably higher recovery rates than Punjab. Till August 8, the recovery rate of Maharashtra was at 67.25% while in Tamil Nadu 79.96% of infected persons had recovered. In the national capital Delhi, the recovery rate was 89.75%. Even the neighboring state of Haryana had a higher recovery rate of 83.32%. Even as the Covid-19 death rate at the national level is witnessing a drop, there has been a rise in the fatality rate in Punjab, which is at 2.45% against the national average of 2%. The Punjab health department spokesperson for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar attributed the rise in the number of active cases to increased testing. He added that over 13,000 people are being tested on a daily basis. “We are going to further increase the testing so that more people can be tested and those infected can be isolated at earliest,” said Dr Bhaskar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabs-grim-picture-more-active-cases-than-global-average/articleshow/77453910.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Drunk friends hack bus driver to death||BENGALURU: A 38-year-old school bus driver was murdered by his friends in a drunken brawl at Singasandra near Parappana Agrahara on Saturday night. Yogesh N from JSS Layout and his friends were having a drink in an open place in Singasandra after attending the funeral of his relative. Yogesh’s friends took objection to him consuming most of the liquor and clashed with him. Yogesh gave them money to purchase more liquor and at 9pm, they again fought over the same issue. This time, Yogesh’s friends attacked him with lethal weapons and hacked him to death. Parappana Agrahara police have taken up a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-drunk-friends-hack-bus-driver-to-death/articleshow/77453919.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab farmer objects to use of photo in farm ordinance campaign||BATHINDA: The Union agriculture and farmer welfare ministry’s campaign to promote farm ordinances has failed to impress many, least of all its “protagonist”. A farmer from Punjab, whose photograph has been used in a poster released on Sunday, has been left hurt and fuming. “I vehemently oppose the three ordinances and can never be part of their promotion,” Gurpreet Singh, who is also an environmentalist and a social activist, of Chandbhaja village in Faridkot district told TOI. He said that these ordinances were antifarmer as they disturb the prevailing trade practices and leave farmers at the mercy of corporate companies. “I feel hurt as the ministry has used my photograph without my consent. I will raise the matter with the ministry and lodge a protest as I cannot be seen promoting something that I oppose. How I can be a party to this and term these ordinances as farmer friendly? Now, I’ll find to tough to explain my position to those with whom I am working against ordinances,” he said. It has put me in an awkward situation: FarmerThe ministry has used a photograph which was actually taken in 2018, when Gurpreet had ploughed the paddy straw, and not burnt it, in his fields at Chandbhaja to prepare them for wheat sowing. Then Faridkot deputy commissioner Rajiv Parashar had visited his fields to show appreciation for his anti-stubble burning efforts. The same picture has now part of the campaign material released on Sunday, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a slew of projects under PM-Kisan scheme. The photo has been used under hashtag of #AatmaNirbharKrishi and mentions one of the three ordinances. Kotkapura MLA Kultar Singh Sandhwan, who works together with Gurpreet in NGO Bhai Ghanaya Cancer Roko Sewa Society, said, “The Prime Minister and the Union ministry should first have taken Gurpreet’s consent and his views about ordinances before using his photo and putting him in an awkward situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-farmer-objects-to-use-of-photo-in-farm-ordinance-campaign/articleshow/77453918.cms||Neel Kamal
August 10, 2020||Hubballi||Deputy commissioner’s wife delivers baby in Gadag govt hospital||HUBBALLI: At a time when ministers, top government officials and family members are preferring private hospitals for Covid treatment, an IAS officer in Gadag has set an example by admitting his wife to a government hospital for the delivery of their second child. On Sunday morning, the couple welcomed their baby boy, weighing 3.4kg, at the Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS). Deputy commissioner M Sundaresh Babu’s decision to admit his wife Shivasankari, 27, will “restore the faith of people in government-run health institutions”, said the hospital. Babu, who took over as Gadag DC on June 30, told TOI that his wife did pre-delivery consultations at GIMS and took extra precautions due to Covid-19. The couple’s first child, a three-and-a-half-year-old daughter now, was born in a Tamil Nadu hospital. Dr Shruti Patil, who performed the C-section surgery, said: “The couple followed all our instructions.... Babu’s wife was rushed to the hospital on Saturday night. Since the foetus had looped itself, we had to perform a surgery on Sunday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/deputy-commissioners-wife-delivers-baby-in-gadag-govt-hospital/articleshow/77453936.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Notice to Haryana on plea over junior engineer exam answer key disparities||CHANDIGARH: The recent selection of 1,624 junior engineers (JEs) in Haryana has come under the scanner of Punjab and Haryana high court, which has issued notices to the recruiting agency, Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC) and the state government on a plea regarding discrepancies in answers keys of the written examination. Adjourning the matter for August 31, the high court made it clear that if a detailed reply to the petition is not filed by then, the HSSC chairman shall be summoned to court. The result of the posts under scanner was declared in the first week of June and the selected candidates have already been appointed. HC’s Justice Amol Rattan Singh passed the order while hearing a petition filed by Neeraj and other candidates. The petitioners have sought directions to quash the final result dated June 6, 2020 in the selection process for appointment to the posts of JEs and directions to the HSSC to decide the objections, issue a revised answer key and thereafter revise the final result. They have also sought scrutiny of all documents relevant to the advertisement dated June 15, 2019 and want re-publication of all results, category wise and ‘caste category wise’. The petitioners’ counsel Shreenath A Khemka submitted that the HSSC had invited objections in September 2019 about discrepancies in answer keys after which the petitioners and other candidates had submitted their objections. However, without going into the objections or removing the errors in answer keys, the result of the selection for the post of JEs was declared in June 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/notice-to-haryana-on-plea-over-junior-engineer-exam-answer-key-disparities/articleshow/77453939.cms||Ajay Sura
August 10, 2020||Lucknow||BSP president Mayawati blasts SP for Parashuram zeal||LUCKNOW: After Samajwadi Party unveiled its plan to install statues of Brahmin icon and Vishnu avatar Lord Parashuram to woo the community, BSP president Mayawati questioned the timing and motive of its former ally and asked why it did not remember the deity when it was in power in UP. Falling back on its successful social engineering formula, Mayawati announced it would construct hospitals and name them after icons of all sections of society, including Brahmins, if it forms a government in 2022. She claimed SP had lost support base among Brahmins and it was her party which gave adequate representation to them in her government. “SP is in bad shape and it’s trying to play the Brahmin card. Why didn’t it install a statue of Parashuram when it was in power,” she asked, adding BSP would consider erecting his statues when it comes to power. Brahmins won’t support SP as the party committed atrocities on them, she said. Citing the encounter of Bikru gangster Vikas Dubey, she said BJP government was also targeting the Brahmin community. “When we were in power, we launched public welfare schemes named after saints of all classes and renamed districts after them. SP regime, however, displayed casteist mentality and renamed them,” she said. Her barbs at SP gains political significance, a year after the two regional satraps joined hands against BJP and later snapped ties after the drubbing of their alliance in Lok Sabha elections. Insisting on her agenda of ‘Sarvajan hitay, sarvajan sukhay’, Mayawati said she would reach out to all sections. Accusing BJP of playing temple politics, she said the issue was associated with faith of people and should not be politicized. “President Ram Nath Kovind, a Dalit, was not present in the bhoomi pujan,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bsp-president-mayawati-blasts-sp-for-parashuram-zeal/articleshow/77453920.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PGI to test antibody response in vaccine||CHANDIGARH: One of the jobs of PGI during the clinical testing of Covid-19 vaccine candidate ‘Covidshield’ developed by Oxford University and pharmaceutical company Astra Zeneca will be to look into its immunogeneticity — antibody response. This will be part of the phase 2 and 3 trials for which the institute was selected among 17 others in the country. Not all the sites will evaluate immunogeneticity. The antibody response is crucial as it determines the efficacy of the vaccine. Instead of the Elisa assay, CLIA (Chemiluminescence Immunoassays) shall be used to determine the antibody response once the volunteers are jabbed with Covidshield. “We have a fully automated CLIA technique which we had used for convalescent plasma therapy. It is more specific and sensitive than Elisa,” said Prof Mini P Singh, virologist at PGI and associated with the Oxford vaccine trials. She said, “Initially, we will test for antibodies in PGI. But for further study of the neutralising antibody evaluation, samples shall be sent to NIV, Pune, which has the BS3 level facilities to deal with the live viruses." The trials shall start by the third week of this month with around 250 volunteers. The crucial component will be immunogeneticity. “For this, we shall test the samples after a month of the shot. It takes around 4-6 weeks for the antibodies to respond. To understand if these antibodies are persistent, we will again evaluate after three months,” said Prof Singh. An antibody test is designed to detect antibodies produced in response to a virus. The test relies on testing the blood to check for past infection. Antibodies are proteins that help fight off infections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-pgi-to-test-antibody-response-in-vaccine/articleshow/77453946.cms||Shimona Kanwar
August 10, 2020||Bhopal||868 new cases take Madhya Pradesh's Covid tally to 39,025||BHOPAL: A total 868 new Covid-19 cases were detected and 19 deaths were reported in the state on Sunday. With these new positive cases, the corona tally in Madhya Pradesh crossed the 39,000 mark and reached 39,025. Of the 19 deaths that were reported on Sunday, three each was reported from Indore and Bhopal, two deaths each from Jabalpur, Morena, Betul and Singrauli districts, one death each from Dewas, Vidisha, Damoh, Satna and Alirajpur districts. And with these 19 deaths, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state has become 996. While fresh cases were reported from 49 out of the 52 districts, deaths were also reported from 11districts. Of the 49 districts that reported fresh cases on Sunday, new cases were reported in double figures from 21 districts of the state. Reports of a total 17,020 samples were received on Sunday when 868 people tested positive, thus overall 5.1% of the people whose samples were tested on Sunday were found positive. This positivity rate—the number of people found positive out of every 100 samples tested— of 5.1% is greater than that of average positivity rate of around 4.3% in the state. Overall, there were 9,009 active cases in the state on Sunday. On the brighter side, 667 people who were admitted in hospitals recovered and were dischargedl. With these new patients recovering, the total number of patients who have recovered so far from the disease reached 29,020. A total of 3,088 localities across these 52 districts have been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/868-new-cases-take-madhya-pradesh-covid-tally-to-39025/articleshow/77453951.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Hospitals in Chandigarh creak as patients pile up||CHANDIGARH: The surge in cases has overwhelmed all Covid care centres and hospitals, leaving the city with a hostel in Panjab University (PU) and the Sector 48 hospital for admitting patients. As many as 45-60 patients are testing positive for the virus daily on an average, forcing doctors to encourage home quarantine. Half of them require admission in the Covid hospital at PGI, while others are shifted to Covid care centres like Dhanwantry Ayurvedic College and Hospital, Sector 46, and Sood Dharamshala, Sector 22. “The centres are full. Most of our healthcare workers are also getting infected. We are going to change the admission guidelines. Only emergency patients will be admitted, as with more admissions, there is a risk to non-Covid patients as well,” said Prof B S Chavan, director-principal, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32. Panjab University’s hostel number 10 was started as post-discharge facility for Covid care. As many as 60 patients have stayed at hostel. “The hostel has a capacity of 150. We might get full soon, but we are also discharging patients. There is a surge throughout the country and we expect the same here,” said an official in the health department. The PGI has 112 patients in the Covid hospital, while all 50 beds in Dhanwantry are occupied. Sood Dharamshala has 175 beds. The GMCH has 69 Covid patients and the Sector 48 hospital has 37 patients. There are 100 beds in the Sector 48 hospital, while PGI has 200. “We have all ICU beds occupied and no extra ventilator is available. Our communicable disease ward is also 100% occupied,” said a doctor in PGI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hospitals-in-chandigarh-creak-as-patients-pile-up/articleshow/77453956.cms||Shimona Kanwar
August 10, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh minister Vishwas Sarang tests +ve for Covid-19||BHOPAL: MP medical education minister Vishwas Sarang, whose department is at the forefront of the Covid-19 battle, tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. On the same evening, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan — who recently got cured of Coronavirus — said he would donate plasma. “I must have developed antibodies to fight the deadly virus and I will donate my plasma so that it can be used to cure other patients,” he said at a Covid review meeting. He tweeted that he is praying Sarang recovers quickly. In response, Sarang tweeted: "Your wishes give me strength. I will get well soon and work under your leadership for the development of Madhya Pradesh." Sarang is the fourth minister to be infected with Covid-19. The MLA from Narela constituency in Bhopal is among a dozen-odd legislators in MP who have tested positive for the contagion. “Today, my second Covid-19 test report is positive. I am in home isolation since the first test report was negative. I request everyone who has come in contact with me to get tested,” Sarang tweeted on Sunday evening. He will be treated in home quarantine, say sources. Sources say three TV journalists, who had interviewed him, will also go into quarantine and be tested as primary contacts. 13 politicians Covid hit till now in MPAccording to reports, Sarang got his first test for Covid-19 three days ago after he developed ‘minor symptoms’ of Coronavirus. On Sunday, his second report came back positive. Another MLA from Bhopal, Congress’s PC Sharma, is also recovering from Corona infection. Among the top leaders from MP who have been infected by Covid-19 are CM Chouhan, Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, ministers Tulsi Silawat, Arvind Bhadoria and Ramkhelawan Patel, and eight other MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-minister-vishwas-sarang-tests-ve-for-covid-19/articleshow/77453945.cms||---
August 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Cutting power losses? Give report: Chandigarh administration||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has directed the power department to submit a progress report on bringing down T&D losses after the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) had sought one on the study to bring them down. After the JERC instructions, the administrat ion had held a meeting with power department officials and discussed the steps initiated. Last year, the department in its reply had submitted that a request for proposal (RFP) for appointment of consultant for segregation of T&D losses and loss reduction trajectory was submitted to UT chief engineer’s office in October 2017 for accord of approval. However, the chief engineer’s office in July 2018 intimated that the consultant will be appointed after allotment of work for installation of audit meters. The commission in its order said, “The commission directs the petitioner (electricity department) to expedite the execution of the study. The commission also directs the petitioner to submit a detailed report of voltage wise T&D losses along with the next tariff petition.” Recently, the JERC had refused to entertain power department’s plea wherein it had expressed their inability to cut down the losses below the limit approved by the JERC. In the MYT petition, the department had submitted that the T&D loss for the financial year 2016-17 was 13.65%, which will be reduced to 13.05% (2019-20), 12.85% (2020-21) and 12.65% (2021-22). As per the directions of the commission, T&D losses of Chandigarh should not be more than 13.25%. The department has been taking a plea that the high T&D losses have occurred due to non-availability of inter-state transmission point within boundaries of Chandigarh and the metering is done at 400 KV Nalagarh, 220 KV Mohali and 220 KV Dhulekote. On the other side, the commission was of the view that the intra-state distribution loss in the similar urban distribution companies, like BSES Rajdhani Power Limited (BRPL), BSES Yamuna Power Ltd (BYPL), Tata Power Mumbai, where majority of the sales is happening in domestic, is lower than the intra-state distribution loss of the UT power department. There is a significant potential of intra-state distribution loss reduction in Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cutting-power-losses-give-report-chandigarh-administration/articleshow/77453967.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
August 10, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: ‘Suicide’ turns into rape-murder case after villagers gherao police station||BHOPAL: What was thought to be suicide by a mother of four in a Chhatarpur village four days ago is now being investigated as a rape-murder case after villagers staged a sevenhour-long demonstration till late Saturday night, accusing police of protecting the accused. After the demonstration and villagers’ threat to fast onto death, Isanagar police station registered a case of sexual assault and murder. Asked about this, SHO Manish Tiwari gave a strange explanation to local mediapersons: “The family never told us that it was a case of rape and murder. Now that they have revealed this, we have started investigations. In fact, her husband had said that she had committed suicide by hanging herself with her own sari.” The family, however, insists they had told police they suspected rape and murder. On August 3, the 29-yearold woman’s body was found hanging from a tree in a village close to the Uttar Pradesh border. Her family said they had seen three men, including one they identified as Shivram Yadav, “running away after hanging her body”. “We untied the knot and brought her down, but she had died,” they said. The family says they informed police but they took no action. ‘Cops didn’t mention rape & murder in FIR’Her husband alleged that the policeman taking down the complaint did not mention ‘rape & murder’ in the FIR although he had narrated this to him. Incensed, community leaders lodged a complaint with the SP, who ordered subdivisional police officer Saurabh Ratnakar to probe it. On Saturday, the villagers gheraoed the police station, accusing cops of protecting the accused. “When we started the probe, the family did not talk about any foul play. Now they are making allegations.,” said Manish Mishram the officer in charge of Ishanagar police station. Ratnakar said police are waiting for the post-mortem report. “We have started searching for the accused named by the family,” he said.  (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-suicide-turns-into-rape-murder-case-after-villagers-gherao-police-station/articleshow/77453968.cms||---
August 10, 2020||India||Sonia to remain interim chief for now: Congress||Congress on Sunday said Sonia Gandhi will continue as interim president till such time a “proper procedure” is implemented in the “not too distant future” to elect a party president. Party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi, during an online media briefing, said it was true that her tenure as interim chief comes to an end on August 10, a year after she assumed the post, but it did not mean that the seat automatically falls vacant that day. “Sonia Gandhi is the president and she will continue till such time as a proper procedure is implemented,” he said. “There is a process which goes through the Congress Working Committee. This will be followed and a result will emerge,” Singhvi said. The procedure is written in Congress’ constitution and the party is committed to follow it, he said and added that it was being done and information will be shared on it soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sonia-to-remain-interim-chief-for-now-congress/articleshow/77453960.cms||---
