August 11, 2020||World||Looters descend on downtown Chicago; more than 100 arrested||CHICAGO: Hundreds of looters and vandals descended on downtown Chicago early Monday following a police shooting on the city's South Side, smashing the windows of dozens of businesses and making off with merchandise, cash machines and anything else they could carry, police said. Hours earlier, police shot a man after he opened fire on officers Sunday afternoon an incident that apparently prompted a social media post urging looters to converge on the business district, Police Superintendent David Brown told a news conference. Some 400 additional officers were dispatched to the area after the department spotted the post. Over several hours, police made more than 100 arrests and 13 officers were injured, including one who was struck in the head with a bottle, Brown said. Brown dismissed any suggestion that the chaos was part of an organized protest of the shooting, instead calling it "pure criminality" that included occupants of a vehicle opening fire on police who were arresting a man they spotted carrying a cash register. No officers were wounded by gunfire, but a security guard and a civilian were hospitalized in critical condition after being shot, and five guns were recovered, he said. Mayor Lori Lightfoot agreed that the melee had nothing to do with a protest. "This was straight-up felony criminal conduct," she said. "This was an assault on our city." The looting brightened the national spotlight that has been on Chicago for weeks after a surge in gun violence that resulted in more homicides in July than any month in decades. President Donald Trump, who has repeatedly criticized the city's handling of the violence, recently ordered more federal agents to Chicago to take part in what Attorney General William Barr called "classic crime fighting." Further ratcheting up the tensions in the city was a video that circulated on Facebook hours before the looting that falsely claimed that Chicago police had shot and killed a 15-year-old boy. Posted at 6:30 p.m. Sunday, the video shows upset residents confronting officers near the scene where officers shot and wounded an adult suspect who they said had fired at them that day. By Monday morning, it had been watched nearly 100,000 times. Witnesses to the looting described a scene that bore a striking resemblance to the unrest that unfolded when protests over the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis devolved into chaos. Brown suggested that the lenient treatment of people arrested then played a role in what happened Monday. "Not many of those cases were prosecuted to the full extent," he said. "These looters, these thieves, these criminals being emboldened by (the lack of) consequences ... emboldened to do more." At the same news conference, Lightfoot addressed the looters directly, telling them that police had collected a lot of surveillance video and other evidence that will be used to arrest and prosecute as many as possible. "We saw you, and we will come after you," she warned. Videos of the vandalism showed huge crowds of people smashing their way into businesses and streaming out of the broken windows and doors with clothes and other merchandise. They loaded up vehicles and drove off, some leaving behind boxes of rocks that they had apparently brought to shatter the windows. Cash register drawers and clothes hangers were strewn about the streets, along with automatic teller machines that had been ripped from walls or pulled from inside businesses. Stores miles from downtown were also ransacked, their parking lots littered with glass and boxes that once contained television sets and other electronics. "This was obviously very orchestrated," the Rev. Michael Pfleger, a prominent Roman Catholic priest and activist on the city's South Side, told Chicago television station WBBM. Train and bus service into downtown was temporarily suspended. Bridges over the Chicago River were lifted, preventing travel to and from the downtown area, and state police blocked some expressway ramps into downtown. Access was to be restored later in the day. Brown said the department would maintain a huge presence in the downtown area indefinitely, telling reporters that all days off had been canceled until further notice. On the South Side, police responded about 2:30 p.m. Sunday to a call about a person with a gun in the Englewood neighborhood and tried to confront someone matching his description in an alley. He fled from officers on foot and shot at officers, police said. Officers returned fire, wounding the man, who was taken to a hospital for treatment. He was expected to recover. Three officers also were taken to a hospital for observation, the statement said. Brown later said the 20-year-old man had a long criminal history, including arrests for domestic battery and child endangerment, He said a gun was recovered at the scene. More than an hour after the shooting, police and witnesses said a crowd faced off with officers after someone reportedly told people that police had shot and wounded a child. That crowd eventually dispersed. But police later came across the social media post about a caravan of cars "being prompted to go to our downtown to loot," Brown said. "Within 15 minutes, we respond and almost immediately the caravan is in our downtown area."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/looters-descend-on-downtown-chicago-more-than-100-arrested/articleshow/77470788.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Business||Indian national with any valid UAE visa can fly there from India: Ambassador Kapoor||NEW DELHI: Indians with any valid visa to the UAE can now go there on both India and UAE airlines. Ambassador of India to UAE, Pavan Kapoor, tweeted on Monday: “Very pleased to see the (Indian) aviation ministry’s notification this evening as per which both Indian and UAE airlines can now carry any Indian national holding any type of valid UAE visa from India to UAE!” An airline official said the notification says: “Outbound categories allowed (India to UAE): 1. Indians holding any type of UAE visa; 2. UAE nationals; 3. UAE resident permit holders having ICA approval to enter UAE (essentially nationals of other countries holding UAE residence permit + ICA approval).” However, many airline officials said they had not received the notification till late Monday night. Air India Express replied at 11.11 pm Monday to a tweet of a person who asked if she could travel to UAE in response to Ambassador Kapoor: “We will update you as soon as we receive some update in this regard… As of now, only resident permit holders with stamped copy in passport are allowed to travel India to UAE.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-national-with-any-valid-uae-visa-can-fly-there-from-india-ambassador-kapoor/articleshow/77471278.cms||Saurabh Sinha
August 11, 2020||Raipur||Chhattisgarh: 60-year-old killed with 150 cuts for telling duo not to drink in the open||RAIPUR: A 60-year-old man was murdered in an extremely gruesome manner in Bhilai for rebuking two men for drinking in the open. He was slashed 150 times and his head was bashed in with a rock. On the way out after killing Ram Chouhan, the two accused jeeringly told his son: “Chouhan khatam. Zyada baat kar raha tha (Chouhan’s dead. He was talking too much).” The suspects, Lokesh Sahu and Durgesh Sahu, in their early twenties, were arrested on Monday evening. According to police, Chouhan was taking an after-dinner walk in Krishna Nagar locality when he came across two youngsters drinking and smoking in front of his house. After some time, Chouhan checked upon them again and was enraged to see them still standing there. He objected and told them to go home or stand somewhere else. Police say Lokesh and Durgesh got furious and began quarreling with the elderly man. In their statement to police, the duo have said they started beating Chouhan, pushed him back into his house, chased away his younger son by threatening to kill him and then locked the door from inside to carry out their macabre revenge. One of them took out a blade and started slashing him. The other one picked up a brick and battered his legs until they were crushed so that he couldn’t escape. Then, as the 60-year-old lays helpless, they smashed his head and kept cutting him with the blade. Chouhan died on the spot. On the way out, they found Chouhan’s son trembling in fear and mocked him. “They threatened to murder him and hang his body if he dared inform police. On entering the house, the youngster was horrified to see his father’s mutilated body. He took him to hospital where doctors declared him dead on arrival,” said a police officer. Police counted more than 150 cuts on his body. Lokesh and Durgesh were caught on Monday morning. They have confessed and given a detailed account of the gruesome murder, though they claim to have been drunk at the time, said police. Both of them are history-sheeters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/60-year-old-killed-with-150-cuts-for-telling-duo-not-to-drink-in-the-open/articleshow/77471694.cms||---
August 11, 2020||India||Jadhav case: After Pak's 'offer', India says share case files first||NEW DELHI: India has shot off yet another note verbale to Pakistan in the Kulbhushan Jadhav case asking Islamabad to address the real issues at hand, namely the need for Pakistan to share case documents with India and provide unimpeded and unconditional consular access to the Indian national. This followed a formal communication from Pakistan late last week about the Islamabad high court order authorising India to hire a lawyer for Jadhav. Pakistan also invited to participate in the next court hearing on September 3. The court order hasn't really enthused India, as is obvious from the government's latest diplomatic correspondence. India has conveyed to Pakistan that hiring a local lawyer will be of little significance if Islamabad doesn't share supporting case documents like the FIR and also if it doesn't allow Indian officials to engage Jadhav on his legal rights including the power of attorney. India had tried to hire a lawyer on July 18 but it still couldn't file a review petition because of, as the government had said earlier, Pakistan's refusal to meet these conditions. The negotiations for consular access have also just kept going round in circles. While Pakistan has again offered what it calls unimpeded and uninterrupted consular access to Jadhav, India remains wary because of what happened last time, on July 16, when 2 Indian officials went to see Jadhav after India accepted the offer. They registered a protest and walked out after they realised that not only were Pakistani officials present there but also that the meeting was being recorded. According to Indian authorities, Pakistan didn't keep its word after having promised India unconditional consular access. For India, not allowing unconditional access by preventing a meeting with Jadhav in private will seriously compromise ICJ's order for an effective review and reconsideration of Jadhav's death sentence by a Pakistan military court. The ICJ had last year held Pakistan guilty of violating the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations by denying consular access to Jadhav. India continues to emphasise before Pakistan that the failure to allow consular access to Jadhav before his alleged confessions were recorded, and on the basis of which he was convicted, has to be remedied in the form of unconditional access. India has also pointed out to Pakistan that the denial of consular access and other legal rights to Jadhav immediately after his arrest raises question marks about the ‘evidence’ examined by the Pakistan military against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jadhav-case-after-paks-offer-india-says-share-case-files-first/articleshow/77471704.cms||Sachin Parashar
August 11, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Sanitising switch boards may have triggered blaze’||VIJAYAWADA: The state fire department which probed the fire mishap that claimed 10 lives at a quarantine centre in a city hotel has found that the staff were regularly sanitising electrical switchboards at the facility. When the officials questioned the hotel staff, they said sanitisers were sprayed on the switchboard as well. Vijayawada central tahsildar (mandal revenue officer) had mentioned in the complaint that there were electrical defects at the hotel. “It appears that the management of the Hotel Swarna Palace and the Ramesh Hospital had knowledge that there are electric defects in the lodge, and as rectification of defects involved with huge amount, avoided to repair it,” the tahsildar’s complaint read. Speaking to TOI, district fire officer Sreenivas Reddy said that the fire did start at the ground floor’s reception centre and are yet to ascertain the actual cause of fire. Meanwhile, the high-level committee members visited the mishap spot and inspected the premises on Monday. Police, medical and health and fire departments and experts saw the spot and investigated the role of staff members in the premises to ascertain the lapses resulting in the mishap. Officials said that they would be submitting a detailed report on the mishap within the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sanitising-switch-boards-can-also-cause-fire-officials/articleshow/77471979.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 11, 2020||Vijayawada||AP’s new industrial policy to focus on MSMEs, women entrepreneurs||VIJAYAWADA: The AP government on Monday released its new industrial policy (2020-23) with focus on promoting MSME sector and women entrepreneurs. AP minister for industries Mekapati Gowtham Reddy and AP Industries Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) chairperson R K Roja released the new policy. The policy focuses on creating more investment opportunities in the MSME sector and encouraging women entrepreneurs in the next three years. The government also offered state GST reimbursement for the industries, both MSME and the other industries basing on employment potential that they create in a target period of five years. The government is giving highest priority to the provision of best in class infrastructure, zero hassle set up and skilled labour availability for investment. The investor risk is brought down to zero level with single window support from the government, the new policy said. As promised in the 2020-21 budget, the government is giving highest priority to promote entrepreneurs and had offered several incentives for them. The benefits would also be extended to the entrepreneurs coming from the SC, ST, BC and Minority communities, the new policy said. The state government has decided to offer land on lease to industries for a minimum period of 33 years. However, the industries, after the successful operations for the first 10 years, can own the land. The government is also preparing industrial zoning system to designate industries in the districts. The government would help the investor to go to the designated area based on the nature of industry. However, mega industries will be allowed to be opened outside the industrial parks based on the requirement and investment potential, the new policy said. The skill development centres in the state would provide the trained persons from the 30 skill development colleges that would come up across the state. The state government is also planning to open ‘YSR AP Online’, a multi-faceted end-to-end business enablement centre to assist the investors. The centre would help the investor in entrepreneurship facilitation, market research, branding, sales support, incentive management, business enablement, investor reach-out and other activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/aps-new-industrial-policy-to-focus-on-msmes-biz-women/articleshow/77471985.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Amaravati||AP’s new industrial policy to focus on MSMEs, women entrepreneurs||VIJAYAWADA: The AP government on Monday released its new industrial policy (2020-23) with focus on promoting MSME sector and women entrepreneurs. AP minister for industries Mekapati Gowtham Reddy and AP Industries Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) chairperson R K Roja released the new policy. The policy focuses on creating more investment opportunities in the MSME sector and encouraging women entrepreneurs in the next three years. The government also offered state GST reimbursement for the industries, both MSME and the other industries basing on employment potential that they create in a target period of five years. The government is giving highest priority to the provision of best in class infrastructure, zero hassle set up and skilled labour availability for investment. The investor risk is brought down to zero level with single window support from the government, the new policy said. As promised in the 2020-21 budget, the government is giving highest priority to promote entrepreneurs and had offered several incentives for them. The benefits would also be extended to the entrepreneurs coming from the SC, ST, BC and Minority communities, the new policy said. The state government has decided to offer land on lease to industries for a minimum period of 33 years. However, the industries, after the successful operations for the first 10 years, can own the land. The government is also preparing industrial zoning system to designate industries in the districts. The government would help the investor to go to the designated area based on the nature of industry. However, mega industries will be allowed to be opened outside the industrial parks based on the requirement and investment potential, the new policy said. The skill development centres in the state would provide the trained persons from the 30 skill development colleges that would come up across the state. The state government is also planning to open ‘YSR AP Online’, a multi-faceted end-to-end business enablement centre to assist the investors. The centre would help the investor in entrepreneurship facilitation, market research, branding, sales support, incentive management, business enablement, investor reach-out and other activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/aps-new-industrial-policy-to-focus-on-msmes-biz-women/articleshow/77482117.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP registers 80 deaths, 7,500 new Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 80 deaths and 7,665 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, the lowest in the last two weeks. While the cumulative caseload went up to 2,35,525, the death toll increased to 2,116. About 6,900 patients were declared cured on Monday. There are currently 87,773 active cases with 1,45,636 recoveries and 2,116 deaths. Andhra Pradesh has, so far, conducted 25.34 lakh tests with an overall case positivity rate of 9.29%. The case positivity rate in Maharashtra is 18.87%, followed by Telangana 12.96%, Karnataka 10.44%, and Tamil Nadu 9.20% against the national average of 9.01%. Visakhapatnam breached the 20,000-case mark to become the fifth district in the state to achieve the grim feat. East Godavari reported 1,235 fresh cases, the highest among all the districts. For the first time in two weeks, the new cases in all other districts were limited to a three-digit figure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-registers-80-deaths-7500-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77471996.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: Artist showcases Lord Krishna’s life through Rangoli art||PRAYAGRAJ: City-based Rangoli artist Ankit is grabbing attention of visitors these days after he started drawing the sketches of life cycle of Lord Krishna on the floor of the famous Maa Samaya Mandir premises, Katghar ahead of the Krishna Janmashtami. Ankit himself decided that he would be devoting five to six hours to complete the sketches showcasing the entire life of Lord Krishna - from childhood to Geeta Updesh- and filling it with the colours to make it an attractive Rangoli art. Through his art, Ankit focuses on glorifying seven parts of the Lord Krishna’s life, including Vasudev taking him to Gokul after birth, Krishna stealing ‘makhan’, his special love for cows, Arjun’s sarthi and Geeta Updesh. “When I was in VIth standard, I participated in drawing and sketching competitions and later found my interest for Rangoli” said Ankit adding that Rangoli was an integral part of Indian tradition and culture and this art speaks about its energy and vigour”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/uttar-pradesh-artist-showcases-lord-krishnas-life-through-rangoli-art/articleshow/77472104.cms||Kapil Dixit
August 11, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 2 more Covid deaths||SHIMLA: The state on Monday reported death of two more Covid positive patients in Mandi and Solan districts, taking the toll to 15. The state also reported 92 new coronavirus cases during the day. The state also saw recovery of 24 Covid patients. With this, the tally of total positive cases has gone up to 3,463, of which 1,215 are active, 2,205 have recovered, 15 have died while 26 have migrated out of state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-2-more-covid-deaths/articleshow/77472306.cms||Anand Bodh
August 11, 2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee put on ventilator after brain clot surgery||NEW DELHI: Former President Pranab Mukherjee was put on ventilator support on Monday after undergoing surgery for removal of a clot in his brain. He has also tested positive for Covid-19. Sources at the Army (Research and Referral) Hospital said the few hours after the surgery would be critical as there is need for ventilator support that may not have been required if he was not Covid positive. Mukherjee, 84, tweeted on Monday, saying, “On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for Covid-19 today.” “I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self-isolate and get tested for Covid-19,” Mukherjee, who was President from 2012 to 2017, added. Sources said the former President is ‘critical’. “He needed to be put on ventilator during the surgery for the removal of the clot in his brain. Normally, he would have been weaned off the device after the success of the surgery. However, the doctors are unable to do so in the current situation because he is suffering from Covid-19,” said a source, adding, “Next few hours are going to be critical”. Defence minister Rajnath Singh visited the Army (R&R) Hospital and enquired about the former President’s health on Monday during the day. Singh was at the hospital for around 20 minutes. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala, along with several of his party colleagues, wished Mukherjee, who was a Congress leader for years, a speedy recovery. “We wish former President Pranab Mukherjee a speedy recovery from Covid,” Congress said on its official Twitter handle. Wishing you a speedy recovery Sir! https://t.co/hxErfxo0RT— Randeep Singh Surjewala (@rssurjewala) 1597046629000Abhijeet Mukherjee, Congress member and the former president's son, tweeted, “I wish my father a speedy recovery! I appeal to all my countrymen to pray for his speedy recovery & good health.” Several leaders from across the political spectrum also wished Mukherjee an early recovery. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, “I have come to know former President of India Sh. Pranab Mukherjee has tested positive for Covid-19...concerned about his health. Wish him a speedy recovery.” I have come to know former President of India Sh. Pranab Mukherjee has tested positive for #Covid_19...concerned ab… https://t.co/ldF4TZZMaG— Ashok Gehlot (@ashokgehlot51) 1597047767000“Wishing Sri Pranab Mukherjee a speedy recovery. I am sure he will be out of this sooner than later,” said Congress’s Mallikarjun Kharge. Union minister Piyush Goyal also wished good health for Mukherjee and said he is confident that the former president will quickly recover from the virus. Congress member Abhishek Singhvi said, “Astonishing and matter of concern that former President Pranab Mukherjee tested positive for Covid. Very active, regular walker, wish him quick recovery and restful convalescence.” Astonishing & matter of concern that fmr Pres #PranabMukherjee tested positive for COVID per press reports. Very ac… https://t.co/4dJcUbb5i9— Abhishek Singhvi (@DrAMSinghvi) 1597045990000Watch Delhi: Former President Pranab Mukherjee tests positive for Coronavirus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pranab-mukherjee-put-on-ventilator-after-brain-clot-surgery/articleshow/77472305.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknowites hit the gyms after four months with all precautions in place||After being closed for more than four months now, a few gyms and yoga studios opened on Monday morning for fitness enthusiasts. “We are really happy that finally gyms have opened in our city. We are strictly following the guidelines and are hopeful that more and more members come out of their houses and get used to this new normal of staying fit,” shares Sajid Ahmad Qureshi, owner of a gym in Mahanagar. TIME TO SHED THE EXTRA KILOS Saumya, a collegian, seemed pretty excited to go back to her favourite place to workout on Monday morning. “During the lockdown, I had put on a lot of weight since I wasn’t able to work out at home. I was desperately waiting for the gyms to open. Jo bhi keh lo, jo baat gym mein exercise kar ke aati hai woh ghar pe karne mein nahi aati hai. You suddenly become serious towards exercising when doing it in the gym,” says Saumya. Shankar is loving being back in the gym to work out (BCCL)EDUCATED ENOUGH TO TAKE CARE OF MYSELF NOW Harsh Bharadwaj, another gym addict shares, “I was actually happy to know that the gyms have opened in the city, finally. The kind of workout I can do in the gym, is not possible at home. Even though gyms are doing their bit to ensure safety of the people working out, by now, even we are educated enough to take care of ourselves. We now know how to maintain a proper distance and regularly sanitize our hands and bottles. I am keeping my fingers crossed and hope sab achhe se aise hi chalta rahe. I am going to work out at the gym every day now.” Saumya Chaudhary (BCCL)BEAT THE STRESS WITH GYM Jaspreet Singh Mehta feels that gymming is the ideal way to de-stress. “Sitting at home, most gym addicts were sort of getting depressed as we are used to a certain rigorous workouts in gyms. One can easily uplift his or her mood and stay mentally fit and fine apart from keeping fit physically too, by working out and a gym is the best place for it. I think in these trying times, opening of gyms is a necessity,” he says. Temperature check before entering the gym is mandatory (BCCL)Mansi Agarwal says though she was working out regularly at home with the virtual gym classes, she wanted to go to the gym desperately. “It’s been only a year for me to have started gymming and I’d started loving the whole process of staying fit. I was really disappointed when gyms were not opened by the government initially. Woh jo gym jaane ka ek feel and ek routine hota hai, uska alag hi mazaa hai. Plus, the government guidelines are so strict that I am sure of my safety there.” Mansi Agarwal didn’t wait a day to get back to her routine workout (BCCL)BACK IN THE GYM TO REMAIN FIT Nishant, a naval officer hit the gym after a gap of four months. “I have been back home with my parents for the past three months and hadn’t been able to work out. Today when the gym opened, I am back and with a vengeance,” he says. Similarly for Mansi Agarwal who says she was missing working out at a gym.”Here you have professionals guiding you, at home there’s no one. So working out a gym is far more effective than working out at home. I’m glad the gyms have opened in Lucknow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknowites-hit-the-gyms-after-four-months-with-all-precautions-in-place/articleshow/77469195.cms||Akash Wadhwa
August 11, 2020||India||SC to decide if Prashant Bhushan committed contempt||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday decided to scrutinise activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan’s 2009 allegation that “half of the 16 former CJIs were corrupt” to determine whether it would amount to contempt of court. In a single-sentence order, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said, “Before reaching any finding whether the statement made as to ‘corruption’ would per se amount to contempt of court, the matter is required to be heard." The bench posted the matter for further hearing on August 17. As the court decided to go ahead with scrutiny of Bhushan’s 2009 media interview in which he accused former CJIs of “corruption”, it appears that the SC is of the view that it is not a case to be closed on the basis of Bhushan’s August 4 in-camera statement. The lawyer had refused to tender an apology while expressing complete faith in the judiciary. However, he had regretted that his remarks meant to attribute “lack of propriety” to the CJIs were misunderstood as accusations of financial corruption. Bhushan had said, “In my interview with Tehelka in 2009, I used the word corruption in a wide sense, meaning lack of propriety. I did not mean only financial corruption or deriving any pecuniary advantage. If what I have said caused hurt to any of them or to their families in any way, I regret the same.” Then editor of Tehelka Tarun Tejpal too faces contempt proceedings along with Bhushan. Before deciding to hold in-camera proceedings on August 4, the bench had said, “We are for freedom of speech but there is a thin line between freedom of speech and contempt of court. Can you (Bhushan's counsel Rajeev Dhavan) as an officer of the court solve this puzzle — save freedom of speech and save the grace and dignity of the judicial system? Can you suggest a way out of this rigmarole? The system does not curtail freedom of speech.” After the hearing got over, Bhushan's office had said, “In the hearing of the 2009 contempt matter against Prashant Bhushan... the bench instead of open-court hearing, spoke to the counsel for the respondents, Dhavan and Kapil Sibal over WhatsApp calls. The judges told the counsel that they wanted to put an end to the matter to protect the dignity of the court and of the judges. They, therefore, asked the parties to issue statements tendering their apologies. Bhushan refused to tender an apology." Bhushan’s statement, annexed to theac release, said, "I unreservedly state that I support the institution of the judiciary and especially the Supreme Court of which I am a part, and had no intention to lower the prestige of the judiciary in which I have complete faith. I regret if my interview was misunderstood as doing so, that is, lower the reputation of the judiciary, especially the Supreme Court, which could never have been my intention at all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-to-decide-if-prashant-bhushan-committed-contempt/articleshow/77473109.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 11, 2020||India||Rs 10,000cr trans-shipment port for Great Nicobar Island: PM||NEW DELHI: Great Nicobar Island will get a trans-shipment port with investment of Rs 10,000 crore, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday. For years, Indian ports have lost out to Colombo, which is a major trans-shipment hub in the region and the proposed facility may be an alternative given its location and is seen to be close to the channel connecting China, Japan and Australia. While inaugurating the 2,300-km-long submarine optical fibre cable (OFC) connecting Andaman and Nicobar Islands with Chennai, which will bring rapid net and telephone connectivity to the archipelago, Modi said the Centre’s focus is to reduce the “distance” between Delhi and other parts of the country, as far as development is concerned. The PM said the aim is to ensure the islands are “not far away from Delhi and from the hearts of the Mainland”, while adding that the focus is also on promoting ‘ease of business in the sea’ and simplifying maritime logistics. Modi said the trans-shipment port would enable large ships to anchor and increase India’s share in maritime trade, while creating new employment opportunities. A detailed project report (DPR) was prepared several years ago for developing the trans-shipment port at South Bay in Great Nicobar Island. They added the Island Development Authority has awarded the task of re-validating the DPR to WAPCOS, a PSU under the Jal Shakti ministry. Modi said islands of India would be playing an important role under the country’s new trade strategy for Indo-Pacific region. He added that under the Act-East policy, the role of Andaman and Nicobar in India's strong relations with east Asian countries and other countries connected to the sea is very high and is going to increase. PM said with the submarine OFC connectivity will improve ‘ease of living’ and will prove to be a boost for tourism. He added internet connectivity is important to promote tourism. Watch Great Nicobar Island to get Rs 10,000cr trans-shipment port, says PM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rs-10000cr-trans-shipment-port-for-great-nicobar-island-pm/articleshow/77473402.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 11, 2020||India||Key hearing in SC on 6 Rajasthan BSP legislators today||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the Rajasthan assembly session from August 14, the Supreme Court in a crucial hearing on Tuesday will take up a BJP MLA's petition challenging the Speaker's decision to recognise the merger of BSP legislature party, comprising all six MLAs, with Congress in September 2019. The SC's decision on the legality of the Speaker's decision to recognise the merger would be key to Congress retaining support of the six MLAs. In the 200-member House, Congress had 101 MLAs. Later, six BSP MLAs merged with it to take the party’s tally to 107. The Ashok Gehlot government also claimed support of 13 independents and other smaller parties to command a comfortable majority. But if the 19 rebel Congress MLAs are taken out of the equation, the BSP members will be key for the Gehlot government. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and M R Shah on Monday said it would hear BJP MLA Madan Dilawar's petition along with the plea filed by the six MLAs seeking transfer of Dilawar's petition in the HC challenging the Speaker's rejection of his plea for their disqualification. When 19 Congress MLAs led by Sachin Pilot rebelled against chief minister Ashok Gehlot and put the Congress in a spot, the BSP had issued a whip to its six MLAs asking them not to support Congress on the floor of the House. It had said since BSP as a party had not merged with the Congress, the merger of BSP legislature party with the Congress would not shield them from disqualification if they defied the whip. Sensing opportunity to weaken the Congress in the assembly, Dilawar had moved a petition before the Speaker seeking disqualification of the six erstwhile BSP MLAs on the ground that there was no merger of the parties and defiance of the BSP whip would render them disqualified under the anti-defection provisions of the Tenth Schedule. The six MLAs, through advocate Amit Pai, said the moot question involved in the petition pending before the HC was whether merger of political parties was needed to avoid disqualification under Paragraph 4 of the Tenth Schedule and whether merger of legislature parties was enough. They said in a case relating to Nagaland assembly, the Gauhati High Court in 2014 had ruled that merger of legislature parties was enough to ward off disqualification under the anti-defection law. This decision was challenged in the SC and is pending consideration. They said the issue pending in Rajasthan HC was similar to the one pending in the SC and hence it would be better to get the petition transferred to the apex court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/key-hearing-in-sc-on-6-raj-bsp-legislators-today/articleshow/77473524.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 11, 2020||India||Criticism of proposed green rules premature: Javadekar||NEW DELHI: Calling the criticism of proposed green rules by Congress’ Rahul Gandhi and Jairam Ramesh as “unnecessary and premature”, environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday accused the previous UPA government of taking big decisions on environmental issues without public consultations and said it is not fair to jump to conclusions over the draft without waiting for the final decisions. Javadekar said the ministry has already given 150 days for public consultations on the draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), 2020 notification due to the current Covid-19 situation, instead of 60 days as per the norms. The minister had last week responded in detail to Ramesh, seeking to clarify on several contentious points in the draft EIA notification. Both had made their communication public on twitter. The twitter debate between Javadekar and Ramesh, however, continued even on Monday with the latter being head of the parliamentary panel on environment and forests reiterating his demand to keep the notification in abeyance until the standing committee examines it in detail. Rahul Gandhi too joined Ramesh in criticising the draft notification which many environmentalists think would be “disastrous” for environment and wildlife. They think the proposed norms would make it easier for violators to get green clearances for their polluting projects through the "ex-post facto approval" route. Demanding its withdrawal, Gandhi on Monday tweeted, “EIA 2020 draft must be withdrawn to stop #LootOfTheNation and environmental destruction.” EIA2020 ड्राफ़्ट का मक़सद साफ़ है - #LootOfTheNationयह एक और ख़ौफ़नाक उदाहरण है कि भाजपा सरकार देश के संसाधन लूट… https://t.co/fkvc5aNgEQ— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1597028662000Reacting to the Congress’ barbs, Javadekar said, “I saw reactions of some leaders that they want to protest the draft. How can they protest the draft? It’s a draft, not a final notification.” Noting that the ministry has already received thousands of suggestions on the draft ahead of its August 11 deadline, he said, “We will consider all those suggestions and then come out with a final draft… Those who want to protest now had during their regime taken bigger decisions without any public consultation.” The minister also said he had already responded to Ramesh in detail. In his letter to Ramesh, he noted that violators were previously allowed to regularise on a permanent basis using the route of office memorandum (OM) issued in 2010. Javadekar saidhis ministry has now proposed to do it “not through OM but through new proposed notification with wider public consultation”. Javadekar said his ministry has now proposed to do it “not through OM but through new proposed notification with wider public consultation”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/criticism-of-proposed-green-rules-premature-javadekar/articleshow/77473566.cms||Vishwa Mohan
August 11, 2020||Patna||Alert in Bihar as Nepal releases more water||PATNA: Discharge of flood water from Nepal on Monday via the Valmikinagar barrage in West Champaran had the state authorities on alert with around 1.8 lakh cusec released at2pm. The rising trend in discharge from the barrage raised concerns as around 20,000 more people were affected by the floods in as many as 16 districts in north Bihar in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of flood-hit people in the region to over 74 lakh. The death toll in the state due to the deluge so far stands at 24, according to the bulletin issued by the disaster management department (DMD). The 16 districts affected by the floods are Gopalganj, West Champaran, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Supaul, Sheohar, Kishanganj, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Khagaria, Saran, Samastipur, Siwan, Madhubani, Madhepura and Saharsa. Though the floods have wreaked havoc for around a month now, several rivers have been showing receding trend owing to reduction in the intensity of rainfall over the past one week. As per water resources department (WRD) flood bulletin on Monday evening, the turbulent Burhi Gandak showed falling trend at three out of four flood gauges in Muzaffarpur, Samstipur and Khagaria districts and static at one. The river was, however, flowing above the danger level at five of the seven flood gauges in three districts. Bagmati was also showing either falling or static trend at its seven flood gauges in Sitamarhi, Muzafarpur and Darbhanga districts. The swollen river, however, continues to flow above corresponding danger level at five out of seven places. Kamla Balan, which was showing a falling trend at both flood gauges in Madhubani district till Sunday showed static trend and came below the danger level at one place. Burhi Gandak was also flowing above the danger mark at all its flood gauges. According to the weather forecast, only light to moderate rainfall is expected in Bihar in the next 48 hours. Weathermen claimed that rainfall intensity is likely to be comparatively higher in eastern parts after August 13 owing to formation of a low pressure area in West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/alert-as-nepal-releases-more-water/articleshow/77469880.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Business||Amazon’s $600 million Prime Day beats Diwali daily sales||BENGALURU: Amazon India’s Prime Day sales, its first major event after the virus outbreak, have surpassed the daily numbers of its flagship sale during Diwali last year, according to two people aware of the matter. It clocked over $600 million in two days of Prime Day sale last week as demand for products, primarily electronics, surged online after Covid-19 kept shoppers at home. But the gross aggregate numbers for Prime Day sales will still be lower as the Diwali event happens over a five-day period. Amazon India head Amit Agarwal told TOI that this was its biggest Prime Day ever, without sharing numbers. “Prime Day 2020 was the biggest 48 hours ever for small and medium sellers on Amazon India. We had the highest participation of nearly 1 lakh sellers, who received orders from across 97% of India’s pin codes,” he said. According to sources, analysts and sellers, initial estimates for Amazon’s flagship sale events were in the range of $400-500 million across 48 hours, but the continued demand for goods via e-commerce and consumers shifting online for their purchases has given a boost to the event. Electronics, smartphones, small and large appliances emerged as top-grossing categories as fashion and food items saw relatively less traction. “This wasn’t pent-up demand creating a sales spike, but a bigger indicator of overall demand shifting online. Per day Prime Day was much bigger than the biggest day during Diwali,” one of the people mentioned earlier said. Another source confirmed the same. According to an independent seller, his sales (electronic accessories) doubled during Prime Day compared to an average day. For its popular Prime programme, Amazon India saw new paid subscriber sign-ups doubling as compared to 2019 sale. Up to 65% of new subscribers were from outside the top 10 cities, Agarwal said. Amazon globally has 150 million Prime users but does not disclose India-specific numbers. In India, Prime is also available on a monthly basis besides the annual subscription. “The reason numbers are better is also because of high-priced categories like smartphones, laptops, and other appliances selling more compared to one of the top segments like fashion during Diwali. But that is relatively low now,” said Satish Meena, senior forecast analyst at Forrester Research, a marketing research firm. For example, fashion constituted about 24% of Diwali sales last year, but estimates show it would be around 12% now — down to half. The share of appliances (12%) and consumer electronics (16%) would have gone up in 2020 as shoppers buy more items for work-for-home and schooling-from-home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/amazons-600m-prime-day-beats-diwali-daily-sales/articleshow/77472124.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Action against inmates found with banned products||JAIPUR: In a meeting held on Monday, chaired by ACS (Home) Rohit Kumar and DG Jail B L Soni, it was decided that action will be taken against inmates who are found in possession of banned items including mobile phones, SIM cards etc. During the meeting, Soni said that Rajasthan was the only state where records of all the prisoners after 2005 were available online. He also said that orders have been given to the officials to conduct a thorough search of all the jails. Video recording of these searches should be done and they have to be conducted within the set deadline, he added. According to the information given, there are 10 Central Jails in the state and a total 145 jails are operational comprising 20,248 prisoners. There are 2,876 officials for jails’ internal security, while 791 RAC jawans for outside security. Soni said that Rajasthan was the only state where during the lockdown the families of the inmates could meet them via video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/action-against-inmates-found-with-banned-products/articleshow/77472487.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Business||Defence stocks rally on push for 'Atmanirbhar'||MUMBAI: Stocks of companies supplying to the Indian military rallied up to 13% in Monday’s market after the defence minister on Sunday announced a big push for manufacture of hardware for the sector by domestic companies. Under its Atmanirbhar (self-reliance) initiative, the government has prepared a list of 101 items on which it will put import embargo over the next few years so that they are produced locally, it said. Following the decision, shares of Bharat Electronics, a government-run company, rallied over 13% in early trade and closed 9% higher, while BEML, another PSU catering to the military, rallied over 5% and closed 4% higher. Hindustan Aeronautics, also a PSU and serving the Indian Air Force in a major way, rallied over 10% and closed 9% higher. Other top gainers from this lot were Astra Microwave, up 6%. According to a report by Edelweiss, its analysts were positively surprised with the pace of policy announcement, which were far more specific and included clear timelines. “One could expect further announcements in days to come for a much greater clarity beyond what is already available. The list seems fairly exhaustive, but may expand in future and is based on comprehensive inputs from private/public sector stakeholders, which is a key highlight in our view,” the broking house said. However, the above mentioned defence stocks (Bharat Electronics, BEML, Hindustan Aeronautics, Astra Microwave, Bharat Forge and Apollo Micro Systems) traded in red on Tuesday. While Reliance Naval and Engineering and Larsen and Toubro (L&T) continued their upward trend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/defence-stocks-rally-on-push-for-atmanirbhar/articleshow/77472103.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar inaugurates different schemes worth Rs 638 crore||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Monday inaugurated 1,093 surface irrigation and water storage schemes worth Rs 638 crore through remote via videoconferencing from his residence. All these schemes were executed by the minor water resources department (MWRD) under the state government’s ambitious Jal-Jivan-Hariyali Abhiyan (JJHA). Addressing the event, Nitish said his government was committed to protecting the environment and minimizing the bad effects of climate change. If required, the state government would provide more funds under the JJHA, he said. He said to check the bad impact of climate change, his government last year launched the JJHA and allocated Rs 24,524 crore for three years. “The government will provide more funds if some departments require to execute the schemes under the JJHA,” he said. The event was presided over by the MWRD minister Narendra Narayan Yadav. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, rural development minister Shrawan Kumar and all district magistrates (DMs) attended the event through videoconferencing. Praising the officers and engineers of the MWRD, Nitish said he was happy that the department has completed a total of 1,093 schemes under the JJHA. He said the completed schemes have created an additional water storage capacity of 590 lakh cubic meters in the state. These schemes would irrigate a total of 88,930 hectares of land in different districts. CM further said he had been informed by the MWRD officials that works on other 560 similar schemes would be completed in the next few months. He asked the rural development department’s minister and secretary Shravan Kumar and Arvind Kumar Choudhary, respectively, to compile all the works executed under the JJHA in their department and propagate them among the public so that common people could be made aware as to what type of works the government was executing under the abhiyan. Nitish further asked all the DMs at the meeting to compile the works executed in their respective district under the JJHA in booklets and distribute them among the public to make them aware about the works. Deputy CM and MWRD’s additional chief secretary Amrit Lal Meena also addressed the inaugural event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-inaugurates-different-schemes-worth-rs-638-crore/articleshow/77469850.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Patna||‘Covid-19 positive mothers may breastfeed kids with precautions’||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic has created fear among people, especially mothers breastfeeding their children. The fear is such that a mother having any flu-like symptom is frightened to feed her child. However, health experts and organizations like UNICEF and WHO recommend breastfeeding even by a Covid-19 positive mother for the better health benefits to the child. Dr Bhabesh Kant, assistant professor of neonatology at AIIMS-Patna, said the study on Covid-19 positive mothers breastfeeding their children was still going on. However, as of now, it has been found that breast milk is safe. He stressed on the need to take precautions and advised Covid-19 positive mothers to put on masks and maintain hygiene while feeding their children. Dr Kant also referred to a research published in Lancet journal in July regarding 116 Covid-19 positive mothers, who gave birth to 120 children (including twins). Of them, 63 were kept in the same room with their mothers and breastfed. The virus was found in three milk samples, but only one child had tested positive. “However, it was not clear whether the child had got infected by the breast milk or vertical transmission of virus,” Dr Kant said. Ten babies born out of Covid-19 positive mothers at AIIMS-Patna were given expressed breast milk and in a few cases breast milk with formula milk and the infants were healthy. Gynaecology and obstetrics department additional professor at AIIMS-Patna, Dr Mukta Agarwal, also stressed on the importance of breastfeeding. She said since the babies were separated from Covid-19 positive mothers after birth, a negative relative was asked to feed the child mother’s expressed milk. UNICEF communication specialist Nipurnh Gupta said her team had interacted with nurses of NMCH, a dedicated Covid-19 hospital in Bihar, and found that infants kept in the NICU were given breast milk after expressing it and all the children were healthy. UNICEF’s (Bihar) nutrition officer Dr Shivani Dar also said the WHO had found no active virus in breast milk. “Active virus is one which has the ability to multiply,” said Dr Shivani. NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer, Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, said a few Covid-19 positive women had initially come to their hospital with young kids. “While the mothers were positive, their children had tested negative even after being breastfed. We counselled the mothers to put on masks and maintain hygiene while feeding. They are told not to touch their nose or eyes while holding their children,” said Dr Mukul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-positive-mothers-may-breastfeed-kids-with-precautions/articleshow/77469474.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 11, 2020||Vadodara||Old city areas flooded in two inches rain in Vadodara||Vadodara: Two inches of rainfall since Sunday night left several old city areas heavily waterlogged even as the citizens were caught awares in the sudden bout of wet spell. District authorities said that the city received two inches of rains between 8 pm on Sunday and 6am on Monday. Many Barodians who were out for an evening walk got stranded and areas including Dandia Bazaar, Raopura, Sayajigunj, parts of Akota and Waghodia Road witnessed heavy waterlogging. However, the waters receded by Monday morning. Several trees got uprooted and billboards too got damaged in the rain that was accompanied by strong winds. Some citizens, who were returning home, got stuck in the waters and had to get help from policemen. “We were returning home when our car ran into a pothole and got stuck near Makarpura-GIDC on Sunday night. A police control room (PCR) van that was passing by stopped and the cops helped us pull our car out. They even escorted us till the main road to ensure our safety,” said Sachin Kaluskar, a resident of Old Padra Road. While Vadodara city received around 50mm rain, Padra was pounded by got nearly 125 mm rain. A light pole gave away near Makarpura bus depot on Sunday night but no one was injured in the incident. On Monday too, the city received a brief spell of rain. District administration officials said that there is a forecast of more rain but no alert has been sounded for villages located on the banks of Mahi River. The Vishwamitri River too has been flowing at 10 feet which is way below the danger mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/old-city-areas-flooded-in-two-inches-rain-in-vadodara/articleshow/77469769.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ranchi||State records 12 Covid-19 deaths, 630 fresh cases||Ranchi: Jharkhand reported 630 cases and 12 casualties in 24 hours until 10pm on Monday, including 99 cases and one casualty reported late on Sunday night. On Monday, 531 samples of the 6,252 tested returned positive, indicating a positivity rate of 8.4%. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand now stands at 18,786; of which 8,849 are active, 9,748 have recovered and 189 have succumbed. Health department officials will be concerned as the virus now seems to be spreading in all districts barring Jamtara and Dumka and Santhal Pargana, where testing remains low, sources said. These two districts along the Bengal border have reported just 352 cases till date, a figure that has taken epidemic experts by surprise. Just 24 hours after Garhwa recorded its biggest single-day spike with 85 fresh cases on Sunday, Palamu reported 60 fresh cases taking the district tally to 123 reported in last two days. East Singhbhum and Ranchi reported 67 and 62 cases respectively. East Singhbum continued to dominate the casualty chart with five casualties on Monday. The lone death reported late on Sunday night too came from East Singhbhum taking the total number of deaths in the district to 72. Sahebganj and West Singhbhum and recorded two casualties each while Garhwa and Deoghar recorded on each. “All 12 casualties reported between had several age-related comorbidities and were admitted to various Covid hospitals after testing positive for viral infection,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-records-12-covid-19-deaths-630-fresh-cases/articleshow/77470957.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Punctuality was key to this student achieving perfect score||Mangaluru: Vidyaratna H, principal of Kumaraswamy English Medium High School in Subrahmanya, Dakshina Kannada district is enjoying every moment on ‘Cloud Nine’, where she says she has arrived belatedly, all thanks to Anush AL, who secured a perfect centum in the SSLC examination: A feat that students of the school had been missing by an agonising whisker the last four years. Anush’s feat is as much a source of pride for his school as it is to him, and his parents. Vidyaratna was effusive in her praise for Anush, who she said, in addition to his proficiency in academics, was highly proactive in extra-curricular activities too. “He took the school bus from his house, which is in Yenemajalu, 25km from our institution,” she told TOI. Anush’s father Lokesh A is a junior engineer at the Mangaluru Electricity Supply Company, while his mother Usha B is a homemaker. The topper is a stickler for punctuality, and these habits, Anush said, held him in good stead while preparing to cancel the examination. “I retire to bed around 10.30pm, and wake up by 5am,” said Anush. He said that, while in the initial days of the lockdown, there was a fear of losing touch with books, the announcement of the examination timetable had sallied him to ramp up preparations for the key test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/punctuality-was-key-to-this-student-achieving-perfect-score/articleshow/77472115.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Newborn baby girl found in garbage bin||Udupi: A newborn baby girl was found in a garbage bin near the Koosamma Shambhu Shetty Memorial Haji Abdullah Mother & Child Hospital here on Monday. Social activist Nithyananda Volakadu said the incident came to light around 10.15am when the civic workers heard the baby crying while clearing the garbage. “They at once reached out to me. The police were informed and the baby was handed to the hospital,” he added. A case has been registered at the Women’s Police Station, he said. Prabhakar Achar, legal-cum-probation officer, Udupi district child protection unit said the just-born female infant, weighing 1.2kgs, was found semi-wrapped in a plantain leaf. “Post-treatment at NICU, we will hand her over to Sri Krishnanugraha, a government recognised adoption centre at Santhekatte. If the biological parents come forward to take the child, we will hand it over through the Child Welfare Committee after following due procedure. Else, ww will commence the process to facilitate the child’s adoption,” he said “This is the first such instance that I have come across in my decade long service in Udupi working for child rights,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/newborn-baby-girl-found-in-garbage-bin/articleshow/77470167.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hubballi||Son of garland sellers top in D’gere||Davanagere: Akash R, a student of Siddaganga High School in Davanagere, is the SSLC topper in the district. He has secured 623 out of 625 marks in the SSLC examination. He is one among the 43 toppers from the English medium category in the state who have scored 623 marks and the first in the Davanagere district, said head mistress Justin D’ Souza. Akash hails from a very poor family. His father Revanasiddappa R, who worked as a security guard in a private firm here, had lost his job during the pandemic. Now, Akash’s parents ear their livelihood by making flower garlands and selling them in the market. Siddaganga School management has offered a free seat to Akash for his two-year Pre-University science course in their college, said the head mistress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/son-of-garland-sellers-top-in-dgere/articleshow/77472500.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hubballi||Two SSLC students end life in Haveri||Haveri: Upset over their performance in SSLC exams, two students allegedly committed suicide — one by hanging herself while the other by consuming poison — in Haveri district on Monday. One of the deceased is Vaishnavi Ritti, 16, a student from Geleyara Balaga School in Haveri city. Vaishnavi, a resident of Dyamavva Oni in the city, was rushed to the district hospital soon after she was found hanging. But she was declared brought dead, police said. The other deceased student is Bharati Koti, 15, a student of a private school at Kaginele, After getting to know that she had scored 63% marks, she got dejected and allegedly consumed poison at her home in Byadagi taluk. Rushing her to Haveri District Hospital did not help, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/two-sslc-students-end-life-in-haveri/articleshow/77472217.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Patna||Drive launched to test auto drivers, veggie and fruit sellers in Patna||PATNA: The authorities on Monday launched a special drive of ‘Covid test for auto drivers, vegetable and fruit sellers’ in Patna and Kaimur districts under Patna division. One autorickshaw driver was found Covid-19 positive in the rapid antigen test conducted on the first day of the drive in the city. Divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said the drive was being conducted at market places and auto stand in Patna to identify and isolate asymptomatic Covid-19 patients to stop the virus spread. “The drive will also commence in Nalanda, Rohtas, Buxar and Bhojpur districts within a few days,” he said. Around 105 vegetable and fruit sellers were tested at Income Tax roundabout and Anta Ghat while samples of 40 autorickshaw drivers were collected from the auto stand near Patna Junction. The antigen test report of all fruit and vegetable sellers were tested negative. Three mobile teams carried out the special drive in different locations of the city. Each mobile team comprises two auxiliary nurse midwives, a lab technician, a magistrate, a transport officer and a PMC official. Agarwal said the auto driver (45), who tested positive, was a resident of Postal Park. “He was asymptomatic. He was sent to the isolation centre at Phulwarisharif. The medical team will collect the swab samples of his family members. Besides, his contact tracing will also be done,” he said. “If any vegetable or fruit seller and auto driver tests positive, he or she need not worry. The government will provide three meals and accommodation to them,” Agarwal said. The commissioner said people who were tested negative received certificates. “This initiative will build up confidence among the residents, so that they can easily travel in autorickshaws and buy vegetables and fruits without fear of contracting the virus. We have set the target of testing 100 vegetable sellers and an equal number of fruit sellers as well as auto drivers,” Agarwal said. Bihar State Auto Chalak Sangh’s general secretary Raj Kumar Jha appreciated the initiative. “Many auto drivers could not go for testing because of long queue and other financial reasons. But now the district transport officers have assured to collect samples of all the auto drivers and pay even for their treatment,” he said. Meanwhile, a vegetable seller and an autorickshaw driver tested positive in Kaimur district. A total of 285 people were tested in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/drive-launched-to-test-auto-drivers-veggie-and-fruit-sellers/articleshow/77469422.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 11, 2020||Patna||Over 70% coronavirus deaths in Patna hospitals fall in age group of 50-80 years||PATNA: Covid-19 fatalities are highest among people above the age of 60 and in many cases delay in admission at hospitals have resulted in critical complications. As per data shared by the dedicated Covid hospitals — PMCH, NMCH and AIIMS-Patna— the vulnerable group, especially those between 51 and 59 years and senior citizens (above 60) constitute 73.6% of all the Covid deaths in the city hospitals. While 25% deaths are in the age groups of 31-50 and the remaining 1.4% deaths in the age group of 1 to 30. Altogether 358 people have died due to Covid-19 at these three hospitals in Patna. According to experts, senior citizens have greater susceptibility to the novel virus infection and death, compared to other age groups, mainly because of their weak immune system and several health ailments such as hypertension, diabetes, heart ailments, chronic kidney disorder (CKD) and asthma. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna, told this newspaper on Monday that altogether 192 people have died due to Covid and 76 % are senior citizens. “Old age group are more vulnerable to the virus due to their weak immunity and body reserves, because of multiple associated comorbidities like diabetes, hypertension, CKD and obstructive pulmonary disease,” he said. He added, “The old people also have stiff blood vessels that triggers the chances of vasculitis (cause vessel walls to thicken and narrow, cutting off vital blood supply to organs), which is one of the presentation of coronavirus.” As per information shared by AIIMS- Patna officials, men account for more deaths across all ages groups with 163 deaths while only 29 women have died of Covid so far. Most deaths were reported in the 61- 70 age bracket (59), closely followed by the 51-60 age bracket (55) and above 71 (32). Dr PN Jha, PMCH’s nodal officer for Covid, said so far 46 virus deaths have been recorded. “Around 80% people, who died of Covid are above 60 and remaining 20% in the age group of 26 to 59. It was seen that elderly people do not have as strong an immune system so they are more vulnerable to infectious disease,” he said. “They also have conditions such as heart disease, lung disease, diabetes or CKD, which weaken their body’s ability to fight infectious disease. While in the young age group, deaths mainly happened as they are suffering from other diseases like cancer, typhoid, tuberculosis and hepatitis,” Dr Jha added. At NMCH- Patna, 120 deaths have been reported so far of which 30 are in the age group of 51-60, 25 deaths in the age group of 61-70, 22 deaths in the age group of 71-80 and four above 81. The hospital accounts for 71% deaths in the senior age group people. Doctors advise middle age groups and senior citizens to remain in the confines of their home, maintain social distancing, wear mask even at homes and follow proper diet. City-based physician Dr Diwaker Tejaswi said as a precautionary measure, old people, who are on immunosuppressant therapy, renal and kidney ailments should take vaccine for flu or pneumonia when they are healthy. “Secondly, they should at home and well-ventilated room. Even family members of senior citizens should wear masks when they are going out,” he said. Another physician Dr Pratyush Kumar said delay in hospital admission was also the main reason for Covid fatalities in senior citizens. “Treatment of Covid in early stage would help the vulnerable group to recover especially symptomatic patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-70-coronavirus-deaths-in-patna-hospitals-fall-in-age-group-of-50-80-years/articleshow/77469352.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 11, 2020||Bareilly||200 new Covid cases in Bareilly, 5 health workers infected in Meerut||Bareilly/Meerut/Agra: A high number of Covid-19 positive cases were reported from across western Uttar Pradesh on Monday. At least 200 more people tested positive in Bareilly, while three succumbed to the virus. The district tally in Bareilly has now reached 3,930 cases with 86 deaths and 1,813 active ones. At least 14 foreigners at the Iskcon temple were tested positive in Mathura. While Shahjahanpur reported 63 fresh cases with two deaths. Officials said a 50-year-old journalist and a 40-year-old Lekhpal died due to the virus. Thirty-two people also tested positive in Muzaffarnagar district. In Meerut district, at least 47 people, including five health workers, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total tally to 2,532, according to Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's chief medical officer (CMO). Also, a Covid-19 positive 31-year-woman from Sardhana area died, taking the total toll to 98. Moreover, an executive engineer of the building and maps section of Agra Development Authority (ADA) was tested Covid-19 positive on Monday. After testing positive, sanitization was conducted and a part of the ADA office was sealed. On Monday, an executive engineer of Agra Municipal Corporation was also found Covid-19 positive. At least 33 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra district, taking the district tally to 2,136. These included three patients suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome, two patents of influenza-like illness, two of severe acute respiratory infection, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Meanwhile, 23 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 2,136 cases reported in the district, 80.38% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 318 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/200-new-covid-cases-in-bareilly-5-health-workers-infected-in-meerut/articleshow/77469746.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||College exams in Himachal from Aug 17||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh directorate of higher education has issued instructions to principals of all the degree and Sanskrit colleges of the state to make adequate arrangements for the examination to be conducted in the colleges with effect from August 17. All the colleges will have to sanitise their buildings while they will have to arrange thermal scanners to check the temperature of students before letting them enter the examination hall. Director (higher education) Amarjeet Kumar Sharma said examination of sixth semester would be conducted in the colleges for which they have follow Covid-19 protocol strictly. He said to save students from catching infection, all the buildings, where examination is to be conducted, will be properly sanitised. He said social distancing will have to be ensured at any cost. “If there is shortage of rooms in the college or there are some other problems, then the examination could be conducted in the nearest government school,” he said, adding that information will be collected about each and every student whether he or she was in quarantine or they were tested positive for Covid-19. He said instructions have also been issued to have a separate room for students suffering with fever or viral infection and in this room, invigilator will be deployed in proper safety gear wearing a PPE kit. On Sunday, Sharma conducted a surprise inspection of Una College where he also held meeting with the principals of Una district. He said that parents should not worry about the safety of their children as examination would be conducted in safe environment by following the Covid-19 protocol strictly. Sanitization of buildings would be conducted twice a week under the supervision of head of the institution, and the higher authorities will also inspect some of the buildings to check whether proper sanitization is being done. Beside thermal scanners, colleges will also have to arrange finger temperature machine on need basis. All the colleges will also have to provide hand sanitizers to students; they will also have to make arrangements for hand washing with soap and social distancing will have to be followed while making sitting plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/college-exams-in-himachal-from-aug-17/articleshow/77472484.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hubballi||Nurses, non-teaching staff protest at KIMS||Hubballi: Nursing staff and non-teaching staff at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) Hospital protested here on Monday demanding the fulfilment of their various demands. Wearing black ribbons around their arms, they protested in front of the hospital building. They said they were performing their duty risking their lives amid Covid pandemic. The said the government should extend them Jyothi Sanjeevini scheme so that they too can avail treatment at any private hospital or institute without any worry or fear in case they do not get beds at a government hospital. They also demanded an at least 50 per cent hike in their basic salary and said they must be included under National Pension Scheme. They added that they will take part in regular work while also wearing the black bands as a mark of protest till their demands heard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nurses-non-teaching-staff-protest-at-kims/articleshow/77472399.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||HC adjourns fee hearing by a week||Kolkata: The Calcutta HC has adjourned the hearing of a PIL on school fee by a week. A division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Moushumi Bhattacharya said the petitioner should inform about the proceedings to the Additional Solicitor General and over 112 schools that have joined as parties to the case. The HC said, “The petitioner will refrain from using the social media to propagate its interests; or the petitioner may be excluded...” State Advocate General Kishore Datta had said the state’s affidavit had been circulated online by the petitioner. The PIL filed by Vineet Ruia has sought waiver on school fees of kids whose parents can’t pay in the pandemic. He said the kids were being removed from online classes. The appeal mentioned some schools had not paid teachers and other staff their dues. On July 21, the HC directed schools not to remove students, asking parents to clear 80% of the due fees till July 31.  Among the advocates representing schools were Ushanath Banerjee, Sabyasachi Choudhury and Ayan Chakraborty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-adjourns-fee-hearing-by-a-week/articleshow/77471927.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 11, 2020||Mysuru||Body of woman found in Biligeri River||Madikeri: The body of a 37-year-old woman was found in the Biligeri River two days after she leapt into its waters along with her daughter. The victim, Usha, was found on Monday, after expert swimmers waded into the waters of the river, said Madikeri division chief sub-inspector Chandrashekhar. Usha’s husband Mohana, a labourer, on espying the duo jumping into the river, had followed suit. While he was able to rescue his 23-year-old daughter, he was unable to save Usha. Police said that a conflict with elders in the couple’s home had prompted Usha to take the extreme step. Madikeri police have registered a case of unnatural death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/body-of-woman-found-in-biligeri-river/articleshow/77470352.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Two arrested for Rs 8L fraud||Kolkata: Two youths — part of a gang of fraudsters — were arrested for allegedly duping a Lake Town-based businessman of Rs 8 lakh last week. The victim had transferred the sum to an account number shared over WhatsApp from a US number with a display picture of one of his cousins. Ankur Garg alleged he had received a message from the unsaved US number used by the fraudsters posing as his cousin seeking immediate transfer of Rs 8 lakh. Garg realized two days later he was cheated and lodged a police complaint. Bhabesh Mehta and Nilesh Nimavat were arrested and cops recovered a portion of the money. “However, there are more persons involved in the crime,” an officer said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-arrested-for-rs-8l-fraud/articleshow/77471876.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Varanasi||Businessman attacked by 3 dies of bullet injuries||Gorakhpur: A 30-year-old businessman of Kushinagar district, who was shot at by three unidentified assailants at Ramkola-Padrouna road on Thursday, succumbed to bullet injuries at a private hospital in Gorakhpur on Monday. Kushinagar police has already registered case of loot and murder against unidentified persons on the written application of the businessman’s wife. As per reports, Krishna Verma (30) of Bahadurjang under Padrouna police station limit in Kushinagar district, was returning home after closing his jewellery shop at Ramkola. He had reached near Chandarpur village when unidentified people on a motorcycle tried to overtake him and snatched away his bag. When Krishna resisted, they opened fire at him. “Three police teams including SWAT, surveillance and Ramkola police are investigating the case,” said SP, Kushinagar Vinod Kumar Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/businessman-attacked-by-3-dies-of-bullet-injuries/articleshow/77472515.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Pillion rider hurt in Maa accident||Kolkata: A youth was severely injured in his right leg after the bike he was riding pillion on was hit from behind by a vehicle on Maa flyover around 5pm on Sunday. Police said Bikram Sinha, 32, was admitted to a private hospital in Salt Lake. Sinha was riding back to their New Town with a friend Biswajit Mohanti, who escaped unhurt. Cops are scanning CCTV footage and looking for the car that managed to flee the spot after the accident. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pillion-rider-hurt-in-maa-accident/articleshow/77471890.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Landslide at Kudremukh National Park as wind, rain batter coast||MANGALURU: For the third day in a row, the three coastal districts of Karnataka received heavy-to-moderate rain. While it was heavy in Udupi, the rainfall was moderate in Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada districts on Monday. Like on Sunday, the continuous rain saw many low-lying areas, houses near river banks and agricultural fields being inundated in the three districts. There was a major landslide inside the Kudremukh National Park at Alladakadu of Belthangady taluk. Fortunately the site, where over 6acre of land has slid, is far away from the inhabited area. The incident came to light after the villagers saw slushy water flowing into the rivulets, and brought it to notice of the authorities. Tahsildar Mahesh J said that the landslide was about 3km from the inhabited area. In the last 24 hours, 230 persons were shifted to relief camps in Dakshina Kannada. Five houses have been damaged completely and 20 partially, according to the district bulletin. Even in Udupi, there was damage to property, but the damage is yet to be estimated. Udupi received the highest amount of rainfall at 127mm, while both Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada received 73mm rain. Meanwhile, the water level in rivers has gone down drastically. Nethravathi river at Bantwal was 2.5m below the danger level of 8.5m, while it was 4m below the danger mark at Uppinangady. So was the case with Kumaradhara river at Uppinangady. KSNMDC bulletin stated that high waves in 2.8-3.1m range were forecast along the coast of Karnataka from Mangaluru to Karwar till 11.30pm of Tuesday. Strong wind with speeds reaching 50-60kmph may also prevail along and off the Karnataka coast, the bulletin stated, warning fishermen not to venture into the sea. According to rain forecast, the coastal districts will have widespread moderate-to-heavy rain associated with strong surface winds and scattered very heavy-to-extremely heavy rain over the three coastal districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/landslide-at-kudremukh-national-park/articleshow/77470422.cms||Stanley Pinto
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Blaze engulfs building in business hub; flames doused in two hours||KOLKATA: A fire raged for over two hours in a commercial building on Pollock Street off Brabourne Road on Monday evening. Twenty fire tenders and a team of firemen and disaster management personnel of the Kolkata Police perched themselves on neighbouring high-rises and aimed water jets at the inferno to prevent it from spreading to other structures. A man who worked in an office in the five-storey building ran up to the terrace and was later rescued. “Nobody was injured in the fire. The man who was stuck on the terrace was rescued. The fire has been doused and the cooling-down process is under way. We will try to ascertain if the building has the mandatory fire-fighting preparedness,” said Jagmohan, director general of the West Bengal fire services. The building houses several offices, branches of a couple of banks and shops of electrical fittings on the ground floor. Since most shops and offices were shut when the fire broke out, only one person was reported to be stuck inside. “All the people have been safely evacuated despite the severity of the fire. No one is inside the building,” said a senior DCP who was present at the spot. However, he said that a floor-by-floor search will be carried out once the mandatory cooling period was over. The fire department officials said that their job of ensuring that the blaze did not spread to the buildings nearby had succeeded. The locals said they feared people could be trapped in the first and second floors. “We will be checking these places as early as possible,” said an officer. The fire was spotted at 5.35pm in a room on the third floor. The hub of electrical goods and fittings, which is normally buzzing with activity in the evenings, was desolated as most shop keepers leave the area by 5pm nowadays due to the pandemic. As a result, the fire tenders did not face much difficulty in reaching the spot. “Usually, it is a nightmare to reach the spot of a fire anywhere in the central business district. But today most shops were shut and the roads were clear. This saved us some precious time,” said a fireman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/blaze-engulfs-building-in-business-hub-flames-doused-in-two-hours/articleshow/77471768.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput’s kin threatens to sue Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut||PATNA: The spat between the family members of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput and Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut intensified on Monday. Sushant’s cousin and BJP MLA Neeraj Kumar Singh Bablu has threatened to take legal action against Raut for alleging that the actor was unhappy with his father, K K Singh, for his second marriage. Bablu, who represents the Chhatapur assembly constituency in Supaul district, said Raut should apologise or be ready to face legal action for defaming the family of Sushant. He added Raut’s allegation that the actor’s father got married twice was baseless. In a weekly column in the party’s mouthpiece ‘Saamana’, Raut had accused Sushant’s father of marrying for the second time after the death of his first wife. “The second marriage of his father was not acceptable to Sushant,” Raut claimed. Sushant’s maternal uncle R C Singh also rubbished Raut’s allegation. “There is not an iota of truth in Raut’s claim. This is just a figment of imagination and a deliberate attempt to mislead the probe and shield the perpetrators of the crime,” Singh said. Raut, who had been opposing the CBI probe into Sushant case from the very beginning, also didn’t spare the Bihar DGP Gupteshwar Pandey and described him as an ‘agent of the BJP’. The DGP preferred to reply to the Shiv Sena leader in poetic style. “Chahe mujhe gaali do lekin Sushant ko nyay milna chahiye,” he tweeted on Sunday night. Meanwhile, Congress functionary Sanjay Nirupam, who has his roots in Bihar, said the Shiv Sena MP was talking ‘cheap’ things about Sushant’s family. Nirupam said each family has some stories and even the families of Shiv Sena leaders are no different. “Sushant’s untimely death is a sensitive issue and the Shiv Sena should realise it,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssrs-kin-threatens-to-sue-sanjay-raut/articleshow/77469793.cms||Ramashankar
August 11, 2020||Patna||Janmashtami to be a low-key affair in Patna||PATNA: Even though the Janmashtami-related rituals such as dahi-handi, religious procession and puja pandals have not been allowed in the wake of restrictions still in place, the devotees of Lord Krishna flocked to markets on Monday for shopping ahead of the auspicious day on Tuesday. Rashmi Singh of Raja Bazar said she had not stepped out of her house since last 2 months. “But on the eve of Janmashtami, I went to local market to buy puja essentials such as Lord Krishna’s idol, a brass cradle and decoration stuff for the inhouse temple that we have,” she said. On Janmashtami, devotees generally assemble in temples and enact dance-dramas based on the life of Lord Krishna, sing devotional songs till midnight and fast through the day. But with the city temples not opening due to pandemic restrictions, devotees have to celebrate the festival at home. “The temple is closed for devotees fearing mass gatherings. But Janmashtami puja and rituals will be carried out by the priests inside the temple premises,” said Acharya Kishore Kunal, the secretary of Mahavir Mandir Trust. Many devotees have requested the priests to open the temples even for a short duration so that they can offer their prayers to the Lord. “Despite many requests from people to open the temple for a short period, I have decided against it and asked all the devotees to perform the rituals at home,” said Pandit Brijmohan Ji, the caretaker of Rajbanshi Nagar temple. The lockdown also hindered puja item dealers, who otherwise would procure large stock of accessories for Janmashtami from cities like Vrindavan and Mathura. “Every year I used to buy Janmashtami puja ‘samagri’ such as brass cradles, idols and colourful clothes and jewellery from Vrindavan and Mathura. But this year, I procured these items from a local wholeseller,” said Haricharan, who owns a puja store in Bailey Road. Unlike last year, religious event organizers and puja committees in the city did not set up pandals keeping into consideration social distancing norms. “Every year, our puja samiti collected subscriptions from people to install pandals and lights in the area. But following government guidelines, we chose to forgo it this year,” said Chandan, member of a local puja samiti in Anisabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/janmashtami-to-be-a-low-key-affair/articleshow/77469753.cms||Arunima Lal
August 11, 2020||Patna||Patna University receives only 30,000 applications||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, colleges that fall under the jurisdiction of Patna University (PU) and Patliputra University (PPU) have received very few applications for admission to different undergraduate (UG) courses. The last date for submission of online applications to both the universities is likely to end on August 14. According to sources, PU and PPU have received nearly 30,000 and 8,000 applications, respectively. However, they had got 48,000 and 1.1 lakh applications, respectively, last year. PU conducts a combined entrance test for admission to different UG courses in Patna Science College, Patna College, Vanijya Mahavidyalaya, B N College and Magadh Mahila College. Patna Women’s College, another constituent college of PU, is an autonomous institution and conducts a separate entrance test. In view of the delay caused due to the Covid-19 lockdowns, PU is likely to hold an online entrance test this year. It has contacted some agencies for the purpose. “A private agency gave us a demonstration of the online entrance test through videoconferencing. A final decision on the modality of the test will be taken shortly,” PU vice-chancellor (VC) H N Prasad told this newspaper on Monday. PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha pointed out that the last date for submission of applications for admission to UG courses was not likely to be extended as sufficient time had been given to the aspirants. “However, the deadline for admission to postgraduate (PG) courses may be extended as the results of Degree Part III examinations of PU are yet to be published. Moreover, admission to different PG programmes is made on the basis of the marks obtained in the previous exams. PU is waiting for necessary instructions from the Raj Bhavan for conducting the pending exams,” Jha said. PPU, on the other hand, does not hold any entrance test for admission to regular UG courses in its 25 constituent colleges and 43 affiliated degree colleges. “Admission to A N College, College of Commerce, Arts and Science, J D Women’s College, T P S College and Arvind Mahila College is made on merit-cum-choice basis,” said PPU pro-VC Girish Kumar Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-receives-only-30000-applications/articleshow/77469521.cms||B K Mishra
August 11, 2020||Patna||Patna: Afraid of Covid, people continue to avoid hospitals||PATNA: A retired SBI officer, KD Mishra (66), today prefers to live with the metal ball implanted in his pelvic area at the joint of thigh bone rather than visiting a private hospital in Kadamkuan area of the city for replacement after completing 10 years of operation in early April. The reason: Covid-19 scare. “Being apprehensive of the infection of covid 19, I am pulling on with the metallic implant and waiting for corona-free days to get admitted for another surgery,” he said. Like Mishra, hundreds of others with different ailments are keeping a distance from doctors and hospitals as a precautionary measure in view of Covid pandemic. Doctors too are discouraging people from physical visiting their clinics or nursing homes and instead suggesting them to keep in touch through phones. “The number of patients in OPD of ear, nose and throat (ENT) department of the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) has dropped from 200 to 300 daily before pandemic to about 35 now,” said Dr Rakesh Singh, head of the hospital’s ENT department. “We have stopped elective surgeries, but are attending to emergency cases. Lockdown also prevented movement of patients from other places and we too discouraged such visits as a measure to check spread of Covid,” Dr Singh added. Two premier hospitals in the city – Nalanda Medical College and Hospital and All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna – have been made dedicated Covid hospitals while Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) has developed a 100-bed Covid ward. “The number of patients has dropped by 50% in the last three months mainly due to lockdown” said Dr Abhijit Singh, head of PMCH’s emergency and trauma department. “Some other departments like orthopaedic and plastic surgery also have lower number of patients,” he added. There was a 50% decline in the average daily number of patients at the Mahavir Cancer Sansthaan (MCS), its superintendent Dr L B Singh said. He added those who used to visit the hospital for radiotherapy, chemotherapy and surgery, are also preferring to buy time due to Covid scare. “We continue giving suggestions through phone to elderly patients,” said Dr Singh. The number of patients with gynaecological problems has also sharply dropped in private hospitals. Dr Sushma Singh, a gynaecologist at a private hospital in Kankarbagh, said a team of doctors was assigned to help patients through phone or videoconferencing. “Only unavoidable and emergency cases are allowed,” she added. Corona time has not only compounded the problems of elderly and sick, but also caused fear psychosis in many. “My mother Dr Shanti Sharma (72), a retired professor, direly needs to consult a dentist, but she is afraid of Covid-19,” said Alok Kumar of Khagaul. The total number of patients in OPD on Monday at the community health centre, Fatuha, was 182 against the usual footfall of 350 and 400 patients per day before the pandemic, said the hospital’s medical officer incharge Dr S S Ray. “There has been a sharp decline in number of patients with general complaints of flu, cold, fever, cough and weakness since the first lockdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/afraid-of-covid-people-continue-to-avoid-hospitals/articleshow/77469385.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 effect: Gaya ‘goshala’ facing huge resource crunch||GAYA: The much-feared Covid-19 pandemic has badly hit the 136-year-old Shri Gaya Goshala, the shelter home for abandoned cows. The goshala, which has 125 cows at present, is facing acute financial crunch. On an average, Rs 4 to 5 lakh per month is needed to maintain the facility on the five acres area on the eastern outskirts of the district. According to Mukesh Khandelwal, secretary, of the goshala, before the pandemic, the shelter home used to get about Rs 1.5 lakh per month from the Buniadganj bus stand as the bus stand land belongs to the goshala. Rent from shops owned by the goshala also formed part of the revenue. Apart from these, donation boxes placed at several points in Gaya town and public contributions were more than enough to meet the expenditure that included salary of the 20 employees working at the facility, fodder cost, nutrients and other additives given to the cows and the medical bill. “Following the lockdown in March, the bus stand has become deserted following restrictions on public transport, the shopkeepers are not in a position to pay rent and with a depleted income, regular donors too have become reluctant,” said Khandelwal. “Till date, the cow shelter home inmates are being provided about 10 kg fodder per cow per day and nutrients as well. But the future is uncertain. God will take care,” hoped Khandelwal. Though the goshala, as the name suggests, is meant only for cows, government officials sent other cattle including buffaloes seized from cattle smugglers and no payment is made for the maintenance of these uninvited guests. About three years back, 15 buffaloes seized in Amas were kept in the goshala, out of which 12 have died. Three of the surviving buffaloes are taken care of by the cow servers, said the goshala secretary. Old timers recall that till about four decades back, there used to be about 1,000 cows in Shri Gaya Goshala. Philanthropists also donated 275 acres of land near Paimar in the Wazirganj block area and there used to be about 1 lakh duly documented trees on the vast chunk of land. “Most of the goshala land was allotted to the disadvantaged sections by the then DM Rajbala Verma in an allegedly irregular manner,” says Anup Kedia, member of the goshala’s managing committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-effect-gaya-goshala-facing-huge-resource-crunch/articleshow/77469635.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 11, 2020||Patna||Nepal’s Chitwan on alert after rhino rescued on VTR fringe||BETTIAH: Nepal’s Chitwan National Park that has revived and conserved to become the world’s second most populous rhino habitat is on high alert in the wake of floods in the Rapti basin and the Narayani river. “We too are vigilant in particular to rescue any rhinos that may be swept into our park from Nepal,” Gaurav Ojha , deputy director-cum-DFO in Bihar’s Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR) said, recalling the drift of eleven rhinos from Nepal’s Chitwan National Park to VTR during the 2017 floods. VTR is contiguous to the Chitwan park. “ In fact, I got in touch with officials of Nepal’s ‘National Trust for Nature Conservation’ (NTNC) last week on hearing that a rhino had drifted to our parts. They confirmed trapping and rescuing a rhino that was swept down from Chitwan in the current floods,” Kamlesh K Maurya, Landscape Coordinator of the WWF-India based in Bihar’s Valmiki Tiger Reserve (VTR), told this reporter on Monday. “The rhino was rescued from Nepalese territory in Nawal Parasi district on the western flank of the Gandak,on the opposite side of VTR,” Maurya further said, adding that NTNC even shared photographs of the rhino rescue last week. Maurya thereby buttressed Ojha’s flagging of a report in a section of the Nepalese media claiming that India’s VTR authorities handed back a rhino to Nepal last week. The Nepali Times reported that it was the last of the eleven rhinos that had been swept to VTR three years ago. “ While We had hosted experts from Chitwan in the rescue of ten rhinos three years back, one rhino had stayed behind,” Ojha said, recalling that the old rhino would stay in VTR and occasionally go to adjoining Sohagi-Barwa sanctuary in UP. “ This rhino, a 35 year old female, was found dead in our territory this May,” Ojha further recalled, flagging the error reported in the Nepal media. “ Rhinos, even though good swimmers, get swept downstream in the current of Narayani’s flood waters. With most or all of the 36 gates of the Valmikinagar barrage open, they on drifting in get swept either to VTR on the east or to Nepal in the west,” VTR’s Ojha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nepals-chitwan-on-alert-after-rhino-rescued-on-vtr-fringe/articleshow/77469681.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
August 11, 2020||Patna||8-year-old girl dies of AES at SKMCH||PATNA: An eight-year-old girl with acute encephalitis syndrome (AES) died at the Shri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) in Muzaffarpur Sunday night, taking the death toll due to AES to eight in the state this year. SKMCH superintendent Dr Sunil Shahi said Suruchi Kumari was brought to the hospital on Saturday with hypoglycaemia. He said two more children with AES were undergoing treatment at the hospital and both were out of danger. Muzaffarpur DM Chandrashekhar Singh said so far 63 AES cases have been reported and eight children died this year. When asked about AES cases being reported in August, though its peak time is June, he replied, “We do get scattered cases of AES till October.” He further said 653 cases were reported previous year. PICU at SKMCH for Covid treatment: The newly built 100-bed paediatric intensive care unit (PICU) at SKMCH will be used for treating Covid-19 patients. Besides this, another 70-bed makeshift hospital equipped with oxygen pipeline is being prepared on the same campus for symptomatic Covid-19 patients. The PICU at SKMCH was inaugurated by chief minister Nitish Kumar in June. However, keeping in mind the demand for health facilities for Covid-19 patients, the government has decided to use it for coronavirus patients needing medical care. Muzaffarpur DM Chandrashekhar Singh said all the PICU beds have ventilator facility. He, however, said there would be no compromise with the treatment of children. “There are 25 children in the PICU at present. We already have one 60-bed newly built encephalitis ward where these children will be shifted,” said Singh. He said both the PICU ward and 70-bed makeshift hospital will be made functional within a couple of days. “Oxygen pipelines in the makeshift hospital are being set up and the facility will be opened in the next two days. We are also arranging another 30-bed health facility for patients with Covid symptoms but their test results are awaited. Once their results come, they will be shifted to the health facility as per their requirement,” added Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/8-year-old-girl-dies-of-aes-at-skmch/articleshow/77469562.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 11, 2020||Patna||Criminals demand extortion money from Gopalganj doctor||PATNA: Panic gripped the family members of a noted doctor in Gopalganj district following indiscriminate firing near his clinic-cum-residence late Sunday night. The criminals also left a handwritten letter demanding extortion money. Police said two bike-borne criminals reached the clinic of Dr A K Sharma near Lakdi Mor under Uchkagaon police station around 10.30pm and fired at least three rounds in the air to terrorize the doctor and his family. They, in the letter left there, threatened the doctor to eliminate him and his family members if the money was not paid to them. However, the amount is not mentioned in the letter. The criminals were in the age group of 20 and 25 years. Gopalganj SP Manoj Tiwari said the incident was captured in the CCTV camera installed at the doctor’s house. “Efforts are on to ascertain the identity of the extortionists. A special police team has been set up to arrest the criminals,” he said. The doctor, however, refused to make any comment. “Kindly talk to the senior police officers on the issue,” he told some local media persons. The police on Monday obtained the CCTV footage of the crime and initiated investigation. About two weeks ago, a gang of armed criminals had opened fire at the shop of a grocer at Jadopatti for his failure to pay extortion money. The police have, however, failed to make any breakthrough in both the cases so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/criminals-demand-extortion-money-from-gopalganj-doctor/articleshow/77469603.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Allahabad||Maurya calls for mobile health teams to collect samples||Prayagraj: Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Monday directed the district administration to deploy mobile health teams for collecting swab samples in villages and blocks to speed up testing for Covid-19. He said the exercise would be helpful in diagnosing more patients. Maurya stressed on spreading awareness about the disease and urged people to get themselves tested voluntarily. He said that officials should ensure that patients opting for home isolation strictly follow the safety protocol. Maurya was in city on Monday to review the Covid-19 programmes and convened a meeting with district officials at Circuit House. He also asked officials about the status of patients undergoing treatment at Covid-19 hospitals, ventilators and availability of beds. The deputy CM directed officials to ensure that patients undergoing treatment at Covid-19 hospitals do not face any problems and be given all facilities. He directed senior health officials to arrange for 100 additional ventilators for these hospitals. Maurya also reviewed the sanitization and sanitation drives launched in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/maurya-calls-for-mobile-health-teams-to-collect-samples/articleshow/77469139.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Business||Gold ETF inflows in July up 35%||Chennai: At Rs 921 crore, gold ETF inflows in July were 35% higher than the April-June average of Rs 680 crore.The growth was triggered by retail investors rushing to take advantage of the rising gold price, leading to falling demand for physical gold. The number of gold ETF folios added was double the monthly average at 61,000 accounts. NS Venkatesh, CEO of, AMFI said, “With rising gold prices, people are more convinced to purchase electronic gold than physical gold, as investors want to take advantage of rising gold prices with higher returns. Under the pandemic situation, people’s sentiment on investment in gold as a safe haven stays unchanged.” According to the World Gold Council, India’s gold demand for the April-June quarter, 2020, had contracted by 70% to 63.7 tonne compared to the previous year.The gold ETF category had received a net inflow of Rs 921 crore in July, which is 35% higher than the Q1FY21 average of Rs 680 crore, as gold prices touched the record high of Rs 50k per 10 gram. In July, the number of new gold ETF folios added stood highest at 61,000, which is almost double the monthly average of 34,000 folios recorded this year, according to AMFI data. The asset under management of Gold ETF stood at Rs 12,940 crore as of July, 2020.Asset allocators have found a majority of gold ETF purchases in India were made by retail and and high net-worth individuals (HNI) customers with predominant non-institutional money coming in. Lakshmi Iyer, Chief Investment Officer (Debt) & Head Products, Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company, “Gold ETF is a great way of ownership of gold, since there is no hassle of storage and liquidation, which is why the folio count has multiplied and that is a very positive trend.”Globally gold-backed ETFs have also recorded eighth consecutive month of positive flows, adding 166 tonne in July — equivalent to $9.7 billion or 4.1% of assets under management (AUM). With global holdings having once again reached a new all-time high of 3,785t and the price of gold hitting a record high of over $2,000/oz recently, has left global AUM standing at $239 billion.“The trend is similar in India, gold ETFs in India, saw $98 million inflows in the month of July reaching a total of $1,510 million. Low or negligible interest rates and enormous liquidity seem to underpin all monetary stimulus. This adds to gold’s appeal among investors and portfolio advisors in preserving value in such times,” Somasundaram PR, MD, World Gold Council — India, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-etf-inflows-in-july-up-35/articleshow/77471548.cms||Mamtha Asokan
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||‘Body sent for cremation without alerting family’||Howrah: A 64-year-old Covid victim’s family has alleged that his body was sent for cremation on Monday without the hospital informing the relatives. The family of 64-year-old Hariom Gupta finally reached the crematorium around 3pm. The Covid hospital’s director, Subhashis Mitra, however, said, “The patient died at 1am. The family called in the early hours but the staffer who answered was not aware of the death. We traced the family’s number and informed them.” Howrah CMOH Bhabani Das said, “If we get a written complaint, we will launch an investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/body-sent-for-cremation-without-alerting-family/articleshow/77471836.cms||Rupak Banerjee
August 11, 2020||Business||ICICI launches Rs 15,000cr issue, IndiGo eyes Rs 4,000 cr||Mumbai: Leading private sector lender ICICI Bank on Monday evening said it was launching a qualified institutional placement (QIP) issue to raise up to Rs 15,000 crore. On the same day, India’s biggest commercial airline operator InterGlobe Aviation (IndiGo) said its board has approved raising Rs 4,000 crore, also through a QIP issue. According to ICICI Bank’s term sheet, the plan is to raise up to Rs 15,000 crore at a floor price of just over Rs 351 per share, while the indicative price range is Rs 355-358. On Monday, the stock on the BSE closed at nearly Rs 364. At the upper end of the QIP price, there is a discount of 1.5% to the stock’s last closing level. The final decision on allotment and the total amount of funds to be raised will be taken on August 14, ICICI Bank said. The stocks allotted in the QIP are scheduled to be listed on August 20. Recently, ICICI Bank had sold nearly 4% of its stake in ICICI Lombard, its non-life insurance arm, and mobilised almost Rs 2,300 crore. HDFC Bank and ICICI Securities are among the merchant bankers to the ICICI Bank offer. On its part, IndiGo said it would raise up to Rs 4,000 crore. Its board “considered and approved the raising of funds for an aggregate amount not exceeding Rs 4,000 crore through an issue of equity shares by way of a qualified institutional placement…subject to approval of the company’s shareholders and receipt of applicable regulatory approvals”. In Monday’s flat market, the Indigo stock on the BSE closed over 1.4% higher at Rs 953. Of late, lenders are in a rush to raise funds from the market. Analysts said that with the Covid-19 pandemic playing havoc with the economy, bankers expect a large number of people to default on their loans, leading to a surge in bad loans. Subsequently, lenders will need to provide for these and hence the rush among lenders to raise funds as long as the stock market is rallying. In the past few months, several lenders have raised funds. Among the large deals, earlier this month Axis Bank raised Rs 10,000 crore through a QIP offer, while in July Kotak Mahindra Bank had raised nearly Rs 7,500 crore. Last month, Yes Bank also raised Rs 15,000 crore through a follow-on public offer. Several other banks and NBFCs also plan to raise funds in the coming weeks, market sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icici-launches-rs-15000cr-issue-indigo-eyes-rs-4000-cr/articleshow/77472323.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Business||Beware how you get on to that online meeting call||Chennai: Telecom operator Airtel on Sunday cautioned them that using online meeting apps like Zoom etc. could result in ISD charges in certain instances. “Please use the meeting internet link or toll free dial-in numbers (if available) to avoid ISD charges,” Airtel’s message said. It urged users to avoid dialing international numbers and use internet calling feature or toll-free numbers instead when on video conference calls. Confused users took to social media to complain and seek clarity if all their work-related Zoom calls and online classes attended by their kids on mobile were going to attract ISD charges. Twitter user Kunal Chauhan wrote to Airtel on Twitter asking them to explain why using Zoom app through mobile data gets charged as ISD. Another user Dheeraj Rawat wondered if this was some kind of a joke and asked Airtel to clarify. A few other users on FB expressed heir anger at telecom operators alleging that it was a new way for telcos to make money in the current climate. Telecom industry sources told TOI that in recent months there had been increased cases of first-time users of video conferencing platforms facing bill shocks and disputes with telcos. Users who had sat for meetings on platforms such as Zoom, Webex etc. on their mobiles and had used international dial-in numbers instead of a meeting link for an internet call or a set of toll-free numbers provided in the invite had faced hefty ISD charges in their bills.One Airtel customer Immanuel R took to Twitter to claim that calls made via Cisco Webex and Zoom had been billed as ISD charges in his postpaid bill.A spokesperson from Airtel clarified that the message sent was intended to clarify that inadvertently joining video conference by dialing international telephone numbers will result in application of ISD tariff.The message sent by Airtel follows a guidance note issued by regulator Trai in May cautioning users carefully check all terms and conditions, especially the cost involved, before using any dial-in service of online conferencing platforms.Both Zoom and Cisco Webex clarify in their FAQ sections that tolled calls will attact charges from telcos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/beware-how-you-get-on-to-that-online-meeting-call/articleshow/77471487.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 11, 2020||Nashik||Nashik critical case count up from 141 to 315 in 11 days||Nashik: The number of critical Covid-19 patients across the city has went up from 9% on July 30 to 27% on August 9 — a jump of 18% within a span of just 11 days.According to an official from the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), the total number of active patients on July 30 stood at 1,576, out of which 141 were critical. However, the number of patients on oxygen support, ventilators or in the ICU has went up drastically in the past 11 days.“Of the total 3,034 active patients admitted to various hospitals on August 9, as many as 815 were critical,” the official said.“The NMC has started a survey to check for comorbid patients and conduct their rapid antigen tests. Some people hide their symptoms and delay getting admitted to the hospital. The condition of some mild patients also deteriorates all off sudden and they need oxygen. These are the reasons that has led to sudden rise in number of critical patients,” he added.A total of 84 patients were on oxygen support on July 30, which increased to 528 on August 9. Similarly, the number of patients in ICU also went up from 39 to 209 in just 11 days. On August 9, there were 78 patients on ventilators, while the number was 18 on July 30.“Considering the rise in number of critical patients, the civic body has also increased the number of beds with oxygen and ventilator support along with beds in the ICU from 715 to 1,117 beds. Of these 744 and 111 are beds with oxygen and ventilator support, respectively. The remaining 322 are ICU beds,” the official said.The NMC has a total of 2,912 beds in various civic and private hospitals for Covid patients, out of which 1,449 beds are occupied while 1,463 are still vacant.“Around 80% of the total active patients are asymptomatic. They are positive but they have no symptoms. There are only 20% patients who have symptoms and need treatment in hospitals,” he added.Between June 30 and August 9, the city has recorded 4,633 cases with 62 deaths. Meanwhile, the district reported 537 Covid-19 cases, including 335 from Nashik city, in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 20,511.23 patients from the district succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday. The death toll stands 620 in the district. As many as 417 patients were discharged in the district on Monday. There are 4,410 active cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-critical-case-count-up-from-141-to-315-in-11-days/articleshow/77469775.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Promoter shot in neck after late-night fight, accused held||KOLKATA: A 38-year-old man was shot at by an acquaintance in the Miabagan area of Beliaghata in the early hours of Monday. Till last reports came in, main suspect Guddu Sharma, a data entry operator, had been detained for questioning. Sushanta Das, alias Raju, who owns a catering business and also dabbles in promoting and has a taxi registered in his name, was shot in the neck and was admitted to a private hospital in a serious condition. According to cops and family members, Das and Sharma met on Sunday night and drank alcohol together. “Das had gone out of his house for a phone call and met Sharma, who proposed the idea and Das paid for the liquor. By the time they were done, it was late and the two went towards Sealdah to have a smoke. It was then that Das’s bike met with an accident and the duo fell. The shooting happened some time after that,” said an officer. DC (ESD) Ajoy Prasad said they were questioning Sharma to know if anyone else was involved. According to cops, Sharma initially claimed he was inebriated. “He initially said the gun belonged to Das and that they were tossing it around when Das shot himself. But we found certain holes in his statement. We are investigating how a data entry operator from a paints factory built a friendship with a promoter,” an officer said. Cops said the argument may have been over Sharma’s alleged relationship with a married woman that Das was against. “But we are not ruling out other possibilities, like business rivalry. Sharma needs to be questioned to know the motive,” an officer said. “It is not easy to establish the chain of events. CCTV footages and call-dump records are also being checked,” said another officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/promoter-shot-in-neck-after-late-night-fight-accused-held/articleshow/77471848.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Cops, Reds exchange fire on Lakhisarai-Munger border||PATNA: A fierce encounter took place between the security personnel and the Maoists in Kharagpur Rajasarai Harkunda hills on the border of Lakhisarai and Munger districts in the wee hours of Monday. However, there was no report of any casualty or injury in the exchange of fire, which lasted for an hour. A joint team of the Special Task Force (STF) and the district armed police cordoned off the area and launched search operation following reports that some armed squad members of the CPI-Maoist were camping there. They had allegedly been involved in the kidnapping of three persons, including a mukhiya, in a Lakhisarai village for extortion. Some top leaders like Arjun Kora, Baleshwar Kora, Suresh Kora, Bahadur Kora and Narayan Kora were involved in the Lakhisarai kidnapping case. Unconfirmed reports said Bhalui panchayat mukhiya Ganesh Rajak, who was among the three kidnapped, had been released after his family paid a hefty sum as extortion. The other two had also been released. Sharing details of the police operation, DIG (Munger range) Manu Maharaaj said the Maoists started indiscriminate firing on the police team when it reached the Dharhara-Kharagpur borders and entered the forest. The police team retaliated and fired at least 50 rounds. The Maoists also fired at least 100 rounds. Apprehending trouble, the Maoists escaped in the deep forest taking advantage of the topography of the region. Later, the security forces carried out search operations in about half a dozen villages such as New Paisra, Amrasani, Goraiya and Sakhail. The locals told the police that the Maoists had entered the hills from Kharagpur Jheel side. Maharaaj said the operation will continue in the region. DSP (STF) Pankaj Kumar led the team, which was assigned to carry out the operation in villages considered to be the influential pockets of the Maoists. “The Maoists impart training to its recruits during the monsoon in the hilly areas,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-reds-exchange-fire-on-lakhisarai-munger-border/articleshow/77469581.cms||Ramashankar
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||MSEDCL refuses to take blame for man’s suicide||Nagpur: The Maharashtra state electricity distribution company limited (MSEDCL) has distanced itself from the claim of the suicide victim’s family that he ended his life over a Rs40,000 bill. The MSEDCL authorities have made a counter claim stating that Leeladhar Gaidhane’s family had defaulted since June last year leading to a cumulative amount.Gaidhane had set himself on fire at his residence at Pahune Layout on Saturday following which he was declared dead at the hospital. His family had claimed that the hiked electricity bill of Rs40,000 was the reason behind his drastic step. A case of accidental death was registered at Yashodharanagar police station.MSEDCL, through a press note, stated that the electric meter was in the name of Gaidhane’s wife Rekha. A bill of Rs13,294 was generated between February and June this year. Another Rs23,746 was generated between June 2019 and January 2020. In the month of July, the bill amount was Rs2,969. The MSEDCL authorities have claimed that the Gaidhanes had twice made part payments to reduce the amount. In February this year, their meter was also replaced following a complaint. Police department would also seek documents related to Gaidhane’s meter reading from MSEDCL in their follow up to the case registered as an accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/msedcl-refuses-to-take-blame-for-mans-suicide/articleshow/77470942.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 11, 2020||Allahabad||Man held for objectionable posts on social media||Prayagraj: A man was arrested on Sunday for allegedly posting communally sensitive posts and comments on social media in Gauradad village in Pratapgarh. The accused was identified as Nafees Ahmad. A case under sections 505, 509, 153 A, 295A, and 298 of the IPC and section 66 & 67 of the Information Technology (IT) Act was registered against Ahmad at Antoo police station. Inspector (Antoo) Manoj Tiwari said, “The accused had been constantly uploading objectionable posts on his social media account which could disturb communal harmony and create a law and order problem in the district.” Tiwari said that local residents had also complained against Ahmad. Meanwhile, Pratapgarh police said a strict vigil was being maintained on social media ahead of Independence Day and warned residents against posting objectionable content online. A senior cop told TOI that a police team was scanning social media and those found uploading derogatory posts or photographs would be booked. This was the first case reported from Pratapgarh district when a man was arrested for uploading objectionable posts to allegedly disturb communal harmony. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/man-held-for-objectionable-posts-on-social-media/articleshow/77452661.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||Acdemic fraternity sees political angle in new VC’s appointment||Nagpur: Nagpur University’s new vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari’s appointment has fuelled speculations about it being a “political one” made after surpassing “meritorious” candidates. Senior academicians said the speculations were confirmed after Chaudhari’s Sunday meeting with Union minister Nitin Gadkari accompanied by Shikshan Manch members. TOI on Sunday had reported on how the academic fraternity was surprised over chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s choice. They termed Kalpana Pande, coordinator of Shikshan Manch, an offshoot of RSS, as brain behind Chaudhari’s appointment.A senior academician challenged all those involved in the appointment process of putting curriculum vitae of all five candidates in public domain. “They will be exposed instantly. Among them, Sunil Bhagwat, professor at Department of Chemical Engineering, Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT), Mumbai, had 49 patents and rich experience in a renowned institution,” he said.Denying the charges Pande, who accompanied the VC to Gadkari’s home, questioned those doubting chancellor’s choice. “Are they questioning credentials of search committee headed by a retired high court judge or the chancellor? When this panel selects top five candidates, all remain on equal footing. No one is inferior or superior,” she said.Defending Chaudhari’s appointment, she said his competitors may have more number of PhD candidates under them but they were in university departments and had more opportunities to guide them. “On the other hand, NU hardly allowed private colleges to become PhD centres or guide students. These academicians never raised a voice when the entire search panel was cancelled at the behest of a former President of India to accommodate one candidate from Amravati for VC’s post,” she told TOI claiming that all previous appointments were indeed political ones but not this.Endorsing her, Chaudhari said there was nothing wrong in visiting friends or relatives. "I keep meeting Gadkari regularly as he has many ideas on innovation and research. I had been meeting many others since July 30 when I was interviewed by the VC search panel. Besides, I started working from Monday so my visit can't be considered official," he told TOI adding that he didn't use the official car and was yet to shift to VC’s official residence. "I also had planned to visit Deekshabhoomi before the first day of work but it was closed. I spent quality time at Mozri and got new insights about Rashtrasant Tukadoji Maharaj after whom NU is named,” Chaudhari said.One more academician told TOI he had an inkling of Chaudhari’s appointment when the latter was suddenly appointed officiating pro-VC. “Chaudhari was not very well known in academic circles and his appointment as pro-VC surprised us. The second surprise came on Saturday with his appointment to the top post. Shikshan Manch members actually wanted a puppet VC, who would act on their diktat. Deshpande would never have done that being a senior and man of integrity. Obviously, he was sidelined. Now, you will see how all Manch members would be seen at top posts like registrar and others,” he said.# What academicians claim:* Nowadays all appointments in education sector are political * New VC Subhash Chaudhari selection is on the same lines * He lacks experience compared to four other candidates* Shikshan Manch played a key role in his appointment * It wanted puppet VC who will listen to their diktat* Manch will have a say in all NU appointments||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/acdemic-fraternity-sees-political-angle-in-new-vcs-appointment/articleshow/77470941.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||GMR, St Mary’s Edu Society tie up for int’l school in airport city||Hyderabad: GMR Hyderabad Aerotropolis Limited (GHAL) has joined hands with Hyderabad-based Saint Mary’s Educational Society to set up a Sancta Maria International School as part of the upcoming 100-acre edu port cluster at Hyderabad airport. GHAL is a wholly-owned subsidiary of GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd (GHIAL), which runs the Hyderabad international airport at Shamshabad. The residential academic facility, which will be the second K12 (kindergarten to 12th) Sancta Maria International School in the city, is slated to come up on a 15-acre parcel of land at Hyderabad Airport City by 2022, GMR Group said on Monday. GMR said the collaboration is part of GHAL’s efforts to ramp up the edu port to create a world-class knowledge hub housing global and Indian institutes. The edu port, which is emerging as a centre of learning, training, research and innovation, already hosts the Schulich School of Business, Chinmaya Vidyalaya, GMR Aviation Academy, Flight Simulation Technique Centre (FSTC), CFM South Asia Training Center and Pratt & Whitney India Training Center. Commenting on the development, Aman Kapoor, CEO, Airport Land Development, GMR Group said, “The tie-up aligns with GMR Group’s vision to develop an educational cluster with world class academic and research institutions offering an ecosystem of high quality education with transformative powers that will go a long way in bridging the skill gap and creating global leaders in tandem with dynamic market needs and business environment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gmr-st-marys-edu-society-tie-up-for-intl-school-in-airport-city/articleshow/77472513.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Mother and son who moved into Covid Care Centre perish||Ongole: The search for the best treatment available drove a mother and her son infected with Covid-19 to a Covid Care Centre 250 km away from home and to their death in the fire accident at the Swarna Palace Hotel in Vijayawada on Sunday. The untimely death of the duo has cast a pall of gloom in the small town of Kandukur in Prakasam district. On Monday, the town observed a bandh in an extension of solidarity to the family of the deceased. Fifty-four-year-old D Prasad lives near NTR Centre in Kandukur and runs a grocery business. With the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases, the store reopened for business last month once lockdown regulations were eased. Prasad’s son, Pawan Kumar, a software engineer, returned from Bengaluru once travel restrictions were lifted and had been working from home since. Pawan had married a year ago. A fortnight ago, Prasad developed Covid-19 symptoms. He later tested positive for the virus, along with his wife Jayalakshmi and son Pawan. Hesitant about visiting a government hospital, Prasad tried to get himself admitted to a private hospital. After two private hospitals permitted to treat Covid-19 patients refused him admission citing shortage of beds, he was advised by a private hospital to join their Covid Care Centre at Swarna Palace Hotel. While Prasad stayed at the centre for 12 days, Jayalakshmi and Pawan remained under home isolation as they had not displayed any symptoms. A week after Prasad was admitted to the centre, Jayalakshmi started to worry about her and her husband’s health. Unable to convince her mother, Pawan decided they be admitted to Covid Care Centre where his father was undergoing treatment. They were admitted to the centre on August, 5. Meanwhile, two days after his wife and son were admitted to the centre, Prasad was discharged after testing negative. Sources said Pawan and his mother were to have been discharged on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mother-and-son-who-moved-into-covid-care-centre-perish/articleshow/77470966.cms||Samdani MN
August 11, 2020||Allahabad||Spl postal cover on Ram Lalla this Dussehra||Prayagraj: Days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, the Sangam Philatelic Club has decided to issue a special postal cover dedicated to ‘Ram lalla’ and release it around Dussehra. Sangam Philatelic Club secretary M Gulrej said that the club had earlier planned to issue two special covers based on the bhoomi poojan and the Ram temple. “However, special postal covers based on both the themes were released during the bhoomi poojan in Ayodhya on August 5. The club then decided to release a cover on Ram lalla. A photograph of the ancient idol of Ram lalla would feature on the postal cover,” Gulrej said. Two years ago, a special postal cover was released by Ram Sangam on behalf of the Sangam Philatelic Club. The cover was based on the conversation between Lord Ram and Kewat from Ramayana. The club had also released a special postal cover around 10 days ago as a tribute to coronavirus warriors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/spl-postal-cover-on-ram-lalla-this-dussehra/articleshow/77469172.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||BSF launches Operation Alert along international border in Rajasthan||JAISALMER: The Border Security Force will launch Operation Alert along the international border in the state in view of the Independence Day celebrations. Officers and jawans of all branches of BSF will take part in this exercise which will continue till August 17. Looking at the continuous threat from across the border, the BSF has been put on high alert, especially on Rajasthan, Gujarat, Punjab and J&K borders adjoining Pakistan. Sharp vigil is being kept at the entire area and order has been issued to strictly deal with any untoward activity at the border, said BSF Rajasthan frontier IG Amit Lodha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-launches-op-alert/articleshow/77472508.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nashik||Rs 100 rise in wholesale price as rain hits onion supplies||NASHIK: The arrival of onions at the Lasalgaon APMC has reduced from around 20,000 quintal a day to 15,000 quintal due to the rain during the past couple of weeks, pushing up the prices. “The average wholesale price of onions has increased from Rs 650 per quintal to Rs 750 due to the drop in supply,” said APMC officials on Monday. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs 400 and Rs 900 per quintal, respectively. Around 15,000 quintal of were auctioned at the APMC, the country’s largest wholesale market. The officials said that only those farmers who are in urgent need of cash are bringing their produce for auction at the APMC. “Although there has been a rise of Rs 100 per quintal, the fluctuation of Rs 100-200 is normal and expected. The average wholesale price has stabilised at Rs 600 to Rs 800 per quintal for the past four to five months,” said APMC officials. The officials said the average wholesale price is expected between Rs 650 and Rs 800 per quintal by August-end, but the prices are likely to increase up to Rs 900 per quintal by the first week of September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rs-100-rise-in-wholesale-price-as-rain-hits-onion-supplies/articleshow/77469792.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||NMC, kin in a fix as woman tests +ve in one lab, -ve in another||Nagpur: An elderly woman’s contrasting Covid-19 test results from two private labs within a span of six days have put the relatives and the civic body in a peculiar situation wherein the NMC has sealed the area while the kin are unsure about her health status.Officially, the woman remains a Covid positive as there is no set procedure to modify the updates by private labs submitted online. On July 31, the woman was declared Covid positive when her swab was tested by Dhruv Labs, while her sample was found negative by Su-Vishwas Lab on August 5. She is asymptomatic and at home.Dhruv Labs director Dr Shailesh Mundhada said the woman was weak positive as per the value shown in her report. “The method we follow is sensitive and detects even mild to very mild positive cases. It is quite possible for a person to test negative or positive in more than one sampling. In this case, if a patient has tested positive and negative in next report, still it will be considered a positive case for the next at least two weeks” he said. Dr Mundhada added it also does not mean the report of either lab is incorrect.Su-Vishwas Lab director Dr Sandhya Saoji said it depends on the RT-PCR kits also. “Our kits have high cut off of 30 and above Ct values. After five days, it is possible to get a negative report as the patient is either in recovery phase or early stage of infection. It is a common phenomenon,” she said. Dr Saoji said as per Su-Vishwas report, the patient must be considered Covid negative.NMC officials said they consider a report as positive in case there is a clash with its as well as other lab findings. “We don’t have any guideline on what to make out of different reports from private labs. It is a matter of study,” they said. The woman’s nephew said she had no travel history and lives with her 80-year-old husband. “As no one came in contact with them, we decided to get another test done. But the NMC sealed our area which has barred entry of all helpers and maids who were looking after not just this couple but also other elderly people living alone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-kin-in-a-fix-as-woman-tests-ve-in-one-lab-ve-in-another/articleshow/77470949.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 11, 2020||Jodhpur||Pakistani refugees' deaths in Jodhpur: Police struggle to arrive at conclusion||JODHPUR: The suspicious death of 11 Pakistani refugees continues to be a riddle for police. The circumstances, however, are pointing to be a case of mass suicide, but police are struggling to arrive at any conclusion. Meanwhile, all the deceased were cremated on Monday afternoon after post-mortem, the report, however, has confirmed consumption of some poisonous substance. Acting on the FIR of the survivor Kewal Ram, police have detained his wife and some other persons and are interrogating them. Preliminary investigation has indicated a family dispute between the family and the families of the wives of two sons Ravi and Kewal Ram. Police also found a note written in Hindi mentioning the threats from the families of both the wives and harassment by police. President of Seemant Lok Sangathan, Hindu Singh Sodha said the gravity of the incident demanded a high-level inquiry even if it is a suicide to delve deeper into the causes leading to the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/police-struggle-to-arrive-at-conclusion/articleshow/77472517.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Allahabad||Akhara Parishad slams oppnover Parashuram controversy||Prayagraj: Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP), the apex body of saints and seers in the country, has condemned the announcements by political parties of installing statue of Maharishi Parashuram to woo Brahmins and said the attempt to link gods and goddesses with any caste is wrong. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri said on Monday, “This is a conspiracy to weaken the Sanatan Dharma and Hindu society. Gods and goddesses are same for all and any attempt to link them with castes is incorrect. Maharishi Parshuram is considered an incarnation of Lord Vishnu.” Without naming political parties, Mahant Giri appealed people to not be influenced by forces trying to break the society. “The people should stand united and oppose the forces dividing the society so that the traditions of Sanatan Dharma are preserved. The Akhara Parishad will strongly oppose the forces dividing the Sanatan Samaj and will launch a campaign among people,” he added. The Sanatan Dharma has achieved its biggest victory and a grand temple of Maryada Purushottam Ram is being built at Ayodhya after a struggle of five hundred years, Giri said. “There is excitement about this in the whole world, but it seems some people are not happy and are dividing deities and sages along caste lines for their political benefits. We will give a befitting reply to these forces trying to weaken Hindu society,” he added. Samajwadi Party, on August 7, had announced its plan to install a 108-ft tall statue of Parshuram in Lucknow. Two days later, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said her party would install a bigger statute of Parashuram and would also build a modern hospital and community centre named after the Brahmin icon if BSP forms government after 2022 assembly elections. Maharishi Parshuram, considered the sixth avatar of Lord Vishnu in the Hindu pantheon, is also a Brahmin icon. Congress, SP and SP leaders have been trying to woo Brahmins since gangster Vikas Dubey was killed in an encounter after he and his aides killed eight policemen in an ambush.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/akhara-parishad-slams-oppnover-parashuram-controversy/articleshow/77469161.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Pangolin rescued in Prakasam||Vijayawada: Forest department officials rescued an Indian pangolin at the Lalita Devi temple in Bestavaripeta village, Prakasam district, on Monday. According to Giddaluru forest officer Satish, they received a call from villagers after they spotted it hunting for food. They soon reached the spot and captured the animal. Satish said they would release the pangolin in a nearby forest after getting the necessary approvals from higher officials. Pangolins are endangered species under IUCN red list and protected under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. In national and international market the Indian Pangolin are highly in demand for its meat and scales. This is the second pangolin to be rescued in the last three months. Previously, officials conducted a decoy operation and busted an illegal trade in pangolins at Guntur district where youngsters had put up an advertisement on social media . They managed to safely rescue the creature and released it back into the wild.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pangolin-rescued-in-prakasam/articleshow/77470984.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Rajkot||Two die after consuming poisonous substance at fish party||Rajkot: Two persons have died and one other has been hospitalised after they allegedly consumed poisonous substance at a farm on Bajrangpura road in Lakhtar taluka of Surendranagar district on Monday. The deceased were identified as Velji Agara (55) and Narsinh Viramgamiya (60).According to police, four persons including the deceased had gone to a farm on Bajragpura road on Sunday night where they cooked some fish and ate it. However, soon after eating the fish three of them started vomiting and fell unconscious. The fourth persons who had not consumed the food called for help and rushed them to Lakhtar government hospital.Local crime branch police inspector Dipak Dhol said that Agara died at Lakhtar hospital, while Viramgamiya and Pravin Puraliya (60) where referred to Surendranagar hospital where Viramgamiya succumbed during treatment.“The postmortem report confirms the presence of poison in the bodies of the deceased. However, there were no traces of alcohol. The poison could have been from the plastic container in which the drinking water was kept or the fish might have been poisonous,” said Dhol, ruling out hooch angle as suspected earlier.Puraliya is still under treatment at Surendranagar hospital, but is yet to gain consciousness, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-die-after-consuming-poisonous-substance-at-fish-party/articleshow/77469800.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Rajkot||Historysheeter accused of thefts and robberies, held in Junagadh||Rajkot: A 19-year-old historysheeter, who had fled from an observation home in June, was arrested by the Rajkot crime branch from Junagadh on Monday. In less than two months after escaping from an observation home, Imran alias Iblo Kadari committed 17 robberies and thefts in Ahmedabad and Rajkot. Crime branch sleuths said that different teams were looking for Kadari during which they found his location in Junagadh based on which they nabbed him. Cops found a sedan car, a bike, Rs 5,880 cash, a mobile phone and a knife from him. During questioning, Kadari told cops that after fleeing from the observation home on June 19, he remained inactive for a month and then started committing crimes. Kadari robbed three cars at knifepoint from SG Road in Ahmedabad . Later, he committed 13 robberies and thefts in Rajkot. A week back he robbed Rs 93,500 cash from a collection agent of a dairy at Bhagwatipura in Rajkot. Kadari told cops that he started performing petty crimes in 2016 as he needed money for his mother Hasina’s treatment. Since he was the eldest of the three siblings and their father Hasam Miya had deserted them around five years back, Kadari decided to take up the responsibility by committing thefts. Between 2016 and 2018, Kadari was involved in 46 offences. His grandfather was caretaker of a ‘dargah’ in Una, but as his father had a dispute with a relative, Hasam Miya moved his family to Jetpur before settling in Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/historysheeter-accused-of-thefts-and-robberies-held-in-junagadh/articleshow/77469809.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC erects ‘Mosquito Mascot’||Hyderabad: In order to create awareness about the spread and control of mosquitoes, GHMC on Monday erected “Mosquito Mascot” at the main entrance gate of the civic body’s head office on Liberty Road. The aim is to involve people in taking up preventives measures to control the spread of mosquitoes. There is also a proposal that such mascots will be erected at various important junctions in due course. MAUD minister KT Rama Rao has asked people to remove stagnant water in and around houses every Sunday at 10 am for 10minutes. The entomology wing of the GHMC has been taking up various activities for the controlling the mosquito menace. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-erects-mosquito-mascot/articleshow/77472544.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||1,184 new cases take total past 35,000; 7 more deaths in state||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Seven Covid-19 deaths and 1,184 new cases were reported in the state on Monday. The total positive cases to date stand at 35,515. Of the fresh cases, 1,005 were infected through contacts while the sources are unknown in 114 individuals. Gracy Shiny, 54, of Ernakulam, Devadas, 45, of Kollam, Mohammed Kunju, 68, of Kasaragod, Alavikutty, 65, of Wayanad, Nafeeza, 52, of Malappuram, Aboobaker, 64, of Kozhikode and Jama, 50, of Thiruvananthapuram were the deaths reported on Monday. Among the new cases, 106 had come from abroad and 73 from other states. Meanwhile, 784 recoveries were also reported. Most cases were reported from Malappuram, 255 cases, followed by 200 from Thiruvananthapuram, 147 from Palakkad, 146 from Kasaragod, 101 from Ernakulam, 66 from Kozhikode, 63 from Kannur, 41 from Kollam, 40 each from Kottayam and Thrissur, 33 from Wayanad, 30 from Alappuzha, 18 from Idukki and 4 are from Pathanamthitta. Malappuram also reported the highest number of contact cases in the day, with 219 followed by Thiruvananthapuram with 178 cases, Kasargod 118 cases, Palakkad 100 cases, Ernakulam 83 cases, Kozhikode 52 cases, Kannur 46 cases, Kollam 33 cases, Thrissur 33 cases, Kottayam 32 cases, Wayanad 32 cases, Alappuzha 20 cases, Idukki 9 cases and one case from Pathanamthitta. There were 41 healthcare workers, one aircrew each from Malappuram and Kozhikode, one DSC employee, and five INSH coast guard personnel from Ernakulam among the contact cases. In 24 hours, 20,583 samples were tested in the state taking the total to date to 45,1214 (including repeat, augmented and private lab samples). Besides, 1,37,805 samples were taken from priority groups as part of sentinel surveillance, of which 127 are pending. There are 1,49,295 under surveillance, out of which 1,37,419 are under home or institutional quarantine and 11,876 are in isolation facilities. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that in the large community clusters of Thiruvananthapuram, 2800 samples were tested on Sunday, of which 288 came positive. IGs Harshita Attalluri and S Sreejith have been posted as special officers in rural and coastal areas respectively. A neighbourhood watch system by the Janamitri police will be implemented to promote self-quarantine, the CM said. “In the video conferencing held with the prime minister on Monday, the state government has asked to allow the states to utilize the funds from the state distress relief fund without any conditions. At present the states are allowed to utilize only 25% of the fund,” said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/1184-new-cases-take-total-past-35k-7-more-deaths-in-state/articleshow/77469816.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nashik||NMC to get 3 physicians from IMA||NASHIK: The Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nashik, has agreed to provide three physicians to Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) for treatment of Covid-19 patients. This decision was taken in a meeting between the NMC and IMA officials on Monday. “The IMA Nashik will provide three physicians for of six weeks beginning from August 12 to treat Covid-19 patients at New Bytco hospital. These physicians will be replaced by other physicians after every week,” an official from the NMC said. “We are increasing the number of beds in the Covid Care Centre (CCC) at New Bytco hospital from 350 to 850 in the next two three days. Of these 223 beds will be for critical patients. The three doctors provided by IMA Nashik will take care of these 223 beds. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game is expected to issue an order regarding the appointment of the three physicians by IMA in a day or two,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-get-3-physicians-from-ima/articleshow/77469823.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 11, 2020||Meerut||Delhi tipoff leads UP police to red sandalwood haul worth Rs 50cr||Meerut: A smuggling trail Delhi Police was following in Amroha led to a breakthrough by UP Police on Sunday evening — red sandalwood on its way to Ahmedabad, Hyderabad, China and Japan through Delhi was found stocked and hidden away in a godown in Hashmi Nagar. “A consignment of 133 quintals of red sandalwood and 250 sacks of sandalwood powder, together worth about Rs 50 crore on the international market, was seized,” Amroha SP Vipin Tada said.Delhi crime branch officials had been following a tipoff about "suspicious activity" in a godown in Amroha. With a UP Police team, they raided the place. Inside, they found, sandalwood that was brought to the godown had been chopped into smaller pieces and wrapped in thermocol and cardboard, ready to be shipped. Forest officials were informed about the consignment. Three people were arrested but the godown owner, Qamar Ahmed, and his son, Sakir Ahmed, are on the run.“Those arrested confessed that the operation was part of a larger smuggling racket. They shipped to Ahmedabad, Hyderabad and overseas to China and Japan,” a police officer said. The entire supply chain has not been mapped by the police yet. “We hope Qamar’s arrest will provide more leads,” the officer added.A case has been lodged against those arrested under sections 109 (abetment), 379 (theft), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, and sections of the Forest Act and Forest Conservation Act. A senior police official said they believe the godown was a transit point for the consignment which would have been smuggled out via a major metro, most likely Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/delhi-tipoff-leads-up-police-to-red-sandalwood-haul-worth-rs-50cr/articleshow/77469819.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Allahabad||Non-sitting of Allahabad HC, Lucknow bench||Prayagraj: Considering the surge in Covid cases, Chief Justice of Allahabad HC Govind Mathur on Sunday issued a notification continuing non-sitting of courts on August 12,13 and 14 in Allahabad HC and its Lucknow bench. Only urgent matter mentioned before CJ and senior judge at Lucknow HC would be taken up. There will be no physical e-filing on August 12,13,14,15 and 16. Registrar (protocol) Ashish Srivastava said, judicial and administrative sections shall not function on these dates, but keeping in view backlog of stamp reporting and fresh filings, these courts would function with required staff. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/non-sitting-of-allahabad-hc-lucknow-bench/articleshow/77452667.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Varanasi||Even cattle, liquor mafia in east UP amassed riches worth crores||Varanasi: The police crackdown on organised crime targeting gangsters has revealed that not only the notorious dons running extortion rackets, grabbing land and contracts in government departments but even cattle and liquor mafia have amassed huge wealth running into crores of rupees. Police have been seizing moveable and immoveable properties of criminals and are still finding more. The details of property confiscated by police till now reveal that even less known cattle and liquor mafia have become millionaires by accumulating wealth generated through illegal means. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “Apart from the henchmen of jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari, many other gangsters have faced action in the districts of Varanasi zone, especially in Jaunpur and Mau, in the past week.” The investigation and action initiated by Jaunpur police against gangs involved in cattle and liquor smuggling brought surprising facts to the fore. SP Jaunpur Ashok Kumar said, “On August 4, we confiscated property worth Rs 3.05 crore of nine gangsters, including Nikhil Singh, Lallan Chauhan, Mangal Chauhan, Dangal alias Dharmendra Chauhan (liquor smugglers), Subhash Yadav, and Shahnawaj (cattle smuggler). They owned luxury SUVs apart from moveable and immoveable properties.” “Before this, moveable and immoveable properties worth Rs 2.27 crore of cattle and liquor smugglers Hargun Gautam, Danish Qureshi, Vinay Sharma, Ravi Yadav, Pappu Yadav, Roshan Singh, Rampher Verma, Brijesh Kumar Gautam and Ramashankar alias Bhola Singh had been confiscated,” Kumar added. Mau Police stumbled upon a newly constructed building worth Rs 1.59 crore and found it was owned by jailed gangster Ramesh Singh alias Kaka. The Mau police confiscated the property created by the proceeds of illegal trades. SP Mau Anurag Arya said, “A plot and two-storied building constructed on it with illegally earned money by Kaka were seized on August 2. A total of 64 criminal cases are lodged against Kaka while his son Susdhir Singh is also a gangster.” Two days before initiating action against Kaka, Mau cops had seized property worth Rs 60.70 lakh of gangster Kifayatullah, a close accomplice of Mukhtar’s henchman Ankur Rai, said Arya. ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said the process of booking Mukhtar’s henchmen and fish trade mafia Mohd Salim, Rambalak Sahani, Gurucharan Singh and Santosh Yadav, who were arrested with huge consignment of fishes of banned species on June 30, has been initiated and their illegally amassed wealth and properties would also be seized soon. Police started confiscating property of gangsters in east UP soon after targeting the henchmen of Mukhtar Ansari in May-end as a strategy to weaken them financially and breaking the economic backbone of organised crime in state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/even-cattle-liquor-mafia-in-east-up-amassed-riches-worth-crores/articleshow/77452707.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Meerut||Meerut man accused of firing at cops during anti-CAA clashes now booked under NSA||Meerut: A 48-year-old man, arrested for allegedly opening fire at policemen during the clashes amid anti-CAA protests in Meerut in December, now also faces stringent National Security Act (NSA) which local police invoked against him on Monday to ensure that he stays in jail for another few months.Anees alias Khalifa -- who had no criminal record-- was arrested on January 14 this year for allegedly taking part in December 20 violence. After his arrest, Anees is said to have told investigators that he shot at policemen to avenge the “murder of his brother at the hands of police” way back in 1987 when Meerut witnessed riots. Police claimed that Anees was identified from CCTV footage.Police also alleged that Anees is linked to Popular Front of India (PFI), a controversial religious outfit.According to sources, Anees had applied for bail and he would have come out sooner or later. But, NSA will ensure his stay in the jail for another at least three months.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Meerut, Ajay Sahni, said, “In the coming months, there are a couple of festivals and we have reports that PFI is also increasing its activities here. At the time of Anees’s arrest, we had recovered inciting pamphlets from his house which linked him to the PFI. All these developments made a strong case to invoke NSA against him.”The SSP added, “During questioning soon after his arrest, Anees had told that his brother, Raees Ahmad, was killed during 1987 riots and the family found the body two days later. Anees had told that he had developed hatred towards police and that is why he fired at policemen during the recent violence.”At least six protesters were killed and hundreds injured during the clashes which broke out during anti-CAA and anti-NRC protest marches on December 20 last year in Meerut. Later, 24 FIRs were filed by police in which 180 named and 5,000 unnamed protestors were booked. Anees was one of them. According to UP Police, its 288 personnel were also injured in the clashes, one of the worst in years during which public properties were also damaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-man-accused-of-firing-at-cops-during-anti-caa-clashes-now-booked-under-nsa/articleshow/77469814.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 11, 2020||Vadodara||Chhota Udepur rivers in spate||Vadodara: Farmers in Chhota Udepur were much relieved as the district recorded heavy rains since Sunday midnight. The district had not received much rain this season following which farmers had been performing several tribal rituals for good rain. Many cotton farmers in the district were staring at crop loss as after a brief spell in July, there were no rains during the entire month. The district received an average rainfall of 86.5 mm (3.4 inches) within 24 hours up to 6 am on Monday. Chhota Udepur received maximum 150 mm rainfall, followed 102 mm in Sankheda and 91 mm in Pavi Jetpur taluka. Bodeli, Kawant and Naswadi talukas received 83 mm, 71 mm and 17 mm rainfall respectively. With incessant rains in the district and the neighbouring Alirajpur in Madhya Pradesh, the two main rivers – Orsang and Heran — which remain dry during the most part of the year started flowing bank to bank on Monday. The Jojva dam on Orsang river also started overflowing on Monday morning.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/chhota-udepur-rivers-in-spate/articleshow/77469820.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Varanasi||Ex BJP MLA’s grandson held for pointing pistol at vendor||Gorakhpur: A former BJP MLA’s grandson threatened a tea seller by pointing his licensed pistol at him when he objected to his rash driving in Aryanagar area of Siddharthnagar district on Saturday. The grandson was arrested. The licensed pistol, which was under his father Anil Mittal’s name, was seized. Kishan Mittal (18) is the grandson of former MLA late Shivlal Mittal. Kishan was riding a motorcycle at a very high speed. When he reached near a tea stall, its owner objected to his rash driving. In a fit of rage, Kishan pointed his father’s pistol at the temple of the tea seller. However, the Sadar police were patrolling the area during that time, and seeing this, sub-inspector Rajendra Pratap snatched the pistol from Kishan and arrested him without any delay. “Case under Arms Act has been registered against Kishan Mittal and and his father Anil Mittal on the written application of SI Rajendra Pratap. Kishan has been sent to jail. If the SI weren’t present on the spot, the scene could have taken an ugly turn,” said Sadar police station in-charge Rajendra Bahadur Singh. “The pistol’s license is under Anil Mittal who is undergoing treatment at a hospital in Lucknow. The pistol was loaded with four bullets. An application will be written to the district magistrate for cancellation of license,” said the police station in-charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ex-bjp-mlas-grandson-held-for-pointing-pistol-at-vendor/articleshow/77452712.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Rajkot||Youth stabbed to death in Dhrangadhra over love affair||Rajkot: A youth in Dhrangadhra was murdered and his friend was injured over a fight with eight persons in Ambedkarnagar on Sunday night.According to police, the deceased Jigar Parmar (20) and his friend Hasmukh Parmar were sitting near their home in Ambedkarnagar on Sunday when the eight accused came over for a fight. The eight accused have been identified as Taufiq Baloch, Manoj Chavada, Vikas Solanki, Kalu Chavada, Shahrukh Jaam, Salman Jaam, Abhi Chavada and Sohail. The group assaulted the duo and then stabbed both the victims.Jigar and Hasmukh were taken to a hospital in Surendranagar where Jigar succumbed and Hasmukh remained critical. On Monday he was shifted to Ahmedabad for further treatment. Police investigation revealed that Hasmukh had an affair with Solanki’s sister to which the latter had a problem. On Sunday night Solanki along with his accomplices went to confront Hasmukh over the same issue and took up a fight.An offence of murder and attempt to murder has been registered at Dhrangadhra City police station against the eight accused. Police said that they have picked up Baloch, Solanki, Manoj and Kalu for questioning. They are yet to be formally arrested.Police officials said that Jigar lived with his mother Shivangi who is a lawyer while his father had died some years back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/youth-stabbed-to-death-in-dhrangadhra-over-love-affair/articleshow/77469834.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Grain mandi trader robbed of Rs 2 lakh||Kota: Four unidentified youths on two motorbikes robbed a grain upaj mandi trader of Rs 2 lakh at Nanakpuriya Circle under Bundi Sadar police station area on Monday. Police sounded an alert at all the checkposts in the district to nab the accused, but till evening there was no trace of the accused.Mahavir Jain was going to Krishi Upaj Grain Mandi at Kuwarti after withdrawing Rs 2 lakh from a bank around 10.45am. Four youths on two motorbikes stopped in front of him and made way with the bag containing cash after assaulting him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/grain-mandi-trader-robbed-of-rs-2-lakh/articleshow/77472575.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Many private hospitals in Hyderabad ignore norms, are firetraps||HYDERABAD: Many private hospitals, including some reputed ones, may trip on firm safety norms as they flout setback, emergency evacuation norms, have built illegal floors and use cellar space for routine hospital activity instead of parking. These facilities may not get no objection certificate (NOC) unless they modify their existing structures as per fire safety norms. According to experts, building deviations were a hurdle as they restrict movement of fire tenders and fire fighters. “When fire fighters rush to execute rescue operations, deviations such as lack of setbacks (the space between compound wall and super-structure), cellars occupied with reception counters and lack of emergency evacuation ramps result in loss of precious time,” S P Anchuri, vice-president (south), Structural Engineers World Congress, told TOI. Verification revealed owners of commercial establishments move court to get favourable orders, while corruption and political interference ensure GHMC officials do not interfere in their affairs. Furnishing a valid fire NOC is mandatory for obtaining an occupancy certificate (OC) and also renew trade licence. As per GHMC records, there were 2.5 lakh commercial establishments, including hospitals, in Greater Hyderabad and only 1,64,327 (till May 2020) trade licence were issued. According to GHMC officials, they served notices and issued warning to people who did not renew trade licence. “Deadline to renew trade licence was May 31, post which they would be levied 50% penalty. 1,013 hospitals submitted a self-declaration by January, 2020, giving details of fire safety measures,” a GHMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-pvt-hospitals-in-city-ignore-norms-are-firetraps/articleshow/77470996.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 11, 2020||Nashik||12-day-old baby boy, mother beat coronavirus||NASHIK: A 12-day baby boy is the youngest to have survived Covid-19 in Jalgaon district within 10 days days of testing positive for the contagion after birth through C-section at the Jalgaon Government Medical College and Hospital. The infant, who had contracted the disease from his mother, was discharged after his throat swab tested negative on Monday while the woman was discharged from the hospital soon after she recovered on Sunday. “We are so happy that the infant has defeated Covid-19. This case has proven that no one should fear the infection. One can get cured if he/she is treated early, irrespective of age,” hospital dean Jaiprakash Ramanand told TOI. “The mother had pneumonia and tested positive for Covid-19 after getting admitted to the hospital on July 29. She underwent a C-section in the wee hours of July 30 as the umbilical cord had got entangled around the fetus,” he said. A team of paediatricians, led by Balasaheb Suroshe, monitored the condition of the infant. “The baby tested postive for Covid-19 on August 1 and was kept in the neonatal ICU. He had serious respiratory distress and his blood glucose could not be controlled. Although he weighed around 3.3 kg, he had become fragile due to the illness,” said Ramanand. The condition of the baby started improving with proper treatment, which included oxygen care, IV fluids, antibiotics and calcium fluids. Gradually, the baby started digesting milk. His aunt was at the hospital to take care of him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/12-day-old-baby-boymother-beat-ncov/articleshow/77469847.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Meerut||Massive protest after villagers spot cow carcass in mini truck on highway||Meerut: A massive ruckus resulted after a cow carcass spilled out from a truck on Delhi-Yamnotri highway in Baghpat. Several senior policemen rushed to the spot. Residents of several villages tried to burn the vehicle as occupants of the vehicle had fled the spot. The incident occurred near Noorpur village where villagers found a mini truck carrying the carcass.According to a villager Ram Kumar, "The mini truck got stuck on the roadside. Two men were trying to push it out. However, when others approached to help, they noticed that the truck contained carcasses of four cows and bulls. The discovery led to a protest."Circle officer Khekhra region Dilip Singh, "There was a sudden protest following the discovery of a carcass that appeared to be that of a cows’. Villagers had blocked traffic movement but we intervened on time, buried the carcasses and seized the vehicle. An FIR has been filed and efforts are on to arrest the culprits.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/massive-protest-after-villagers-spot-cow-carcass-in-mini-truck-on-highway/articleshow/77469829.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 11, 2020||Kanpur||Two private hospitals to face legal action for hiding Covid-19 cases||Kanpur: Divisional commissioner Sudhir M Bobde, on Saturday, ordered legal action against two private hospitals — Maa Gayatri Hospital and Family Hospital — for treating corona patients stealthily and displaying the number of Covid-19 patients under treatment there as zero. The divisional commissioner also directed the health department to issue notice to the two hospitals for not developing flue corner and holding area in their premises. In a Covid review meeting at his camp office, divisional commissioner Bobde stated that both hospitals were neither providing information of the infected persons nor were they reporting cases of influenza like illness. He asked the health department to take stern action against both the hospitals for not providing information about serious patients. Bobde was annoyed by the poor feeding of details of the patients on portal and reprimanded surveillance officer Dr Subodh Prakash Yadav and asked him to feed proper details in time. Patients found in field inspection should be kept in holding area and be treated there, he said. All Covid patients must be transported through ambulance and all information about them must be given to SP city, SP Traffic, circle officers and police stations. Covid patients must be transported to the hospital within 15 to 20 minutes. Meanwhile, mayor Pramila Pandey, on Saturday evening, reached LLR hospital to inspect the Covid facility and criticised principal Dr R B Kamal and chief medical officer for inappropriate arrangements. Pandey alleged that the hospital authorities mislead the officials coming from Lucknow. She added that patients who reach the hospital had been asked to go to private hospital for treatment and when they turn critical they are referred back here which leads to rise in number of deaths in the city. The mayor warned them to change their attitude and improve the facilities. She also warned the chief medical officer for being late. She further said that the state government had provided a good amount of funds for creating awareness about Covid-19, but the hospital authorities were not using it and had not put up hoardings for spreading awareness. Later, Pandey said she would convene a meeting with the health department, medical college, office bearers of nursing home association to sort out the irregularities and provide better treatment to Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-private-hospitals-to-face-legal-action-for-hiding-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77452737.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kochi||Crash victim who tested +ve had infection earlier too||Dubai: One of the victims of Friday’s accident at the Karipur airport, who was declared positive for Covid-19 after his death, was infected by the coronavirus earlier too while in the UAE and tested negative before flying to India, according to a media report. Sudheer Variyath, 45, succumbed to his injuries a couple of hours after the Air India Express plane crash in Kozhikode. He tested positive for Covid-19 in the test conducted after the crash. Because of this, his mortal remains could not be handed over to his family for cremation in Malappuram district where he had built a new house last year. Instead, the cremation was done in the public crematorium in Kozhikode district. Prashob Tharammal Keeri, one of his flatmates in Dubai, told a local newspaper in the UAE that Sudheer had contracted coronavirus in mid-April along with him and three other flatmates. He said Sudheer was isolated in the Al Warsan facility and recovered by May first week. Before he took the flight to leave the UAE for good, Sudheer tested negative for Covid-19 in an RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) test, which is considered the most accurate test for Covid-19, Prashob was quoted as saying in the report. “He decided to do the test again before flying because his wife had checked with health officials in Kerala about the need for it since he had the disease some months back,” his flatmate said. “He had carried all these documents with him. Unfortunately, there was nobody to explain all these details to the authorities. It was the driver who went to pick him up from the airport who ran around to find out in which hospital he was admitted,” said Prashob. Praveen Kumar, a social worker volunteering for the Indian consulate in Dubai, said he was the one who helped Sudheer and his flatmates to be isolated when they tested positive in April. “I have informed the Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (NORKA) department in Kerala about what exactly happened and requested to give a clarification that probably he might have tested positive due to the antibodies,” he said. agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/crash-victim-who-tested-ve-had-infection-earlier-too/articleshow/77469846.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||AP hosp blaze nudges T health officials, inspections on the cards||Hyderabad: A day after a devastating fire at the Covid-19 centre in Vijayawada claimed 10 lives, state health authorities said they will begin inspecting Covid-19 care facilities across the city. As per official records, 36 hotels — in collaboration with hospitals — were turned into Covid-19 care centres in the state but sources say there are 15 to 20 more such small hotels operating as quarantine centres. However, the government faces an uphill task keeping watch on centres running without knowledge of officials. Currently, no permission is required to set up a care centre which creates a hurdle in ensuring mandatory fire safety rules are being followed. “Institutional quarantine, including hotel quarantine, is important as hospitals cannot house so many patients. There are many who need to avail such facilities due to a space constraint at home,” said IMA state secretary, Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav. However, as per Dr Yadav, what the government can do is to mandate that every centre intimates officials about their set up. Meanwhile, an order has been issued telling hospitals to check hotels they have partnered with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-hosp-blaze-nudges-t-health-officials-inspections-on-the-cards/articleshow/77471077.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Three arrested for forging land docus||Hyderabad: Hayathnagar police on Monday arrested three persons for forging land documents for plots in Pedda Amberpet area. Police have named seven accused in the case of whom three were nabbed on Monday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-arrested-for-forging-land-docus/articleshow/77472584.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Meerut||Used Covid-19 VTMs scatter on road, LLRM orders probe||Meerut: Days after blood samples of Covid-19 patients were snatched by a monkey from a lab technician, chaos prevailed on LLRM Medical College campus here when Viral Transport Medium (VTMs) of coronavirus samples being taken for waste disposal fell down from a cart. While the authorities have claimed that the test tubes in question were already sterilised according to the norms in an autoclave in the microbiology laboratory, a probe has been ordered by the principal to ascertain the reason for the lapse in carrying the biomedical waste. A video of the incident has gone viral on social media. The video shows VTMs scattered on the ground after the packet fell off the cart in which it was being carried. The packets are carried in bags with ‘danger’ written on them as they had biomedical waste inside. Dr SK Gupta, principal, LLRM Medical College, said, “The VTMs are sterilised before they are sent for waste disposal. However, a probe has been set up in the matter to find out how did the lapse occur.” Dr Amit Garg, head of the department, microbiology, LLRM Medical College, said, “The VTMs were sterilised as per norms. Any biomedical waste from the microbiology laboratory is first sterilised in an autoclave -- a machine which uses steam to kill bacteria, virus and fungi. They do not pose any risk of spreading the virus further.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/used-covid-19-vtms-scatter-on-road-llrm-orders-probe/articleshow/77469845.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 11, 2020||Meerut||Now, govt hosps in Meerut to administer free pneumonia vaccines to kids||Meerut: The pneumococcal vaccine will now be given free of cost to children in Meerut. The scheme was launched in the district on Monday. The vaccine costs at least Rs 4,000 in private hospitals. Over the past few months, some districts of Uttar Pradesh were provided the vaccine against pneumonia. Meerut and 56 other districts received it in the fourth phase. “The vaccine will provide relief to the poor who had to purchase it from private facilities at nearly Rs 4,000,” said Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer. According to statistics, pneumonia caused 16% of deaths among children in 2010. “There are over one lakh children in the age group of 0-5 years in Meerut. All of them will be vaccinated. The first dose will be given at 1.5 months age followed by second and third dosage at 3.5 months age and 9 months,” said Dr Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/now-govt-hosps-in-meerut-to-administer-free-pneumonia-vaccines-to-kids/articleshow/77469841.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 11, 2020||Kanpur||First U-Girder to be erected in presence of CS today||Kanpur: Under the aegis of Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC), the civil work of the Kanpur Metro project is being executed at a very fast pace. In yet another step towards an early completion of Kanpur Metro, the first U-girder of the project will be erected for the Metro viaduct on Pillar No. 17 and 18 near IIT-Kanpur on the Priority Section of Kanpur Metro project on Tuesday in the presence of UP chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari and managing director, UPMRC, Kumar Keshav. The U-girders provide the top deck of Metro viaduct on which track, traction and signalling system are laid for movement of Metro trains. A total of 638 U-girders are to be laid on the 9 KM-long Priority Section (IIT-Motijheel). The erection of the girder in just eight and a half months since start of the piling work for the project, will be a step forward in the construction of Kanpur Metro. The Kanpur Metro is the first such metro project in the country where double T-girders are being used to prepare the concourse level of the Metro stations to speed up the civil construction and at the same time enhance the beauty of the structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/first-u-girder-to-be-erected-in-presence-of-cs-today/articleshow/77472804.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kanpur||Sakshi Maharaj alleges life threat||Kanpur: BJP leader and Member of Parliament from Unnao, Sakshi Maharaj, on Monday claimed to have received a life threatening call. The caller, as per the claim, threatened Sakshi to eliminate him by exploding his house with bomb. The first call was received at 4.24 pm and second at 4.26 pm on Monday. Sakshi Maharaj has given a written complaint in this regard at Sadar Kotwali police station, besides also forwarded a written complaint to district magistrate, SP Unnao and principal secretary home. "The caller has abused me and warned me to face serious consequences for getting his friend Abdul Ghaffar arrested. He threatened me to kill me within 10 days," said Sakshi Maharaj while talking to reporters. He said he has given a complaint at Sadar Kotwali police station and also to DM and SP Unnao, besides principal secretary home asking them to lodge a case and to provide him extra security cover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/sakshi-maharaj-alleges-life-threat/articleshow/77472695.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP: New investment policy aims to benefit migrants||LUCKNOW: To boost investment in the state’s backward regions, especially districts to which a large percentage of migrant workers have returned during the lockdown, the cabinet on Monday approved of a new investment policy. The Post Covid-19 Accelerated Investment Promotion Policy for Backward Regions of the State will attempt to ease conditions of investment in the areas of Poorvanchal, Madhyanchal and Bundelkhand and create large-scale employment. Additional chief secretary (infrastructure and industrial development), Alok Kumar, said that the policy will be applicable to new investors who apply under it within six months of its notification. Existing units may also take advantage of the rules, provided they accelerate their investment as per provisions of the policy and 80% of their investment is made after the notification date. Industrial undertakings investing in expansion or diversification of existing units will not be eligible. Kumar said the Covid-19 pandemic has caused immense damage to not just the state’s economy but also to the country. Over the past few months, especially during and due to lockdown, it led to loss of revenue, decline in industrial output, economic activities and loss of employment. “Reverse migration of over 35 lakh migrants in UP is a challenge as well as an opportunity. To create jobs for them locally and in larger interest of enabling Atmanirbhar Bharat, UP is promoting investments,” he said, adding this new policy has been launched to complement the various efforts by the state in attracting foreign and domestic investments. “The new policy will make undertakings eligible for 70% reimbursement of net SGST for 12 years in Madhyanchal, subject to 200% of capital investment made during the policy period and 15 years in Poorvanchal and Bundelkhand, subject to 300% of capital investment made during the policy period. Currently, net SGST reimbursement of 70% is available to eligible industrial units for only 10 years,” Kumar said. To ensure fast tracking of investments, the policy states that eligible mega and mega plus category industrial undertakings will have to start commercial production within 30 months while those under super mega will have to start within 42 months from the notification date of the policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/new-investment-policy-aims-to-benefit-migrants/articleshow/77473236.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 11, 2020||World||Trump abruptly escorted from briefing after shooting near White House||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump was abruptly escorted by a US Secret Service agent out of the White House briefing room as he was beginning a coronavirus briefing Monday afternoon. He returned minutes later, saying there was a "shooting" outside the White House that was "under control." "There was an actual shooting and somebody's been taken to the hospital," Trump said. The president said the shots were fired by law enforcement, saying he believed the individual who was shot was armed. "It was the suspect who was shot," Trump said. Trump said he was escorted to the Oval Office by the agent. The White House was placed on lockdown following the incident. The shooting took place near 17th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue just blocks from the White House, according to two sources with knowledge of the situation who were not authorized to speak publicly about it. Law enforcement officials were still trying to determine the suspect's motive. The suspect was transferred to a local hospital, but their condition was not immediately known. Trump praised the work of Secret Service personnel for their work in keeping him safe. Asked if he was shaken by the incident, Trump asked reporters: "I don't know. Do I seem rattled?" Watch Watch: Secret Service escorts President Trump from briefing room after shooting outside White House||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-abruptly-escorted-from-briefing-after-shooting-near-white-house/articleshow/77473809.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chennai||Puducherry fishermen want ‘pair trawling’ banned||CHENNAI: A Puducherry-based fishermen association has moved the Madras high court to ban ‘pair trawling’ or fishing with purse-seine nets in the waters of the Union territory. Indiscriminate fishing using the two methods, which is prohibited in many areas including Tamil Nadu, has led to largescale depletion of marine life, said Kadalsar Meenvala Paathukappu Kuzhu (a marine life conservation group). Admitting the plea, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha observed that the petitioner has highlighted a very serious issue and urged the Puducherry government to take a serious note of it. The bench then directed the UT government to file its response by August 25. According to the petitioner, while fishing with purse seine nets has been banned in many states including TN, it is still permitted in Puducherry. If fishermen are allowed to use the nets to fish in the inshore area, there will be no movement of younglings towards the coast. Such mechanised nets will also cause irreparable damage to the ecosystem, advocate S Duraisamy of the petitioner-organisation said. “Big fishing boats and mechanical trawlers are involved in deep-sea fishing, which is not in accordance with the Puducherry Fishing Regulation Rules 2009. Fishermen in big boats, at least 50-60 of them, also attack those in smaller catamarans. Though several complaints have been made, no action has been taken so far,” he added. As per the regulations, irrespective of the size and power of the boats, the usage of purse seine nets is completely banned in the coastal area to preserve the fishing resources, the petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pondy-fishermen-want-pair-trawling-banned/articleshow/77471117.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kanpur||1 held for making extortion call in name of Vikas Dubey||Kanpur:The police on Sunday night arrested a man for allegedly making threat calls to an employee of a computer institute. To recall, an audio clip had gone viral on social media on August 7 wherein a caller, who claimed himself to be a friend of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, was found threatening an employee of a computer institute to return fee or be ready to face dire consequences. The police said a number from which the call was made was traced to Barra South resident Dipendra alias Ram Thakur. “Ram Thakur, a High School passout and a worker in a private factory, told us that as he was running short of money, he decided to extort money from the same institute, where he had pursued a diploma course in 2017,” the police said. The police further said that he told the investigators that he took the name of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, because he was infamous and in order to cause terror and pressure on the institute owner. “In reality, however, he said that he neither knew and not even met once Vikas Dubey or any of his aides. He further told cops that he did a diploma course from the institute in 2017 by paying a fee of Rs 11,000. He said that he he had asked computer institute employee to convey his owner to arrange cash worth Rs 22,000 or else would be eliminated,” the police said further. “We have arrested the accused from near Juhi Daharmkanta in Transport Nagar area of the city on late Sunday night. A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Juhi police station and the accused has been sent to jail,” said Inspector Juhi Santosh Kumar Arya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/1-held-for-making-extortion-call-in-name-of-vikas-dubey/articleshow/77472745.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt mulls holding Eamcet from September 9-11 and 14, Telangana HC approval is key||HYDERABAD: The state government has proposed to conduct the engineering, agriculture and medical common entrance test (Eamcet) on September 9, 10, 11 and 14, Polytechnic common entrance test (Polycet) on September 2 and engineering common entrance test (Ecet) on August 31. The dates are subject to approval from the Telangana High Court. State education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy held a meeting with all higher education department and school education department officials on Monday. During the meeting, discussions were held over common entrance test schedule, academic calendar, exams of degree and professional courses, online classes for school students and intermediate admissions. “We are prepared to conduct the examination keeping in mind all the precautionary measures for Covid-19. Dates are provisional and will only be finalised once we get a go ahead from HC,” said an official who was privy to the minutes of the meeting. Government also decided to commence classes for second year intermediate students from August 17. “Intermediate admissions for academic year 2020-21 shall commence from September 1,” said Reddy. Digital classes for government school students shall commence from August 20. “Classes for class 6-10 students will be conducted through T-SAT. Classes for class 3-5 students shall commence from September 1,” said the minister. No decision was taken regarding degree or professional courses examination such as engineering. Classes for engineering students will not commence from August 17 as declared by K Chandrasekhar Rao earlier. Sources said that classes are likely to commence from September 1. “SC is hearing a case on university exams. Government wants to wait for the SC to give its decision and for the government of India to come out with clear guidelines on the same,” Jayesh Ranjan, in-charge vice-chancellor of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-mulls-holding-eamcet-from-sept-9-11-14-hc-approval-is-key/articleshow/77471090.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kanpur||Bail application of Piyush in SIM forgery case rejected||Kanpur: Additional district and sessions judge (First) V K Singh on Monday rejected the bail application of Piyush Shyamdasani, who had allegedly got his wife Jyoti murdered in 2014, in a related case of fake SIM card. Piyush, son of a biscuit baron, had allegedly got his wife Jyoti by his friends on July 27, 2014. According to police, Piyush was the mastermind of the murder. The murder plan was executed by Awadhesh, Sonu, Renu Kannojia and Manisha Makhija. Piyush had a love affair with Manisha and wanted to marry her. All the accused of this case are in jail. Only Manisha has got conditional bail from the Allahabad high court whereas other accused are in the jail and their bail applications had been rejected by the sessions court and high court. The police have also charged Piyush and Manisha and one other accused in a SIM forgery case, which is associated with the original murder case. According to police story, Piyush had managed a SIM card on fake identity from a village of Banda district and the same SIM was used by the accused in the execution and supervision of the murder plan of his wife Jyoti. The police had registered a case under Sections 420/467/471/120 B of IPC. Piyush’s counsel had moved his bail application in this case on May 30, 2020. The lower court had rejected the bail application on the ground that this court had no power to grant bail as the jurisdiction to try the case belongs to the sessions court. The bail application was moved in June 2020 in the court of district judge and it was transferred to additional district & sessions judge (First). According to special prosecution officer for this case, Damodar Mishra, during the arguments he had stated that fake SIM was used in Jyoti’s murder. The SIM was acquired from a village of Banda district. He had pleaded on Monday that investigating officer (IO) had visited the village and had tried to locate Shankar, whose name was used for acquiring SIM. The IO had in his report submitted that the gram pradhan had stated that any person named as Shankar was not living in the village and the name was also not in the electoral list. Moreover, Piyush was the mastermind of the murder. Therefore, his bail application should be rejected. Earlier, Piyush’s counsel had pleaded that on the basis of parity Piyush should be granted bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bail-application-of-piyush-in-sim-forgery-case-rejected/articleshow/77472777.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
August 11, 2020||Rajkot||Five held for transporting liquor||Rajkot: Five persons were arrested by the Rajkot crime branch on Gondal Road for transporting Indian Made Foreign Liquor worth Rs 17.7 lakh on Monday morning.Police said that they arrested the driver and cleaner of the truck in which the liquor was being transported and three others who were escorting the truck in a car. The accused told police that the liquor was brought from Haryana and was to be unloaded in Junagadh to be distributed further in smaller quantities.The accused have been identified as Satyanarayan Yadav, a native of Haryana, cleaner Gurmel Singh Dami, who is from Punjab, Krishnakumar Karanjia, Lakhan Parmar and Arvind Makwana, all of whom are residents of Junagadh. Police records revealed that Yadav was arrested in Junagadh and Vankaner for transporting liquor stock in truck and was even detained under Prevention of Anti-Social Activities (PASA) Act. Parmar and Makwana, who are bootleggers, too were arrested in the past in Vanthali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-held-for-transporting-liquor/articleshow/77469853.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Prostitution racket busted by police||Hyderabad: Sultan Bazar police on Monday conducted searches on a lodge and rescued two women and arrested a few men who were allegedly running a prostitution racket. The accused are being interrogated by police who have booked cases against the organsiers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/prostitution-racket-busted-by-police/articleshow/77472590.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Varanasi||Two health officers in soup over lax Covid performance||Varanasi: Ensuring proper contact tracing of Covid-19 cases as well as furnishing data on portals continues to be an uphill task for the officials of the health department. This has not only drawn the attention of additional chief secretary and nodal officer for Varanasi Devesh Chaturvedi, but district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma has asked the chief medical officer to issue show-cause notices to two medical officers. Chaturvedi became aware about the poor performance of health department officials on the fronts of contact tracing of Covid patients and data feeding when he reviewed the working on Sunday evening. Issuing strict directives to strengthen these processes, he said all people came in contact of any persons tested as positive should be traced within 24 hours and their data should be fed on portals concerned to complete further actions like collection of their samples timely. He asked to increase operators for data feeding and also rapid response teams for immediate contact tracing. Within a few hours of issuance of these directives by Chaturvedi, the in-charge of medical officers of primary health centres of Kopnia and Bajardiha area- Dr Renu Sinha and Dr Archna Singh landed in trouble for not completing contact tracing process, samples collection and data feeding works on time.The DM directed the CMO to issue show-cause notices to them and initiate disciplinary action against them. The superintendent of DDU district hospital was issued strict directives to ensure that not more than 20 minutes are spent in completing the formalities of admission of Covid patients once they reached the hospital by ambulanc in order to ensure the beginning of their treatment timely. The DM also asked to deploy five extra lab technicians at the PHCs of Chowkaghat, Madhopur, Cantt, Beniabagh, Bajardiha and Manduadih in order to accelerate the process of sample collection in the localities concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-health-officers-in-soup-over-lax-covid-performance/articleshow/77472591.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Surat||Discharges pip new cases||Surat: In what look like signs of improvement in Covid-19 situation, more patients got discharged than new cases surfacing on Monday. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) officials, 176 cases were reported on Monday and as many as 191 patients got discharged from different hospitals after complete recovery.After a spike earlier last month, the number of daily cases has remained consistently below 200 for over a week now.Out of the 176 Covid-19 cases on Monday, highest cases were reported from Athwa zone with 44, followed by 41 in Rander, 23 in Varachha (A), 19 in Central, 17 in Varachha (B), 12 in Limbayat, and 10 each reported in Katargam and Udhna zone in the city.Surat rural reported 51 fresh cases, taking the total number of 3,156 in the district while four succumbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/discharges-pip-new-cases/articleshow/77469773.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid norms to be followed during Sabarimala festival||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has decided to conduct the Mandalakala-Makaravilakku festival at Sabarimala ensuring strict Covid-19 protocol. A Covid-19 negative certificate will be mandatory for devotees to enter the hill shrine and the darshan will be allowed only through a virtual queue. The festival season begins on November 16. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting convened by Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran here on Monday. The meeting observed that due to the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the country, the usual darshan cannot be allowed, hence restrictions will have to be imposed. There were suggestions that the entry of devotees will have to be limited to avoid the rush. It was decided that a virtual queue system of the state police will have to be used to restrict the entries. While registering for the virtual queue, the devotees will have to submit the Covid negative certificate. The devotees will be allowed inside the temple on an hourly basis. A specific number of devotees will be allowed inside at a particular time to avoid crowding. At the meeting, Travancore Devaswom Board president N Vasu urged the support of all departments for the conduct of the festival. The district administration had taken over certain buildings at Nilackal to be made into Covid-19 treatment centres that would then be handed back to the TDB to prepare the facilities for the season. The meeting decided that if there was difficulty in finding out traders to set up shops at Pampa, then government agencies like Consumerfed will step in. It was also decided to provide more facilities for the department officials who are put on duty at Pampa and Nilackal, including their accommodation. The Pandalam Royal family representative who also attended the meeting supported the government's move to impose Covid-19 restrictions. It was also decided to convene another high-level meeting in the presence of the chief minister soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-norms-to-be-followed-during-sabarimala-festival/articleshow/77469886.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Puducherry||Puducherry fishermen want ‘pair trawling’ banned||CHENNAI: A Puducherry-based fishermen association has moved the Madras high court to ban ‘pair trawling’ or fishing with purse-seine nets in the waters of the Union territory. Indiscriminate fishing using the two methods, which is prohibited in many areas including Tamil Nadu, has led to largescale depletion of marine life, said Kadalsar Meenvala Paathukappu Kuzhu (a marine life conservation group). Admitting the plea, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha observed that the petitioner has highlighted a very serious issue and urged the Puducherry government to take a serious note of it. The bench then directed the UT government to file its response by August 25. According to the petitioner, while fishing with purse seine nets has been banned in many states including TN, it is still permitted in Puducherry. If fishermen are allowed to use the nets to fish in the inshore area, there will be no movement of younglings towards the coast. Such mechanised nets will also cause irreparable damage to the ecosystem, advocate S Duraisamy of the petitioner-organisation said. “Big fishing boats and mechanical trawlers are involved in deep-sea fishing, which is not in accordance with the Puducherry Fishing Regulation Rules 2009. Fishermen in big boats, at least 50-60 of them, also attack those in smaller catamarans. Though several complaints have been made, no action has been taken so far,” he added. As per the regulations, irrespective of the size and power of the boats, the usage of purse seine nets is completely banned in the coastal area to preserve the fishing resources, the petitioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pondy-fishermen-want-pair-trawling-banned/articleshow/77482381.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kanpur||Increase ventilators, Level-3 Covid hosps in city: Dy CM||Kanpur: Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya visited Kanpur on Monday and reviewed arrangements to tackle the pandemic for curbing the steep rise in Covid cases in the city in the last few days. Maurya held a review meeting at Circuit House and directed the district authorities to increase the number of Level-3 Covid hospitals in the city and provide the corona test reports within 48 hours. Taking note of the sudden increase in cases in the city, the deputy chief minister told senior officials of district administration and health department to increase the number of ventilators also in hospitals. He specifically stressed there should be no gap in communication with corona infected persons and their family members. He expressed grave concern over the increasing number of corona cases and casualties in the city. Talking to reporters after the review meeting, Maurya said the corona test report has to be delivered within 48 hours. The chief medical officer and district authorities have been told to ensure maximum sampling and testing per day. “I have told the health department to increase ventilators in hospitals. The number of Level-3 Covid hospitals also has to be increased in the district,” said Maurya. A co-ordinator would be deputed in every hospital to coordinate and communicate between patients and their family members. In the review meeting, some public representatives complained about carelessness in admission of patients in hospital, he added. “The nodal officer’s liability has been fixed now. He has to help in admission of patients in hospitals and inform his family members about his condition,” he said. The deputy chief minister said essential equipment would be purchased from MP and MLA funds so that prevention and treatment is not hampered. The state government is doing its best and taking all measures to save the people of Kanpur from coronavirus. State industry minister Satish Mahana, minister for higher education Neelima Katiyar, MP Devendra Singh Bhole, MLC Arun Pathak, MLA Bhagwati Sagar, Surendra Maithani, mayor Pramila Pandey, divisional commissioner S M Bobde, IG Mohit Agarwal, district magistrate Dr BDR Tiwari, SSP/DIG Dr Preetinder Singh were also present in the review meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/increase-ventilators-level-3-covid-hosps-in-city-dy-cm/articleshow/77472823.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Vadodara||Leopard attacks girl in Devgadh Baria||Vadodara: A 13-year-old girl was seriously injured in an attack by a leopard in Puvala village of Devgadh Baria taluka in Dahod district on Monday. The girl, Bhavana Nayak, had gone to collect firewood in the forest near her house in Khos Faliya in the village. When the leopard attacked Nayak, she raised an alarm and tried to free herself from the big cat. Seeing a group of villagers rushing her help, the leopard escaped into the wild. The girl was bit on her head causing serious injuries and she was rushed to Vadodara for treatment. At least 22 leopard attacks have been reported in Dahod district since July. These included one in Devgadh Baria last month when two persons were injured. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-attacks-girl-in-devgadh-baria/articleshow/77469868.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kanpur||Cops dig bank details, financial transactions of don, aides in Kanpur||KANPUR: Police officials are rummaging through a pile of documents and closely scrutinising financial transactions and bank details of slain gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides in last 10 years to trace illegally gathered property and probe money laundering. A senior official of Kanpur Police said once the financial transactions and bank details of Dubey, his family and associates are scrutinised, a case will be registered under Gangster Act, and the property of Vikas and his aides would be attached after collecting all the evidences. “We are investigating if Vikas Dubey and his aides had used his illegally earned money to create assets. All the evidence collected in this regard would then be handed to other probe agencies,” he said. When details of property and investments of Dubey started coming out, it was alleged that the gangster used to earn somewhere between Rs 90 lakh and Rs 1.20 crore each month. Sources said Vikas Dubey and his financier Jaikant Bajpai have more than two dozen plots and houses in Industrial City (Kanpur), Uttarakhand, Mumbai and Noida. Besides, Jaikant Bajpai owns one bungalow in Dubai and one in Bangkok, each worth Rs 25 crore, said officials. The Special Investigating Team (SIT) has, meanwhile, asked the district registry department to provide details of wealth of 64 people directly and indirectly linked to gangster Vikas Dubey. “The team, which has sought details from registry department, will examine the illegal wealth acquired by Dubey and 64 others including his brother Deep Dubey, wife Richa Dubey, their two sons, financier Jaikant Bajpai, his wife Shweta Bajpai, his brother Rajaykant Bajpai, their property, business deals and other monetary transactions,” said SIT sources. “The team will also check if Dubey and his aides had illegally occupied government and private land, and if it was facilitated by local officials,” the sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cops-dig-bank-details-fin-transactions-of-don-aides/articleshow/77452716.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bhopal||BJP, Congress spar over tribal welfare, case against Patwari||Bhopal: Ahead of bypolls in Madhya Pradesh, both the BJP and Congress are claiming the support of tribals by flaunting the welfare works done by them in tribal areas. Reacting to Congress allegations on pitiable condition of tribals in the state, home minister Narottam Mishra said that Congress should clarify about the welfare works done during its 15-month rule in the state. Mishra also justified the FIR registered against Congress leader Jitu Patwari in Indore. “Congress should come clear on what the party has done for the tribals during 15-month of its rule in the state. Congress had promised farm loan waiver and stipend to unemployed youths but failed to fulfill the promises. Congress claims about tribals is merely an attempt to save its vote bank,” said Mishra on Monday. The BJP minister also attacked former chief minister Kamal Nath for threatening to hit streets against FIR registered on party leader Jitu Patwari. Mishra said that the case against Congress MLA is justified. “I know better how fake cases were registered against BJP leaders by the previous Congress government. Kamal Nath talks about hitting streets, but he should come out of Chhindwara instead. In fact he has pushed the entire party on the road,” said Mishra. Nath had on Sunday opposed registering a case against Patwari in a ‘fake’ social media post. Meanwhile, state urban development minister, Bhupendra Singh has justified the case against Patwari and demanded that he should be sued for treason. “The act by Patwari is highly objectionable and malicious. He has not only insulted the Prime Minister but the entire country and Hinduism. The act is a proof of the dirty mentality of Congress MLA. A case of treason should be registered against him,” said Singh on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-congress-spar-over-tribal-welfare-case-against-patwari/articleshow/77471121.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Two arrested for abetting suicide||Hyderabad: Nacharam police on Monday arrested two persons accused of abetting suicide of a housewife few days back. Both accused are in-laws of the victim. Following her death, her husband was arrested while the in-laws were taken into custody on Monday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-arrested-for-abetting-suicide/articleshow/77472593.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Rajkot||Five booked for shooting video inside Polo forest||Palanpur: The forest department has booked five persons of a local film crew for illegally entering Polo Forest in Sabarkantha and shooting videos without permission.The accused including a producer, director, two artists and a make-up man have been booked based on a video that has gone viral on social media platforms, assistant forest conservator Yogendra Desai said on Monday.The accused include producer Kisan Rawal director Farukh Gaekwad, both residents of Palanpur, artist Jeel Joshi who hails from Ratangadh area of Kankrej taluka and another artist Samarth Sharma, who is a resident of Vastral area of Ahmedabad. A makeup man from Mahisagar district Rakesh Rathod, who was accompanying them, has also been booked.According to Jayendrainh Vaghela, regional forest officer of Vijaynagar, a forest guard had spotted the crew members on August 7.“Our forest guard had also asked them not to carry out any such activity in the reserve forest area but they did not pay heed to his warning,” said Vaghela.“After they made the song viral, we recorded the crime under Indian Forest Act 1927 and under various sections of the Wildlife Protection Act,” he said, adding that the accused have been sent a notice to remain present. So far, none of the five have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-booked-for-shooting-video-inside-polo-forest/articleshow/77469866.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Electric vehicle sales in top gear, record 23% rise in 2020 than last year||HYDERABAD: In what can be seen as a move towards reducing the carbon footprint, sales of electric vehicles have shot up by 23% in the first eight months of 2020 compared to the same period in the previous year. According to data available with the regional transport authority (RTA), over 11,000 electric and battery-operated vehicles are plying in Telangana as on August 6. This includes over 6,000 electric cars and 4,000 electric two-wheelers. The corresponding number of electric vehicles plying in the state in July 2019 was 9,303 which included 5,573 electric cars, 3,690 electric two-wheelers and 40 RTC passenger vehicles. Industry experts attribute the rise in purchase of e-vehicles to factors such as reduction in goods and services tax (GST) as well as better affordability due to low costs of ownership. “One of the major factors could be the reduction of GST rates on electric vehicles from 12 % to 5 % in April last year. Subsidies for faster adoption of electric vehicles and total cost of ownership are some of the key factors that might be encouraging people to choose electric vehicles over diesel or petrol variants,” said Biju Mathews, chief executive officer, ETO Motors. “We believe that the increase in sales of electric vehicles will play a major role in improving the air quality, especially in metro cities like Hyderabad,” Mathews said. Experts also said that the recent decision of the state government to encourage and promote the usage of electric vehicles will push more people to choose them in the near future. The government approved the new Telangana State Electric Vehicle and Energy Storage Solution Policy and also decided to encourage production of electric vehicles in the state through various incentives to both prospective owners and manufacturers. “There is definitely an increase in the number of electric vehicles plying on roads when compared to last year. Although this could be a normal growth, we have to study the reasons behind it to understand the rise in numbers,” said joint transport commissioner, C Ramesh. Officials were confident that incentives such as 100% exemption of road tax and registration fee will also encourage more people to choose electric vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ev-sales-in-top-gear-record-23-rise-in-20-than-last-yr/articleshow/77471097.cms||Moulika.KV
August 11, 2020||Chennai||State likely to see more transfers of senior rank cops||CHENNAI: The state police has seen a spate of transfers of senior officials in the rank of deputy superintendent and above in July and more can be expected in a week or two. On July 1, 52 officials shifted and on July 25, another 14 officers were transferred. The buzz in police circles is that the changes have been made with an eye on the assembly elections, which are due in May. But why now, when the elections are months away? One theory doing the rounds is that this will give the officers enough time to come to grips with the situation in their new jurisdiction. Most of the officers, including in the rank of additional director-general of police, transferred had served three years in one post. So they would have anyway been moved by the Election Commission once elections were declared. As a matter of routine, the Election Commission transfers, for the duration of the election process, officers serving in the same post for three years or more. Insiders in the police department, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said it’s not just about politicians manipulating postings. Many officers too have manoeuvred to get postings of their choice. Some officers are using their political clout to ensure they are posted within Chennai city police limits, though in another revenue district to avoid Election Commission scrutiny, said a police officer who spoke on condition of anonymity. Administratively too, transfers now give the officers eight to ten months time before they prepare for the elections. A retired police officer, said such transfers usually happen to prevent the eleventh-hour shunting by the Election Commission where the police officials will not have any say and will have to deal with a new jurisdiction with no time to prepare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/state-likely-to-see-more-transfers-of-senior-rank-cops/articleshow/77471128.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||IIIT-H, NIT students among Smart India Hackathon winners||Hyderabad: Library Management System developed by the students of the International Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIITH) and Satya, a website app for reporting bribery developed by the National Institute of Technology (NIT), Warangal students, are among the winners of Smart India Hackathon 2020.  “Auto-tagging of books the minute they enter the library is not that hard. We wanted the system to be more efficient and seamless though,” says Gaurang Tandon, team leader of the IIITH, adding that they made it more user-friendly from the (book) borrower’s perspective. “We added a recommender that will suggest books based on the user’s reading patterns. We also integrated a chatbot into the system through which basic functionality such as searching for, borrowing and returning books, as well as finding book recommendations could be executed through the bot,” he added and said that the app can be used on smartphones by scanning the codes via the phone cameras instead of additional hardware. To keep a tab on the total number of books, type of books issued, etc., under various categories, the team also built a server where the administrator or librarian could log in and gain access to such reports at a glance. Meanwhile, the NIT team from Warangal worked on a problem statement provided by the Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), which is to develop a digital solution to combat bribery and justice restoration. They created an end-to-end online platform comprising 3 layers/tiers to make it easier for the general public to seamlessly report incidents of corruption. “SATYA offers the service of a website, Android app, and a helpline number for reporting of bribery. In addition to the above, the team also included an API service (SATYA API) which could be used by developers to use our services and develop their own platform,” said NV Ramana Rao, director, NIT Warangal. The IIITH team—Occam’s Razor, worked on an open-ended problem statement of ‘Library Software for Andaman College’ proposed by Dr BR Ambedkar Institute of Technology in the Smart Education domain||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iiit-h-nit-students-among-smart-india-hackathon-winners/articleshow/77471106.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 11, 2020||Goa||18 Mapusa fish vendors test +ve||Saligao: The Mapusa fish market will now reopen only after Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. The Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) took this decision on Monday after 18 fish vendors, out of 29 whose swabs were collected, tested positive for Covid-19. These affected fish vendors are contacts of the fish vendor from Nerul who had tested positive last week, after which the municipality shut down the market. “We have decided to keep the fish market closed till the end of the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. However, the main market will remain open,” Mapusa municipality chairperson Ryan Braganza told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/18-mapusa-fish-vendors-test-ve/articleshow/77472614.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Minor escapes from abductors after 5 months||ALWAR: A 16-year-old girl who was allegedly kidnapped five months ago from Bharatpur’s Mathura Gate police station area, returned home after escaping from her abductors who had gang-raped her since abduction.  Rajendra Sharma, SHO, Mathura Gate said, “The girl was abducted on March 13 following which her abductors took her to another place where 6-7 accused continued to rape her till she escaped. The girl’s mother lodged a case with us and we have begun investigation".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-escapes-from-abductors-after-5-mths/articleshow/77472622.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bhopal||Universal health coverage will make MP self-reliant: CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said on Monday that health and education would be among top priorities of his government as it proceeds to work on the roadmap for an “Atmanirbhar Madhya Pradesh”. Addressing the valedictory session of webinar on “education and health” being organised to prepare a roadmap for “Atmanirbhar MP”, he said “universal health coverage” and “universal immunisation” are prime goals that his government has as it endeavour to achieve the goal of “self-reliant healthy Madhya Pradesh.” He said there has been good work under “Ayushman Bharat” scheme in Madhya Pradesh and there would be focus on new techniques like telemedicine to ensure the best healthcare for the people of the state. Ayush, Yoga, Pranayam and traditional ways to keep body and mind in good order would also be promoted in a big way, he said. Chouhan further said that provisions of new education policy would be implemented in the state right away and vocational & job-oriented education would be provided to students from class sixth. Union health minister, Dr Harshwardhan, who also participated in the webinar, commended the chief minister and his government for handling the Coronavirus pandemic well despite lack of wherewithal to do it when he took over as CM. He said there is being good work under TB Control Programme in MP and sick newborn units are also doing an excellent job. He said work on health & wellness centres in MP is also going on well. A total of 10500 such centres are proposed in the state and 2986 have started functioning, where hundreds of people are benefiting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/health-edu-are-mp-govts-top-priority-says-shivraj/articleshow/77471164.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Amid e-learning push, opthalmologists say students need breaks every 45 mins||Hyderabad: Stressing on the need for breaks during online classes, ophthalmologists said that a teacher must give a break every 45 minutes and a long break of 1-2 hours during longer sessions. They also said that online classes should be scheduled in the morning and afternoon hours only so that children do not use these devices in the evening and night time. “The amount of time a child spends using digital devices should be proportionate to the child’s age. While 12 to 16-year-olds can be allowed 8 hours of online study, the hours of screen time for younger children should be restricted to less than 4 hours. Toddlers (younger than 3 years) must be refrained from using any digital device,” said Dr Ramesh Kekunnaya, head, Child Sight Institute, LV Prasad Eye Institute, Hyderabad, and added that children should be encouraged to consciously blink frequently. “An easy method to follow is the 20-20-20 rule, where every 20 minutes, the child should take a 20-second break and look at any object 20 feet away. This will relax the ciliary muscles of the eyes and ease the strain due to prolonged near work,” he added. Opthalmologists said that increased use of electronic gadgets, prolonged near work, and lack of daylight exposure can result in the progression of myopia or near-sightedness in children. Prolonged exposure to blue light, which is emitted by electronic devices, especially before bedtime, can cause sleep disturbances in children. Too much screen time can also result in dry eye, headache, stress, anxiety, behavioural, and mental issues, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amid-e-learning-push-opthalmologists-say-students-need-breaks-every-45-mins/articleshow/77471114.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Rajkot||150-year-old Bhadarvi Poonam fair at Ambaji cancelled||Palanpur: Bhadarvi Poonam, the biggest religious congregation in the famous temple town Ambaji will not be held this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The annual week-long Bhadarvi Poonam fair, which is attended by nearly 20-25 lakh people, has also been called off. Banaskantha’s collector Sandip Sagle, who is also chairman of Shri Arasuri Ambaji Mata Devasthan Trust (SAAMDT) that manages the temple, said on Monday that the fair has been cancelled in view of guidelines received from the centre as well as those issued by the state government. The fair was to begin from August 27 and end on September 2. “Maintaining social distance during such large religious and social gatherings is a daunting task,” said Sagle. “Also, the directives received from the state government are very clear that such large religious and social gatherings cannot be permitted due to the current pandemic situation when the risk of infection is high,” he said. Bhadarvi Poonam which is also celebrated as the incarnation day of Goddess Amba is over 150-year-old traditional religious fair during which lakhs of devotees from across the country throng the temple town to offer prayer to Goddess Amba. Many devotees undertake ‘pad yatra’ (foot journey) to the holy temple to invite the Goddess to play garba during Navratri that begins later. Earlier, the Janmashtami celebrations in temple town Dwarka were also cancelled due to the the pandemic. Lakhs of devotees throng the town for ‘Krishna Janm’ and its impossible to maintain social distancing. The temple will also remain closed for four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/150-year-old-bhadarvi-poonam-fair-at-ambaji-cancelled/articleshow/77469904.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: New administrator defends ESI hospital, says healthcare on par with the best||MARGAO: Recently-appointed administrator of the ESI-Covid hospital Dr Uday Kakodkar said on Monday that contrary to general perception, “the best of treatment on par with the best of healthcare facilities elsewhere” was being provided at the hospital. Kakodkar, a pulmonary medicine consultant at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, said, “The ESI hospital is equipped with all necessary medical infrastructure.” Kakodkar illustrated his point by referring to a recent three-hour emergency surgery performed on a 70-plus cancer patient at the Covid hospital. The patient, who complained of fever for the past two months, was initially treated at the Ponda sub-district hospital and then at GMC, where he tested positive for Covid. “He was diagnosed with a ruptured bowel,. As this was a life-threatening condition, a decision was taken to perform an emergency surgery on him.” The patient was shifted to the Covid hospital taking utmost precautionary measures. All the medical tools and equipment necessary for the surgery was immediately transported from GMC. Kakodkar said this was done to ensure there was no delay in providing the necessary treatment. A colostomy, besides other surgical procedures, was successfully conducted on the patient, with everybody wearing full personal protection equipment (PPE). “Performing a surgery wearing PPE is tough,” Kakodkar said. “However, the team of doctors, paramedical staff and assisting personnel who were involved in the emergency surgery gave their 100% .” This emergency surgery, according to Kakodkar, exemplifies that “every Covid-infected patient is treated as a whole, and not in compartments.” He also dismissed allegations that super-speciality consultants were not available at the Covid hospital. “When their opinion is needed to manage a patient’s condition, their advice is definitely sought, and they come and examine the patient in the Covid hospital.” Kakodkar, however, expressed his concern over the spike in infections, leading to near-full occupancy of the hospital. “Hospitals too have limitations. It’s the responsibility of every person to adhere to social distancing norms, wearing face masks and maintaining personal hygiene.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-admin-defends-esi-hosp-says-healthcare-on-par-with-the-best/articleshow/77472639.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
August 11, 2020||Kochi||60 recover, 40 fresh cases in Thrissur||THRISSUR: The district heaved a sigh of relief on Monday as 60 people tested negative for Covid-19, while only 40 people tested positive. However, a disturbing aspect is that of the 40 people who tested positive, 30 acquired infection through social contacts. Among those tested positive the source of infection was not known in the case of three people. A health worker from Thekkumkara has tested positive. The total number of people who have tested positive so far in the district has now touched 2,069. Meanwhile, the state’s largest Covid first line treatment centre (CFLTC) with a bed strength of 1,500 is getting ready at Nattika in the coastal area of Thrissur. The centre is being set up at Nattika Cotton Mill building complex which was handed over by NRI industrialist M A Yusaffali to the government for this. The minister for local self-government A C Moideen convened a meeting of the people’s representatives recently to review the progress of the setting up of the CFLTC. Deputy DMO Dr Satish K N said that the CFLTC was likely to be operational by August 15. The minister said that food for the patients who come to the CFLTC will be made available with the help of Kudumbashree and local bodies. The centre will be provided with enough toilets, treatment facilities and security. Yusaffali has provided fans and lights for the CFLTC. Moideen said police will be deployed at the entrance to regulate visitors.  The floor of the building complex has been modified by laying tiles so that trolleys can be used there. Doctors’ cabin and nursing station, as well as entertainment avenues like TV will also be provided. Incinerators will be set up to handle the waste from the centre. Kits containing articles for daily use, warm water and waste baskets will also be provided. The minister appealed to different sections in society to provide fridges, water purifiers and washing machines to the centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/60-recover-40-fresh-cases-in-thrissur/articleshow/77469959.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Mumbai||Woman throws baby from 6th floor||Mumbai: A 25-year-old unmarried woman was booked by Pant Nagar police for allegedly throwing her newborn baby from the sixth floor of her apartment in Ghatkopar (E). Police said she was admitted to Cooper hospital as she was weak and unwell. Police booked her under IPC section 318 for “secretly burying or otherwise disposing of the dead body of a child, whether such child died before, after or during birth, intentionally concealing or endeavouring to conceal birth of such child”, and she can be imprisoned for up to two years, or with fine, or both. A milkman alerted the security guard of the building who informed the secretary about an infant lying dead in a pool of blood outside the building at Gaurishankar Wadi on August 4, said senior inspector Suhash Kamble. As there has been a lockdown for five months, building residents told police they were unaware of who was pregnant. A doctor said in his report that the baby had head injuries and was alive when she was born. Police then added IPC sections of murder (302) and causing disappearance of evidence (201) against the woman. “The infant was from the same building, so lady officers kept a watch and zeroed in a young woman who looked pale and weak. On inquiries she admitted she threw the baby as it was born out of wedlock,” said Kamble. Police said they will record her statement when she comes out of trauma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-throws-baby-from-6th-floor/articleshow/77471808.cms||Ahmed Ali
August 11, 2020||Varanasi||Traders dominate Covid chart, asked to provide their, staff’s health status||Times News Network Varanasi: Following a high percentage of traders and their contacts in the figures of Covid-19 positive cases being reported in the district, the traders have been asked to provide their health status and of their employees. The administration records reveal that among the total infected persons 50% belong to trader fraternity while 60% fatalities have taken place in localities falling under limits of six police stations, which house main markets of the city. All traders associations and unions have been given a format for collection of health status of their trader members and their employees, said district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma. Once the health status is handed over to health officials, the comorbid or symptomatic traders and their employees will be contacted immediately to initiate necessary actions like proper screening and deciding on course of treatment, he added. According to the DM , a profession-wise data of Covid-19 positive cases was created on August 6, when the district’s Covid-19 tally was 3,753. Among these, 1,882 were traders and persons in their contact, which is almost 50% of the total figure. Among rest, the share of private salaried persons, medical professional and their contacts and policemen was high, he said. The trader’s fraternity had started dominating the Covid-19 chart with the unlock in May. TOI, on July 16, took stock of the Covid figures which revealed that among 979 cases 427 were traders. The figures of Covid-19 cases went above 4,600 on Monday, maintaining the same trend, admitted officials. Sharma said that even data of Covid-19 fatalities show that of 74 deaths reported till August 6, 32 were traders which is 40%. This shows that trader fraternity is highly exposed to the virus and hence should follow the prescribed norms like wearing masks and realise the importance of sanitisation and social distancing, he added. Maximum fatalities have been reported from the localities under the limits of Sigra, Cantt, Chowk, Manduadih, Bhelupur, Lanka, Chetganj and Kotwali. Most of the city’s major markets, mostly wholesale markets fall under the same police station areas, said the officials. DM said that all traders associations and unions of district are being appealed to maintain discipline in their markets to avoid further spread of this menace. Box: Most exposed to Covid-19 # District administration furnished a profession wise date of 3753 cases registered till August 6 # Among it Businessmen and their contacts were 1882 # Private salaried persons 411 # Migrants 316 # Medical fraternity and their contacts 297 # House wives 262 # policemen and their contacts 226 # Government servants 174 # Students 99 # Retired people 46 # Jamaat attendees and their contacts 22 # Children 17 # Politician 1||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/traders-dominate-covid-chart-asked-to-provide-their-staffs-health-status/articleshow/77472594.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bareilly||Nepal nationals start farming on no man’s land along border in UP||Bareilly: Near the international border pillars at Gauriphanta in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri, patches of sugarcane have been growing for a few weeks now. It’s Nepal nationals, Indian officials said, who have been farming on no man’s land between the territories of the two countries. “Nepal nationals have started farming in no man’s land on the edge of the forests of Dudhwa. We have told the SSB and the district magistrate. Indian officials have spoken to their Nepal counterparts about the latest encroachment,” said Manoj Sonkar, deputy director of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve. “The problem (of ‘encroachment’) had come up and was resolved in June after our meetings with Nepal officials. We will bring it up again at the next (district official-level monthly) meeting.”On the other side of the border from Lakhimpur Kheri are two Nepal districts, Kailali and Kanchanpur. The crops have come up around pillar number 752/6, maintained by India — the odd-numbered pillars are looked after by Nepal and the even-numbered ones by India. A stretch 9.1-metre wide on both sides of border pillars is demarcated as no man’s land, where no state has any jurisdiction.In June, some of these pillars had “gone missing”. Munna Singh, SSB commandant of the 39th Battalion, which oversees the 63-km area along the India-Nepal border in Lakhimpur Kheri, had then written to district magistrate Shailendra Singh about the “encroachment”. After meetings with Nepal officials, the problem had been resolved. But soon after, Nepal officials were seen accompanying locals who were cremating their dead on the Indian side of the border — twice.India, meanwhile, keeps its guard up along the border as Nepal presses its claim on three areas along the border. “SSB officials have stepped up their vigil,” Sonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nepal-nationals-start-farming-on-no-mans-land-along-border-in-up/articleshow/77468783.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 11, 2020||Goa||CCP peon gets virus, office entry restricted||Panaji: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) closed its doors to the public for sanitation of its premises after a peon from Chimbel tested positive for Covid. The total cases in the state capital also crossed the century mark on Monday. CCP has decided to let only those with urgent work into the office for the next week. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said the office gates have been closed and said there would be restrictions on those visiting the office. “We appeal to people not to unnecessarily visit the office. A security person will permit those only with important work to enter. House tax and trade licences can be paid online. The entry desk outside the office, at the old telephone building, will continue to remain open. The public can submit documents there, so they leave their contact number. They will be contacted once the work is done,” Madkaikar said. The peon reported to work last Tuesday after his mother tested positive first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-peon-gets-virus-office-entry-restricted/articleshow/77472652.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Latur collector’s pregnant wife narrates tale of defeating Covid||Aurangabad: Sonam, who is married to Latur district collector G Sreekant, successfully recovered after contracting Covid-19 during pregnancy. Now she is sharing her experiences to help allay fears among other expectant mothers.Positive thinking helps in stress-free and speedy recovery, said Sonam on Saturday night in a Facebook Live session organised by the Latur district administration.Sonam recalled that she first started feeling tired. Then she started getting chills, fever, body ache and sore throat since July 18. Sonam and Sreekanth were mentally prepared that she may have contracted Covid-19. “The first Covid-19 cases started being reported in India when I was in my first trimester. I prayed for Latur to remain Covid-19 free. However, I soon tested positive,” she said. Sonam decided to get treatment at home with the help of government doctors and her gynaecologist. The couple, who already have a young daughter, made a list of to-do things.“It was clear that I would have to stay in isolation for at least 10 days. Though my husband tested negative, he decided to take care of our daughter by discharging his duties from home. The first day of isolation was tough, but later, I developed a proper mindset,” Sonam said.“I spent time reading the Bhagwat Geeta, doing pranayams, watched TV serials and comedy shows and talked to near and near ones over the phone without telling them that I had contracted Covid-19. This kept negativity at bay,” she said.Sonam said doctors treating her told her that a baby in the womb remains safe despite the mother contracting Covid.“I had lost weight. The doctors told me to focus on my diet. A good diet builds immunity. I also kept a watch on the oxygen-level in the body and blood pressure,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/latur-collectors-pregnant-wife-narrates-tale-of-defeating-covid/articleshow/77472653.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||Create OPD elsewhere before using Ponda hospital for Covid: GFP||Panaji: Before converting the Ponda sub-district hospital into a dedicated facility for Covid-19 patients, the health department should immediately make alternative arrangements for medical care, Goa Forward Party (GFP) said here on Monday. Clarifying that it is not opposed to the move to convert the Ponda sub-district hospital into a Covid hospital, GFP said it is averse to medical care being denied to the residents of Ponda taluka. GFP’s Ponda block head Rajesh Verenkar pointed out that the sub-district hospital at Ponda caters to entire Ponda taluka and many pregnant women rely on it for delivery. “The health department should immediately make necessary arrangements at the old primary health centre at Ponda,” Verenkar said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/create-opd-elsewhere-before-using-ponda-hospital-for-covid-gfp/articleshow/77472667.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada hospital chief missing after fire, 3 senior managers held||HYDERABAD: Vijayawada police are on the lookout for Dr Potineni Ramesh, owner of Ramesh Hospitals, even as three senior managers from the hospital were arrested on Monday. Dr Ramesh has come under the scanner after 10 patients died in Sunday’s fire at Swarna Palace Hotel, a Covid-19 facility leased by his hospital. The hospital and hotel managements have been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. “We have arrested three staff of Ramesh Hospitals and raided house and hospital of Dr Ramesh. We have also seized some documents. Ramesh was not available at office or his home. He switched off his mobile phone and is absconding. As the head of the hospital, his role is being investigated,” Vijayawada ACP N Suryachandar Rao told TOI. TOI too was not able to reach Dr Ramesh on his cellphone. “The main accused arrested in the case, Dr Rajagopal Rao, is the chief operating officer (COO) of the hospital. He secured permission from the district medical and health officer for the Covid care cente. Others arrested are Dr K Sudarshan, general manager of the hospital in charge of Swarna Palace centre and the night manager P Venkatesh. The hotel that the hospital leased, has no fire NOC, no emergency equipment, no fire exit. It is a clear case of culpability,” the ACP said. Meanwhile, Dr Ramesh released a video blaming the accident on the management of Swarna Palace. “Short circuit has resulted in a fire mishap at 5.00 am,” he said in the clip. “The fire department, police, government officials and hospital rescue team responded quickly and rescued 20 patients. As the number of patients are increasing, the district collector and DMHO asked us to admit them as in-patients.” He added that based on this they started treating the patients. “We have applied for two hotels as Covid-19 treating centres. Around 200 patients were treated and discharged. The arrangement was that the hotel management would take care of the facility and we would provide medical services,” Ramesh added in the video. He expressed condolences to the families of the victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hosp-chief-missing-3-held-for-fire-deaths/articleshow/77473270.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP president JP Nadda pans Telangana govt on Covid handling and low testing in state||HYDERABAD: On a day when a central team was taking stock of the Covid-19 situation in Telangana by visiting hospitals and testing centres, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda came down heavily on the state government for failing to handle the pandemic well. However, the ruling Telangana Rashtra (TRS) Samithi refuted the charges. Addressing a virtual conference of state Bharatiya Janata Party workers on the occasion of ground-breaking ceremony of party offices in nine districts in Telangana on Monday, he wondered: “What did Telangana government do during the Covid-19 crisis? Despite the high court pulling up the regime, it continues to be in a sleeping mode.” Criticising the government for not doing enough to contain the virus, Nadda said Telangana continues fare poorly even in the testing. “We know there is a shortage of oxygen cylinders here. People have died because of that,” he said and added the approach of the government towards Covid-19 management was condemnable. Reacting sharply, Telangana Rashtra Samithi MLA, government whip Gongidi Sunitha Reddy said the state government had taken all measures needed to combat Covid-19. Stating that there was no truth in the allegations made by Nadda, she told TOI: “Even PHCs, community health centres and district headquarters hospitals are conducting the Covid-19 tests for the benefit of people.” Meanwhile, assailing TRS government for refusing to be part of the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat scheme, Nadda said: “Private hospitals in Telangana are charging Rs 1 lakh a day from Covid-19 patients. Ayushman Bharat could have given relief to such people had the state opted for the scheme.” At least one crore population in the state could have benefited out of it. The Bharatiya Janata Party chief alleged that the TRS government was indulging in lsarge-scale corruption in Kaleshwaram irrigation project. “The cost of the project was pegged at Rs 45,000 crore. Till now, more than Rs 1 lakh crore was spent. Is it not corruption?” he sought to know. “Even after being in power for six years, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi regime did not provide one lakh jobs to unemployed youth as it had promised,” he charged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nadda-pans-t-govt-on-covid-handling-low-testing-in-state/articleshow/77471120.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Power demand in Rajasthan rises, points to economic revival||JAIPUR: At a time when everybody is pinning hopes on economic recovery that would reduce uncertainties around jobs, salaries and business prospects, the rise in power consumption in Rajasthan has come as a relief. Power consumption, an indicator of economic activity, has been on the rise in the last couple of months after a falling for March and April when the country was placed under lockdown to contain the spread of Covid-19. Rajasthan is one of the states in the country along with MP, UP and Uttarakhand where energy consumption is bouncing back. On the other hand, power consumption remains low in more industrialised states. As per the energy department data, power consumption fell to 5,657 million units (MU) in March this year compared to 6,614 MU in the same period last year. Lockdown was clamped in the country in the last week of March. As the lockdown remained in force throughout April, the consumption fell to 4,757 MU against 6,064 MU in the same month last year . However, revival started in May after reopening of the economy started. “Power consumption reflects the level of economic activity taking place. The rising trend points that the economy is on the mend. We expect the rising trajectory to gain further momentum in coming months as companies keep increasing their capacity utilization,” said a senior official of the state energy department. When contacted, industry representatives said there is a marked improvement, but it will take a couple of quarters to reach the pre-Covid levels. Dileep Baid, an exporter, who also caters to the domestic market, said, “Export demand has been rising faster than domestic sales. The retail stores are still to be operational in full capacity . We hope the coming festival season will generate the demand the industry expects. That would be key for revival of the economy.”  The GST and VAT collections during May, June and July also confirm the uptick in industrial activity as indicated by power demand. In the past two months, collections from both accounts in Rajasthan also exceeded the levels witnessed last year. While there was a moratorium for payment of the taxes till June, officials at finance department had said that despite relief, the collections show an improvement in economic activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/power-demand-in-raj-rises-points-to-economic-revival/articleshow/77472660.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 11, 2020||Thane||Palghar: Two sisters die under stack of plywood tipped over by dog||THANE: Two minor daughters of a timber merchant were allegedly crushed to death under a stack of plywood sheets after a stray dog jumped on it at at their home in Shil, adjoining Mumbra, late on Sunday. A part of Vishwambar Chaurasia’s house in Loncha galli was converted into a godown and Ranju (11) and Manju (9) were near a stack while their parents were having dinner in an adjoining room. A neighbourhood dog allegedly strayed inside and tried to jump over a stack around 9pm. The noise alerted the family and neighbours, but when they removed all planks, they found the girls lying motionless. Daighar police said the girls were among eight siblings. “They suffered serious chest and head injuries and were taken to hospital, where they succumbed to injuries,” a neighbour said. “The family said the girls had gone to keep a mosquito repellent near the stack,” senior inspector Chandrakant Jadhav said. He said a case of accidental death was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/2-sisters-die-under-stack-of-plywood-tipped-over-by-dog/articleshow/77471813.cms||Manoj Badgeri
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||OGH contract staff stage dharna over quarantine leave||Hyderabad: Nearly 200 sanitation workers staged protests at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) on Monday morning demanding seven-day quarantine leave as allowed by the government. Not knowing that the hospital had already allowed leaves and the contractor had kept them in the dark, hundreds of workers gathered to stage protests over the issue and in the process forgetting all about social distancing norms. Over 400 sanitation workers, patient care workers and security personnel work at the hospital as contract workers. They were not being given mandatory quarantine leave by the contractor since the onset of the pandemic. Over the past few months, 15 workers had tested positive and many others developed symptoms. “The contractor was not allowing workers to avail the leave so finally they represented the issue to the hospital superintendent. Although the contractor is the employer of these workers, the hospital superintendent is the principal employer as per the Contract Labour Act. Hence, workers reached out to the superintendent as a last resort,” Telangana Medical Contract Employees and Workers Union general secretary M Narasimha said. OGH superintendent Dr Nagender said, “We have been giving quarantine leave for three months now. The workers should have informed us earlier. They unnecessarily staged a dharna, with so many workers congregating in one space. I assured them that we will take care of all our frontline workers .” Not knowing that the hospital had already allowed leaves and the contractor had kept them in the dark, hundreds of workers gathered to stage protests over the issue||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ogh-contract-staff-stage-dharna-over-quarantine-leave/articleshow/77471133.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Mangor locals rejoin work, medical camp held to issue fitness certificates||VASCO: After 69 days of being confined inside the state’s first containment zone, several residents of Mangor Hill, Vasco, reported to work on Monday even as many others made a beeline for a fitness certificate. Given the large numbers, a special medical camp was held to issue these certificates. “Upon the request of Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida, the sub-district hospital held a medical camp at the Mangor Hill Sports Club for residents of Bada Mangor and Chota Mangor areas, and fitness certificates were issued,” Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) councillor, Fredrick Henriques said. While Mangor Hill was de-notified as a containment zone on Sunday night, Bada Mangor and Chota Mangor were notified as micro containment zones. “These is no restrictions on the movement of Mangor Hill residents, but about 40 police personnel continue to be deployed at Bada Mangor and Chota Mangor. The movement of people here has been strictly restricted,” Mormugao PI Paresh Naik, who is holding additional charge of Vasco police station, said. Henriques said that the health certificate will facilitate locals to resume work in cases where employers ask for one. Outside the sports complex, people were seen queued up amid tight police security and observing social distancing. For the people of Chota Mangor, certificates were issued from 10am to 1pm, and for those from Bada Mangor between 2pm and 5pm. The fitness camp is likely to be continued on Tuesday as many more residents have requested for certificates. Henriques said, “The fitness certificate states that the person has no Covid symptoms.” Even those who have recovered from Covid have been issued a fitness certificate. It may be recalled that on June 1, Mangor Hill comprising municipal wards 11 and 17 was declared a containment zone after five members from one family tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mangor-locals-rejoin-work-medical-camp-held-to-issue-fitness-certificates/articleshow/77472684.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Four inventors seek funds for world’s first modular mask||PANAJI: In March, just as the Covid pandemic was beginning to dig its roots in the country, Benaulim-based innovator Deepak Pathania realised that protective masks and face shields will become a necessity but could also add to the bio-waste already polluting the Earth. Based out of the Centre for Incubation and Business Acceleration (CIBA), Pathania and his team designed a reusable mask which can be used by healthcare workers, hospitality staff, retail workers, civic employees, security and industry personnel. Pathania, who claims that the multi-mask is the world’s first modular mask, has started a crowdfunding campaign on the American crowdfunding site Indiegogo, from where he hopes to raise Rs 22.4 lakh to produce the masks. Med Interventions and Beyond, Inc, the company behind multi-mask, has filed a patent for the product. “The idea was to make the product compete with the best in the world,” said Pathania, founder and director, Med Interventions and Beyond, Inc. “Crowdfunding platforms have a category for products in prototype stage and it is important to spread the word because pre-selling a product is a good way to generate capital and also get feedback on the product, acceptability and its pricing.” While the initial prototype was made at CIBA’s maker lab at Verna, the company is also working with a Pune-based design company to help with the final design, tooling and production process. Pathania sought design inputs and feedback from users in Goa which helped the company fine tune the prototype. “In choosing manufacturing location, our goal will be to go with the location that provide the most optimal balance between speed and cost, while achieving the highest level of quality possible. We are already in discussions with prospective manufacturers in US and India among others to narrow down our options,” said the company while admitting that the crowdfunding campaign will help it understand the demand for the product. An alumnus of National Institute of Design (NID), Pathania is no stranger to innovative designs. Pathania, along with his brother Amit, designed ICICI’s smart vault, India’s first automated locker which is accessible 24x7 like an ATM. This time around, Pathania partnered with Shilpa Salgia, a long-time business mentor, Kanishk Kharbanda and Sudeep Salgia, an IIT -Mumbai graduate. The four have co-founded the company, with operations in the US and in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/four-inventors-seek-funds-for-worlds-first-modular-mask/articleshow/77472680.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chennai||1,000 flat owners in fix as clubhouse they paid for put on the block||CHENNAI: Around 1,000 residents of an apartment complex in Thirumudivakkam in the southern suburbs are in a spot, with State Bank of India putting up a club house on the premises for auction over a mortgage default. The residents paid Rs 1 lakh-Rs 1.5 lakh each for developing the club house as a common property, but, the fine-print of the agreement with the builder showed the property was owned by him. He later mortgaged it against a loan with the bank which decided to hold the auction on August 28 after he defaulted on payments. A Moorthy, president of the residents association, said most flat owners were senior citizens who paid a sizeable sum for the ‘Royal Club’. “The builder took funds from us saying it was for construction of the club house, but we did not get ownership. We don’t know what to do now,” said the 62-year-old. While the builder couldn’t be reached for comment, the association’s complaint to SBI hasn’t got a response. TOI also studied documents related to the case. P Balaji, counsel for the residents, said the builder, while selling the flats, insisted on payment of membership fee for the club house. “They got an estimate sheet, promising 22sqft to each resident. But, the residents did not check the agreement which clearly mentioned the builder was owner of the clubhouse,” Balaji said. Now, despite the property being auctioned, the residents can’t claim money from the auctioned sum. “We can only prefer a criminal complaint,” Balaji said. Legal experts who vetted the documents said the residents could file individual suits for compensation, but that such cases could drag on for years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1000-flat-owners-in-fix-as-clubhouse-they-paid-for-put-on-the-block/articleshow/77471265.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 11, 2020||Aurangabad||GMCH dean asks citizens to undergo antibody test||Aurangabad: Dean of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Kanan Yelikar said on Monday said that it was a matter of celebration if the antibody tests being carried out as a part of ongoing sero survey showed positive results. “Unlike RT-PCR and rapid antigen tests for Covid-19, if the antibody tests are bearing fruit, then it is a matter of celebration. Antibody tests showing positive results implies boost in the public immunity,” she Yelikar. Speaking on the occasion of the launch of Sero survey in Aurangabad on Monday, GMCH dean said that citizens should voluntarily come forward for testing during Sero survey, instead of shying away from it. “Areas in the city which have shown maximum positive result for antibody tests are an indication that the public immunity against Covid-19 has increased in such localities. The sero survey is in the interest of public and should receive wholehearted response,” she said. Health officer of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation Neeta Padalkar said Aurangabad was among the few cities in the country which have been selected for sero survey. “People should shed their inhibitions associated with sero survey. We would like to clarify once again that nobody covered under sero survey will be quarantined or isolated for any treatment,” she Padalkar. Sero survey will be carried out with the help of 20 medical teams across all municipal wards in Aurangabad till August 15. The massive exercise is being carried out with the support of social group Bhratiya Jain Sanghatana and MGM hospital among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gmch-dean-asks-citizens-to-undergo-antibody-test/articleshow/77472688.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||HSRP ops resume with fewer fittings||Panaji: After a second hiatus owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, installations of high security number plates (HSRP) resumed in the state on Monday. To maintain social distancing, the smaller centres are catering to only 30 vehicles per day while the bigger centres are catering to 50. “We are keeping time intervals between each vehicle. Some vehicle owners are from sensitive zones, which is why we are being very careful,” Kate Kayani, in-charge of HSRP fittings in Goa, said. Staff at each centre have been instructed to follow all precautions to ensure safety while dealing with vehicle owners or drivers. Currently, vehicles that were scheduled for installations in April-May are being catered to. These number plates were already manufactured and kept ready prior to the suspension of operations. It is only after the completion of backlogs that fittings will be taken up for vehicles as per the schedule. However, owing to the limited number of vehicles that are being attended to, the process has slowed down considerably. “We don’t know when we will be able to go full steam ahead so as of now, due to social distancing measures, we can only issue so may receipts a day. The fitting process may go on until next year,” Kayani said. Officials from the directorate of transport said that while HSRP operations are expected to be smooth, regular checks will be conducted to ensure there are no hiccups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hsrp-ops-resume-with-fewer-fittings/articleshow/77472692.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||Increase testing in Maha: Fadnavis||Panaji: Former Maharashtra chief minister and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Monday urged the Maharashtra government to increase testing as well as isolation facilities in view of rising Covid cases. “Covid-19 is a serious problem in Maharashtra, and cases are rising alarmingly by the day. The infection is spreading rapidly across the state,” he said. “The situation is grim. There is a need to increase testing as well as isolation facilities for Covid patients. We have been continuously telling this to the Maharashtra government,” Fadnavis said. When asked for his opinion on the effectiveness of antigen testing, Fadnavis said, “It would be better if the ratio of RT-PCR and antigen testing is maintained at 1:1, or even 1:1.5. But if the proportion is 1:2, then a possibility of false-negative reports could arise. Two labs in Mumbai attempted Covid testing using this ratio, but this led to a high failure rate of 65%. Antigen tests should be conducted, but the correct ratio should be maintained,” he said. Earlier in the day, Fadnavis inaugurated a Covid lab at Sindhudurg, after which he had to board a flight to Mumbai from Goa airport. Enroute to the airport, he paid a visit to chief minister Pramod Sawant. “It was just a courtesy visit, nothing official,” Fadnavis said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/increase-testing-in-maha-fadnavis/articleshow/77472685.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt will take 50% beds in private hospitals if they flout rules: Telangana minister Eatala Rajender||HYDERABAD: Health minister Eatala Rajender on Monday warned that the state government would take over 50% of private hospital beds if they did not fall in line. Rajender said a three-member central team on a tour of Covid-19 hospitals came across numerous complaints against private hospitals and later advised the government to take over the reins of truant hospitals under the Epidemic Disease Act, if required. “The minister directed officials to take over 50% private hospital beds along with ICU facility, if complaints don’t come down,” a statement from the health department said. So far 1,039 complaints have been received against private hospitals. Of these, majority are of excessive billing, demanding advance payments, denying treatment to patients and taking cash without giving bills, officials said. “Orders were issued to investigate these explanations (by private hospitals) and take strict action against the hospitals which made mistakes,” the official statement read. Earlier, Dr Vinod Kumar Paul, member, Niti Aayog, Aarti Ahuja, additional secretary (health), and Dr P Ravindran, director of the emergency medical relief (EMR) under the health ministry, on a two-day visit to the city urged the Telangana government to immediately ramp up testing, and even suggested a ‘Delhi model’ for better containment of the virus. The Telangana government had recently announced plans to ramp up testing to 40,000 per day, but so far it has failed to test even half the number on a regular basis. On Monday, Telangana tested just 11,609 samples with insiders blaming the dip in testing to less workforce available for collection and testing of samples during the weekend. Since the pandemic, Telangana has tested just 6,24,840 samples and has a total caseload of 80,751 cases with 637 deaths. Critical of the government, the central team highlighted steps taken in Delhi for effective containment and asked them to replicate it in the state. Delhi reported only 707 new cases and 20 deaths on Monday. The central team said an innovative telemedicine app HITAM to provide telemedicine consultation to home isolation patients in the state will be shared with other states. “Dr Paul said that testing had been ramped up in the state recently which, according to him, is crucial to control the pandemic. He further stated that central and state governments will work together on action points discussed in the meeting to flatten the curve,” said an official statement from the state health department. “He said that hospital preparedness levels, infection control measures, providing treatment for patients etc were very satisfactory,” it added. The members also gave suggestions on prevention of Covid-19 in rural areas. Earlier, Dr Paul along with the central officials met chief secretary Somesh Kumar, GHMC officials, collectors of Rangareddy, Medchal and Hyderabad districts and reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the state. During the meeting, Kumar highlighted that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao in the recent cabinet meeting directed officials to increase the testing to 40,000 daily and allotted special funds to handle the Covid-19 pandemic in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-will-take-50-beds-in-pvt-hosps-if-they-flout-rules-eatala/articleshow/77473277.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||BJP plans privilege motion against Jaipur collector||JAIPUR: The state BJP may move a privilege motion against Jaipur collector Antar Singh Nehra for alleged misbehaviour with Malviya Nagar MLA Kalicharan Saraf. Earlier, Saraf had complained to chief secretary Rajeeva Swarup for alleged misbehaviour by Nehra. Saraf said the collector “did not follow the protocol and stand up while receiving a memorandum from him”. State convener of BJP’s election cell Nahar Singh said, “We are considering the option of moving a privilege motion (against the collector). We are exploring legal position in the matter.” As per norms, a privilege motion is a notice moved by a member of the state Assembly against anyone who is accused of breach of privilege. The speaker is the first level of scrutiny of a privilege motion. The MLA had gone to the collectorate on Friday to submit a memorandum signed by 25,000 people of his constituency, Malviya Nagar, requesting him to give concession in power and water bills and school fees for three months (when the lockdown was in force). “I spoke with the chief secretary today (Saturday) and briefed him about the incident. I told him that the collector is not aware of the protocol and didn’t have the courtesy to stand up while accepting the memorandum,” Saraf had earlier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-plans-privilege-motion-against-jaipur-collector/articleshow/77472687.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Mumbai||Peak-hour jam may be due to south Mumbai landslide||MUMBAI: Massive traffic congestion was reported in south Mumbai on Monday morning and evening. Traffic police said closure of a stretch from Kemps Corner flyover to RTI Junction, due to a landslide last week, could be a reason. A media professional took an hour and 20 minutes from Parel to CSMT around noon. “Lalbaug flyover and Byculla were worst spots,” he said. Kemps Corner resident Dinesh Joshi took 40 minutes to cross 1km from Jaslok Hospital to his home. “I bought some medicines and started from Jaslok around 1.10pm. I was stuck for 20 minutes at one point. After taking a left turn towards Antilia to go via Altamount Road, I found that portion was jammed too. Finally, I turned towards the stretch going to Gamadia Road and drove down via Breach Candy. I reached Kemps Corner at 1.50pm,” Joshi said. Another Kemps Corner resident, Shiv Tulsiani, who drove to office in Princess Street said traffic management was better on Monday compared to last week as more policemen were posted. “The main cause for congestion was too many vehicles still using Pedder Road and converging at Nana Chowk, causing a bottleneck. I don’t think the situation will be resolved unless Kemps Corner flyover-RTI Junction stretch is reopened for traffic,” he said. Senior traffic police officials urged civic officials to throw open at least the south-bound arm of Kemps Corner flyover-RTI Junction. BMC will take a decision. At 7pm, congestion was reported near Metro Cinema and Crawford Market. There was congestion on Western Express Highway a vehicle broke down. A JVLR resident said she took an hour and 45 minutes to reach home from CSMT in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/peak-hour-jam-may-be-due-to-sobo-landslide/articleshow/77471818.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad dist collector transferred||Aurangabad: District collector Uday Choudhary was transferred from Aurangabad on Monday and made the deputy secretary at the chief secretary’s office at the state secretariat in Mumbai. After his succesful stint as Sindhudurg district collector, Choudhury took charge as the district collector of Aurangabad in April 2018, when the city was grappling with garbage-related issues. Choudhary has been credited with initiating a series of measures and preventive actions amid the current pandemic. Choudhary took strict action against corrupt and work-shy revenue staffers and even contested cases against them in the Maharashtra administrative tribunal and even in the high court.Those in the bureaucracy are terming the latest posting as a reward for Choudhary for the effective administration skills he displayed during the general as well as assembly elections in Aurangabad.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-dist-collector-transferred/articleshow/77472697.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Hearing on M’luru riots postponed||Mangaluru: Udupi DC G Jagadeesha, who is heading the magisterial inquiry into the alleged police firing in connection with the December 19 violence in Mangaluru, had asked eyewitnesses and people with evidence or any information about the incident to depose before the court on August 11. However, since Udupi district minister Basavaraj Bommai is scheduled to visit the district on Tuesday, the hearing, slated to be held at the assistant commissioner’s court hall of Mini Vidhana Soudha in Mangaluru, has been postponed. In fact, it is the last opportunity for those willing to appear before the magistrate to submit documents related to the incident before the court. Jagadeesha said that the next date of the hearing will be announced soon. Following the December 19 violence and the death of Nauseen Kudroli,49, and Jaleel Bengre,23, allegedly due to police firing, the state government commissioned two probes, the other being by CID. As per the government order, a report on the inquiry was to be submitted before March 23. However, the DC requested the government for more time as once the hearing is completed, documents, videos, and records will have to be examined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/hearing-on-mluru-riots-postponed/articleshow/77470056.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||Pine needles to generate power in 2 blocks of each hill dist: CM||Dehradun: In a bid to give a boost to alternative sources of energy, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday directed the authorities to identify two blocks in each hill district and develop them as model blocks for power generation. Only those blocks, which have a high quantity of pine needles would be selected, to help generate power through them, the CM said. During a review meeting of Uttarakhand Renewable Energy Development Agency (UREDA), the CM said that there is a big potential in generation of electricity from Pirul (pine needles).“Women self-help groups should be made more active and DFO should be made the nodal officer at district level for the project. Pirul policy will also solve the problem of forestry along with power generation,” he said. The CM added that alternative energy methods need to be promoted on a larger scale. CM Rawat pointed out that the arrangements need to be made for the marketing of electrical equipment being made by self-help groups. “Local products should be promoted in government offices on special occasions and festivals,” he added. The CM directed the authorities that the action plan of Chief Minister Solar Self-Employment Scheme should be prepared soon. Also, the Waste to Energy Policy has been formulated for the generation of electricity from urban waste. For this, the tender process by the Urban Development Department is in motion. Director UREDA Capt. Alok Shekhar Tiwari pointed out that under the Pirul Policy-2018, 36 developers have been given projects to generate 1,060 KW energy using pine needles. Under the Central government project, work is on to set up 19,655 solar street lights in being done and is expected to be over by March 2021. He added that solar water heating systems with a total capacity of 50,500 litre per day have been installed in state-run residential schools. Tiwari said that one village in each district is being developed as an “energy efficient village” and the project would be completed by December 2020. Women self-help groups are being trained under the LED Village Scheme. Under this scheme, a plan is being prepared to install street lights in almost all the 8,000 gram panchayats of the state. Secretary Energy Radhika Jha said that projects of 272 MW in the solar light sector have been set up in the state. She pointed out that in 2019-20, 283 developers have been given projects of 203 MW solar power and they are expected to be over by March 2021. In the minor hydro power projects, work for 202 MW has been awarded and the process is on for 1,099 MW. In the field of biomass and co-generation, work of 131 MW has been completed and works for 39 MW are in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pine-needles-to-generate-power-in-2-blocks-of-each-hill-dist-cm/articleshow/77469996.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 11, 2020||Goa||‘Magistrate to decide on Khariawada zone’||Vasco: Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Dessai will send a report on the Khariawada containment zone to the South Goa district magistrate as no new Covid cases have been reported in the area recently. On Monday afternoon, Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida met Dessai along with a few locals demanding that the containment zone be de-notified. It may be recalled that Khariawada was declared a containment zone on July 10. “All the people who had tested positive have returned to the containment zone after treatment. The last case was detected about 10 days back. We might redefine the containment zone into micro containments, the way we did at Mangor Hill. The final decision will be taken by the South Goa district magistrate,” Dessai said. “Majority of the Khariawada locals belong to the fishing community and they want the area to open as fishing season has begun,” said Almeida. Councillor of the ward 14, Lavina D’Souza said, “People own trawlers, boats and rampons, and they are begging that the area be denotified. We want the area to be opened before Ganesh Chaturthi.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/magistrate-to-decide-on-khariawada-zone/articleshow/77472694.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 11, 2020||Chennai||Centre, state cross swords over dredging Pulicat Lake mouth||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government and the Centre have taken diametrically opposite views before the Madras high court on dredging the mouth of Pulicat Lake. While the state government said the Centre had to give the final sanction after conducting a public hearing, the Union ministry of environment made it clear through an affidavit that the domain of maintaining wetlands falls squarely within the jurisdiction of the state concerned. The liability of the Union ministry is limited only to trans-boundary wetlands, the Centre said. When a PIL filed by Usha of Tiruvallur to direct the state government to dredge the mouth of Pulicat Lake, to ensure free flow of sea water into Pulicat lagoon, came up for hearing before a division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice Krishnan Ramaswamy, a state government counsel said though Rs 27 crore was allotted, the lake mouth could not be dredged due to change in circumstances like temperature and wind. The Centre, however, said under the Wetlands (Conservation and Management) Rules, the liability to conserve a wetland vests with the respective state government and its agencies. “It is also the responsibility of the state and its agencies to ensure that there are no encroachments in such wetlands.” This apart, the Tamil Nadu government has already set-up the State Wetland Authority of Tamil Nadu for taking up matters relating to conservation and wetlands and lakes in the state in an integrated and holistic manner, the ministry said. Recording the submissions, the division bench directed the Tiruvallur district collector and fisheries department to respond in two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/centre-state-cross-swords-over-dredging-pulicat-lake-mouth/articleshow/77471299.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bareilly||UP’s area under cane cultivation & productivity peaked this year||Pilibhit: The area under sugarcane cultivation in UP has gone up by 50,000 hectares to 27.31 lakh hectares this year over 2019, while the state has achieved its highest-ever crop productivity during the current cropping season.Sharing the data with TOI, UP principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry Sanjay R Bhoosreddy said during the crushing season of 2019-20, the total crop area surveyed had come to 26,78,826 hectares, while during the current year, it rose to 27,31,536 hectares — a rise of 52,701 hectares. The current year’s cultivated area comprised plant-cane over 13,78,981 hectares and ratoon-cane over 13,52,556 hectares, he added.Although the biggest crop area of 6,17,166 hectares was recorded in six districts of the Lucknow sugarcane region this year, but due to unknown factors, it had actually shrunk by 11,013 hectares in comparison to 6,28,179 hectares in 2019-20.The Moradabad region, comprising five districts, stood second in the state with 5,02,972 hectares under cane crop, an increase of 36,383 hectares, he also said.He further said that data compiled on the basis of individual districts ranked Bijnor first in the state with 2,35,470 hectares, an increase of 13,717 hectares over last year.Although Mathura lagged far behind with cane cultivated over a mere 131 hectares this year due to farmers choosing to plant other crops, the district still showed a slight rise in crop area over last year’s 127 hectares, he said.Regarding overall average productivity of sugarcane in UP, he said, “Productivity has been recorded at 811 quintals per hectare this year — the highest ever in the state, 6 quintals per hectare more than last year’s average yield.”The analysis revealed Shamli district in the Saharanpur cane region projected the highest yield of 990.64 quintals per hectare, while Varanasi in the Ayodhya cane region stood last with 503.24 quintals per hectare, Bhoosreddy said.He said the state has 44 sugarcane “dominant” districts, 62,665 cane villages and 47,75,877 sugarcane farmers registered with 1,251 sugarcane development societies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ups-area-under-cane-cultivation-productivity-peaked-this-year/articleshow/77466612.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Surat||Bhavnagar: 50-year-old CA arrested for hacking schoolgirl’s Facebook account||SURAT: The cyber crime police station on Monday arrested a 50-year-old man chartered accountant practising in Bhavnagar for allegedly hacking an 18-year-old school girl’s Facebook account and sending objectionable messages to people known to her from the account. Police investigation revealed that the accused CA, Keyur Parekh, had been behaving abnormally for the last two years. Parekh was booked for defamation under Indian Penal Code and sections of Information Technology Act, but released on bail due to his age and health issues. The girl’s father, who lodged the complaint, alleged that some person had hacked her account of the girl since October 2019 and has been sending objectionable messages to her friends. He continued sending the messages till June. “Parekh is a qualified CA and practices in Bhavnagar. He had developed some issues due to which he resorted to such abnormal activity for the past two years. He enjoyed sending vulgar messages,” said a police officer. Parekh’s wife died a few years ago and his children live in Bhavnagar. Police investigation revealed that he could hack the girl’s account due to weak password. Though he is not an IT expert, he came across the girl’s profile page after and decided to hack it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/50-year-old-ca-arrested-for-hacking-schoolgirls-fb-account/articleshow/77470068.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chennai||Washermenpet to get heritage garden||CHENNAI: The city will have a 5-acre green space at Washermenpet, where the horticulture department will be setting up a heritage garden. The garden will have various native species of trees and plants, including those mentioned in Sangam literature and those that are slowly disappearing. While plaques will help visitors learn about the species, saplings will be sold so people can grow them themselves. “The idea is to preserve, bring back our old native species and at the same time, encourage the public to be proactive and take steps to conserve them,” said a senior official from the department. The project is estimated to cost around Rs 80 lakh and is likely to open by the end of the year. Officials said the park will have more than 100 native varieties of trees and plants and have sub-gardens. It will also have a small pond, inbuilt irrigation and drain systems. Ramps will also be set up to make the space disabled-friendly. A part of the park will be allotted for a museum to feature ancient and modern pieces of equipment used for agriculture and plantation, where visitors will also get a virtual audiovisual tour of the fauna and flora of Tamil Nadu. The park will also have a person to guide visitors in buying the right kind of species that they can grow in their homes, depending on the soil. “We will also be creating an app that will show have details of the nature and type of soil present in different parts of the city. This way, people can plant a species that suits their surroundings,” the official said, adding that arrangements are being made to facilitate social distancing and other safety protocol. Over 100 native species of plants have vanished from the city’s landscapes over the last many decades. Green activists said a heritage garden would be helpful and that was vital that it be maintained well, starting from proactively involving people from the neighbourhood. “Creating new green spaces is always welcome in any urban area, particularly a bustling metro like Chennai. It would be great if the local body can reach out to involve citizens in its care and upkeep. Sharing responsibility could ensure more safety nets for our open spaces, and our own health in so many ways,” said Shobha Menon, founder trustee, Nizhal. “Such citizen involvement would definitely improve the city’s environmental health,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/washermenpet-to-get-heritage-garden/articleshow/77471350.cms||Aditi R
August 11, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two may be sacked, two demoted for truck mishap on tracks||MUMBAI: A probe has recommended a major penalty chargesheet against two officials and minor penalty against two other Western Railway officials following a freak accident in which a lorry dashed Bandra Terminus-Amritsar Paschim Express on July 20. There was no major damage to the train and it did not lead to an incident. Four railway personnel, including station superintendent B V Samant and Vinod Dalvi, pointsman Bharat Solanki and traffic inspector M S Shaikh, were suspended. Sources said, “Samant and Solanki were recommended for a major penalty charge-sheet, while the other two will be served minor penalty charge-sheets as the inquiry found procedural lapses in the handling of the opening and closing of the gate through which the truck had entered.” A departmental inquiry will be completed within 90 days, after which the officials will be served punishment. The major penalty includes maximum punishment of removal from service, while a minor penalty can be a demotion. The driver of the truck, of a railway contractor, which was carrying construction material, was arrested under Indian Railways Act for negligence and endangering safety of passengers. The truck entered the railway boundary through an opening which was not a thoroughfare. It tried to venture too closed to the fifth line along which the train was passing. The driver tried to manoeuvre but he could not move the vehicle to safety in time, leading to the collision. The rear of the vehicle was badly damaged. The locomotive too suffered minor dents but there was no injury to anyone. The locomotive was replaced and the train left Borivli at 2.35pm. Another lapse had occurred when a truck with construction material ventured too close to the tracks near Jogeshwari on July 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-may-be-sacked-2-demoted-for-truck-mishap-on-tracks/articleshow/77471820.cms||Manthan K Mehta
August 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19 cases in Kolhapur district cross 10,000-mark||Kolhapur: The sharp increase in number of positive Covid-19 patients has put Kolhapur district just behind the Pune revenue division as the number of cases has crossed the five-figure-mark. According to data available, as on Sunday, the total number of Covid patients across Kolhapur district was 10,439. Of them, 7,352 are active cases. Kolhapur and Ichalkaranji, two major urban centres in the district, continue to record new cases despite various steps being taken by the administration to curb the spread. On August 3, Kolhapur city had 2,047 cases which went up to 3,067 on Monday. Similarly, Ichalkaranji had 1,480 cases which went up to 1,565 in the same period. Rural Kolhapur, which mainly comprise areas controlled by the zill parishad, had 3,712 positive cases on August 3 which went up to 5,018 on Monday. Kolhapur district added 3,087 positive cases in the last one week, out of which 1,306 cases were found from rural areas while remaining 1,781 cases were from urban pockets. While cases in urban pockets are on rise, rural parts, excepting Hatkanangale, are gradually showing decline in new cases. Out of 76 deaths in Kolhapur district, more than half of the deaths due to the contagion have occured in the urban pockets. The KMC and other municipal councils have recorded 43 deaths, while the rural areas account for 33 deaths. Hatakanangele, which is largey considered as semi-urban center had 650 positive cases on August 3 while the number went up to 1,041 by Sunday night. The data released by the district administration shows that more than half of the patients from the district are between the age group of 21and 50 years with as many as 5,933 cases. The age group of 51 to 70 years old, considered as vulnerable, had 1,669 cases on August 3, but the number went up to 2,461 on Monday. The data also shows that a total of 136 children below the age of 10 have also tested positive for Covid-19 between the same period. As many as 284 patients belonging to the age group between 11 and 20 years were added in the last seven days. On August 3 the total number of cases was 704 while on August 10 it had increased to 988. Meanwhile, in rural areas Karveer tehsil continues to have the highest number of patients (1,110) closely followed by Hatkanangale (1,041). Apart from Karveer and Hatkanangale, no other tehsil in Kolhapur district has crossed the four-digit mark. At 30, Gaganbawda has the lowest number of Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-19-cases-in-kolhapur-district-cross-10000-mark/articleshow/77472752.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Vadodara||106 test positive, west zone reports highest 43||Vadodara: As many as 106 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in the city and district since Sunday evening taking the total number of positive cases to 5,686. The west zone of the city threw up the highest number of positive cases with 43 persons here testing positive. According to Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) data, west zone was followed by the south zone where 16 persons tested positive. A dozen cases were detected in the east zone and six in the north zone of the city. The new cases were reported from the Gotri, Navayard, Warasiya, Akota, Chhani, Vasna-Bhayli Road, Gorwa, Manjalpur, Ajwa Road, Tandalja, Karelibaug, Fatehgunj, Pratapnagar, Wadi, Alkapuri, Tarsali, Makarpura, Sayajigunj, Diwalipura and Ellora Park areas. In the rural areas outside VMC limits in Vadodara district, 29 new cases came to light. These were largely from Karjan, Dabhasa, Padra, Koyli, Undera, Bhayli, Waghodiya, Dabhoi and Chandod. VMC also confirmed the deaths of three more persons due to Covid-19. With these the total number of deaths increased to 111. These deaths do not include persons who tested positive for Covid-19, but died primarily due to other co-morbidities. With 81 more persons being discharged from hospitals or home isolation, the total number of discharged patients went up to 4,379. According to officials data, 1,196 persons still remain under treatment including 61 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 161 breathing with oxygen support. Godhra councillor dies Vadodara: A BJP councillor of Godhra municipality, Nimesh Shah (66), who who admitted for Covid treatment in Vadodara hospital, died on Monday. Shah was also the chairman of the waterworks committee and former vice-president of the municipality. The functionaries of the municipality observed silence to pray for Shah and the offices also remained closed on Monday. So far, 746 cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Panchmahal district including Godhra and 29 have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/106-test-positive-west-zone-reports-highest-43/articleshow/77470105.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao hits out at AP over irrigation work||HYDERABAD: Days after Centre stalled key projects such as Kaleshwaram and Rayalaseema lift irrigation taken up by Telangana and AP respectively, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday trained his guns on AP government. Launching a trenchant attack, KCR said AP allegations were baseless and their complaints would be countered with facts and figures to be placed before the Apex Council. In what could be seen as a further dip in the bonhomie between KCR and his AP counterpart YS Jaganmohan Reddy, the CM said: “I extended the hand of friendship and voluntarily called the AP elders (read AP CM) to Hyderabad for a luncheon meeting. I spoke to them. I offered them to construct irrigation projects with mutual consent so that it would benefit farmers of both the states.” KCR said instead of river waters going waste into the sea, they should be used effectively. “Since both states share borders and have Krishna and Godavari basins, I said ‘no basin and no egos’ as far as development and farmers are concerned. Despite this, AP is going on complaining about our projects without any basis and stalling them. We will come with up a strong argument and shut AP’s mouth at the Apex Council meeting which will be held soon,” KCR said. The CM did not spare the Centre also on cooperative federalism. He said every state has rights and added that Telangana is constructing projects as per its rights. “The Centre is trying to curtail the rights of the states and making an issue out of nothing. We will expose Centre’s attitude towards an elected government in Telangana,” KCR said. KCR held a meeting with senior irrigation officials on Monday in the wake of Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat’s letter to both CMs on stopping irrigation projects being taken up by Telangana and AP till the Apex Council meeting is held and detailed project reports (DPRs) are submitted to the Centre. The CM said the government went ahead with the projects as per the water allocations and rights in Krishna and Godavari basins and schemes that were permitted earlier. Even the Central Water Commission (CWC) had also given its permission, he recalled. “So far, Rs 23,000 crore was spent on the projects. Many projects approved by then united AP government and not completed are also being branded as new projects. This is meaningless,” the CM retorted. He said some of the projects had to be redesigned to suit the requirements of the new state. He recalled that the separate Telangana state movement was championed mainly to fight large-scale injustice meted out to Telangana region by successive governments. He picked holes in the jal shakti ministry raising objections to releasing water from Srisailam left bank powerhouse to Nagarjuna Sagar project. “Priority should be given to fill Nagarjuna Sagar before releasing water to other projects. Srisailam is not an irrigation project. It is originally a hydel power project. Without knowing this, the Centre is objecting to water release from Srisailam,” KCR argued. He also said AP had objected to Palamuru-Rangareddy project in the first Apex Council meeting. “It was not proper on the part of AP government to raise the issue of Palamuru-RR project again. We will bring this issue at the coming meeting,” KCR said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-hits-out-at-ap-over-irrigation-work/articleshow/77473286.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||SIT recovers 875 ltr of raw spirit hidden in chemical plant in Derabassi||Mohali: A day after 27,600 litres of chemicals containing spirit was recovered from three plants in Derabassi, the special investigating team (SIT) recovered 875 more litres of raw spirit from one of the plants on Monday, said the SIT head deputy inspector general (DIG) Hardyal Singh Mann. He said the SIT has also produced the four accused arrested on Sunday in the court, which remanded them to two-day police custody. He said, “More raw spirit has been recovered in a joint action headed by SIT-deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Bikram Brar and excise department. We have recovered 875 litres of raw spirit which has been sent for testing at a forensic laboratory.” The SIT raiding team headed by DSP Brar said in the disclosure statement of the four accused arrested, police learnt that they have hidden raw spirit stored in 25 litres and 50 litres small drums inside the factory. “On searching the disclosed area, we found 25 litres and 50 litres capacity drums having 875 litres of raw spirit stored in them. The drums have been seized and handed over to the excise department,” said the DSP. He said the SIT will now ascertain the source of the companies that sold spirit. However, SIT suspects that most of the spirit is being sold for manufacturing illicit liquor. On Sunday, cracking down further on the illicit liquor trading and smuggling in the state, the Excise Department got a major breakthrough in Mohali when it seized 27,600 liters of chemicals containing spirit. It was so far the biggest haul of such nature by the department. Joint Commissioner of the Excise and Taxation department Naresh Dubey said that its special team from Mohali seized a heavy quantity of 27,600 liters of chemical containing spirit from 3 places. He said that the department fears that the Spirit is being used to manufacture illicit liquor. The seizure was made from village Devinagar, Tehsil Derabassi in Mohali District. During the raid conducted at the premises of the M/s Allychem Chemicals godown, M/s Om Solvi Trading and M/s Pure Solutions all operating from Focal point Dera Bassi. Two directors and two proprietors were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sit-recovers-875-ltr-of-raw-spirit-hidden-in-chemical-plant-in-derabassi/articleshow/77474048.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur dist’s mortality rate rises||Kolhapur: A month ago, the Kolhapur district had reported 24 Covid-related deaths. The number has now increased to 282, revealing that the district’s death reate has gone up from 2% to 2.7% in a month. If compared to the state’s death rate, Kolhapur district has managed to keep its mortality rate under control. As per the daily report of the government’s public health department, Maharashtra’s death rate is 3.4%. Among the towns, Ichalkaranji with 85 deaths has a high fatality rate of 5.43%. Kolhapur city, with 61 deaths, has a death rate 1.98%. On Sunday, 21 patients succumbed to the infection, the highest so far in a single day. The recovery rate of the district, meanwhile, has dropped from 74% to 45% in a month ago. Yogesh Sale, district health officer, said, “We have the highest number of deaths among patients with comorbidities. We have initiated early testing and isolation of the patients with comorbidities to check the death rate.” On Sunday, state health minister Rajesh Tope said a team of the experts will be sent to Kolhapur district to control the spread of the virus and reduce the death rate. The focus is on Kolhapur city and Ichalkaranji town which contribute around 45% of the cases in the district and 50% of the deaths. According to the administration’s survey, around 7,890 persons are at very high risk and prone to death if they contract the virus. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dists-mortality-rate-rises/articleshow/77472782.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||History sheeter nabbed in Mohali||Mohali: The police here have arrested a history sheeter with 23 cases of theft and robbery against him in Patiala, Panchkula and Rajpura. The accused has been identified as Gurinder Singh, a resident of Patiala. According to police officials, the first case was registered against the miscreant back in 1991 in Patiala. The cops claimed that the accused was arrested under their jurisdiction after they received a tip-off. Station house officer of Phase 1 police station, inspector Manphool Singh said “The miscreant has been produced in the local court and is under the police remand for five days. We will interrogate him and find out who all were involved with him.” Police officials are yet to make any recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/history-sheeter-nabbed-in-mohali/articleshow/77474054.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Judges are missionaries devoted to cause of justice: Justice Gupta||Times News Network Chandigarh: A judge is a missionary whose mission is to impart justice to the society, said justice Rajan Gupta of the Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday, and added that a selfless service for humanity is what the life of a judge is all about. Launching the online training of the newly recruited 50 judicial officers for Punjab and Haryana, he urged the trainee officers to measure up to the task by cultivating simplicity, discipline, hard work, sensitivity and empathy in their character. Justice Gupta emphasised on the good conduct of a judge. He said their conduct must be exemplary both within and outside the court. “A judge must be courteous, humble, sensitive, simple and a person with minimum needs,” he said and urged the trainee judicial officers to be fair to one and all. He delivered the address online from the high court, in the presence of Shalini Singh Nagpal, director (administration)-cum-district and sessions judge, and Dr Balram K Gupta, director (academics), Chandigarh Judicial Academy. He further said judicial education and training are one of the most effective means for enhancing the fair administration of justice. For this, improvement in the skills of judges is paramount. He emphasised that it requires lots of discipline, integrity, commitment and continuous perseverance to match the demands of a judicial office. Referring to the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, justice Gupta said the human race is passing through an unprecedented crisis, which has made a paradigm shift in the ways people conduct themselves. “To address this challenge we have to adopt new modes and methods of lifestyle. The pandemic has restricted our physical movements but connected us digitally,” he said and expressed happiness over the way the country has embraced technology to carry out necessary activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/judges-are-missionaries-devoted-to-cause-of-justice-justice-gupta/articleshow/77474051.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kolhapur||Tally of new cases drops in Solapur||KOLHAPUR: There has been a decline in the number of Covid-19 cases being registered in Solapur city when compared to last month even as the region had recorded a spurt in the number of positive cases. As many as 38 new cases and three deaths were reported in the city on Monday and 130 patients were discharged from various hospitals. Though the civic administration has started conducting more rapid antigen tests, the number of positive cases recorded in the last one week is comparatively lower. Officials said that 500 patients were being tested every day on an avergae in 15 testing centres. Around 15,000 people, mostly those with comorbidities, have undergone antigen test and the civic body aims to conduct 50,000 more tests. As per official information, the city recorded an average 50 Covid-19 patients everyday last week. More than 100 patients were discharged every day. Infact, the number of positive cases registered (93) and the number of patients discharged from hospitals (189) was highest on Wednesday. Four deaths were reported on an average last week. Total 16 deaths were reported last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/tally-of-new-cases-drops-in-solapur/articleshow/77472800.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops nab 2 thieves who robbed auto driver||Chandigarh: On Monday, Chandigarh police claims to have arrested the two involved in a robbery case registered with them a week ago in Maloya. The police said the accused arrested have been identified as 19-year-old Rajat Singh, a resident of Sector 38 (west) and 21-year-old Rohit, 21, a resident of Sector 38 A. According to the police, Sanjay Kumar, a resident of Milk Colony, Dhanas, had complained that on August 3, around 10.30 pm, as he was coming home in his auto from Sector 22, at Sector-25/38 light point, the two accused asked him to drop at Dhanas. When he reached near Gaushala turn at Sector 38 (west), Sanjay said one of accused hit his head with a brick and the other snatched his mobile and wallet containing his driving licence, Aadhaar card, PAN card and Rs 500 and ran away from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-nab-2-thieves-who-robbed-auto-driver/articleshow/77474060.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||2 held in snatching case||Chandigarh: Police claimed to have solve a case of snatching and another of burglary, with the arrest of two people on Monday. Shakuntla Sharma, a 72-year-old woman, had told cops on July 27 that a man had snatched her gold chain in Sector 15 and fled. Cops found a pedestrian following the woman in a suspected manner in the CCTV footage. Later, police received information that a suspect involved in the snatching was roaming in the area. A special team laid a naka and caught Gurdarshan Singh, 23, a resident of Bheora village, Ropar, and recovered a motorcycle. On his interrogation, cops arrested his associate Jagmeet, 25, a resident of Chamkaur Sahib, Mohali. The third accused is still at large, police said. Cops said the two accused were drug addicts and committed the crime to fulfil their habit. Police registered a case under Sections 379A and 356 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-held-in-snatching-case/articleshow/77474065.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bhopal||Caution goes for toss as Bhopal unlocks||BHOPAL: Take a walk around any area of the city and the common sight that would greet you is how people ignore the importance of wearing masks. A simple protocol that can substantially curb the spread of Covid-19 has few takers on streets and in public places. When police penalise people for not wearing masks, they argue with the cops and make all sorts of excuses. In the past 63 days since the district collector issued an order to penalise those venturing out without a mask, the traffic police have penalised 4,877 people specifically for not wearing masks, while riding their two-wheelers or four-wheelers. Apart from them, 5,070 people were fined by traffic police for violating social/physical distancing norms and 44 were fined for spitting on roads. Apart from traffic police, city police stations have registered more than 8,000 cases of lockdown violation against more than 9,000 people since March 22, but people still do not follow the protocol to control the spread of the disease. As per the district collector’s order issued on June 5, after the Unlock-1 started, police impose a fine of Rs 100 on those venturing out without wearing masks, Rs 500 against those violating social/physical distancing and Rs 1,000 fine for spitting on roads. Cops constantly counsel the violators that by not wearing masks, they not only risk themselves but also put others coming in contact with them at risk. But still people can be spotted on almost all city roads either roaming without masks or wearing them improperly. DSP (traffic) NK Rajak said that people are commonly seen at checkpoints wearing masks improperly — often below their nose or the chin or even dangling from one ear. As soon as cops stop them, people wear the masks. Such practises are common in people from all walks of life and not just the uninformed. Rajak said some keep their ‘gamchas’ or handkerchieves on their shoulders or in their pockets and cover their faces with them as soon as they are stopped. A senior traffic cop said that the people on board cars or SUVs argue the most when police stop them at checkpoints and object to not wearing masks. They argue that they are in their car with their family and not in open space, so why should they wear masks. SP (South) Sai Krishna S Thota said that there is no specific written guideline regarding wearing masks in cars and SUVs, but it is recommended that if more than one person is on board the car, they should wear masks. ASP Rajat Saklecha said that traffic police penalise around 100-150 people daily for venturing out without wearing masks at around 20 checkpoints across the city. Police focus on counselling and explaining to people that wearing a mask is for their own safety and that of others. The intention of police is not to collect fines, but to spread awareness about wearing masks. People just do not wear masks as it makes them uncomfortable or they carry it with them and wear it when they spot a police checkpoint.  In such cases, after police counselling and fear of fine, they start wearing it, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/caution-goes-for-toss-as-bhopal-unlocks/articleshow/77471428.cms||Sudeept Mishra
August 11, 2020||Mumbai||8 more Taloja prison staff test Covid positive||Navi Mumbai: Eight Taloja prison staff tested Covid positive on Sunday. Panvel municipal commissioner said they started mass screening of prison staff showing Covid symptoms, after 10 staff, including two family members of a staffer, tested positive. The civic body said the eight, who were at the staff quarters on the prison campus, were told to isolate themselves at a civic Covid care centre. PCMC commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh said, “We are conducting a mass screening of symptomatic Taloja staff and Navi Mumbai policemen. We have even formed six mobile teams to conduct antigen tests.” Kharghar medical health officer Dr Pankaj Titar said, “The eight visited Kharghar urban primary health centre for antigen tests as they had Covid symptoms.” Meanwhile, six more personnel of Rapid Action Force (RAF) of 102 Batallion at Taloja campus tested positive. Four tested positive on Sunday and two on Monday. Last month, 49 personnel tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/8-more-taloja-prison-staff-test-covid-positive/articleshow/77471822.cms||George Mendonca
August 11, 2020||Bhopal||Now, buyers prefer small cars and bikes: RTO data||Bhopal: Motorbikes and small cars have become the first choice of buyers in Bhopal, post Covid-19 pandemic. Out of 18,189 vehicles registered from April 1 to August 6 in the city, 14,084 registrations were of motor bikes only. Among the cars, registration of small cars below Rs 10 lakh has picked up substantially. As per the data available with RTO Bhopal, number of registrations of motor bikes for personal use has increased by those also who are already using cars. In 2020, the registration of two-wheelers by the customers having a car or without a car since April 1 was 14,084. Around 30 per cent increase has been witnessed in the registration of two-wheelers by those, who were already using cars. Last year in the same period, 36,975 two-wheelers were registered between April 1 and August 6. Out of these, 26,614 two-wheelers were registered and most of these were of the people, who did not have a car. Even in the registration of the cars, vehicles below Rs 10 lakh have been more in demand compared to other higher segment cars. Before the lockdown, the major sale was of the vehicles ranging between Rs 7 lakh and Rs 15 lakh. Total 2864, cars were registered where higher registrations were of small cars in the period from April 1 to August 6. In all, 2451 cars below Rs 10 lakh were registered during the period. Even in below Rs 10 lakh segment, major registrations were of vehicles costing around Rs 5 lakh to Rs 8 lakh. RTO officials said the major reason for more bike registration and small car registration was because of the need of the time.  “People prefer bikes over cars due to salary cuts. As bikes are an important part of Indian transport, people have started using it more. It is pocket -friendly too. Those who preferred cars over bikes have also switched loyalties,” said officials. RTO Bhopal charges 7-16 per cent for registration of different vehicles. There are 3 slabs according to which RTO charges for registration. These are: registration for vehicles below Rs 10 lakh, in- between Rs 10 -20 lakh and above Rs 10 lakh. RTO Bhopal Sanjay Tiwari said that RTO employees and officials are on their toes. “Coming months will be very crucial. Our officials work round the year for better revenue generation,” said Tiwari. State transport department had earned Rs 3266 crore in 2019-2020, 9 per cent more than 2018-2019. The registration of vehicles in past four months has come down by almost 40% compared to last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/now-buyers-prefer-small-cars-and-bikes-rto-data/articleshow/77471442.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Five days after fire, govt orders FIR||Gandhinagar: Five days after the blaze at Ahmedabad’s Shrey Hospital which claimed the lives of eight covid-19 patients, the state government on Monday evening announced the formation of a judicial inquiry commission to probe into the incident. The state government also directed the police department to file a FIR in the case, claimed minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja. The judicial inquiry commission will be headed by a retired Gujarat high court judge. The decision to appoint a judicial inquiry commission to probe the blaze was made after a two-member inquiry committee comprising the ACS (urban development) Mukesh Puri and ACS (home) Sangeeta Singh submitted its 20-page report to the government. The committee’s inquiry report had observed that the fire spread in the ICU in just three minutes. The inquiry committee of top officials had been asked to submit its report in three days. When asked whether the expert committee report will be made public by the government, senior officials were tight-lipped. A government press release has also not mentioned the time period for the judicial probe so far. “Based on investigations so far by the AMC, forensic science lab, electrical inspector, fire brigade and police, the two-member inquiry committee has opined that prima facie, a fire in the electrical medical equipment sparked off the fire in the hospital. In order to ensure that no aspect is overlooked and no culprit is spared, the CM has decided to form a judicial inquiry commission headed by a retired HC judge to probe the Shrey Hospital fire tragedy. The police department has also been asked to file a FIR in the case,” Jadeja said. Both Puri and Singh were contacted several times for comments on their findings in the Shrey Hospital fire incident, but neither of them responded. Prior to the government’s decision on Monday, the Navrangpura police had been claiming that the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) had sealed the ICU premises on Thursday last week, and they have not been able to visit the premises. “But the truth is the police did visit twice on August 8 and once on August 9 for recording evidence. The AMC has it on records. The building seals were opened for the policemen. The policemen have to just make a formal call and submit an application and the premises are opened immediately the same day,” said a senior AMC official. While indicating to one such police visit on August 8, the official claimed that the police had turned up at 8pm and had visited the ICU to check whether the windows were sliding and functional for ventilation. “The east-west windows did not have issues but the north-west windows were not functional according to the policemen who visited the ICU on that day. This visit was made to specifically check the ventilation of the ICU room,” added the AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-days-after-fire-govt-orders-fir/articleshow/77471517.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid impact: UT cancels At Home function on I-Day||Chandigarh: No At Home function will take place at Punjab Raj Bhawan on Independence Day. The decision was taken following the guidelines of the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) and ministry of health and family welfare. Another reason was because five staffers of Punjab Raj Bhawan, including principal secretary to Punjab governor-cum-UT administrator, had tested positive on Sunday. During normal time, At Home function witnesses the presence of dignitaries from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. A senior UT official said the Independence Day celebrations will also be a low-key affair. However, preparations are in full swing at the Sector 17 Parade Ground for the function to be held on August 15. The UT will host only 40-50 people, ensuring social distancing. The size of the main stage will be small, an official said. The ministry of home affairs and ministry of health and family welfare have issued certain guidelines for the celebrations. According to them, a ceremony in the morning (after 9am) in the state/UT capitals consisting of unfurling of flag by the chief guest, playing of the national anthem, presentation of a guard of honour by police, including paramilitary forces, home guards and NCC, scouts, a speech by the chief guest and singing of the national anthem. There will be no large congregations in the ceremony. Social distancing norms, wearing of masks will have to be strictly followed. The guidelines suggested to invite frontline warriors like doctors, health and sanitation workers in the ceremony as a recognition of their noble service in fight against Covid-19. Some people cured of the infection may also be invited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-impact-ut-cancels-at-home-function-on-i-day/articleshow/77474073.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Railway to celebrate with fewer staff, jawans participating||Chandigarh: No cultural event will feature children this Independence Day due to Covid-19 pandemic. Highly placed sources said railway protection force also planned to cut down the number of jawans called for the march and flag hoisting at the division. Also, flag hoisting at Chandigarh and Kalka stations will have only a handful of RPF staff. G M Singh, divisional railway manager Ambala division said this year the ID celebration will be toned down as the number of Covid-19 cases have spiked. He said only a few staff will come for the flag hoisting at division. In pre-corona days, railway protection force marched with three paltan to celebrate Independence Day and around 70 jawans were present during flag hoisting ceremony. But this year, the authorities have decided that only one paltan will be called, consisting of 25 to 30 RPF staff for flag hoisting. There will be no march past. Whereas in stations like Chandigarh and Kalka, seven to eight RPF staff members will be called for flag hoisting instead of 15 to 20 in pre-corona days. The final decision on this is yet to be taken by the top brass of RPF. In fact, the head of the departments at Chandigarh and Kalka stations has asked the staff not to visit the station on Independence Day and only heads will attend the flag hoisting this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/railway-to-celebrate-with-fewer-staff-jawans-participating/articleshow/77474079.cms||Aarti Kapur
August 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Duo objects to waste disposal in front of their house, stabbed||AURANGABAD: A man and his son have been arrested by Jinsi police for allegedly stabbing a couple residing in their neighbourhood who raised an objection to their act of throwing garbage near their house on Sunday. Jinsi police have booked seven members of a family, including three women, on the charges of attempt to murder, unlawful assembly, rioting, voluntarily causing hurt and house trespass. Investigation officer and assistant inspector Sainath Gite said that soon after the registration of offence, the accused, Syed Hamid and his father Syed Mehmood were arrested and produced before a court on Monday, which remanded them in police custody for four days. Police said that the victims, Parveen Begum and her husband Shaikh Fahim, resided in a rented accommodation on lane number 12 of Rehmaniya Colony of the city. They were being harassed by the accused who allegedly disposed garbage in front of their house. On Sunday, one of the woman suspects threw garbage in front of the couple’s house and soon a heated argument ensued. They were soon joined in by the family members of the woman suspect. The accused family got physical with the couple and started assaulting the Parveen and her husband. During the brawl, one of the suspects brought a sharp-edged weapon and stabbed Parveen and Faheem. Police said that Faheem was currently in the ICU of a city-based hospital and his condition was critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/duo-objects-to-waste-disposal-in-front-of-their-house-stabbed/articleshow/77472824.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Pkl tones down ID celebrations||Panchkula: Amid its struggle to contain Covid-19 infection, the Panchkula administration has toned down Independence Day celebration. According to Panchkula deputy commissioner (DC) M K Ahuja, the main focus will be on the social distancing on August 15. Only five platoons, two police, one women police, one home guards and one NCC cadets, will participate. The number of officers in the platoons have also been reduced this year and all will have to wear mask and maintain social distancing. DC also said Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar will be the chief guest at the event at parade ground on Sector 5 and will unfurl the national flag at the venue. Executive engineer (XEN), public health department, will arrange temporary toilets and water facility for the platoons. Chief medical officer will arrange a special ambulance to deal with likely emergencies. A rehearsal was held on Monday, second rehearsal is on August 12 and final rehearsal on August 13. District information and technology department will arrange the live telecast of the event. Panchkula MC will decorate the roundabouts of the city for the occasion. Additional DC Manita Malik have been appointed as the nodal officer for the parade ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-tones-down-id-celebrations/articleshow/77474075.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra deputy CM’s son says Shri Ram will be home in peace, creates a flutter||MUMBAI: Parth Pawar on Monday expressed satisfaction over the peaceful and smooth end to the long-drawn Ram Janmabhoomi issue, which created a flutter in political circles. Parth is the son of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. NCP is a key ally in the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) state government. He began and ended his statement on social media with ‘Jai Shri Ram’, the war cry of the saffron parivaar for nearly three decades. “Finally, Shri Ram, who embodies the faith and cultural identity of India, will be home in peace. The fight was bitter and long,” he said and described the laying of the foundation stone for Ram temple as a “historic day when we will witness reinstallation of Hindu faith”. Parth was quick to iterate his commitment to Gandhi’s Ram Rajya. Ramlalla being given his due in modern India should remind us of Ram Rajya, something which “our beloved Bapu” swore by. In Ram Rajya, Ram was worshipped as every living being let alone humans were treated with dignity and respect, he said. NCP MP Supriya Sule made light of her nephew’s sound bytes. She told a TV news channel Parth spoke in his personal capacity. “Are we getting so used to autocracy that we can’t stand personal liberty?” she asked, in a dig at BJP. A state NCP functionary said Parth used his personal stationery for the statement. Parth, perhaps as a red herring, spoke of the “larger lesson” which victory has thrown up. “However flawed or weak or irrational the arguments, there was a sentiment attached to Babri Masjid. Let’s respect those who lost (Babri mosque case.) Their arguments and claims have anyway been defeated thoroughly. Let’s move a bit forward and include those who feel they have lost in our victory,” he said. His statement assumes significance in view of his father’s 72-hour alliance with BJP soon after the latter’s split with its poll ally, Shiv Sena, following assembly elections in November last year, political experts said. Parth had last month demanded a CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, following a similar demand by BJP. The probe is being conducted by Mumbai police and the home portfolio is held by Anil Deshmukh, a senior NCP functionary. Parth had submitted a written memorandum to Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dy-cms-son-says-shri-ram-will-be-home-in-peace-creates-a-flutter/articleshow/77471826.cms||Ambarish Mishra
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||KMDA to take up minor repair of 8 bridges||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) will engage a single agency to take up minor repairing work and uproot trees from eight bridges and flyovers in the southern parts of the city, including Bijan Setu and Dhakuria bridge. The rest of the eight bridges are, Durgapur (Derozio) bridge, Karunamoyee bridge, Kamalgazi flyover, Sonarpur ROB, Maniktala steel bridge and Aurobinda Setu, which come under the south division of the KMDA’s road and bridge sector. The agency to be selected by the KMDA will have to complete the work on all the eight bridges within six months from the date of its commencement. The defect liability period for the agency will remain for one year from the day when the work is completed. The KMDA officials have floated tenders to select the agency. The officials said load capacity tests on Bijan Setu, Dhakuria bridge, Karunamoyee bridge, Chetla bridge and Jibanananda Setu have been conducted recently and the bridges’ structural conditions were found, more or less, stable with only some minor repair and maintenance work to be done. The authorities are taking up the process to reduce the extra bitumen layer and minor repair and uprooting of plants on Sealdah flyover and Aurobindo Setu before major strengthening work of the two bridges. The KMDA officials are waiting for the finance department’s approval to float tenders to take up the major repair work of Ultadanga flyover, Baghajatin ROB, Chinrighata flyover and Kalighat setu on a priority basis, followed by Sealdah flyover and Aurobindo Setu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-to-take-up-minor-repair-of-8-bridges/articleshow/77471488.cms||Suman Chakraborti
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Industries department, SIDBI to ink MoU||JAIPUR: In a bid to support micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the state, the state industries department is set to join hands with Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) and discussions were held on inking an MoU. In a meeting on Monday, representatives from SIDBI identified various clusters where they would like to work for providing consultation and guidance for availing benefits under current schemes. Archana Singh, commissioner industries, said, “We have launched several initiatives for the MSMEs and many are benefitting from them. However, lack of awareness about various schemes depriving some units the benefits available. We want to close the gap and help them take advantage of the schemes.” A Project Management Unit (PMU) will be set up by SIDBI to help certain sectors in industrial clusters like in Bhilwara and Jodhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/industries-dept-sidbi-to-ink-mou/articleshow/77472826.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||No one will be spared in blaze case: Gujarat CM||GANDHINAGAR: Despite the fact that the police is yet to file an FIR against those responsible for the blaze at Shrey Hospital in Ahmedabad which claimed the lives of eight Covid-19 patients last week, chief minister Vijay Rupani said on Monday that his government will not spare anyone who is responsible for the incident. Rupani said earlier on Monday, “No one will be spared in the hospital fire case. Additional chief secretary (ACS), home, will submit a report, after which further action will be taken by the government.” Later the committee of two IAS officers – additional chief secretary, urban development department, Mukesh Puri and additional chief secretary, home department, Sangeeta Singh - submitted its report on the Shrey Hospital fire incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-no-one-will-be-spared-in-blaze-case/articleshow/77471560.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bhopal||Asymptomatic and mild Covid-19 patients to be home quarantined in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: With Covid-19 cases on the rise, the state government has decided to promote “home quarantine” not only among coronavirus suspects, but also asymptomatic patients or those with mild infection. Till now, the stress has been on admitting patients to Covid hospitals for treatment and letting them go home only after they recover. Dr Veena Sinha, who is working on the policy, told TOI that home quarantine guidelines of the Union government are already in place and they were being followed till now, but “we are trying to bring more clarity in the policy so that there is no confusion”. Dr Sinha further said that such policy changes have happened the world over. As the number of infected persons rise, Covid hospitals, where all the facilities like ICU and ventilator are available, cater to seriously ill patients, while asymptomatic patients are either treated at Covid care centres or their home itself. “There is a difference between a person quarantined and a person kept in isolation. Suspected coronavirus persons are quarantined, while an infected person is isolated. If the infected person is asymptomatic and has requisite facilities like a spacious house, where he can live in isolation, he can remain at home,” Sinha said. When asked how a quarantined person is different from a person isolated, she said, “There is more threat to him and from him to others as well because he is coronavirus positive, while a suspect may or may not have infection. Therefore, greater care has to be taken of the person “isolated at home” because of the infection. A thermometer and oximeter is must, if any such person is at home. And, if the oxygen level goes below 95, he should be rushed to a Covid hospital.” On how he would be monitored medically when “isolated” at home, she said, “It is the team of the fever clinic of the area concerned or who-so-ever has the charge of the area will monitor the condition of the patient. They keep in touch with him on a regular basis and if his condition deteriorates, he is rushed to a Covid hospital,” she said. “As of now, Bhopal, which is the second worst-hit district in the state following Indore due to the pandemic, on Sunday had 2,048 active patients and the number of persons ‘quarantined’ or ‘isolated’ at home was only 90. But soon, this situation will change as asymptomatic Covid-19 patients constitute 69% to 80% of the total infected population, according.to different studies,” said an official of the Directorate of Health on the condition of anonymity. Dr Veena Sinha said that the state government’s objective behind the change in policy is “to reduce the morbidity and mortality due to coronavirus infection and it will happen when there is greater focus on seriously ill patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/asymptomatic-and-mild-covid-patients-to-be-home-quarantined/articleshow/77471511.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Indore||Asymptomatic and mild Covid-19 patients to be home quarantined in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: With Covid-19 cases on the rise, the state government has decided to promote “home quarantine” not only among coronavirus suspects, but also asymptomatic patients or those with mild infection. Till now, the stress has been on admitting patients to Covid hospitals for treatment and letting them go home only after they recover. Dr Veena Sinha, who is working on the policy, told TOI that home quarantine guidelines of the Union government are already in place and they were being followed till now, but “we are trying to bring more clarity in the policy so that there is no confusion”. Dr Sinha further said that such policy changes have happened the world over. As the number of infected persons rise, Covid hospitals, where all the facilities like ICU and ventilator are available, cater to seriously ill patients, while asymptomatic patients are either treated at Covid care centres or their home itself. “There is a difference between a person quarantined and a person kept in isolation. Suspected coronavirus persons are quarantined, while an infected person is isolated. If the infected person is asymptomatic and has requisite facilities like a spacious house, where he can live in isolation, he can remain at home,” Sinha said. When asked how a quarantined person is different from a person isolated, she said, “There is more threat to him and from him to others as well because he is coronavirus positive, while a suspect may or may not have infection. Therefore, greater care has to be taken of the person “isolated at home” because of the infection. A thermometer and oximeter is must, if any such person is at home. And, if the oxygen level goes below 95, he should be rushed to a Covid hospital.” On how he would be monitored medically when “isolated” at home, she said, “It is the team of the fever clinic of the area concerned or who-so-ever has the charge of the area will monitor the condition of the patient. They keep in touch with him on a regular basis and if his condition deteriorates, he is rushed to a Covid hospital,” she said. “As of now, Bhopal, which is the second worst-hit district in the state following Indore due to the pandemic, on Sunday had 2,048 active patients and the number of persons ‘quarantined’ or ‘isolated’ at home was only 90. But soon, this situation will change as asymptomatic Covid-19 patients constitute 69% to 80% of the total infected population, according.to different studies,” said an official of the Directorate of Health on the condition of anonymity. Dr Veena Sinha said that the state government’s objective behind the change in policy is “to reduce the morbidity and mortality due to coronavirus infection and it will happen when there is greater focus on seriously ill patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/asymptomatic-and-mild-covid-patients-to-be-home-quarantined/articleshow/77479703.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Woman’s murder remains a mystery||JAIPUR: Kanota police received the autopsy report of the 53-year-old woman who was allegedly murdered and her body dumped on roadside in a sack. The cause of death could not be ascertained since it was mutilated. Currently, cops have no clue about the motive behind the murder or suspects as the family claimed that the deceased had no conflict with anyone. Jaipur East DCP Rahul Jain said, “Autopsy could not give us clarity. We are still investigating and will find the culprit behind this gruesome murder as soon as possible.” The body was found in a highly decomposed state almost beyond recognition. “The victim Mamta Bharadwaj used to routinely go for a morning walk and she did so on August 4 as well but never came back home. Her family reported her missing the same day but unfortunately only her body was found.” Bharadwaj’s body was found in a plastic sack and it appears that she was killed elsewhere and the body dumped on the roadside. The area where the body was found is desolated and there is nothing on the site for 100 metres because of which there are no CCTV cameras installed nearby. The sack had also blackened and there are no markings on it to give clue as to where it was bought from.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/womans-murder-remains-a-mystery/articleshow/77472843.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kolhapur||New green line in Kolhapur becomes bone of contention||KOLHAPUR: The civic administration is drafting a proposal of the rules to be followed for construction activity in the zone between the red line and the new green line that has been founded by the irrigation department after the unprecedented floods last year. Currently, there is a ban on constructions between the river and the blue line. Some development activity is allowed, albeit with terms and conditions, between the blue line and red line of Panchganga river—also known as the red zone. According to the Wadnere committee, the constructions in the red zone, many of which have come up by flouting rules, was one of the reason for the floods in the city. A senior civic official said, “The irrigation department has revised the flood lines and added a new green line which depicts the extent to which the flood water had reached last year. From now onwards, we are going to take into account the new green line for granting building permission. ” Developers are of the view that the green line should not be considered for making any new policy related to constructions. President of Credai, Kolhapur, Vidyanand Bedekar said, “The irrigation department has already clarified that the new green line should not be considered for building approvals. We too have placed the same request before the civic authorities. The development control rules of the state government that are in place do not have any mention of the new green line. The KMC should approach the urban development department instead of framing any rule unilaterally.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/new-green-line-in-kolhapur-becomes-bone-of-contention/articleshow/77472844.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Webcast, FB live relay of Mohali celebrations||Mohali: The Mohali administration will be holding a webcasting and Facebook live of the Independence Day celebrations in Mohali. Strict orders have been issued not to involve school children in the function. Also, all colleges and universities have been issued circulars to not involve students during the ceremonies being held in respective institutions, said district magistrate (DM) Girish Dayalan. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh will hoist the flag in Mohali at Shaheed Major Harminderpal Singh Government College, Phase VI. Only 15 guests have been allowed on stage in 20-minute programme including the speech of the CM and parade by police staff, said the DM. Dayalan said, “We have issued strict instructions to all the government, private schools, colleges and universities not to involve students in the celebration of the Independence Day at their respective institutions. The directions have been issued in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/webcast-fb-live-relay-of-mohali-celebrations/articleshow/77474082.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||Investors rush to sell silver as rates peak||Nagpur: Amid silver prices touching record highs in the commodity exchange and international market, investors reaching counters of traders to sell the white metal have to settle for less. The physical markets follow rates quoted in the exchanges which are at around Rs75,000 a kg. However, if an investor turns up at any of the local markets across the country to sell in bulk quantity, the rates offered are in the range Rs70,000 for a kg of silver. Investors are rushing to sell the silver held by them in bulk quantity after the rates peaked these days. The supply exceeding demand has reduced the rates in the physical market. This is despite the prices in the exchanges that follow the global trend are higher, said traders. The excessive supply of investors’ silver in the local markets has made domestically available silver cheaper than imports, say traders, Pankaj Bhakai of M/s Anantrai and Sons at Itwari market said the markets are quoting two different rates for the retail and bulk segment. If the deal involves smaller amounts running into grams, the price is at Rs73000, a kg. However, if investors want to sell in bulk quantity of 5kg to 8kg or more the rates are Rs70,000 at present. Bhakai said this is because a number of investors are rushing to sell the silver and book profit. A section of investors had purchased silver at peak rates in 2011 after which the prices had dipped to over Rs35,000. Such investors are seeing it as the right opportunity to recover their losses. “There has to be enough liquidity in the hands of traders to meet the supply as a result the metal is being traded at a discount,” said Bhakai. The per kg rate of imported silver by adding customs and GST goes beyond Rs76000 as against this, traders are getting the metal from investors at Rs70,000, he added. Nitin Khandelwal, former president of Gems and Jewellery Council, said that investors who had purchased silver in 2011 when the rates had touched similar levels are out to offload their stock to recover losses. Khandelwal said only moderate quantity of the metal is being sold in the market at present though he also agreed there was a discount in the physical market rates as against that of exchanges. The impact could be seen in smaller centres too. Rajesh Shete, a trader at Hupari near Kolhapur, said the there is a major selling pressure in the market. As against this, the demand is not much as buyers are waiting for rates to stabilize. The situation has led to a discount in the local markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/investors-rush-to-sell-silver-as-rates-peak/articleshow/77472852.cms||Shishir Arya
August 11, 2020||Surat||Covid kills daughter, sons dump ex-bizman on road||Surat: Balu Rana has added sparkle to thousands of saris, angarkhas and sherwanis for nearly six decades with his zari threads. But not only was his life pushed into darkness, it was torn to shreds in this Covid-19 pandemic. On Sunday, Rana, once a famed zari maker and a successful businessman, was found squatting outside a garbage dump, about half a km from his house in Rudarpura area. He was completely dishevelled, famished and uncared for. Rana, around 75 years old, was found imploring people for food and locals sometimes even saw him rummaging through the garbage bin searching for leftovers. After his elder daughter Kaushalya succumbed to coronavirus a month ago, Rana had no one to care for him; he has three sons who allegedly left him to fend for himself. Locals say they had been seeing the man for the last 10 days and thought he was a beggar. Some citizens informed Piyush Shah, a social worker, who collected his details and dropped him home in Rudarpura Kharwawad. “Rana has been living in such condition for the past five years. Until a month ago, Kaushalya used to visit him regularly and take care of him. But after she died a month ago due to Covid-19, there is no one to care for him,” said Shah. When TOI visited him on Monday, he was again sitting outside his three-storey house and neighbours said that he was again thrown out by his son who suffers from some mental problem. “I earned Rs 50,000 per month in my young days, but time has changed now. My sons live separately in their own houses with families,” lamented Rana, who had even earned handsome brokerage from dealing in zari making machines. But the wary man suddenly beseeches: “Please get me some food. I am hungry.” His second Umesh, 48, works in a diamond unit while the youngest Mahesh, 43, is employed in a zari unit. “None of us are willing to keep my father due to his bad behaviour. I spotted him many times sitting near the garbage in the past few days. I told him to go home, but he did not agree,” Mahesh told TOI. Pramod Jariwala, “Balubhai was financially well off. But after his sons left his house, he has been living in a pitiable condition. No family member comes to see him now.” Jariwala’s views were seconded by another neighbour Ganesh Rana. The Rana community is traditionally involved in zari manufacturing, one of the oldest industries of Surat. Before diamond cutting and polishing began, pure zari made of precious metals was the identity of the city. Many businessmen involved in zari business live in Rudarpura which was once teeming with zari units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/covid-kills-daughter-sons-dump-ex-bizman-on-road/articleshow/77470226.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||With spike in cases, collection of Covid waste takes a backseat||Kolkata: The rapid growth in number of Covid-positive patients has led to decline in collection of bio-medical wastes from households across the city. Mixture of general household or kitchen wastes with that being generated by Covid-positive patients, who are in home isolation, dumping of wastes on road and non-payment of service charges by a section of households are some of the reasons why the collection drive has taken a backseat, said a Kolkata Municipal Corporation official. According to the official, the solitary private agency that has been entrusted to collect bio-medical wastes from Covid households is finding it difficult to cope with the pressure in the wake of the growth in number of patients. “We have asked them to augment its fleet of vehicles and manpower for collection of wastes from more households as we have been noticing a spike in number of patients who are staying in isolation at their houses and are generating bio-medical wastes,” said a KMC health department official. According to a spokesperson of the agency, Greentech Environ Management Pvt Ltd, currently they have a fleet of vehicles and manpower that can collect wastes from 100 households daily. But, sources in the KMC said the agency needs to collect bio-medical wastes from at least 500 households with Covid patients every day. “We are noticing a spike in Covid cases. Accordingly, it is putting huge pressure on the agency entrusted to collect bio-medical wastes,” another official said. “We need to collect Covid wastes from as many as 150 households daily in Jodhpur Park-Patuli belt that has been regularly witnessing a spike in cases,” the official said. Some areas in this belt that have witnessed a rapid growth in cases in the past three weeks include, Jodhpur Park, Bijoygarh, Patuli, Baishnabghata and Baghajatin. According to the agency spokesperson, KMC has already offered them a solution. “They have assured us to install 2,000 waste bins for disposal of bio-medical wastes from Covid households. It has already procured such bins for five boroughs out of 16 where these will be installed at containment zones. We hope the bio-medical waste disposal from Covid homes will get a boost once these bins are installed,” he said. A West Bengal Pollution Control Board source said they might advise on engaging multiple agencies for waste collection from Covid households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-spike-in-cases-collection-of-covid-waste-takes-a-backseat/articleshow/77471721.cms||Saikat Ray
August 11, 2020||Bhopal||Trucks stay off roads in Madhya Pradesh over high diesel price||BHOPAL: Trucks and transport vehicles came to a grinding halt in Madhya Pradesh on Monday following a three-day strike call (chakka jam) by transporters demanding reduction in diesel prices and others. There was no movement of goods from any part of the state including Bhopal and Indore and business worth Rs 200 crore was hit on Day 1 of the strike. In Bhopal over 15,000 trucks remained off roads while transporters association claimed about 4.5 lakh trucks stopped dispatch of goods and raw material to and from industries. Transporters have given a five-point charter of demands including a reduction of diesel rates by reducing the VAT on the fuel and abolition of transport department barriers at inter-state borders alleging rampant corruption. “It has become place for extortion,” they alleged. Ajay Sharma, vice president of All India Transport Organisation said, truck operators, drivers and other staff have been working throughout the corona-crisis and lockdown day in and day out. “They should also be declared corona warriors and included in the insurance scheme for Covid-19,” he said. MP government must reduce VAT on diesel like the Delhi government while government should also give a rebate on the road tax and the goods tax for six months.” Though the first day of the strike did not have much impact on normal life, but if it continues then there will be shortage of commodities with the traders. In Bhopal and Indore transporters have stopped accepting bookings for the next two days, including vegetables and fruits. President of All India Transport Companies’ Association (AITCA) Thakurlal Rajput said that all the small, medium and heavy loading vehicles are on strike paralysing the transportation of fruits, vegetables, food grains and medicines. Transporters of the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chattisgarh have supported the strike. On Monday, they assembled at Kokta on the city outskirts and staged a demonstration. Sharma said the truck operators waved black flags on the inter-state barriers and also blew horns “in protest against corruption’. He said the “three-day lockdown of the transporters is a symbolic strike. If the government doesn’t act, the agitation will be intensified.” There was no supply of vegetables and fruits in the mandi due to this strike. Similarly, no food grains were unloaded at Jumerati and Azad markets. However, supply of fuel will not be affected by the strike. Siyaganj Wholesale Kirana Merchant Association president Ramesh Khandelwal said, “There will be absolutely no movement of goods for next two days. Many traders had called and dispatched goods in advance ahead of the strike, but if the strike continues then it may hit traders.” All India Motor Transport Congress (west zone) vice-president Vijay Kalra said, “It’s not possible to operate in such tough conditions. Margins have dipped to negative levels due to diesel price while loads have reduced as industries too are working on partial capacity. How can we survive in such conditions?, he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/trucks-stay-off-roads-in-mp-over-high-diesel-price/articleshow/77471572.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Indore||Trucks stay off roads in Madhya Pradesh over high diesel price||BHOPAL: Trucks and transport vehicles came to a grinding halt in Madhya Pradesh on Monday following a three-day strike call (chakka jam) by transporters demanding reduction in diesel prices and others. There was no movement of goods from any part of the state including Bhopal and Indore and business worth Rs 200 crore was hit on Day 1 of the strike. In Bhopal over 15,000 trucks remained off roads while transporters association claimed about 4.5 lakh trucks stopped dispatch of goods and raw material to and from industries. Transporters have given a five-point charter of demands including a reduction of diesel rates by reducing the VAT on the fuel and abolition of transport department barriers at inter-state borders alleging rampant corruption. “It has become place for extortion,” they alleged. Ajay Sharma, vice president of All India Transport Organisation said, truck operators, drivers and other staff have been working throughout the corona-crisis and lockdown day in and day out. “They should also be declared corona warriors and included in the insurance scheme for Covid-19,” he said. MP government must reduce VAT on diesel like the Delhi government while government should also give a rebate on the road tax and the goods tax for six months.” Though the first day of the strike did not have much impact on normal life, but if it continues then there will be shortage of commodities with the traders. In Bhopal and Indore transporters have stopped accepting bookings for the next two days, including vegetables and fruits. President of All India Transport Companies’ Association (AITCA) Thakurlal Rajput said that all the small, medium and heavy loading vehicles are on strike paralysing the transportation of fruits, vegetables, food grains and medicines. Transporters of the neighbouring states of Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chattisgarh have supported the strike. On Monday, they assembled at Kokta on the city outskirts and staged a demonstration. Sharma said the truck operators waved black flags on the inter-state barriers and also blew horns “in protest against corruption’. He said the “three-day lockdown of the transporters is a symbolic strike. If the government doesn’t act, the agitation will be intensified.” There was no supply of vegetables and fruits in the mandi due to this strike. Similarly, no food grains were unloaded at Jumerati and Azad markets. However, supply of fuel will not be affected by the strike. Siyaganj Wholesale Kirana Merchant Association president Ramesh Khandelwal said, “There will be absolutely no movement of goods for next two days. Many traders had called and dispatched goods in advance ahead of the strike, but if the strike continues then it may hit traders.” All India Motor Transport Congress (west zone) vice-president Vijay Kalra said, “It’s not possible to operate in such tough conditions. Margins have dipped to negative levels due to diesel price while loads have reduced as industries too are working on partial capacity. How can we survive in such conditions?, he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/trucks-stay-off-roads-in-mp-over-high-diesel-price/articleshow/77479951.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Constable conceals identity after car accident, in soup||Coimbatore: A case has been registered against an armed reserved police head constable after his car rammed a two-wheeler, injuring a woman and her son. The head constable gave false information to the victims and passersby after the accident to escape legal action. Senior police officers on Monday were advised to take departmental action against the cop, identified as Nagaraj. The victims have been identified as A Indhirani, 52, and her son A Madan Kumar, 25, of New Siddhapudur. On August 5, they were returning home after visiting a hospital at Ganapathy. While they were passing through the Sathy-Sanganoor Pirivu Road, a car coming from the opposite direction rammed the two-wheeler. Madan and Indhirani suffered serious injuries. Passersby rushed to help the duo and admitted them to a private hospital on the Mettupalayam Road. Though the car driver got off to check on the duo, he refused to help. Passersby and Madan asked him his name and he said it was Rajkumar. On August 7, Madan lodged a complaint with the traffic investigation wing (TIW-east) of the city police. A case was registered against ‘Rajkumar’ under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code. A CCTV footage collected from the accident spot and further investigations revealed the true identity of the driver. The footage was also widely circulated on WhatsApp groups. R Mutharasu, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), instructed police to conduct a detailed inquiry into the accident. A team collected the car details and found out that the car belonged to Nagaraj. Nagaraj initially told police that his friend Rajkumar was behind the wheel. However, after showing screen grabs of the CCTV footage, Nagaraj confessed. “Nagaraj thought if he revealed his real name, he will be removed from service. A detailed report has been sent to senior offices to initiate action against him for providing false information,” an officer said. Meanwhile, the department is planning to take action against TIW police inspector Amudha and sub-Inspector Annammal, who investigated the accident case, police commissioner Sumit Sharan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/constable-conceals-identity-after-car-accident-in-soup/articleshow/77471581.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Without a mask? You’ll feel the slap of Rs 1,000 fine in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Following directions issued by the Gujarat high court, the state government on Monday hiked the fine for not wearing a mask to Rs 1,000 across the state. The increased fine will be implemented from Tuesday, August 11. Chief minister Vijay Rupani, while addressing mediapersons said, “Following the high court directive, the penalty for not wearing mask in public will be Rs 1,000 from August 11 onwards.” In the wake of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state, the high court had observed that “Masks are logically the best defence individuals have against Covid-19”. Earlier, the government had increased the fine for not wearing a mask from Rs 200 to Rs 500 across the state, even as the municipal corporations of Ahmedabad and Surat were imposing a fine of Rs 500 within areas of the two corporations. The decision came after the Gujarat high court in its order last month, asked the government to collect a minimum fine of Rs 1,000 from those found without mask at public places. To stop human-to-human transmission of the virus, Rupani urged people not to come out of their homes to celebrate festivals, including Janmashtami. During a hearing in the HC last month on a sou motu PIL about various aspects related to coronavirus, the state government informed the court that the hike of Rs 300 led to a significant decrease in the number of people who violated the rule. However, the high court said some people still do not adhere to the rule, and asked the government to increase the fine for not wearing mask in public places to a minimum of Rs 1,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/without-a-mask-youll-feel-the-slap-of-rs-1000-fine-in-guj/articleshow/77471600.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Entice int’l airlines to city airport: Bizmen||Coimbatore: Two days after an Air India Express aircraft crashed at the tabletop runway in Kozhikode, Coimbatore’s industrialists and residents wonder at why the city airport’s runway which is longer and has more run off area than Kozhikode’s airport is not receiving more international airlines. They say this is the perfect time to invite more airlines to our airport, because the director general of civil aviation plans to halt landing of wide-bodied flights in Kozhikode as a temporary measure.Data from flight radar 24 app, shows that the Kozhikode airport’s runway length is 2,860m with 50m of run-off area after which the gradient starts. Comparatively, Coimbatore’s runway length is 2,970m with 100m of run-off area provided in case flights shoot off the runway. “So, we have a longer runway with more safety features like a larger run-off area,” says an airport enthusiast and businessman, J Sathish. “The only thing that we lack is 150m of space on both sides of the runway’s central line, for which we need to acquire just 50 acres,” he adds.Industrialists say the Coimbatore airport has already proved its mettle in handling so many repatriation flights belonging to foreign airlines right from Fly Dubai, Kenyan, Salam Air and Royal Brunei Airways among others. “Despite our having facilities they keep talking about requiring a wider and larger runway for wide bodied aircrafts, but do we need wide-bodied international aircrafts initially? Many foreign airlines may be willing to operate smaller aircrafts to and from Coimbatore to their hub,” said Sathish.Airlines like Air Asia and Fly Dubai had earlier requested permission to operate flights to and from Coimbatore to Malaysia and Dubai but were refused. MP A Raja had also brought this up in Parliament last year, demanding to know why they were refused permission.“In Kerala, both ruling and opposition parties work together when it comes to infrastructure for their people. This is the right time for our politicians to press the civil aviation ministry to permit more airlines from new destinations to enter the Coimbatore airport and market,” vice-chairperson of Kongu Global Forum, Vanitha Mohan said. “Our airport is not just safer but has massive business opportunity because it caters to seven business districts,” she added.Fliers say all they are asking for is a direct flight to hubs like Dubai, Kuala Lumpur, Abu Dhabi London and Frankfurt. “Now all of us have to drive to Kochi to take a flight to Europe or USA, or fly to another Indian destination like Chennai, New Delhi or Bangalore to take a flight to the above continents,” industrialist who manages Selvam Agencies, D Nandakumar said. “It will save us more money and time up to five hours both ways,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/entice-intl-airlines-to-city-airport-bizmen/articleshow/77471574.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||Ex-MLA Dhawad denied bail for Covid treatment||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday rejected the bail plea of former MLA Ashok Dhawad, who is undergoing treatment at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) after contracting Covid-19 in Central Jail. The court directed Dhawad to continue with his treatment at GMCH till he recuperates completely. Dhawad is facing a jail term for his alleged involvement in the Rs38 crore Navodaya Co-operative Bank scam. He was the chairman of the bank. He was arrested on November 5 last year and is behind bars since then. The 65-year-old accused had moved his bail application citing old age and desire to take treatment in a private hospital. The bail was opposed by the public prosecutor, who submitted Dhawad’s medical reports which proved that he was recovering well at the GMCH and getting all the necessary treatment. The HC had also taken into account the rejection of his anticipatory bail by the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ex-mla-dhawad-denied-bail-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/77472858.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bhopal||MP: Panna National Park tiger loses mating fight, drowns in River Ken||BHOPAL: Yet another tiger has died in Panna National Park – the fifth in seven months. Its carcass was found floating in Ken river late Sunday night after a fight with another male. A forest guard watched the clash of fangs and claws through binoculars from a watch tower. Field director of the park, KS Bhadoria, said the fight seems to have been over mating with tigress T6. Tigers P123 and P431 fought fiercely on the riverbank on August 7 and P123 lost, he said. The forest guard watched mesmerized through binoculars, the tigers’ roars and growls echoing in the forest. P123, a five-year-old, vanished from his view after the fight. Field staff rushed to the spot but couldn’t find the injured tiger. Teams set out to look for it, but there was no sign for the next two days. On Sunday night, the decomposed carcass was spotted in Gangau beat of the park near Hinota range, about 8kms downstream from the point where the tigers had sparred. Forest officials suspect P123 was so badly injured in the fight that it drowned. This is the fifth tiger death in the park in seven months. On June 28, tiger P213 had died in another territorial fight. Its rotting carcass was found three days later. Exactly a month later, another tiger died in what the director dubbed a “territorial fight”. Its carcass, too, was decomposed as it was found 3-4 days later. There was no foul play in any of the three deaths, Bhadoria said. Sniffer dogs were deployed in the investigation to rule out poaching. Five deaths are quite a lot in a park that has 42 tigers, 39 of them in the core area. There are more tigers in the park than its carrying capacity, leading to frequent territorial fights, the park director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/panna-tiger-loses-mating-fight-drowns-in-river-ken/articleshow/77471583.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Foreigner facing criminal charge wants to go home for work, court says no||PANAJI: An Austrian national, facing a criminal case for alleged involvement in a drug case, has been denied permission to travel to Austria, work there for seven months, and return. The sessions court on Thursday dismissed the application of the 34-year-old, requesting that he be permitted to return to Austria as he has been offered employment as an event manager till December 2020. He stated that he would return to India to face trial and would not abscond. Justice Irshad Agha stated that any person who is facing trial, or against whom a chargesheet has been filed, cannot be permitted to leave the country unless there is an assurance that the person will return to face trial. “The applicant, in the present case, was found in possession of cocaine and charas. The offence is of a very serious nature. Therefore, no leniency can be shown,” the court stated. Further, it said that the applicant had not produced any documents to show that he has any ticket booked to go to Austria and no document to show that he would definitely return to Goa to face trial. “If such an application was allowed, every foreign national facing trial or investigation, would have applied for leave to go to their native place or go abroad,” Agha stated. The applicant’s plea, that he wants to return home so that he can be safe from the coronavirus pandemic, was also rejected. “If the applicant does not appear, the proceedings will be stalled,” the court stated. The court also stated that there must be no delay in filing of the chargesheet on pretext that the report is not received, as was stated by the public prosecutor. “The investigating officer cannot refrain from filing the chargesheet only because the report is not received. It has to be filed within a particular time. Under exceptional circumstances, if the investigating agency is not in a position to file the chargesheet, they have to obtain necessary exemption from the court, and which application has to be dealt with depending upon the facts and circumstances of the case,” the court stated. The Austrian national was arrested in November 2019 under the NDPS Act on allegations of being in possession of 2.3g of cocaine and 6.2g of charas. Later, he was released on bail where one of the conditions was that he deposits his passport. The accused, who has been visiting Goa since 2010, had come down on a tourist visa which was valid up to May 19, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/foreigner-facing-criminal-charge-wants-to-go-home-for-work-court-says-no/articleshow/77472865.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Public festivities, processions banned||AHMEDABAD: The city police commissioner issued a notification on Monday banning celebration of festivals in public in the pandemic. The notification states that on August 12, the festival of Janmashtami, August 15 to August 21 the Paryushan, Ganesh Mahotsav from August 22 to September 1, Tarnetar fair from August 21 to August 24, Ramapir fair from August 28 to to August 29, and Muharram from August 29 to August 30 are close at hand. A large number of gatherings is expected and there is apprehension of violation of norms of social distancing. The notification states that during the festivals in August, public celebrations, processions, fairs, tours on foot, service camps for devotees, tazia processions, immersion tours in public and related gatherings have been banned, keeping in view the guidelines of government on Covid-19 from August 11 to September 2. The second notification issued by police commissioner Sanjay Srivastava states that from August 22, idols of Lord Ganesha will be installed at different places with celebrations. Hence in prevalent circumstances of Covid-19 the prescribed height of the idol should not be more than 2 feet. The idols should not be be made of POP or fibreglass and should not be carried in procession on roads. The idols should not be immersed in natural sources of water. Ganesha idols should not be installed at public places, no pandals or DJ or loudspeakers should be used, and this time the administration will not make any artificial water body, and so immersion of the idol should be done at home. The notification also states that anybody found violating the norms will be punishable under Section 188 IPC. Similarly, during Muharram, no procession or immersion at public places should take place, the notification states. The tazias should not be more than 2 feet in height. No signs should be put by anyone in public. During installation of tazias, it should be taken care of that sentiments of people of other religion are not hurt. Religious ceremonies should be performed at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/public-festivities-processions-banned/articleshow/77471578.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||32-yr-old man, 2 sons drown in forest pond||Yavatmal: A 32-year-old man and his two sons drowned in a pond in forest area near Sandva village under rural police station of Pusad tehsil in Yavatmal on Sunday. The deceased have been identified as Laxman Gunaji Boke (32) and his sons Vaibhav (4) and Devanand (2). According to police, Laxman along with family used to stay near the forest area, a little away from the village. On late Sunday afternoon, Laxman had taken his sons along to the pond to fetch water for household works. As the trio did not return till late in the evening, Laxman’s wife alerted the villagers, who started looking for the missing persons. As it grew dark, the villagers abandoned the search. On Monday morning, bodies of Laxman and his sons were seen floating in the pond. The matter was reported to Pusad rural police station. Police fished out the bodies and sent them for post mortem after panchnama. Police have registered a case of accidental death and head constable Kisan Rathod is investigating further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/32-yr-old-man-2-sons-drown-in-forest-pond/articleshow/77472864.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Voices of Irular children to resonate in American Tamil Radio||COIMBATORE: S Kannika, a Class XI student from the Irular tribal community in Rayar Oothupathi village, Naickenpalayam, has been writing stories in Irular language. Earlier, she had read these stories in Tamil and had been retelling them in her language, but when it comes to writing it down, she faced certain hassles. “As we had to use the Tamil script for our language, we didn’t know which ‘la’, or which ‘ra’ would suit our pronunciation. We also didn’t know the Irular names for certain objects, so we had to consult our elders to learn them. For example, we didn’t know what the moon was called in our language. After consulting with elders, we learnt that it was ‘dhovi’,” Kannika says. “I wrote down two stories, but I was doubtful, so I abandoned them. I have to try my hand at it again,” she says. Like Kannika, her younger brother Ragu, their friend M Kanishka and around 20 Irular tribal children from her village have been reading stories in Tamil, and have been retelling them in their own language, for the past one year. Subsequently, they also took up writing down the stories in their own language, using Tamil script. Along the way, they also learnt stories of their tribe from their grandparents and parents. “Our grandparents tell us incidents that happened in our village, and stories they know. We have been writing them down,” they say. This retrieval of words, language, and a culture, through stories was the motive of this exercise, says Odiyen Lakshmanan, a writer, and collector of Irular songs, who has undertaken the ‘Reading and Language Retrieval Movement’ for Irular tribal children from 2018-end. When mobilising help for tribal people hit by the lockdown, Lakshmanan told about the initiative to his friend Surya Nagappan, a Tamil teacher in Iowa City, USA, who is also a volunteer with the American Tamil Radio. Surya took it to the radio’s administrative director Arumugam Pechimuthu. “He was very interested in the project and we decided to broadcast recordings of the kids’ stories in our radio,” says Surya over a phone call. The online radio, based in California Bay Area, has been active for around six years now, and has dedicated listeners among the Tamil diaspora in the US, Canada, Malaysia, and Singapore, Surya says. “As the Irular language is much like Tamil, we don’t need to have an explanation or commentary. We have planned to broadcast it twice, for the benefit of listeners across timelines.” The radio would broadcast the programme on Wednesdays for one year. The first episode would be on August 19, an important day in the history of Lakota tribal people in the US. “We have material for around 25 episodes. We would collect more. We hope this initiative would create enthusiasm among tribal people across Tamil Nadu,” Surya says. Through the initiative, Lakshmanan says, his team has reached to around 200 Irular kids in villages in and around Coimbatore, such as Melpathi, Keezhpathi, Koottupulikkadu, Kondanur, Kandivali, and Alamaramedu, in regions such as Anaikatti and Athikadavu. Soon they were also planning to reach Irular kids in Sathyamangalam, he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/voices-of-irular-children-to-resonate-in-american-tamil-radio/articleshow/77471570.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
August 11, 2020||India||Work starts for Rajya Sabha housing complex 17 years after land allotment||NEW DELHI: Vice-president and Rajya Sabha Chairman, M Venkaiah Naidu, laid the foundation stone for a housing complex for the Upper House in Delhi on Monday 17 years after the land was allotted for this purpose. Raising concern over this inordinate delay, Naidu referred to the “social-economic-legal-administrative cobwebs” that resulted in non-utilisation of the land since 2003. This is not for the first time such a concern has been raised over clearances and approvals for construction projects by government departments. In May 2016, Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari had lamented similar experience of delay in getting clearances from departments even for the much required multi-level car parking at Transport Bhawan in the presence of Naidu, who was then urban affairs minister. An official release from Vice-President’s office said Naidu referred to several rounds of meetings he had held over the last two years with the urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri, top officials from his ministry, Delhi government, DDA and other agencies to remove the hurdles in the way of utilisation of the land parcel. Naidu had also spoken to the Lieutenant Governor and Delhi chief minister in this regard. Naidu said that if the 8,700 sq metres of precious land allotted against payment was put to use for the intended purpose in time, the RS secretariat could have benefitted significantly in the form of House Rent Allowance besides recovering a substantial portion of the investment in the housing project by now. He also referred to annual rent of Rs 30 crore being paid by the secretariat for locating RSTV in the NDMC Complex. He also said how the housing demand of secretariat employees was being met to only up to 38 per cent. To address the housing shortage for the employees of Rajya Sabha secretariat, 40 dwelling units will be constructed at this site. Housing and urban affairs minister, Hardeep Singh Puri assured Naidu that though the NBCC has indicated a three-year period for the completion of the housing complex, all efforts will be made to complete the project well ahead of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/work-starts-for-rajya-sabha-housing-complex-17-years-after-land-allotment/articleshow/77474129.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||Three realtors held for duping investor||Nagpur: Three real estate businessmen Vijay Shelke, his brother Nischay Shelke and Mahendra Gavai have been arrested by the Economic Offences Wing (EoW) of the crime branch for allegedly duping an investor by over Rs7 lakh. The three have been remanded in police custody till August 13. It’s learnt the three realtors had floated a couple of firms and lured several investors promising Rs2.16 lakh annually as returns by cultivating aloe vera at a farmland in Samudrapur of Wardha district. The three had claimed that they would produce aloe vera gel and the profit would be distributed among the investors. The trio had lured the victim investor to pay for the development and cultivation charges as a part of the investment formalities. They had allegedly promised to transfer the land in the name of the victim after the payment, but later did not formalize the deal leading to the registration of the offence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/three-realtors-held-for-duping-investor/articleshow/77472871.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||1990-batch IAS officers promoted to ACS rank||Gandhinagar: After the government of India approved the state government’s proposal for en masse promotion of the 1990 IAS batch from principal secretary to additional chief secretary rank, the Gujarat government on Monday promoted all officers of the batch. Although the departmental promotion committee (DPC) had cleared promotion of the whole batch over a month ago, promotion orders were pending as the state government was awaiting a response from GOI. Promotion of the 1990 batch will pave wave for promotion of other junior batches too. With Monday’s order, Kamal Dayani, principal secretary (PS), general administration department (personnel), Manoj Das, PS to the CM and industry & mines department, Manoj Aggarwal, PS, social justice & empowerment department, Chandra Vanu Som, PS, sports, youth & cultural activities department and Arun Solanki, managing director, Gujarat mineral development corporation and commissioner, geology & mines have been promoted to ACS rank. Earlier, only the 1986 batch got en masse promotion instead of vacancy-based promotion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/1990-batch-ias-officers-promoted-to-acs-rank/articleshow/77471597.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||With 389 fresh cases, U’khand’s Covid-19 tally crosses 10k mark||Dehradun: The number of coronavirus positive cases in Uttarakhand crossed the 10,000-mark with 389 fresh cases reported on Monday and the toll of the virus rose to 134 with nine more casualties. The number of Covid-19 cases in the state now stands at 10,021. Among the nine deaths of Covid-19 patients reported on the day, six were from Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani, two were from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh, and one from Shri Mahant Indiresh Hospital in Dehradun. “On the day, Haridwar reported the maximum of 178 cases, followed by 110 cases from Udham Singh Nagar, 41 from Dehradun, 25 from Nainital, seven from Tehri, six each from Almora and Chamoli, three from Champawat, two from Uttarkashi, and one from Rudraprayag,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Anoop Nautiyal, member of social organisation “Social Development for Communities Foundation” that is closely tracking Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state, informed that while Uttarakhand recorded the first 1,000 cases in 80 days, it took just 50 days for the state to reach the 10,000 mark. “Uttarakhand reported the first 1,000 cases on June 6. The cases doubled in the next 15 days. Then, the state reported 4,000 cases on July 14 and crossed the 5,000 mark in barely eight days on July 22. Within 16 days, the cases have yet again doubled from 5,000 to 10,000 in the state,” said Nautiyal. He added that the testing rate has also increased and it is one of the main reasons behind the rise in cases. Notably, the state had conducted 1 lakh tests by July 17 i.e within 125 days. However, it took less than a month for the state to test another 1 lakh samples. The state touched the feat of testing 2 lakh samples this week. In some good news, the recovery rate of the state reached 62.88% on Monday after 167 patients recovered fully from the virus, taking the tally of cured patients to 6,301 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-389-fresh-cases-ukhands-covid-19-tally-crosses-10k-mark/articleshow/77470278.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Ailing female elephant dies||Coimbatore: The ailing female elephant, found at Vellapathy in the Mulkankad forest beat of Bouluvampatti forest range on Saturday, died on Monday morning.“The animal was too dehydrated and debilitated. It could not even get up,” said a forest department official. The officials were administering glucose, vitamins and minerals to the 12-year-old animal for the last two days.Forest veterinary officer Dr Prabhu conducted postmortem. The elephant is suspected to have suffered a stomach infection. Sixteen wild elephants have died in the district since March, officials said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ailing-female-elephant-dies/articleshow/77471594.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand allows home isolation for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand health department on Monday allowed home isolation for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in the state. According to the official data, over 75% patients in the state are asymptomatic. Amit Negi, secretary (health), informed that Covid-19 patients will be able to opt for home isolation only when the treating doctor will identify them as “asymptomatic” and the person has a care-taker who will remain in touch with the doctors at the nearest Covid-19 treatment facility. “Patients who are above 60 years of age, have comorbidities, had any kind of organ transplant, HIV infection, or any other reason for weak immunity will not be eligible for home isolation. Pregnant women and kids under 10 years of age will also not be allowed to opt for home isolation,” said the secretary. The orders further said that for home isolation, a separate room with attached toilet should be available for the patients as well as for his/her care-giver. There must be separate rooms and toilets for other family members too. The family members and the attendant of the patient will also have to take hydroxychloroquine as per doctor’s prescription. The guidelines also contained a detailed to-do list for both the patient and the attendant. The patients are mandated to download the Aarogya Setu app and will have to keep the Bluetooth and Wi-Fi active at all times. The patients will also have to update their medical condition every day on the website of the health department. The government orders further state that if a patient has no symptoms or fever for three consecutive days, he/she is advised to visit a doctor and stay isolated at home for another seven days. Thereafter, there would be no need for testing after the home isolation period is over. “During the isolation, the district surveillance officers and dedicated team of ASHA workers, field staffers will have to monitor the health of those under home isolation through the app and also through the field teams. They will have to keep a record of temperature, pulse-rate, and oxygen level of the patient,” says the GO. The violators will be booked under the Epidemic Act 1897 and Uttar Pradesh Epidemic Control Ordinance 2020. Besides Uttarakhand, many other states, including neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Bihar, are also allowing asymptomatic Covid-19 patients to opt for home isolation. The Centre had framed the guidelines regarding the same on July 2 but the decision to implement them was left with the states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-allows-home-isolation-for-asymptomatic-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77470288.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 11, 2020||Coimbatore||292 new Covid-19 cases recorded, highest so far||Coimbatore: In the highest daily tally recorded since July 30, the district recorded 292 new cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the total number of cases to 6,961. With 388 people getting discharged through the weekend, the number of active cases remains at 1,561. The district recorded seven new deaths, taking the total death count to 132. While two of the seven patients an 85-year-old man and a 60-year-old man died at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Saturday within 24 hours of being admitted, the remaining five died at private hospitals in the district. The five include a 63-year-old man who got admitted with multiple heart problems, a 70-year-old woman, a 71-year-old man and two 65-year-old women. Some of them died after as long as 15 days of hospitalization, officials said. Of the 292 cases recorded, almost 90% are from corporation limits. Podanur alone accounted for 13 new cases while Selvapuram and surrounding areas sprang up 23 cases. “In Podanur, the 13 cases are spread across four or five streets, with each street having only one or two cases,” said a corporation official. But five of the 13 cases are from the Panchayath Office Street in Anna Nagar. “There is a family that tested positive after coming into a contact with another positive case,” he said. Anna Street in P N Pudur also saw 10 new cases from a single street. The remaining cases were spread across Peelamedu (3 cases), R S Puram (6), Periyanaickenpalayam (4), Ramanathapuram (2) and Ammankulam, which saw three new cases. Sources said 15 new police trainees have tested positive, but are yet to be declared in the official bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/292-new-covid-19-cases-recorded-highest-so-far/articleshow/77471586.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Flyover construction: Mettupalayam Road to be closed for six months||Coimbatore: The Kavundamapalaym -GN Mills stretch of the Mettupalayam Road will be closed to vehicle traffic for six months from next week to facilitate construction of a flyover. The national highway (NH) wing of the state highways (SH) department will construct the 650-metre-long flyover. National highway wing officials had met deputy commissioner of police (traffic) R Mutharasu and superintendent of police Ara Arularasu seeking support to close the stretch. After the road is closed, motorists should take Bharathi Park Road, GCT Junction, Thadagam Road, Kanuvai and Pannimadai to reach the Mettupalayam Road through K Vadamadurai, Mutharasu said. “Vehicles from Mettupalayam on the way to Coimbatore city should take a left turn at Thudiyalur Junction and move towards Kannappa Nagar through Vellakinar and Nallampalayam to reach the city.” As the Thadagam Road and Vellakinar roads see heavy traffic, the diversion might make matters worse, Arularasu said. “To ensure smooth traffic flow during the day, we can close the stretch only from 10pm to 6am and enable construction.” Collector K Rajamani is planning to convene a meeting with national highways, police and other departments to find ways to ease traffic during the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flyover-construction-mettupalayam-road-to-be-closed-for-six-months/articleshow/77471610.cms||A Subburaj
August 11, 2020||Coimbatore||40k students to get SSLC certificates||Coimbatore: A total of 40,422 Class X students from the district have passed the SSLC exams as per results announced by the state on Monday. Of these, 19,978 were boys, and 20,444 were girls. As per data from the school education department, 41,148 students had registered for the exams. Though the state, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown, had cancelled Class X exams and announced that all students would be promoted, results have not been declared for 726 students. When contacted, officials of the directorate of government examinations (DGE) said they had assigned roll numbers for students who had enrolled in Class X at the beginning of the academic year, and the missing numbers would come under three categories: dropouts, long-term absentees who would not have appeared for quarterly and half-yearly exams, and third, students who are dead. When contacted, Coimbatore chief education officer P Usha said as per their nominal roll, the results of only around 450 students were not published, as they would have not appeared for quarterly or half-yearly exams, or would have been on a long leave. She said they had got no instructions for them yet. The state had earlier said that the marks for Class X students would be computed as 80% from quarterly and half-yearly exam marks, and 20% based on their attendance. Schools had also been asked to submit the quarterly and half-yearly answer scripts for the computation process. From the district, 1,510 private candidates had registered for the Class X exam. Their results have not been declared. Officials said as on Monday evening, there was no instruction from the state regarding private candidates. The official said students can download provisional certificates from August 17. Sources in the district school education department said announcement on Class XI admissions might come soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/40k-students-to-get-sslc-certificates/articleshow/77471634.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Charter flight ops revive hope for students, professionals||Kolkata: The process of initiation of international charter flight movements to and from Kolkata has given a fresh lease of hope for a number of professionals, businessmen and students in the city as well as those stuck abroad looking for ways to return home. TOI had reported that IndiGo had already planned three charter flights from the Gulf to the city after the Bengal government gave its nod to charter flight operations to Kolkata on Friday. The state had halted international repatriation flights from different parts of the globe to the city on July 1 citing rising Covid cases. Stuck in Muscat, civil engineer Ritayan Biswas said he has been trying to come back to the city for the last several months since he lost his job at a government undertaking firm in Oman. “The Oman government has taken a policy to nationalise all their positions and have relieved all foreigners from the current positions. Hence, I am now jobless and there is no work for me here. I have been trying to move back to Kolkata and start my career afresh but with no home-bound flights, we are stuck here. Now that the Bengal government has allowed charter flights to land, I have applied for three tickets on a charter flight planned by the Bengali community living here. The flight is set to leave on August 18,” said Biswas, who had been working at Oman for 14 years. Hundreds of others stuck in Europe, USA and Middle-East nations are also hoping to get back home once the charter flight operations resume. Travel agents said the initiation of charter flights has also resulted in a spurt in enquiries from people in Kolkata looking for outbound flights to different nations. “On 24th of this month, we are trying to organise a charter flight from Kolkata to London and back. Discussions are on with the British Deputy High Commission and a private airline and once all necessary permissions are done we will initiate sale of tickets,” said Anil Punjabi, chairman (east) of Travel Agents Federation of India. Businessman Laal Bhatia is planning to take flights out of the city to Italy, Russia and Thailand. Bhatia says he is so desperate to save his business that he is even ready to book a charter flight all by himself. Among those looking to fly out also includes 21-year-old biotechnology student Vikram Tejwani, whose post-graduation classes at University of Leeds, UK is set to begin from next month.“I am doing my masters in research and biotechnology which cannot be managed online and I need to be in the lab. Some of my batchmates from across the world have already reached there,” said Tejwani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/charter-flight-ops-revive-hope-for-students-professionals/articleshow/77471636.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||Lodge FIR against those who force kids to beg: Doon DM||Dehradun: Dehradun district magistrate Ashish Kumar Srivastava has asked the officials to lodge FIR against those persons and parents who force children to beg on city roads. During the meeting on Monday, the DM asked the officials to conduct counselling sessions for the parents of such children and if they still do not stop sending their children for begging, an FIR will be registered against such people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lodge-fir-against-those-who-force-kids-to-beg-doon-dm/articleshow/77470314.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||Inquiry begins into viral Colvale prison ‘video’||Panaji: The inspector general of prisons (IGP) Gurudas Pilarnkar has written to the state government to initiate a police inquiry after a video of an inmate allegedly threatening other prisoners at Colvale Central jail went viral last week. Stating that the video was shot a few months ago but released now, Pilarnkar said they have initiated an inquiry into the incident. “Most of those seen in the video are out on bail, barring two. We have started recording statements of the inmates as well as jail personnel,” Pilarnkar told TOI. He said they have taken serious note of the incident. “We want to know who gave the mobile to the jail inmates. Action will be initiated against those involved,” he said. Pilarnkar said that jail authorities suspect that certain inmates who are undergoing their sentence are involved in the incident, but action will be initiated against them once sufficient evidence is gathered. A week ago, some inmates staged a protest alleging Colvale jail didn’t have enough stock of grocery items, and meals were cooked without onion. Pilarnkar said they were aware of the disgruntled elements in the prison who are behind the protest as well as the filming of the video inside the jail premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/inquiry-begins-into-viral-colvale-prison-video/articleshow/77472889.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress legislator Bhanwar Lal Sharma switches side once again||JAIPUR: Congress legislator Bhanwar Lal Sharma (75) has once again emerged as the show turner in Rajasthan politics. The rebel from Sachin Pilot camp who unexpectedly returned to chief Ashok Gehlot on Monday had been at the center of saving and destabilising governments twice in the past. In his chequered career of over 30 years, Sharma has changed camps faster than one can guess. Barely a week ago, the seven-term MLA was being hunted by the state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for trying to topple the Gehlot-government. Earlier, the state’s special operations group (SOG) was after him with sedition charges after audio clips attributed to him surfaced on social media. The Congress even suspended him from its primary membership for the revolt last month. Amid all this, the Brahmin leader who likes to be seen as a king maker in the state politics suddenly reached the chief minister’s residence while it was raining heavily here late in the evening and declared Gehlot as his undisputed leader. Sharma had expressed similar sentiments for Pilot while being with the rest of the dissidents in Manesar. After meeting Gehlot, the septuagenarian MLA told the media, “I have never feared police cases. I am a self-proclaimed leader.” In 1990, Sharma was among the Janata Dal legislators who broke away from their party to side with chief minister Bhairon Singh Shekhawat whose government fell short of majority when Janata Dal withdrew support to BJP over LK Advani’s “Rath Yatra” to Ayodhya. Sharma, who represents Churu’s Sardarshahar seat, was made a cabinet minister. The Shekhawat government, though, did not last much as it was dismissed following the demolition of Babri Masjid in 1992. Shekhawat returned to power in the 1993 state elections but MLA Sharma, who had joined BJP prior to the polls, was dismissed for anti-party activities. He got re-elected on the Janata Dal ticket in 1995 and the next he was involved in the conspiracy to topple the Shekhawat-government when the CM had gone to the US for treatment. Sharma failed in his bid and in 1998 got elected as a Congress MLA. During the present political crisis, Gehlot repeatedly targeted Sharma pointing out his dubious past. In his attacks on the dissidents, Gehlot had said Pilot camp consisted of people who frequently switched sides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mla-bhanwar-lal-sharma-switches-side-once-again/articleshow/77472880.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan horse-trading case: Sanjay Jain’s custody extended by two days||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) got two days extension for Sanjay Jain’s custody after arresting him on production warrant in the horse-trading case. Jain was arrested after audio clips, in which he was heard talking to other politicians about possible toppling of the ruling government, went viral. He was initially arrested by the Special Operations Group (SOG) in the same matter. ACB also raided his residences and parental house in Jaipur and Bikaner though they did not find large amount of cash there. They will continue to question him regarding his involvenment and of others in the matter. Jain was produced in the court on Monday by ACB following which the agency was granted his custody till August 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-horse-trading-case-sanjay-jains-custody-extended-by-two-days/articleshow/77472877.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Fitness freaks burn lockdown flab||Coimbatore: Gymnasium owners and fitness trainers heaved a sigh of relief after patrons walked in on Monday, four months after the facilities were closed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Most of the gyms saw 30 to 50% footfall. The state government had granted permission to reopen gyms and fitness centres with certain restrictions a few days ago. Members aged below 15 years and above 50 years, those with comorbidities and pregnant women are not allowed to visit. Users should maintain a minimum distance of six feet between them and wear face masks. The premises and equipment should be fumigated regularly. “We have followed all the guidelines right from maintaining the air conditioner temperature to collecting names and details of customers. We were surprised to see 50% footfall on the first day. Even though we have been conducting sessions through Zoom, our members wanted to attend classes at the centre,” said M Krish Beethovan, founder of Bodyzeal Fitworks. “We have limited the role of trainers to supervise our members. We also revised our workout pattern and reduced the intensity of workouts to burning about 400 calories per session,” Beethovan told TOI. Nithyanandhini Manoharan, founder of 45 Degree Fitness, said she will reopen next week. “I want to analyse the situation before reopening. Meantime, we are continuing fitness classes through online sessions for the last few months. I have changed the workout pattern completely and have decided to minimise the indoor exercises. It will be quick intense outdoor workouts for just 30 minutes to ensure that people get fresh air.” Only eight people per session are allowed, based on booking, said Manoharan. “Considering the current financial stress, we have decided to reduce the annual tariff package by a few thousands,” she added. The business has taken a huge hit, said K Ravi Shankar, founder of Ravis fitness Centre. “Without any revenue in the last four months, we have been paying rent and electricity bills from our savings. The rent for the building alone costs Rs 40,000 per month. We will earn some money only if we get new customers, as most of our existing customers have monthly or yearly membership packages,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fitness-freaks-burn-lockdown-flab/articleshow/77471599.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Hit-and-run deaths up in Delhi; speeding key culprit||NEW DELHI: Delhi has seen a sharp rise in the number of hit-and-run cases this year. A drastic fall in the traffic volume since March led to increased cases of speeding that caused most of the road accidents, said police. According to the data shared by the traffic police, 265 deaths were caused by hit-and-run out of the 557 road deaths that took place between January and July. Pedestrians accounted for more than 50% of the road deaths with 243 fatalities. During the corresponding period last year, there were 235 fatal hit-and-run incidents out of the 945 deaths that took place on the city roads. This year’s hit-and-run accidents also include that of an ACP from the traffic police. He was on duty near the Rajokri flyover in the last week of July when he was hit by a speeding truck. The driver was caught after three days. Police officers say that due to the social-distancing measures in place, the physical challaning of vehicles has been reduced only to the ones found to be either driving without helmet, seatbelt, or violating gross traffic rules. As a result, the number of checks on the road has gone down giving a notion among drivers that they can get away by flouting any norm. The cops are also unable to issue challans for offences like drunk driving since that involves stopping a vehicle on the road and physically checking the driver with an alcometer. According to an estimate by the traffic police, about 70% of the total vehicle volume plying in the city during normal times was out on the road after the restrictions were lifted in June. The use of personal vehicles has also increased rapidly due to the conditions of travel on public vehicles. This has increased the probability of accidents as well, said an officer. Private cars were found to be involved in 83 road deaths out of the 557. This was followed by 63 fatalities involving two-wheelers. “All these accidents mainly take place on the longer stretches like Ring Road, Outer Ring Road or interstate highways where drivers tend to behave erratically. The period between 3pm and 10pm is found to be particularly worse as more people tend to step out to reach markets and buy essentials,” said a senior police officer. It was found that almost 80% of the pedestrian deaths took place while people were crossing a road. The next vulnerable road-users who became victims of accidents were two-wheeler riders who were either hit by other vehicles or fell after losing balance. Between April and July, 17 people riding cycles lost their lives in road accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hit-and-run-deaths-up-speeding-key-culprit/articleshow/77493131.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot will be CM for full term, state unit not in touch with rebels: Rajasthan PCC chief Dotasra||JAIPUR: Even as sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot met Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday, Rajasthan PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said the state leadership would not initiate any talks with the dissidents about their return.  Dotasra refuted reports about possible change of leadership in the state and emphasised that Ashok Gehlot would remain the chief minister for the entire term of the Congress government in Rajasthan. "It was he (Pilot) who ran away," Dotasra said, adding that the rebels left out of their own ‘sane thinking’ and the matter was now between them and the Congress high command. At the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting held in Jaisalmer a day earlier, the party legislators demanded strict action against the rebels and the senior leaders subsequently assured them that the state unit would not defend the Pilot camp before the party high command. After attending the CLP meeting in Jaisalmer late Sunday night, Gehlot, Dotasra and few other leaders returned to Jaipur on Monday. Asked about the legislators’ demand, the PCC chief said, "Everyone is free to speak in the CLP meeting but such decisions are ultimately taken by the party high command." Hitting at the BJP for ring-fencing its MLAs while finding faults with similar ‘precautions’ taken by the Congress, Dotasra said, "There are some self-respecting BJP legislators who were questioning their party for trying to topple an elected government that had a majority of 125 in a House of 200 members. To silence these people, the BJP packed its MLAs to Gujarat." Dotasra, along with deputy chief whip Mahendra Chaudhary, met assembly speaker CP Joshi on Monday and said the session from August 14 would be a regular one instead of a short or special session. Sources said Pilot could meet his 18 MLAs on August 12 to decide their strategy for the upcoming assembly session, as the Congress was likely to call another CLP on August 14 prior to the House proceeding. Pilot camp will risk disqualification from the assembly if it misses the CLP now. In case the Congress high command facilitates Pilot camp’s conditional return, the Gehlot-government would prove its majority by simply getting some bills passed instead of going for a floor test, said sources. The Gehlot camp would disclose its strategy at the CLP before stepping in the House. Leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said BJP’s move would depend on the ruling party’s stance. Significantly, the PCC chief said Congress would become a party in courts to the petitions challenging BSP-Congress merger in Rajasthan as the six legislators were now members of his party. Soon after this, Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi filed an application in the high court seeking to become a party in the dispute. The six legislators were elected on BSP tickets in December 2018 but merged with the ruling party in September last year. A single bench of the Rajasthan high court hearing petitions separately moved by the BSP and a BJP MLA Madan Dilawar challenging the merger is scheduled to take up the matter on Tuesday when the six legislators, speaker and assembly secretary are required to file their replies. Last week the legislators, however, petitioned the Supreme court to transfer the matter to itself as it was already hearing appeals against similar question of law decided by Punjab and Gauhati high courts. On Monday, BJP MLA approached the Supreme Court saying that the high court’s single and division benches have declined to stay the BSP-Congress merger ahead of the crucial assembly session commencing from August 14. After a brief hearing, a division bench of the apex court said it would hear Dilawar’s petition with that of the six legislators on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-will-be-cm-for-full-term-state-unit-not-in-touch-with-rebels-pcc-chief-dotasra/articleshow/77472886.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||Annual fair at Bhadraj temple postponed due to Covid-19||Mussoorie: The annual fair at the famous Bhadraj temple near Mussoorie has been postponed and the shrine has been indefinitely shut for devotees due to the Covid-19 scare. The fair, which was scheduled to be held on August 16-17, attracts thousands of devotees from across the state every year. Speaking to TOI, Rajesh Nautiyal, president of the temple committee, said that the committee came to a conclusion that it would be next to impossible to ensure social distancing during the annual fair and hence it had to be postponed indefinitely. “The annual puja would be performed on the scheduled dates but not more than 20 persons would be allowed in the ceremony,” he added. Meanwhile, devotees have expressed disappointment over the cancellation of the fair. “While cancellation of the fair was warranted due to Covid-19, some devotees are disappointed with the move.“The cancellation would also affect the livelihoods of many local residents who used to sell food items and handicraft at the temple,” said Jasbir Kaur, ward member of Mussoorie Municipal Council. Notably, Bhadraj temple is dedicated to Balram, the elder brother of Lord Krishna. According to the epic Mahabharata, Balram had come to this spot during the war between the Kaurava and the Pandava princes. Later, a temple was built at this site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/annual-fair-at-bhadraj-temple-postponed-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/77470331.cms||Anmol Jain
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||Dist crosses 10k +ve cases, 1st 5k in 142 days, 2nd 5k in just 11 days||Nagpur: The district crossed 10,000 Covid-19 cases on Monday. What is alarming is that it took 142 days for the district to register first 5,000 cases and the latest 5,000 have come in just 11 days. As per a press release issued by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), zilla Parishad (ZP) and civil surgeon, 893 persons tested positive for novel coronavirus on Monday taking the total number of cases in the district to 10,681. The district had registered 5,134 cases on July 30 which means the last 5,547 came in the last 11 days. After registering the first case on March 11, the district had recorded 541 cases till end of May. There was full lockdown from March 16 to May 31. The central and state governments had eased the full lockdown and allowed various commercial and other activities from June 1. The cases increased to 1,505 by the end of June. The government had further eased lockdown restrictions from July 1. The cases surged to 5,392 till end of July, thus making it clear that the virus spread has increased. With the rising number of cases, Covid-19 deaths also increased. Following this, NMC and ZP increased the testing to curb the deaths. The NMC started 21 centres for walk-in test for Covid-19. Testing through rapid antigen kits was also introduced which gives instant results. As the cases continued to rise, home quarantine of suspects and home isolation of asymptomatic positive persons was allowed to encourage more people to get tested. The civic body also arranged special camps and testing of high-risk persons. All this led to detection of more cases from the beginning of August. The district has registered 5,289 cases in 10 days of August. When the district registered first 5,000 cases on July 30, the total number of samples tested then was 76,021. It increased to nearly 1,08,730 on Monday when the district has crossed 10,000 cases. The positivity rate also increased. It was 6.75% on July 30. As on Monday, the positivity rate has inched further to 9.82%. The state’s overall positivity rate is 19.29%. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar and municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe have been time and again urging people to get themselves tested in case of any symptoms. In a press release on Monday, Kumar said, “Early detection of Covid-19 will help in isolation of infected person, containing spread of the disease, and ensure treatment from initial stage to prevent death.” The district’s case fatality rate was 2.29% when it witnessed first 5,000 cases. This has increased to 3.12% after crossing 10,000-mark. Right from 1,000 to 10,000 cases, the district has continued to be 10th in the state. Mumbai is having highest cases at 1,24,307 followed by Pune 1,14,703, Thane 1,05,904, Raigad 20,457, Nashik 20,942, Palghar 18,723, Aurangabad 16,691, Jalgaon 14,841 and Solapur 12,129. As far as population is concerned, the district stands fifth. Another major worry for the district is the rising number of patients under treatment. When registered 5,000 cases on July 30, 3,477 persons were under treatment. As on Monday, the number is 5,478. The rising numbers point to increasing burden on the existing health infrastructure which may pose problems in admission and treatment of patients. With the rise in the number of patients under treatment, the recovery rate has also gone down. It is 45.58% as on Monday and was 64.16% when registered first 5,000 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dist-crosses-10k-ve-cases-1st-5k-in-142-days-2nd-5k-in-just-11-days/articleshow/77472897.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||Haridwar to get ‘musical toilets’ for pilgrims||Haridwar: The Kumbh mela administration is planning to provide pilgrims the facility of fancy mobile toilets when they visit the holy city. Apart from a beautiful interior, they will also offer the user a facility to enjoy music. Mela officer Deepak Rawat, who saw a demo of such a toilet presented at the Central Control Room by a Delhi-based company, said, “Haridwar attracts a large number of pilgrims and tourists on festivals throughout the year and needs good toilets.” The toilets will be among several new things and equipment proposed to be used in the Kumbh, it was pointed out. The proposed mobile toilets are also easy to clean. “Their sewage capacity is 4,000 litres. With the latest technology, it uses solar energy. We plan to use them, especially at crowded places, in the Kumbh,” Rawat added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/haridwar-to-get-musical-toilets-for-pilgrims/articleshow/77470330.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||It’s good if they are united, now apologise and work: Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia||JAIPUR: Reacting to the news of truce between dissident Sachin Pilot camp and Congress high command, BJP state president Satish Poonia reminded the government that it should urgently address issues the state was facing.  “It’s good that they are united now. Now apologise and work for what you had promised — waive farmers loans, water and electricity bills and school fees. Show a sense of sympathy and provide relief to unemployed youths. Complete this work and will give next homework later,” said Poonia while interacting with journalists at the BJP headquarters here and on Twitter. चलो झगड़ा निपट गया हो तो जनता से माफ़ी मांगों, कुछ काम करो फटाफट,वादे के मुताबिक किसानों का कर्जा माफ़ करो,बेरोजगा… https://t.co/GBtBZXLQrm— Satish Poonia (@DrSatishPoonia) 1597057493000He cautioned the state it was unlikely that CM Ashok Gehlot would be able to give a stable and strong government. “The entire episode has shaken the confidence of people from the government and has exposed the Congress and the high command of its inability to let the drama continue for 31 days at a time when the government is required the most,” said Poonia. Further questioning the truce efforts in Delhi, Poonia said the party which failed to find its national president as the one-year deadline to appoint the regular president for any political party under-Representation of People’s Act 1989 to lapse midnight cannot be expected to resolve the issue between its leaders in the state. He sought an audit from the ruling Congress of the last 31 days of governance in Janta Ki Adalat (People court). “They were hopping from one city to another and one hotel to another at the time of the pandemic. Gehlot should reveal how much they have spent on keeping their MLAs at a Fairmont hotel in Jaipur and Suryagarh in Jaisalmer to the public,” said Poonia, while sharing that they have spent Rs 10 crore on stay and food during this period. Charging Congress leaders, Poonia said, “Both the brother (Rahul Gandhi) and sister (Priyanka Gandhi) have woken up today to solve the crisis while the state was left to see the Ramleela (internal fight) for 31 days.” He advised Gehlot to tender his resignation for becoming a villain before people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/its-good-if-they-are-united-now-apologise-and-work-says-poonia/articleshow/77472884.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Want to fight Chinese, says schoolteacher||Coimbatore: Clad in an olive green outfit worn by Army personnel, a science teacher at a government school in Kalampalayam on Monday approached Coimbatore collector K Rajamani with an unusual petition. “In the event of a war between India and China, I would like to go to Ladakh and join our forces in the war against the Chinese,” C Arasu, the teacher at a panchayat union middle school, said in his petition. Arasu, 52, said he had been watching and reading news on the standoff between India and China and was inspired to take up the cause. “Today, the younger generation doesn’t think about the nation’s sovereignty. I wanted to send a message to them,” he said. Arasu said he was a member of the National Cadet Corps in school and college and had undergone training in shooting and handling rifles. “I got an army outfit made for me before submitting the petition to the collector, as I wanted the message to reach people, especially younger people. Though I’m 52, I‘m strong physically and mentally to fight in the army,” he told TOI.  In his petition, he urged the collector to help him go to the battlefield if a situation arises. “Even if I don’t get a chance to fight alongside our soldiers, I hope my gesture would send a strong message to students and youngsters,” he said. Arasu said the collector, on hearing about his wish, congratulated him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/want-to-fight-chinese-says-schoolteacher/articleshow/77471641.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL seeks cashless facility in Surat for insured Covid patients||AHMEDABAD: A PIL in the Gujarat high court has sought directions to the authority and insurance companies that they should offer cashless facility for Covid-19 patients in Surat even as the city has emerged as new hotspot in the pandemic. The Surat Citizens’ Council Trust has expressed concerns about the difficulties being faced by Covid patients in making payment to private hospitals at the time of admission. The relatives are asked to pay considerable amount. The petitioner trust has sought HC direction to the Insurance Regulatory and Development Agency, insurance companies as well as private hospitals “to honour cashless mediclaim policies” to the extent of the limit of the cashless policies. Petitioner’s advocate Amit Thakker cited various news reports saying that private hospitals insist that the patients should ask for re-imbursement instead of providing them the cashless facility, which all stake holders are bound to extend to a policy holder. The petitioner has also urged the HC to direct the hospitals to treat patients under Maa and Ayushman Bharat Yojna, if Covid patients are eligible for the same and not to ask them to make any payment initially. As the condition in Surat and south Gujarat worsened in last one month, the PIL has urged the HC to issue directions to concerned authorities to streamline the ongoing Covid treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-cashless-facility-in-surat-for-insured-covid-patients/articleshow/77471671.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: International flyers can seek quarantine exemption||JAIPUR: Adhering to the revised guidelines for international arrivals issued by the Centre, the state government will now starting processing the exemption requests – from institutional quarantine – made by the passengers arriving at the Jaipur airport. The passengers will have to apply through ‘Air Suvidha’ portal at least 72 hours before boarding. “The revised guidelines for international arrivals have been issued by the ministry of health and family welfare, government of India, dated August 2, in supersession of its earlier guidelines dated May 24. These guidelines have come into operation from August 8,” stated an order issued by additional chief secretary (Home) Rohit Kumar Singh on Monday. “As per the guidelines, the travellers may seek exemption for home quarantine by applying to the online portal - Air Suvidha - (www.newdelhiairport.in) at least 72 hours before boarding. These applications will be processed by the state of the first point of entry of the travellers, irrespective of their final destination in India,” it added. “Accordingly, the state government will now be processing the exemption requests only for the passengers arriving at Jaipur and by applying through the portal. All such requests received from persons arriving in Rajasthan shall be decided by Additional Chief Secretary, mines & petroleum (Subodh Agarwal). This is in supersession of earlier order of even number dated June 17,” the order further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-international-flyers-can-seek-quarantine-exemption/articleshow/77472895.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Relief for Beliaghata, Patuli as Kolkata containment zone count dips to 23||KOLKATA: Most of the areas from two major containment zones in the city — Beliaghata and Patuli-Mukundapur — have managed to come out of the list. The new containment list — released on Monday night — has reduced the containment zones from 13 in each locations to merely five each. This helped the city’s containment zones take the sharpest drop since July. From 39, the city now has 23 containment zones. Even as overall 19 containment zones dropped from the list, three new areas have been added to it. All three, incidentally, are located in south Kolkata. While Panditya Road in Ballygunge has been a problem zone — moving in and out of the list — Burdwan Road, too, was on the list earlier. Just like Bansdroni last week, the new entrant to the list is Rahim Ostagar Road that is located close to Jodhpur Park. For the fourth consecutive time, no new zone from central Kolkata made it to the list. Interestingly, for the first time in the past two months since the containment zones in its present form was introduced, no slums have featured on the list. There are four complexes and four flats on the list. The rest are mixed zones in nature. “The fact that no slums are on list despite cases reported from densely populated areas like Beliaghata and Govindapur shows that our slum model is still working,” said a piolice officer. This includes an intense lockdown and door-to-door testings. The intense testings, both RT-PCR and antigen tests, have showed results in Patuli, Mukundapur and Talpukur. “We had found no new case at Patuli I and D blocks. The testing on auto drivers, fruit and vegetable vendors and guesthouse workers has helped us contain the virus,” said an officer. At Beliaghata, it was all about targeted intervention at the slums and the high-rises. “In the initial days, controlling access at bigger markets like Rashmoni Bazar and Chaulpatty helped check the spread. Now that Covid has reached the apartments, we are choosing the most affected zones by rotation — one by one — instead of shutting down the entire area,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Amidst all the good news, the addition of Ballygunge and Alipore to the list has upset some senior citizens who say they have taken all possible measures to keep themselves safe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/relief-for-beliaghata-patuli-as-city-containment-zone-count-dips-to-23/articleshow/77471591.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Fruit price-rise blip for Janmashtami||Kolkata: Shortage in supply of palmyra fruit, or what is known as taal in Bengali, has posed a problem for all who would celebrate Janmashtami at home on Tuesday. Taal-er bora, a delicacy, that is made out of the pulp of the fruit, is an offering made to little Krishna, will be given a miss this time by most devotees. Usually markets are full of these round black strong-smelling fruits during Janmashtami, but this year’s puja is happening much before the month of Bhadra, when the fruits ripen and fall off the trees. This and the fact that trains are not running and transport has become expensive, have together played their roles in causing this crisis. People are paying in advance to vegetable sellers for taals. Many of them are even willing to pay four times the usual price.  Coconuts, which are again a must for Janmashtami, are in short supply. Thousands of coconut trees were uprooted during the Amphan and since then there has been a scarcity and the price has been high. Mangoes have been selling for Rs 100 a kilo, apples and pears beyond Rs 150, cucumbers at Rs 60 a kilo, sweet lime at Rs 20 a piece, grapes at Rs 200 a kilo and custard apple at Rs 200 a kilo. Many families have asked pujaris to help them with the pujas by giving online instructions and time slots have been booked. Pujaris will be paid their honoraria through electronic transfer. Iskcon headquarters at Mayapur has been shut because of rising Covid cases in Nadia. Janmashtami Puja will happen inside the temple and streamed live for devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fruit-price-rise-blip-for-janmashtami/articleshow/77471680.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Congress files petition in Rajasthan HC to make it a party to the BSP merger case||JAIPUR: Ahead of the petition by Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and BJP MLA Madan Dilawar challenging the merger of six BSP MLAs into the Congress to be decided in the high court on Tuesday, the Congress on Monday filed an application seeking it to be made a party to the petition (impleader) as the six MLAs are now part and parcel of the party. The application by party chief whip Mahesh Joshi said according to the Speaker’s order, all the six MLAs are recognised as members of the Indian National Congress under 4 (2) of the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. Joshi pointed out that the Speaker passed the order after all the BSP MLAs made an application for such a merger which fulfills the requirement of more than two-third of the number of MLAs required for a legal merger. The application said the challenge to the Speaker’s order directly affects the ruling party and the petition could not have decided without hearing the parties against whom relief has been sought effectively. The BSP and a BJP MLA have challenged the Speaker’s order on the merger on September 18 last year and sought to disqualify the MLAs who crossed over to the Congress under para 2 (1) (a) of the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution (anti-defection law). In the meanwhile another PIL has been filed in the high court by lawyer Hemant Nahta praying to restore the party position in the assembly before the BSP merger and restrain all the six former BSP MLAs from entering the assembly till the case is settled. Supreme Court on Monday while hearing the SLP filed by Dilawar challenging the Speaker’s order has been postponed for Tuesday after counsel Harish Salve pointed out that the BSP had also challenged the Speaker’s order through another petition. Now both the petitions will be heard together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-files-petition-in-hc-to-make-it-a-party-to-the-bsp-merger-case/articleshow/77472893.cms||Joychen Joseph
August 11, 2020||Surat||PIL seeks cashless facility in Surat for insured Covid patients||AHMEDABAD: A PIL in the Gujarat high court has sought directions to the authority and insurance companies that they should offer cashless facility for Covid-19 patients in Surat even as the city has emerged as new hotspot in the pandemic. The Surat Citizens’ Council Trust has expressed concerns about the difficulties being faced by Covid patients in making payment to private hospitals at the time of admission. The relatives are asked to pay considerable amount. The petitioner trust has sought HC direction to the Insurance Regulatory and Development Agency, insurance companies as well as private hospitals “to honour cashless mediclaim policies” to the extent of the limit of the cashless policies. Petitioner’s advocate Amit Thakker cited various news reports saying that private hospitals insist that the patients should ask for re-imbursement instead of providing them the cashless facility, which all stake holders are bound to extend to a policy holder. The petitioner has also urged the HC to direct the hospitals to treat patients under Maa and Ayushman Bharat Yojna, if Covid patients are eligible for the same and not to ask them to make any payment initially. As the condition in Surat and south Gujarat worsened in last one month, the PIL has urged the HC to issue directions to concerned authorities to streamline the ongoing Covid treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pil-seeks-cashless-facility-in-surat-for-insured-covid-patients/articleshow/77481700.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Highest spike of 263 cases in Kota raises concern||KOTA: The highest spike of 263 Covid cases from various areas of Kota district in the Monday morning report has become a cause of concern for the district administration and medical machinery. Concerned over Covid-19 cases in Kota crossing 3,000 mark, Kota district administration on Monday decided to enforce two days’ lockdown every week on Sundays and Mondays, and to launch ‘self-controlled lockdown’ in the worst-affected areas. Meanwhile, Monday’s positive list included eight male inmates from Mahila jail in Kota Central jail and two jail staff. The Monday morning report revealed a blast of 204 positive cases in Kota while next two reports later in the day revealed 39 and 20 cases from various parts of Kota district. A 69-year-old man, who was admitted to New Medical College hospital on Friday last week, died during treatment early Monday morning around 3.30am, taking the death toll in Kota to 56. Kota divisional commissioner Kailash Chand Meena, amid the spike in Covid cases, called a meeting of medical and district officials to review the situation and directed to intensify the measures to curb the spread. Following discussion with the officials, the decision for ‘self-controlled lockdown’ through awareness generation by combined efforts of NGOs, civil society and government department, in worst-affected areas of the city was taken, and commissioner Meena said there was no shortage of resources against the pandemic. The decision for two-day weekly lockdown in Kota for next two weeks, was also taken. There would be a complete lockdown on August 16, 17, 23 and 24. Meanwhile, the superintendent of Kota Medical College hospital Dr Chandrashekhar Sushil tested positive on Sunday evening following which he quarantined himself at his residence. A 48-year-old professor of orthopaedics at New Medical College Hospital in Kota also tested positive on Monday, while another 34-year-old male was found infected in medical college campus and a 20-year-old male in Maharao Bhim Singh hospital. Similarly, at least six cops were found positive — a 56-year-old cop at Simliya police station, 32-year-old cop in Rural Police Line, along with three other males and two females in Police Line. In Mahila jail of Kota central jail, where the female inmates were earlier shifted to other districts and sub jail amid spread of Covid-19, the Monday morning report revealed eight inmates as positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/highest-spike-of-263-cases-in-kota-raises-concern/articleshow/77472902.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||CM calls meeting to review status of pending files||Dehradun: To discuss the issue of pending government files, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has called a meeting of state officials on Tuesday. The meeting is to be held at the state secretariat and would be attended by all officials till the rank of secretary. The issue of delay in clearing of government files arose after a file related to adverse entry against two engineers was kept pending in the Public Works Department for a period of 14 months. The file had been cleared by the CM himself, who also holds charge of the PWD department. After the issue came to the fore, the entire section of the department handling the issue was replaced. Thereafter, both the CM and the state chief secretary Om Prakash have laid thrust on fast clearing of official files so that the pace of works is not impacted. CM Rawat has indirectly issued a warning to the employees to not delay work. The meeting is being regarded as an important one as the CM has stepped up his campaign of zero tolerance for corruption. The audit report of the alleged rice scam has brought the “wrongdoings” to the fore. The CM has ordered a SIT probe in more than half-a-dozen alleged scams and there are possibilities that he may order a third party audit in some other government departments as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-calls-meeting-to-review-status-of-pending-files/articleshow/77470358.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||Garhwal univ seeks to de-affiliate colleges||Haridwar: Government-aided colleges in Haridwar and Dehradun, affiliated to the HNB Garhwal University (HNBGU), Srinagar, have been asked by the varsity to seek affiliation with state universities from the next academic session. Allegedly, the reason given is that because of these colleges/institutions, the central university finds it difficult to “follow its academic calendar and achieve its targets of excellence in academics and research”. The university’s decision has been met with protests by many of the colleges.The university’s decision follows a June 5 letter from the Union HRD ministry to the state government, which said: “HNBGU was upgraded to a central university by the Central University Act, 2016. The university can be a central university in the true sense only when all colleges affiliated to it are transferred to a state university.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/garhwal-univ-seeks-to-de-affiliate-colleges/articleshow/77470362.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
August 11, 2020||Goa||Allotment of engineering, pharmacy seats likely to be done online||Panaji: Buoyed by their success in receiving application forms for the Goa Common Entrance Test (GCET) online, the directorate of technical education (DTE) moved the process for applying for seats to engineering and pharmacy degree programme seats online. The deadline to submit admission forms ended at midnight of August 10. The allotment of seats is also likely to take place online. “The entire process of accepting applications was carried out online, without any physical contact with students. The software required for this process was developed by the Goa Engineering College, Farmagudi, as a project for DTE,” an official. This is the first time the process of accepting GCET applications as well as admissions forms has been carried out online by DTE due to the restrictions required by the pandemic. Around 3,000 students had appeared for GCET and accepting forms physically would have been a challenge when social distancing is required to be observed as parents and students crowd outside the DTE headquarters in Porvorim during this time. Officials said that given that the number of Covid cases are rising, it is likely that the process of even allotment of engineering and pharmacy seats will take place online this year. “Like there was no glitch experienced in accepting forms online for GCET, if allotment of seats for engineering and pharmacy is done online, the process too is expected to go on smoothly,” an official said. “Now the (application) forms will be scrutinised by DTE’s teams. The schedule for the rest of the process will be announced soon,” an official said. He said that the admission process for programmes based on National Eligibility cum Entrance scores is expected to begin from the first week of September. Admissions to degree seats in medicine, dentistry, homeopathy, ayurveda, nursing and five allied health programmes is carried out based on NEET scores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/allotment-of-engineering-pharmacy-seats-likely-to-be-done-online/articleshow/77472909.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||Vid nearing 25k Covid cases with 1314 in a day, 21 deaths||Nagpur: Vidarbha region is fast moving towards 25,000 Covid-19 cases. On Monday, 1314 new cases were reported from the region. This was for the sixth time in a row that the region has reported more than 1000 cases while the second time when more than 1300 cases were recorded. In fact, the same figure – 1314 cases — was reported on August 8 in Vidarbha. On Monday, Nagpur once again reported the highest 893 cases from the region, 32 shy of Mumbai. These include 736 alone from Nagpur Municipal corporation (NMC) area, 155 from Nagpur rural (Zilla Parishad) and 2 other state patients. Yavatmal reported the second highest – 159 cases in a day. This was for the third day in a row when Yavatmal reported more than 100 cases. With Amravati (67), Buldhana (64), Gondia (43), Akola (34), Washim (21), Chandrapur (16), Bhandara (8), Wardha (5), Gadchiroli (3), Vidarbha’s total reached 24499. After reporting more than 30 deaths daily from August 5 to August 9, it was a bit of a respite for Vidarbha as 21 deaths were reported on Monday. Out of these, 19 were from Nagpur and 2 were from Yavatmal. Nine other districts reported no deaths. The case fatality rate also came down to 2.64%. Despite 281 Covid-19 deaths in the first 10 days of August, the CFR of Vidarbha is still lower than Maharashtra’s 3.44% and nearing the national average which is 2%. As cases are growing daily, the number of patients under treatment is also increasing. Lesser number of patients are recovering as compared to the new cases. On Monday, 425 patients recovered and were discharged. These include Nagpur (177), Yavatmal (79), Washim (59), Amravati (41), Chandrapur (31), Akola (10), Buldhana (9), Gondia (8), Bhandara (6), Gadchiroli (4), and Wardha (1). But the recovery rate dipped to 57.70% which is less than the state’s 68% and national average of 69%. Yavatmal: There is no respite either in deaths or new positive patients in Yavatmal. Both the figures are rising with each passing day. On Monday, there were two deaths, a 62-year-old man and a 60-year-old woman, both from Pusad. The total deaths in the district so far are 48. There are 160 new positive patients, including 1 deceased, which is the highest since the lockdown. However, there are 79 patients who got discharged. There are 138 persons admitted in the Isolation wards of GMC Yavatmal while 82 swab samples have been sent to the lab for the test. Though the administration has tightened the noose, there is no visible result in containing the spread of Covid-19 which is spreading rapidly in rural areas. Amravati: The district reported 67 new cases on Monday that took its Covid count to 3135. With 41 getting discharge, the number of recovered patients reached 1985. With 89 deaths so far, the district has 1061 active cases, including 21 taking treatment in Nagpur. The rural belt reported a dozen cases that took its count to 761. Chandur Bazar accounted for five of these which took its count to 35. Walgaon gave two to take its count to 19. Paratwada, Chandur Railway, Ner Pinglai, Bhatkuli and Changapur reported a case each. In the city, Vilasnagar reported five cases to take its count to 30 while Badnera and Ambapeth reported four each to take their count to 236 and 14 respectively. With three cases, Krushnanagar took its count to 26 while Vijay Colony and Priyanka Colony, too, reported three cases each to take the count to five and three respectively. Vivekanand Colony, Asiad Colony and Namuna reported two cases each to take their count to four, four and 16 respectively. New Ganesh Colony, Uttamnagar and Purushottamnagar opened their account with two cases each. Twenty-one other areas reported a case each. The youngest of the day’s cases came from Changapur where a four-month-old boy tested positive. The day’s oldest case was a 73-year-old man from New Ganesh Colony. Male kids, aged one and three, came from Ambapeth. Bhandara: Eight new patients were detected positive while six recovered from Bhandara district on Monday. Total number of Covid-19 cases reached 417 while recovered patients reached 249. With 2 deaths reported earlier, total 166 patients are under treatment. Three of them have been referred to Nagpur. Akola: The Covid-19 graph of Akola is moving downwards significantly. On Monday, 433 reports tested on RT-PCR system were received from Akola district out of which 33 were positive. More than 250 rapid antigen tests were also done and only 1 tested positive. In all, out of nearly 700 tests, only 34 tested positive in Akola. Most of the positive patients are from rural areas of the district. Now, Akola’s total number of Covid-19 cases is 3053. With 10 patients discharged on Monday, total 2425 patients have been discharged so far which is nearly 80% recovery rate. No death was reported on Monday and death toll remained 124. Akola has 504 patients under treatment now. Buldhana: Out of the 323 reports received on Monday, 64 tested positive in Buldhana taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 1971. With nine patients getting discharge, total 1169 of them have been recovered till date. No death was reported on Monday too. With this, the number of patients under treatment in Buldhana surged to 767. The increasing number of patients has made the administration come up with a new Covid hospital. Buldhana-based women’s hospital has been given a complete makeover with the help of Tata Trust and converted into a Covid-19 hospital. It was inaugurated via web link at the hands of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday. The hospital has 111 beds, an ICU, an NICU and operation theatres too. Washim: A record 59 patients received discharge from Washim district on Monday. With this, the number of recovered patients reached 578. On the other hand, 21 patients were detected, taking the total number of cases to 956. Washim’s recovery rate is more than 60% now. With 19 deaths, including 1 suicide, reported till date, total 359 patients in district are under treatment. Gondia: The district witnessed another day of nearly 50 Covid-19 cases on Monday. Total 43 people were found positive, 11 each from Gondia and Salekasa and 8 each from Sadak Arjuni and Amgaon and 5 from Tirora. Eight patients were discharged on August 10. Now, Gondia has 634 total cases, including 332 recovered and 3 deaths. Now, 299 patients are under treatment here. Wardha: Five persons tested positive for coronavirus and one was discharged from hospital after recovering from the virus on Monday. Four patients are from Arvi and one from Ashti. A 66-year-old man from Dahegaon (Mustafa) of Arvi Tahsil, a 33-year-old man and a 30-year-old woman from Sainagar, Arvi and a 63-year-old man of Pandurang ward of Arvi. A 75-year-old man from Belora village, Ashti Tahsil, was also among the positive. Total 77 reports were received on Monday and five of them detected positive while 111 swab samples were sent for testing on Monday. Total 285 reports are awaited. After the five positive and one discharged, the total active positives in the district reached 45. Chandrapur: With a spike of 16 new patients during the day, the Covid-19 total climbed up to 572 on Monday. In all, 31 patients were discharged during the day, taking the total number of cured patients to 506. The district registered four deaths so far. The district administration has called upon people to come forward for the antigen test if anybody has any kind of symptoms. Gadchiroli: A resident of Armori and two residents of Gadchiroli tehsil tested positive on Monday, taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district to 728. On the other hand, four patients recovered and were discharged from the hospital. Now, Gadchiroli has 158 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-nearing-25k-covid-cases-with-1314-in-a-day-21-deaths/articleshow/77472904.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||N America to Howrah: Duck tale foxes birders||Kolkata: The sighting of a wood duck (Aix sponsa), a perching duck found in North America, in a Howrah waterbody has generated a rush among bird enthusiasts in Kolkata and its suburbs to photograph it. While there’s no sighting record of the bird — also known as Carolina duck — from the Indian wild before, experts said it had earlier been bred in captivity in Kolkata as an exotic species. They also said in all likelihood, this bird, too, has escaped from captivity and needs to be sent back to either its owner or the zoo. For the last few days, the duck is being sighted in a waterbody of Bally’s Ghoshpara area, attracting at least 60-70 photographers on an average daily to the spot. On Monday, cops even had to reportedly rush to the spot to ensure social distancing is followed. Conservationist Arjan Basu Roy said: “This is not the migration season of birds — migratory birds usually start arriving here from end of October. It also has to be found out if at all it’s a migratory bird. I suspect this has escaped from captivity. As far as I know, there has been no record of this wood duck from the forests or other natural habitats of India.” Sujan Chatterjee, secretary of Birdwatchers’ Society, said there were records of this species being bred in captivity in Kolkata. “Releasing an exotic species in the local environment is a crime, because it may damage local population through inter-breeding. So, this duck should be handed over to its owner or to zoo.” He said it’s usually found in woodlands, as its name suggests, and that the only wood duck found in India is white-winged wood duck, which is found in north-east India. “Also, Carolina duck isn’t a migratory bird. So, it has definitely escaped from captivity,” he added. It was earlier recorded in Great Britain as escapes — populations have become temporarily established in Surrey in the past but are not considered to be self-sustaining in the fashion of the closely related Mandarin duck. The birds are year-round residents in parts of its southern range, but the northern populations migrate south for the winter. 75% of wood ducks in the Pacific Flyway are non-migratory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/n-america-to-howrah-duck-tale-foxes-birders/articleshow/77471726.cms||Subhojyoti Kanjilal
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||11 ministers, MLAs return to Jaipur (150)||Jaisalmer: The meeting between Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and Sachin Pilot in Delhi on Monday to break the deadlock within the party seems to have relaxed the ministers and MLAs staying in Jaisalmer hotel. On Monday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot, PCC chief Govind Dotasra, three ministers and 11 MLAs left for Jaipur from Jaisalmer in three flights. Though there is no confirmed information whether they will return or not, it is learnt that the ministers and MLAs have gone to Jaipur to carry out official work. The state government had made made special arrangements to ferry them by flights.Also during the day, around 20 ministers and MLAs went to Tanot temple amid tight security. Security around the hotel is very tight. Towers of various mobile companies within a 15km range have been closed or their frequency have been reduced due to which people in this area were facing a lot of problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/11-ministers-mlas-return-to-jaipur-150/articleshow/77472899.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||State hikes affiliation NOC fee by almost 1,200%||Nagpur: Schools in Maharashtra seeking affiliation to other boards (CBSE, IB etc), will now have to shell out a whopping 1,200% more for the mandatory NOC application fee. Under the new fee structure, which has already taken effect, the NOC application has been hiked to Rs2.5 lakh from the earlier Rs20,000. School associations say this sharp hike is unjustified. Rajendra Dayma, president of Independent English Schools’ Association (IESA), said, “I went through the GR issued by the government and nowhere have they mentioned the rationale behind the sharp increase. It’s hard to even imagine that fee has been increased by almost 13 times and there is not even a single line explaining the reason behind it.” He added that the government should have at least consulted schools. And if this sharp one-time hike was not enough, schools got another shocker. Every three years, schools will have to shell out Rs1.5 lakh as renewal fees, which earlier was fixed at Rs10,000. This means the state education department will earn an average revenue of Rs15 crore every three years from CBSE schools alone as there are just over a thousand affiliated institutes. It is not known exactly how many schools are affiliated to other boards, but it would definitely be much less than CBSE. TOI reached out to additional chief secretary Vandana Krishna, who is in charge of the school education department, for a comment on the sharp increase but received no response. A local education official, who did not wish to be identified, said school associations are purposely raking up an issue. “For them it’s peanuts. To pay Rs1.5 lakh every three years is petty cash. These big schools operate with 2,000 kids on the rolls. So, every year they need to collect just Rs25 per child to meet that expense,” said the officer, who clarified that he too did not know the reason for the sharp increase in NOC fee. Meanwhile, IESA president Dayma is planning to approach education minister Varsha Gaikwad and ask for a rollback. Dayma said “Budget schools will suffer the most. They neither have high enrolment nor do they charge high fee. How will they pay such a hefty amount every three years.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-hikes-affiliation-noc-fee-by-almost-1200/articleshow/77472907.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 11, 2020||Chennai||Tangedco owes Rs 18,069cr to power generators||Chennai: Woes of discoms across the country have worsened as their total outstanding to power generators increased from Rs 95,501 crore to Rs 1.2 lakh crore between March and June. Rajasthan’s power utility with Rs 33,379 crore outstanding tops the list, followed by Tangedco with Rs 18,069 crore.Senior officials in state finance department and Tangedco said the utility was awaiting the Union Cabinet’s nod for its share of Rs 20,000 crore financial assistance the Centre had announced in May. It is part of the Rs 90,000 crore financial assistance the Centre said would be provided by the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) and Power Finance Corporation (PFC) to discoms as credit. The proposal for providing Rs 20,000 crore has obtained all clearances from the two financial institutions. Only the Union Cabinet’s nod is pending, said a finance department official.Discoms across the country are currently facing a range of issues like operational inefficiency, low tariffs and lower industrial power demand which is affecting their ability to pay power suppliers on time.In the south, Tangedco is the most-stressed power utility. The state has not revised the power tariff since 2014 despite the dicsom’s mounting debts. Tangedco owes more than Rs 6,000 crore to inter-state independent power producers (IPPs).A few of them have written letters to Tangedco for encashing the letter of credit, if payment is not released to them and some of them have approached Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission seeking interest on the payment pending from Tangedco. Recently, the TNERCasked Tangedco to pay Rs 7 crore as interest to various power generators.“During the visit of Union power minister R K Singh to Chennai last month, he had promised the state that the Centre would not insist on direct benefit transfer (DBT) and entry of private franchisee in distribution. We sought the Centre’s help to clear the outstanding to be paid to power generation companies,” said a senior official.But power experts have a different view on the two financial institutions delaying release of funds to the discom. “While making the announcement, the Centre wanted the discoms to fulfil certain parameters like implementing DBT, asking government departments to clear their dues to discoms etc. Unless the discoms fulfil these parameters, it will be a problem for the financial institutions,” former Union power secretary Anil Razdan told TOI.He also said the local regulatory authority must act independently. “The regulatory authorities must not only ask the discoms to revise the tariff but also look into the performance of the discoms,” said Razdan, adding that the regulators need to have better control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tangedco-owes-rs-18069cr-to-power-generators/articleshow/77471722.cms||B Sivakumar
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||State’s Covid-19 toll touches 800 mark||Jaipur: The state reported biggest single-day jump of 1,173 new infections on Monday. It is for the ninth time in 17 days when state set new records of biggest single-day spike taking the tally to 53,670. Above that, the state touched 800-death mark due to Covid-19 as 11 people lost their lives to the virus on Monday. In 43 days, the state added 400 more deaths, which is a major cause of concern for the health authorities, which is promoting plasma therapy and tocilizumab injections for treatment of Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms. The state government claimed that they have received encouraging results from plasma therapy and tocilizumab injections. However, the active cases touched a new high of 13,810, which were 13,473 on Sunday. With state setting record of biggest single-day spike nine times in 17 days, the number of active cases is continuously rising. Taking it as a serious concern, the health department is taking measures to upgrade and expand its Covid-19 treatment facilities as more patients are now requiring hospitalisation. The health department is arranging ventilators in case patients require life-support machines in government-run hospitals, while it is also encouraging private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. The increasing number of active cases is a major concern for the health authorities. In the state, four districts have more than 1,000 active cases — Alwar (2,191), Jaipur (1,940), Jodhpur (1,503) and Kota (1,443). Districts which reported new cases are Kota (170), Alwar (165), Bikaner (115), Jaipur (114), Sikar (111), Jodhpur (80), Bharatpur (71), Banswara (42), Barmer (40), Udaipur (38), Ajmer (34), Bhilwara (28), Jhunjhunu (19), Nagaur (18), Pratapgarh (18), Churu (16), Dungarpur (16), Rajsamand (13), Jaisalmer (11), Sriganganagar (11), Jalore (10), Chittorgarh (9), Tonk (6), Hanumangarh (5), Dausa (4), Baran (3), Dholpur (2), Sawai Madhopur (2) and Sirohi (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/states-covid-19-toll-touches-800-mark/articleshow/77472905.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||Provide IAS, PCS coaching to students from minority communities: CS||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash on Monday held a review meeting of the State Committee for the implementation of Prime Minister’s 15-point program for the welfare of minority communities. In line with it, CS Om Prakash instructed the authorities to run a special programme for pre-exam coaching for IAS, PCS and PCS-J examinations to ensure the success of students from minority communities. The CS directed officials to prepare proposals to provide such aspirants with coaching from private coaching centres. In the state-level committee at the secretariat, 37 proposals worth about Rs 145 crore were approved by the chief secretary. These proposals were received by the department from the district and block levels. Among them, seven proposals were from Dehradun district, four from Haridwar, 22 from Udham Singh Nagar, and four from Nainital. The CS also gave instructions to fill up 144 vacant posts of Assistant Teacher of Urdu soon. At present, 253 posts have been filled against 397 sanctioned posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/provide-ias-pcs-coaching-to-students-from-minority-communities-cs/articleshow/77470367.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 11, 2020||Ajmer||State’s Covid-19 toll touches 800 mark||Jaipur: The state reported biggest single-day jump of 1,173 new infections on Monday. It is for the ninth time in 17 days when state set new records of biggest single-day spike taking the tally to 53,670. Above that, the state touched 800-death mark due to Covid-19 as 11 people lost their lives to the virus on Monday. In 43 days, the state added 400 more deaths, which is a major cause of concern for the health authorities, which is promoting plasma therapy and tocilizumab injections for treatment of Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms. The state government claimed that they have received encouraging results from plasma therapy and tocilizumab injections. However, the active cases touched a new high of 13,810, which were 13,473 on Sunday. With state setting record of biggest single-day spike nine times in 17 days, the number of active cases is continuously rising. Taking it as a serious concern, the health department is taking measures to upgrade and expand its Covid-19 treatment facilities as more patients are now requiring hospitalisation. The health department is arranging ventilators in case patients require life-support machines in government-run hospitals, while it is also encouraging private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. The increasing number of active cases is a major concern for the health authorities. In the state, four districts have more than 1,000 active cases — Alwar (2,191), Jaipur (1,940), Jodhpur (1,503) and Kota (1,443). Districts which reported new cases are Kota (170), Alwar (165), Bikaner (115), Jaipur (114), Sikar (111), Jodhpur (80), Bharatpur (71), Banswara (42), Barmer (40), Udaipur (38), Ajmer (34), Bhilwara (28), Jhunjhunu (19), Nagaur (18), Pratapgarh (18), Churu (16), Dungarpur (16), Rajsamand (13), Jaisalmer (11), Sriganganagar (11), Jalore (10), Chittorgarh (9), Tonk (6), Hanumangarh (5), Dausa (4), Baran (3), Dholpur (2), Sawai Madhopur (2) and Sirohi (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/states-covid-19-toll-touches-800-mark/articleshow/77482815.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Udaipur||State’s Covid-19 toll touches 800 mark||Jaipur: The state reported biggest single-day jump of 1,173 new infections on Monday. It is for the ninth time in 17 days when state set new records of biggest single-day spike taking the tally to 53,670. Above that, the state touched 800-death mark due to Covid-19 as 11 people lost their lives to the virus on Monday. In 43 days, the state added 400 more deaths, which is a major cause of concern for the health authorities, which is promoting plasma therapy and tocilizumab injections for treatment of Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms. The state government claimed that they have received encouraging results from plasma therapy and tocilizumab injections. However, the active cases touched a new high of 13,810, which were 13,473 on Sunday. With state setting record of biggest single-day spike nine times in 17 days, the number of active cases is continuously rising. Taking it as a serious concern, the health department is taking measures to upgrade and expand its Covid-19 treatment facilities as more patients are now requiring hospitalisation. The health department is arranging ventilators in case patients require life-support machines in government-run hospitals, while it is also encouraging private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. The increasing number of active cases is a major concern for the health authorities. In the state, four districts have more than 1,000 active cases — Alwar (2,191), Jaipur (1,940), Jodhpur (1,503) and Kota (1,443). Districts which reported new cases are Kota (170), Alwar (165), Bikaner (115), Jaipur (114), Sikar (111), Jodhpur (80), Bharatpur (71), Banswara (42), Barmer (40), Udaipur (38), Ajmer (34), Bhilwara (28), Jhunjhunu (19), Nagaur (18), Pratapgarh (18), Churu (16), Dungarpur (16), Rajsamand (13), Jaisalmer (11), Sriganganagar (11), Jalore (10), Chittorgarh (9), Tonk (6), Hanumangarh (5), Dausa (4), Baran (3), Dholpur (2), Sawai Madhopur (2) and Sirohi (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/states-covid-19-toll-touches-800-mark/articleshow/77482814.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Accuracy of antigen test for Covid-19 is just 48.6%: Rajasthan health minister||JAIPUR: The accuracy of antigen test for Covid has been found to be 48.6% in validation of the kits done by Sawai Man Singh Medical College.  The state government has claimed that inaccuracy was more than the accuracy of the antigen test. The health department will write to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to inform about the result of validation work done at the hospital. The health department claimed that 111 samples, which were tested positive by RT-PCR test, which is considered as gold standard, were also checked through the antigen test. “Out of those 111 samples, the antigen test found 57 negative19. We found that it has given 51.4% inaccuracy and 48.6% accuracy,” said health minister Raghu Sharma. The health department got 200 antigen test kits from a private hospital. Out of those 200 tests done, RT-PCR showed 111 positive, but the antigen test showed only 54 positive and 146 samples negative. Besides, the antigen test was 100% accurate in giving negative results. The 89 samples which tested negative by RT-PCR has also shown negative by antigen test. “We will write to the ICMR to inform about the inaccuracy of antigen test kits imported from Korea, which is now being used widely in the entire country. Only in Delhi, out of 18,000 tests done daily, 12,000 of them are antigen test. It is the public money and if its accuracy is just 48.6%, ICMR should review the decision of using the test,” said Sharma. However, the state government has decided to continue using RT-PCR test, which is more accurate, it claimed. The health department has increased the number of tests done by RT-PCR in the state. In July, an average of 22,000 samples daily were tested for Covid but in August, the government is doing more than 23,000 tests daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/accuracy-of-antigen-test-for-covid-19-is-just-48-6-health-minister/articleshow/77472908.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: NFSA beneficiaries will get cashless treatment||JAIPUR: The state government will provide free treatment to Covid-19 patients who are beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) in private hospitals. "The state government will reimburse the cost of Covid-19 treatment of patients who are covered under NFSA," said Raghu Sharma, health minister. Besides, for the purpose of treatment of Covid-19 patients at private hospitals, chief secretary of the state will hold a meeting with all the owners of private hospitals. In this regard, the health department issued a letter to the chief medical health officers of all the districts on Sunday asking them to identify all the private hospitals which are empaneled with Ayushman Bharat Insurance Scheme and other private hospitals which are equipped with modern equipment and facilities and encourage them for Covid-19 treatment. Directions have also been issued to prepare the list of such private hospitals which are willing to treat Covid-19 patients. However, the private hospitals and nursing homes society (PHNHS) has pointed out that the rates fixed by the state department for Covid-19 treatment is not sufficient. The state government will have to persuade the private hospitals into treating the patients. "We have found the rates fixed by the state government for Covid-19 treatment are impractical. If we compare the rates with other states, it is much lesser in our state," said Dr Vijay Kapoor, secretary PHNHS. Referring to the order issued by the Rajasthan State Health Insurance Agency, responsible for implementation for Ayushman Bharat Mahatma Gandhi Rajasthan Swasthya Bima Yojna, on July 28, the private hospital claimed that the state government has set Rs 750 for general ward per day and Rs 1,500 for ICU per day which includes designated AC space with standard ICU bed, equipment for constant monitoring of vitals, emergency crash cart or tray, defibrillator, ventilator, suction pumps and bedside oxygen. The hospitals claimed that the rates are quite not practical. The health department is now roping in more private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment for the benefit of the patients. The health department claimed that they have authorized almost all the private hospitals for Covid-19 treatment. "There is no restriction on private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients. In Jaipur, at least 15 such hospitals are providing treatment to Covid-19 patients," said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur-I. Besides, concerned over the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases and related deaths, the health department has swung into action. Apart from persuading the private hospitals, the state government will enhance the facilities in their own hospitals. In Jaipur, the health department will expand its Covid-19 treatment facilities by increasing more beds for the patients as the cases are constantly increasing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-nfsa-beneficiaries-will-get-cashless-treatment/articleshow/77472906.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Pune||Traders cite low Covid-19 rate among staffers to oppose further lockdown||PUNE: The traders’ federation has said barely 3% of the over 2,200 employees at various shops in the Peth areas testing positive for Covid-19 during a recent antigen checking camp proved that keeping stores open did not mean that the virus would further spread. “The numbers, 65 positive out of 2,210 tested, show that the fear of the virus spreading due to the functioning of shops and markets is false. The government should not impose any new restrictions or lockdown. The traders are taking all precautions to ensure safety of employees and customers,” Federation of Traders Association of Pune (FTAP) secretary Mahendra Pitaliya said. The association stated that several traders across the city have through it proposed purchasing rapid antigen test kits to check their employees for Covid-19. The traders has also discussed the proposal with additional commissioner of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) Rubal Agarwal during a recent meeting. The traders’ association, along with the PMC, recently organized the 9-day antigen testing camp and checked 2,210 employees of various shops. The testing was conducted at Bhagat Tarachand Restaurant on Laxmi Road for the first two days and then at Nutan Marathi Vidyalaya. FTAP president Fatehchand Ranka said, “All the 65 shop employees testing positive are asymptomatic and are in home quarantine. The (civic) authorities have said the percentage of employees testing Covid-19 positive found during the camp was few.” Referring to the traders’ proposal to purchase the rapid antigen test kits, he said, “Each kit costs around Rs550 and it may not be possible for small traders to invest big amounts to ensure testing for all their employees. If the PMC provides us with necessary infrastructure, we can buy the kits and start testing,” FTAP secretary Pitaliya said, “Covid-19 tests are not like a regular blood sugar test and needs professional and trained manpower. We have raised the proposal with the additional PMC commissioner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traders-cite-low-ncov-rate-among-staffers-to-oppose-further-lockdown/articleshow/77471764.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Mom killed daughter in Anandapur: Police||KOLKATA: Six months after the death of a three-day-old girl child at Nonadanga in Anandapur, cops arrested her mother, Sonia Sen, on Sunday on charges of killing her. The autopsy report, which took five months to come due to the Covid pandemic, found light marks on the child’s neck, suggesting that she might have been throttled to death. This is the second incident in a year, in which a mother killed her newborn. The first such incident had been reported from Beliaghata. The girl child was found dead on February 5 this year and initially, her mother claimed to have gone to the bathroom, locking the girl and her one-and-a-half-year-old boy in a room. She told cops that her daughter might have died when her son was playing with her. On Sunday, the woman broke down before the police and confessed to have killed her daughter. She was afraid that her husband, who had an illicit affair, would not support the upbringing of the girl child, said the police. “We arrested the woman after a forensic report failed to establish her accidental death theory,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. Cops have registered a murder case and they will recreate the crime scene based on the woman’s statement. “We need to depend on crucial forensic evidence as we do not have too much circumstantial evidence. We may seek the help of a psychiatrist to speak to the accused,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mom-killed-daughter-police/articleshow/77471762.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 11, 2020||Madurai||Two MLAs test positive for Covid-19, admitted in hosps||Madurai/Trichy: Madurai south constituency AIADMK MLA S S Saravanan on Monday tested positive for Covid-19. He is the third MLA from the district to test positive for Covid-19. Kulithalai MLA E Ramar, 70, of the DMK also tested positive for Covid-19 and admitted to a private hospital in Trichy on Monday. Saravanan is admitted to a private hospital in the city and undergoing treatment. His condition is stable so far, said sources. He had taken part in events when Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had visited Madurai district to review Covid-19 measures on August 6. Several other ministers and top district officials had also taken part in the events, including revenue minister R B Udhayakumar, minister for co-operation Sellur K Raju and district collector T G Vinay. However, officials said that all those who took part in the event were screened for Covid-19 the same day. On Sunday, Sholavandan AIADMK MLA K Manickam, who had also taken part in the events tested positive. All his contacts and those who attended the event are likely be tested. Ramar, who met people in his constituency over the last week developed symptoms a few days back. He got himself tested and found to be Covid-19 positive A total 10 members of his family were tested by the district health staffs and the results are awaited. DMK president M K Stalin called up Ramar, inquired about his health and wished him a speedy recovery. Over 20 MLAs from Tamil Nadu assembly have tested positive so far including a few ministers from the ruling AIADMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-mlas-test-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-in-hosps/articleshow/77472911.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||‘Locals not consulted before issuing nods to Mollem projects’||Panaji: Most villagers living in and around Mollem are unaware till date of the three central government projects approved through the Bhagawan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park in Mollem, Mahesh Mahambrey of the Progressive Front of Goa said on Monday. He said that they had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi about concerns regarding the projects and had received an acknowledgement, but were still to receive any response from chief minister Pramod Sawant in the matter. “When we went to the region, we understood that most villagers are still not even aware that such projects are going to come up in the area. They have been kept in the dark by the central government, which has given approvals to the projects through video conferencing during the pandemic. They have not consulted the sarpanch or anybody else at the local level before issuing such permissions in an ecologically fragile area,” Mahambrey said. The Centre has issued approvals for three projects — railway double tracking, widening of NH4A and laying of LILO transmission line through the sanctuary and national park. “We even received an acknowledgement from the PMO to the letter we wrote to him expressing our reservations over approvals given to the projects. But the CM is yet to respond to our request for an appointment with him. It does not seem that the Goa government plans to act on the concerns being raised,” Mahambrey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/locals-not-consulted-before-issuing-nods-to-mollem-projects/articleshow/77472922.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bengaluru||In August, recoveries jumped 88%, new cases by 44% in Karnataka||Bengaluru: The number of discharges in Karnataka over the past 10 days has increased 88% compared to those cured as on July 31, while the number of new Covid-19 cases in the same period showed a 44% spike. However, in absolute terms, the state added about 54,000 cases during the period, compared to around 44,000 recoveries. Analysis of data shows an obvious link: The state, which saw an alarming surge in new cases in July, is now seeing a more sustained daily growth, while the number of recoveries has surged. Compared to 40% as of July 31, the overall recovery rate in the state as on August 9 stands at 53%. There are two reasons for this: First, the cycle of recoveries has kicked in and data shows that many people who had contracted the infection in late June and early July are now being discharged. Second, as Dr Giridhara Babu, member, ICMR task force on research and surveillance, points out, the state has now tweaked its discharge policy — people in hospital can be sent home if they show no symptoms for three consecutive days after being admitted. Earlier, a patient had to spend between 10 and 14 days in hospital. “Although expected, this is a positive sign,” Babu said. “As recoveries increase, we will soon reach a stage where the growth rate of recoveries too will plateau till active cases come down. Also, the recovery rate reflects whether the curve flattens and bends. The focus must continue to be on doing more and more tests and detection of cases.” Data analysis of cases and discharges from July 1 — when cases began surging in Karnataka — shows that in the first two 10-day periods (July 1-10 and July 11- 20), the growth rate of fresh cases was more than recoveries. That has now been reversed. “All other variables notwithstanding, the pace of recoveries had dipped significantly from mid-June and this continued in July,” an expert on the government task force said. “If you look at discharges in the last week of July and first week of August, you will also see a lot of patients who had tested positive in June leaving hospital. Now that the pace of recovery has increased, we are likely to see this trend continue.” Compared to a 115% jump in active cases in the first 10 days of July, the 10 days between July 31 and August 9 saw only a 12% surge in this category, which further accentuated the surge in discharges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/in-august-recoveries-jumped-88-new-cases-by-44-in-karnataka/articleshow/77470405.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Trichy||Police to track rat poison buyers to prevent suicides||Trichy: Commissioner of police (CoP), Trichy city, J Loganathan, on Monday ordered his personnel to monitor shops selling rat poison and keep track of the buyers. The move comes in the wake of an incident where a 35-year-old woman killed herself by consuming rat killer paste.“We will collect the data of the shops selling rat paste and conduct a meeting,” Loganathan told TOI.The deceased was identified as F Sasireka of Indira Nagar on Pudukottai Road in Trichy. In her complaint, S Jeyamani, 54, mother of Sasireka, said her daughter was working as a clerk at the office of Tamil Nadu Evangelical Lutheran Church (TELC) in Trichy. She was suffering from chronic stomach pain frequently. Jeyamani said that Sasireka had come to her house and informed her that she consumed rat paste on August 6 unable to bear the stomach pain. She was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH). Failing to respond to treatment, Sasireka passed away on Sunday. She is survived by her husband and two children. KK Nagar police who took up the investigation said on Monday that the woman had bought the poison from a shop.It may be recalled that former deputy inspector general of police, Trichy range V Balakrishnan had taken note of the increasing number of such incidents in Trichy rural, Karur, Pudukottai, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts in June this year. He created a WhatsApp group comprising police officers and the vendors to track rat paste buyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/police-to-track-rat-poison-buyers-to-prevent-suicides/articleshow/77472915.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Pune||PCMC outsources 3,500 Covid beds to private players||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has outsourced the management of 3,500 Covid care centre beds to a set of private hospitals and healthcare units to free-up resources to focus on dedicated coronavirus facilities like Jijamata and New Bhosari hospitals. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil said the private hospitals would only have to manage the treatment aspect, with the infrastructure and food being provided by the civic body. “As we increase the capacity, we have to manage our existing staff better. Some of the Covid care centres are already being run by these private centres,” he said. Some of the Covid care centres outsourced by the PCMC include four in Mhalunge, eight in Gharkul and one each in Balewadi and Moshi. PCMC’s chief health officer Anil Roy said some of the hospitals who came forward to run these beds include Bhise Hospital and Ruby Ail Care. On positive cases, Patil said there was evidence of some slowing down. “Our doubling rate was 10 days earlier but after lockdown, that has increased to nearly 20 days,” he said. Public health activists, however, said the doubling was slowing also due to the high-base effect. “PCMC should make sure that none of the patients is devoid of beds,” a doctor said. Patil said that the corporation was also planning to increase the testing from 3,000 a day to 5,000 a day soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-outsources-3-500-covid-care-beds-to-focus-on-critical-patients/articleshow/77471806.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 11, 2020||Pune||Clover Centre shopkeepers, traders resent P1/P2 system||PUNE: Shopkeepers and traders at the Clover Centre commercial complex in Camp have demanded withdrawal of the P1/P2 restriction imposed by the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB), arguing that no such restrictions exist for even malls in the cantonment. PCB chief executive officer, Amit Kumar, said, "The restrictions have been imposed considering the likelihood of a bigger footfall at the complex and the need to avoid crowding in view of the prevailing situation. We are assessing the situation and will soon allow them to operate their shops as usual." The complex has about 300 shops selling women's apparel, footwear, mobile phones, etc. "We have received adverse feedback from customers saying that they are confused with the opening of shops at the complex," said Darshan Chawla, former secretary of the Clover centre. "All shops and businesses establishments, including malls have reopened across the city. So, people also expect the same here, but they find half of the shops closed on any given day. In this prevailing situation, people will not step out for shopping as often as they used to do earlier. So, we can't afford to keep our shops shut for long," he added. The complex was shut completely for 104 days and many shopowners have faced huge financial loss, he said. "Shopkeepers have to pay salaries to their employees, rent, electricity bills and cantonment tax. They can't afford to keep their shops shut for long," he added. One of the shopkeepers said, "Very few customers are coming for shopping and they prefer to spend minimal time at the complex. As a result, business is not that good. In this situation keeping the shops shut for three-four days in a week makes matter worse for us."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/clover-centre-shopkeepers-traders-resent-p1/p2-system/articleshow/77471787.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 11, 2020||Chennai||Move towards autonomy has to be with caution||By E BalagurusamyChennai: Affiliation of colleges with universities, a colonial, monstrous system, still exists only in India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. This practice of linking hundreds of colleges to a particular university has long been given up even in the country of origin, primarily because the system of affiliation is outdated, incompetent and does not meet 21st century challenges in higher education.A former HRD minister once said, "There is no point having a university with more than 800 affiliated colleges. All that the university does is to conduct inspections and examinations and collect money and no research done." The inherent weaknesses of the affiliating system are too many. The plethora of colleges bring with it the baggage of heavy administrative work for the university faculty, poor control over the quality of education in affiliated colleges and in turn there is limited control of students’ progress and assessment. This affects the quality of teaching and research at the university level. Apart from issues with academics, large-scale corrupt practices in the process of affiliation and undue political pressure for affiliating mediocre colleges creep in. Starting from the Radhakrishnan Commission in 1948, several commissions, committees and experts have recommended restructuring of the university system to reduce the burden of affiliation so that they could devote more time for innovation and research. India’s research output is only about 4% and patents output is about 0.3% of global contribution. The flawed affiliation system is one of the major reasons why Indian universities miserably fail to find a place in global ranking.The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 suggests a four-pronged approach to get rid of the affiliation system and enhance research capabilities and the quality of teaching in colleges and universities. It begins with transforming existing affiliating universities to either research universities or teaching universities by 2030 and granting autonomous status to eligible affiliated colleges, followed by converting selected, deserving autonomous colleges into universities themselves and allowing colleges to merge with their affiliating universities and function as constituent colleges. By 2040 all higher educational institutions (HEIs) shall aim to become multidisciplinary, non-affiliating universities and single-stream HEIs like law and medical universities will be phased out over time.The concept is innovative and the suggested approach looks impressive. But any major reform in Indian higher education, one of the largest systems in the world, will be a Himalayan task to implement. We need not only a clear-cut and time-bound implementation strategy but also continued unstinted support and commitment of policy makers. Perhaps, many earlier policies failed for the same reasons. At the outset, we need cooperation from state governments as more than 90% of the universities are state universities and founded and administered by states. Since universities enjoy huge financial support in the form of affiliation and examination fees, the backing of the university management is important since the proposed architecture will require significant investment from both governments and private players. All of these factors contribute in raising standards through recruitment of sufficient number of quality teachers.While we move towards a new chapter in the education system, a few ground realities need to be kept in mind. In recent days, we have been witnessing cases like ‘marks for money’ and ‘fly-by degrees’ and some deemed universities awarding honorary doctorates for a few lakhs of rupees. How does NEP address these fundamental issues on quality and academic dishonesty? Autonomy is a privilege usually provided to those colleges who maintain high quality educational standards consistently. Unfortunately, a majority of private colleges in the country are owned and run by politicians, sand and liquor mafia, real estate barons and hardcore businessmen. There is very little or no philanthropy in their functioning, neither is focus on quality a priority. What will happen if we hand over full autonomy with degree awarding powers to these institutions without proper control or accountability? At present, there is a shortage of more than 40% of teachers in higher educational institutions. Unless we have a clear strategy to train a good number of quality teachers, NEP’s vision of making Indian education to meet the challenges of the 21st century will remain only on paper. Finally, the success of the proposed reforms will depend on confidence, cooperation and commitment of all the stakeholders of higher education.(The writer is a former vice-chancellor of Anna University)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/move-towards-autonomy-has-to-be-with-caution/articleshow/77471742.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Trichy||Traders rue drop in sales in commercials hubs||Trichy/ Madurai: Absence of public transportation and poor cash flow have impacted the routine sales in the major commercial hubs in Trichy and Madurai. The Tamil month of Aadi usually sees a huge rise in sales, especially with the people from rural areas visiting the commercial hubs in the city. However, the sales have taken a beating this year, with the rural population largely choosing to give the shopping spree in the cities a miss. Nethaji Subash Chandra Bose (NSB) road, Teppakulam, Big Bazaar street and Singarathope, all renowned commercial streets in Trichy, are yet to recover from the slump in sales. The Vilakkuthoon, South Masi Street and West Masi Streets in Madurai that witness huge crowds during the Aadi season have seen sales dipping to 50 per cent compared to last year. Street vendors selling fancy items and snacks have been the worst affected. “We usually do business for Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 per day, but, right now the business is down to Rs 1,000 a day. We await Deepavali to gain what we have lost,” said A Ansar, a textile shop owner from Teppakulam near Rockfort. Weddings and engagements turning into low-key events and educational institutions remaining shut too have dampened the sales. People purchasing from nearby shops and turning to online shopping have kept the crowds off the commercial hubs. Ashraf Tayub, secretary of Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association said that people visit shops only when absolutely necessary. However, traders said that the lockdown relaxations have come as a relief, with sales improving over the past two months. A manager of a home appliance retail unit based in Madurai said that shopping is slowly picking up and there is a good response to offers and discount sales. Mobile phone sales are also gradually catching up. “Madurai used to attract a large number of people from neighbouring districts. But they are not able to visit the city now. We expect more sales when bus services resume,” he said. xxxxxxx Trichy: The sales in commercial hubs of Trichy and Madurai has taken a hit amid the Covid-19 induced lockdown. The absence of public transportation and poor cash flow have impacted the routine sales in the major commercial hubs. However, a section of the traders said that sales had slowly started picking up with the relaxations to the lockdown. The Tamil month of Aadi usually sees a huge rise in sales, especially with the people from rural areas visiting the commercial hubs in the city. However, the sales have taken a beating this year, with the rural population largely choosing to give the shopping spree in the cities a miss. Nethaji Subash Chandra Bose (NSB) road, Teppakulam, Big Bazaar street and Singarathope, all renowned commercial streets in Trichy, are yet to recover from the slump in sales. The Vilakkuthoon, South Masi Street and West Masi Streets in Madurai that witness huge crowds during the Aadi season have seen sales dipping to 50 per cent compared to last year. Street vendors selling fancy items and snacks have been the worst affected. “We usually do business for Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 per day, but, right now the business is down to Rs 1,000 a day. We await Deepavali to gain what we have lost,” said A Ansar, a textile shop owner from Teppakulam near Rockfort. Weddings and engagements turning into low-key events due to the Covid-19 restrictions and reopening of schools yet to commence too have dampened the sales. People purchasing from nearby shops and turning to online shopping have kept the crowds off the commercial hubs. Ashraf Tayub, secretary of Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association, said that people visit shops only when absolutely necessary. However, traders said that the lockdown relaxations have come as a relief, with sales improving over the past two months. A manager of a home appliance retail unit based in Madurai said that shopping is slowly picking up and there is good response to offers and discount sales. Mobile phone sales is also gradually catching up. “Madurai used to attract a large number of people from neighbouring districts. But they are not able to visit the city now. We expect more sales when bus services resume,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traders-rue-drop-in-sales-in-commercials-hubs/articleshow/77472914.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 11, 2020||Trichy||Rescued child labourers pass Class X exam||Trichy: All the eight child labourers rescued and rehabilitated under the Child Labour Elimination and Effective Rehabilitation Society (Cheers) have passed Class 10 exam successfully in Trichy on Monday. R Dharanidharan from Airport area in Trichy city with 474 marks was the topper among eight child labourers who passed from Trichy. The children rescued by Cheers from a butcher shop in Pattathu Ammal street 2015-16 were enrolled in the special training centre (STC) and later mainstreamed in Abbot higher secondary school in 2017-18. The marks scored by others were – B Sudha Marline of Lalgudi – 359, K Kanagavalli of Kalpatti – 306, R Rajeswari of Puthanatham – 273, C Chithra of Kalpatti – 268, P Nikilan – 258, K Meena of Seegampatti – 239 and A Mahalakshmi of Manapparai – 193. Most of them were daily wage labourers before being rescued, said Cheers project director Pearline Sathyanathan. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rescued-child-labourers-pass-class-x-exam/articleshow/77472918.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Wear masks when not jogging: Maidan police||KOLKATA: The Maidan police have launched a special drive to ensure that morning walkers and joggers wear masks properly. The cops have also asked them to maintain social distancing. The police said that they were making announcements in the morning to ensure that these rules are followed across the Maidan. While the official norms dictate a minimal distance of 6 feet, experts say droplets can travel much further when people are moving, jogging or cycling. The police said they have already prosecuted a few people — a little more than a dozen — for not wearing masks while waiting for their cars or simply a public transport around the Maidan area. “We were prosecuting the people before morning walkers were re-allowed. We are also trying to ensure that morning walkers use sanitizers if they are touching a surface which others have touched,” said an officer. Park gates, lift buttons, plants, trees and benches must be on the ‘do not touch’ list to avoid contamination, said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wear-masks-when-not-jogging-cops/articleshow/77471798.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 11, 2020||Trichy||Active cases drop by 20% in Trichy city||Trichy: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Trichy city has dipped by 32% in the past week, while active cases have come down by 20%. From reporting 100 to 150 cases per day last month, the city’s fresh positive cases have plunged to 60-70 per day in the past few days. Trichy Corporation attributed the fall in cases to the containment strategy and early detection of positive cases through fever camps. On July 24, the city registered 177 fresh positive cases, the highest since the outbreak. The 146 cases reported on July 22 were the highest number before that. The city trend to report 100+ fresh cases per day continued through July. But for the past week, fresh cases have declined significantly. On an average, about 68 cases are recorded per day compared to the average of 142 two weeks ago. The dip in fresh cases by 32% has also caused a downfall in the city’s active cases. From 861 active cases as on August 1, the city now has 686 active cases, a 20% fall. The civic body attributed the fall in fresh cases to the enhanced containment strategy initiated since mid-July. The corporation had even established containment zones even after reporting two positive cases from an area. Officials said that containment zones in Gandhi market and Big Bazaar street in July-August have prevented mass movement of people in vulnerable commercial areas, thus limiting the local spread. From 10 containment zones in early July, the civic body increased them to 21 as on July 31. Now, Trichy has 42 containment zones, the highest so far. A majority of them have less than five positive cases. Shifting the primary contacts to the isolation centre at Yaatri Nivas in Srirangam where Covid-19 preventive diet and medicine provided has also helped the local body curtail family contact cases. “After we stepped up the containment zones, the cases fell significantly. The same strategy will be pursued. There is no active cluster in Trichy,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. Officials said that 750 to 1,000 RT-PCR tests per day were done in Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/active-cases-drop-by-20-in-trichy-city/articleshow/77472921.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||16 new Covid patients in Chanda, tally now 572||Chandrapur: With 16 new patients emerging on Monday, the Covid-19 total in Chandrapur climbed up to 572 cases. In all, 31 patients were discharged during the day, taking the total of cured patients to 506. The district has registered four deaths so far. District administration has called upon people to take antigen tests if they exhibits any kind of symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/16-new-covid-patients-in-chanda-tally-now-572/articleshow/77472923.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 11, 2020||Trichy||All samples taken from G corner test negative||Trichy: All the 94 swabs collected from wholesale traders, retail vegetable vendors and loadmen at G corner wholesale vegetable market in Trichy have tested negative for Covid-19. This is the second time in a month that all the samples collected in a mass screening at the market turn negative. “It is puzzling that all 94 samples have turned negative,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. Sources said that the banana auction centre near Gandhi market that attracts hundreds of traders might be considered for the next round of mass screening. The urban local body on August 8 collected 94 samples from the vulnerable age group and symptomatic visitors to the G corner wholesale market that temporarily houses wholesale Gandhi market traders. As many as 33 samples were collected on July 22, and all of them turned negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/all-samples-taken-from-g-corner-test-negative/articleshow/77472920.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Pune||ZP CEO gets collector’s charge temporarily||Pune: IAS officer Naval Kishore Ram has temporarily handed over the charge of district collector to the Zilla Parishad CEO (chief executive officer), Ayush Prasad. The state government is expected to announce the name of the new Pune collector soon. Names of senior IAS officers are being discussed for the post. Ram joined the Prime Minister’s Office on Saturday. He told TOI that he had handed over the charge to Prasad temporarily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zp-ceo-gets-collectors-charge-temporarily/articleshow/77471824.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Probe after biker’s Facebook post against cop||KOLKATA: The Sealdah traffic police have started a probe after a biker took to social media, alleging that a sergeant had asked him to pay a fine of Rs 1,000 for speeding on July 28, though he did not violate any traffic rule. The complainant, Soumitra Biswas, executive of a financial firm, claimed that the sergeant had first asked him to pay Rs 100. As he refused, the sergeant accused him of speeding and slapped him with a fine of Rs 1,000. Biswas, who had expressed his anguish on Facebook, wanted to make the post viral and shared all his relevant bike documents. Cops at Lalbazar took note of the post and asked the OC to file a report in this regard. “We are in the process of finalizing the report. The CCTV cameras are being checked. The usual fine for speeding under MV Act section 184 is Rs 300. One can compound it to Rs 1,000 only if the rider has a history of speeding. We will look into the entire allegation and check the complainant’s history as a biker,” said a police officer. Lalbazar will take the final decision after going through the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/probe-against-sergeant-after-bikers-fb-post/articleshow/77471828.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Ranking makes make way for grading; new districts break into top 10||BENGALURU: In a deviation from the norm, Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board has not ranked education districts based on their students’ pass percentage in SSLC exams. It has rolled out a grading procedure for them. Grading has been done based on three criteria: 40% weightage has been given to pass percentage in each district, 40% to average marks scored by all students and 20% to number of students with distinctions and first class. The new system has thrown up a few surprises. While Mangaluru and Davanagere, which were among the top 10 districts last year, have got grade B, Madhugiri, which was in the 11th spot and Chikkaballapura in 20th, have made it to the list of districts with grade A. Ten education districts have bagged grade A: Chikkaballapura, Bengaluru Rural, Madhugiri, Mandya, Chitradurga, Udupi, Kolar, Ramanagara, Hassan and Uttara Kannada. While Belagavi, Gadag, Haveri and Yadgir have secured grade C, the others have got grade B. “There was a lot of unhealthy competition among districts, apart from emphasis on rote learning. That’s why we decided to change the system. Districts getting above 75% will be awarded grade A, those between 75% and 60% grade B and others grade C,” explained Sumangala V, director, KSEEB. “Under the grading system, all 34 districts can aspire to be on top,” added KG Jagadeesha, commissioner of department of public instruction. As many as 5,859 schools fall in A category, 4,310 in B and 4,228 in C. This system also allows the board to focus on lowperforming schools. No first rank: Education departmentWhile the government claimed it has switched to grading to avoid unhealthy competition, presence of Chikkaballapura on top of the list sparked off a round of back-slappings. While district officials congratulated each other, K Sudhakar, medical education minister and in-charge of the district, took to Twitter to congratulate students, teachers and parents. “All 10 districts with grade A are equal. There’s no subdivision among them. There’s no particular order we followed in naming them in the press release. We’ll change the way they’re depicted,” said Jagadeesha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ranking-makes-make-way-for-grading-new-dists-break-into-top-10/articleshow/77471248.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
August 11, 2020||Trichy||Parents appeal to govt to declare special children all pass in Class X||TRICHY: Parents of special children, who had registered for Class X examinations this year, but not declared pass similar to regular students, have petitioned the Trichy district collector seeking steps to award marks to their children and declare them all pass. The state board examinations for Class X were cancelled this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the regular students were declared all pass. The scores were announced on Monday based on their performances in quarterly and half-yearly examinations. However, private candidates were not declared all pass and they were told that they will have to appear for the exams later. Of the 1,186 private candidates who had registered for the examination from Trichy district, more than 200 are special children. Parents of the special children found the decision unfair and urged the government to declare them all pass. Officials from the school education department in Trichy district, too, find the procedure of awarding marks strange. While private candidates were denied all pass on the ground that they had not appeared in exam, many regular students, who have not appeared for any examination – half-yearly or quarterly, were given a minimum of 35 marks in each subject. Compared to regulars, private students have put in efforts to clear the exams, therefore, they should have been given all pass, an official said. “Special children cannot attend regular schools, so they are enrolled in special schools and even appeared for quarterly and half-yearly exams. But they were not awarded marks,” said Joseph Sathyaraj, parent of a 15-year-old child in Trichy. “There are more chances of special children getting infected with Covid-19 because of their poor immunity, if they are asked to write the exam,” said B Malathy, 46, mother of a 24-year-old man with cerebral palsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/parents-appeal-to-govt-to-declare-special-children-all-pass-in-class-x/articleshow/77472924.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 11, 2020||Pune||Existing care centres in Pune to get more oxygen beds to ease pressure on hospitals||PUNE: At least 10% beds of 12,000 beds at 76 Covid Care Centres (CCCs) in Pune will now be equipped with oxygen support to treat patients with low blood-oxygen levels. The move will also ensure these CCCs are ready to receive and stabilise emergency Covid-19 cases before they are moved to a dedicated hospital. Currently, dashboard data shows there are only two vacant beds with oxygen support in Covid Care Centres in the region. “Our aim is to keep these facilities ready for emergencies,” said a senior administration official. “Beds with oxygen supply can stabilise the patient with serious breathlessness before he or she is moved to dedicated Covid hospital.” As of Monday, out of 12,067 beds at CCCs in Pune, 8,405 beds have been allocated; 3,774 general beds are vacant. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said at least 600 of these general beds will be immediately equipped with oxygen support. “In the second phase, some of these CCCs will also go on to have ICUs,” Rao said. The CCCs are currently housing patients with mild Covid-19 who are unable to isolate at home. Administration officials said patients with mild symptoms, if they suddenly develop breathing problems, can be stabilised at CCCs first, instead of waiting for care at overburdened dedicated hospitals. The CCCs are temporary care units that have been set up inside college hostels, schools, stadiums and hotels. In rural areas, community health centres have also been converted into CCCs. Guidelines states that every CCC should have an ambulance with life-support systems in case a patient goes from mild to moderate Covid-19 symptoms. Oxygen beds and ICU units are also going to be a feature in the upcoming jumbo makeshift facilities. Officials said with these units ready to take off burden from hospitals soon, it was time to scale up the smaller care centres. “We want to reduce pressure on hospitals. If existing facilities are used properly, we won't need to rush patients out to hospitals,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/existing-care-centres-to-get-more-oxygen-beds-to-ease-pressure-on-hospitals/articleshow/77471833.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||Heavy rainfall causes widespread damage in and around Mussoorie, traffic, power supply disrupted||Mussoorie: Heavy rain, which started on Sunday evening and lasted well into the next morning, caused widespread damage in and around Mussoorie. Roads were blocked, trees and electric poles uprooted and houses damaged in the downpour. In Bhutsi village, a woman was injured after her house collapsed. In Chulusain village near Dhanaulti, a shop and a house were damaged. A part of Mussoorie-Dehradun road also caved in on Monday, restricting the movement of heavy vehicles on the stretch. “A 50-metre portion of the road washed away. We have already stopped heavy vehicles but considering the damage, all traffic may have to be stopped. The repair work will take several days,” said Pushpendra Kumar, junior engineer at the Public Works Department (PWD). Apart from Mussoorie-Dehradun road, the Cart Mckenzie road and Mussoorie-Dhanaulti road were blocked due to landslides triggered by the rains. The roadblocks were cleared by the PWD by Monday morning. In Mussoorie, several trees were uprooted at Municipal Garden, Spring Road, Kempty Road and Hathipaon Road, disrupting traffic. However, no injury was reported. Electric poles were also damaged due to the rains, disrupting power supply in several parts of the town. “Ten to 12 electric poles have been damaged due to landslides and uprooting of trees. However, power supply has been restored in most places, while work is ongoing in some areas,” said Pankaj Thapliyal, sub-divisional officer of the electricity department. Watch Uttarakhand: Heavy rainfall across state hits normal life||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heavy-rainfall-causes-widespread-damage-in-and-around-mussoorie-traffic-power-supply-disrupted/articleshow/77468151.cms||Anmol Jain
August 11, 2020||Goa||Congress appoints new heads to 7 block panels||Margao: Signalling its intent to strengthen its organisational set up across the state, including in the constituencies where the party had suffered a setback after 10 of its MLAs defected to the BJP last year, the Congress on Monday appointed block presidents to seven constituencies. Pushkal Sawant (Curchorem), Royen Veigas (Velim), Manuel D’Costa (Nuvem) Pralay Bhagat (Canacona), Assis Noronha (Cuncolim), Sandip Naik (Mayem), and Ramesh Panshekar (Poriem) have been appointed the new block presidents. Shaikh Ali, who earlier headed the Curchorem block, has been promoted as South Goa district Congress committee general secretary, Congress president Girish Chodankar said. “We have started making organisational changes that are necessary to strengthen the party organisation. The appointment of block presidents in seven constituencies is the first step towards that. We will soon be reconstituting the block committees in consultation with all,” Chodankar said. Stating that that the party was gearing up for the 2022 assembly elections, he said that the party would launch its social media campaign “Speak up for Goa” against the power tariff hike in a bid to exert pressure on the government to heed to their demand. The party has demanded that the government exempt power consumers from paying two months’ electricity bills. Leader of the Congress legislature party Digambar Kamat said that the move would “bring in new energy” in the party cadre. President of North Goa congress committee Vijay Bhike and president of South Goa Congress committee Joe Dias were also present at the press briefing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-appoints-new-heads-to-7-block-panels/articleshow/77472928.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||NMC engineers reshuffled||Nagpur: In a major reshuffle in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), 12 deputy engineers, 21 junior engineers and 33 assistant city engineers were transferred with immediate effect. In their transfer orders, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has asked the shifted NMC officials to join new assignments without delay. Those who do not join or try to bring any pressure may face disciplinary action, the transfer orders stated. Along with this major reshuffle, Mundhe also gave additional charge of executive engineers to deputy engineers Anil Gedam, Dhananjay Mendhulkar and UV Dhanvijay by relieving officiating EEs PM Agarkar, Ravindra Budhade and SR Gajbhiye.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-engineers-reshuffled/articleshow/77472925.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||In Nainital, 12-year-old risks life to save drowning man twice his age||NAINITAL: Twelve-year-old Sunny didn’t think twice before diving into Kosi river, swollen from overnight showers, to save a drowning man nearly twice his age. The incident took place in Ramnagar area of Nainital district on Sunday. According to Ramnagar station house officer (SHO) Ravi Saini, the 22-year-old man would not have made it out alive had Sunny not acted quickly. “The man had jumped into the river from the bridge. The boy saw him crying for help, caught in currents of the river. While dozens of other people stood motionless, the 12-year-old jumped into the river,” Saini said. Police have sent the man for treatment and he is stable now. An eyewitness at the spot, who did not wish to be named, said, “The boy was standing at the bridge with a friend. He jumped when he saw the man struggling. By the time he reached him, the man had washed up on a rock in the middle of the river, unconscious. It took the boy a good 15 minutes to drag him out of the eddy he was caught in. Later, with the help of a friend, he managed to get him out of the river.” “We suspect that the man is mentally challenged and therefore flung himself into the river,” Saini said. Meanwhile, Ramnagar MLA Diwan Bisht said that the boy will be suitably honoured for saving the man’s life. “We have found out that the boy lives near the river and is adept at swimming, even when the water level is high. We will honour him for the extraordinary courage he showed in saving a drowning man’s life,” Bisht said. Watch On cam: 12-year-old risks life to save drowning man twice his age in Nainital||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/12-year-old-risks-life-to-save-drowning-man-twice-his-age/articleshow/77468173.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Trichy||Govt urged to include tenant farmers under PM-Kisan scheme||Trichy: Expressing gratitude to the Centre for launching the agriculture infrastructure fund and releasing Rs 17,000 crore under the PM Kisan scheme, farmers demanded that tenant farmers are also included in the scheme. The farmers said that those who are cultivating thousands of acres of land on lease were left out of the scheme and appealed to the government to bring them under the purview of the scheme.The PM-Kisan scheme was launched to provide income support by way of direct cash benefit to all landholding farmers. A sum of Rs 6,000 is provided per year as minimum income support to the farmers, irrespective of the size of their holdings. The money is credited to the account of all the landowners directly. While the farmers owning land benefit from the scheme, the tenant farmers are left out of the scheme. Farmers said that in case of any natural calamity like flood or drought, both the state and the Union governments disburse the compensation to the farmers who cultivate the land, not to the title owner of the land. But the PM-Kisan scheme farmers did not consider the tenant, the farmers said. “Based on the size of land, landowners get a sum of money from the tenant farmers as lease amount. In addition, they are also eligible for this income support from the government. This is unfair," secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, Swamimalai S Vimalnathan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-urged-to-include-tenant-farmers-under-pm-kisan-scheme/articleshow/77472927.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 11, 2020||Trichy||100% students clear Class X in Trichy||Trichy: All the 35,539 students of class X from Trichy district cleared the state board exam result released on Monday. The class X state board examination was cancelled in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak. For the final board examination, quarterly and half-yearly marks along with attendance of the students were considered for deriving the aggregate. While the overall marks scored by students were low, 334 students have secured full marks in individual subjects. As many as nine students in Tamil language, five in English, 133 in Mathematics, 127 in science and 60 in social science have secured full marks. While it is comparatively easy for students to secure full marks in science as they have practical marks, students have secured full marks in languages, which was possible as there is one paper for language, said S Santhi, Trichy district chief education officer. Many students felt that they could have secured good marks if they were able to sit the examination. Unlike the quarterly and half-yearly examinations, they will put more efforts into the preparation of the final board examination, which eventually help them secure more marks, says students. G Ashwin, a class X government school student from Thuraiyur who had secured 325 marks out of 500, expressed doubts whether his marks would help him fetch his choice of stream. He never knew that all his preparation for the board examination will go in vain. A total 17,714 boys and 17,825 girls had registered for the class X board examination this year from Trichy and all have passed. Last year the pass was 96.45%. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/100-students-clear-class-x-in-trichy/articleshow/77472929.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Pune||Pune’s 24-hour tally hits three-week low, toll tops 2,500||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 1,806 Covid-19 cases on Monday, its least daily tally since July 16. Besides, 52 more patients succumbed to the infection in the region in the last 24 hours, pushing its casualty count to 2,504. Overall, the recovered patients continued to be more than those reported positive on Monday. As against 1,806 new cases, as many as 2,835 people successfully recovered from the infection in PMR in the last 24 hours. As for total cases, as many as 1,09,326 have been infected in the region so far, of whom 82,432 have recovered, keeping the recovery rate at 75%. The active caseload in the region stood at 27,114 on Monday evening, including 14,995 in hospital isolation and 12,119 in home quarantine. Out of the total positive cases on Monday, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas added 761 positive cases, while the PCMC limits recorded 679. The rural parts recorded 217 cases, Cantonments recorded 70 and other areas added 79 cases in the last 24 hours, stated the press statement issued by district heath officer Bhagwan Pawar. Among the casualties reported on Monday, the PMC areas recorded a maximum of 30 deaths, followed by the PCMC areas’ 11, Pune rural (8) and others (3). The daily report of PMC stated that critical patients admitted in hospitals across municipal areas were 738, of whom 444 were on ventilator support. As many as 2,417 patients were on oxygen support in the municipal limits till Monday evening. Most of the deceased had other health problems too, including respiratory problems, heart failure, high blood pressure and diabetes. When asked about testing, a health official said that over 5 lakh tests have been conducted in PMR so far, including 3.2 lakh from the PMC limits alone and 1.2 lakh from the PCMC areas. “The district is conducting over 50,000 tests per million population, face above the state,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-24-hour-tally-hits-3-week-low-toll-tops-2-5k/articleshow/77471861.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Rebel returns, says Ashok Gehlot is his leader||JAIPUR: In a rapid turn of events that may end Rajasthan’s one-month long political crisis, one of the Congress legislators from among the 19 rebels, led by Sachin Pilot, returned to Jaipur and met chief minister Ashok Gehlot late Monday evening. After the meeting at the chief minister's residence, seven-term MLA Bhanwar Lal Sharma said, “I was and am with the Congress. My leader is Ashok Gehlot.” He added, “The Gehlot-government will run its full term of five years. We will cooperate with the government.” Sharma said some more MLAs in the Pilot camp would return to Jaipur by late Monday night, while the remaining were likely to reach by Tuesday evening. On the possible return of Pilot, Sharma said, “He is a big leader; I can’t say about him but the rest should return.” Around the same time, another rebel MLA Vishvendra Singh tweeted on the day’s developments. Congress party is my family, says SharmaAround the same time, another rebel MLA Vishvendra Singh tweeted on the day’s developments: “Too much is being said too quickly. Too many assumptions, too many rumours and too many factually incorrect stories. Hold your horses everyone! Watch this space for updates! (sic)” Sharma and Singh were suspended by the Congress within days after the revolt against Gehlot’s leadership. Singh was sacked as tourism minister. The two leaders were accused of being part of a BJP-led conspiracy to topple the state government. Sharma, the MLA from Sardarshahar assembly seat in Churu district, on Monday claimed he never revolted against the party but was annoyed over public works not being done in his constituency. Asked to explain the onemonth long drama since July 10, Sharma said it was a “ghar ka mamala (family issue)”. “Congress is my family and Gehlot is the family head. Like one skips meals and sulks on being annoyed with the family, I went away when my grievances were not addressed. The CM has now assured to get people’s works done in my area, so I have returned,” said Sharma, explaining his flight to Manesar and subsequent return to the party. “I discussed public issues related to health, education and water in my area with the CM today,” said Sharma about the talks held with Gehlot. Asked about Gehlot’s charge that he had similarly conspired against late Bhairon Singh Shekhawat in 1996, Sharma replied, “He (Shekhawat) too had lied to me.” Sharma claimed he never issued any statement against Gehlot. “If you can show one such statement, I will give you a reward of Rs 5,000,” the senior MLA said. Sharma was the only legislator in the Pilot camp against whom the special operations group (SOG) had slapped sedition charges, which were ultimately withdrawn last week after the MLA moved the high court with a plea that the probe be handed over either to the CBI or the NIA. The Gehlot-government subsequently transferred the case to the state anti-corruption bureau. On being asked if he returned because of the police cases slapped on him, Sharma said, “I have never feared such cases. I am a self-proclaimed leader. I have been MLA for 35 years and will win again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rebel-returns-says-gehlot-is-his-leader/articleshow/77472930.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
August 11, 2020||Pune||IMA backs' under the skin' administration of Tocilizumab||Pune: Days after makers of the drug Tocilizumab said an advanced trial had not shown improvements in hospitalised patients with Covid-19 pneumonia, doctors from the city wings of the Indian Medical Association and the Association of Physicians of India said its under-the-skin (subcutaneous) can still be effective. “The drug is safe and effective in expert hands. It can be used in carefully selected patients. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has also not ruled out the drug,” Sanjay Patil, chairman of the IMA's Hospital Board of India said.  Tocilizumab, an anti-rheumatic drug, had shown early promise in counteracting the 'cytokine storm', an abnormal immune response often seen in patients with severe Covid-19. But vials of the drug can cost as much as Rs 50,000 each. Injected intravenously or subcutaneously, most patients require only a single dose of Tocilizumab. A subcutaneous dose, at 324mg costs Rs 30,000 per patient. An intravenous dose — 8mg per kilo of patient's body weight — is dose of 400mg to 800mg (50kg and above) for adults. That can mean a cost between Rs 40,000 and Rs 80,000 per patient. Infectious diseases expert Parikshit Prayag of the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital is among few doctors in the state who have been using the drug effectively. "We have been using Tocilizumab injections subcutaneously (under the skin) with good clinical outcomes since June, when there was a global shortage," Prayag said. Clinical outcomes of subcutaneous us have been encouraging. "With careful patient selection, benefit-to-risk ratio for subcutaneous Tocilizumab treatment of severe Covid-19 is promising. There's rapid and sustained reduction in disease activity, improved respiratory function and reduced pulmonary structural damage," Prayag said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ima-backs-under-the-skin-administration-of-tocilizumab/articleshow/77471842.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 11, 2020||Pune||First time in 128 years, Dagdusheth mandal lets go of pandal over Covid||PUNE: For the first time in its 128-year history, the popular Shreemant Dagdusheth Halwai Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav mandal will not put up its iconic pandal at Kotwal Chawdi on Shivaji Road this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The trustees of the mandal confirmed on Monday that besides not having large processions or dhol-tasha troupes at the beginning and end of the festival on August 22 and September 1 respectively, its Ganesh idol this year will be placed at its eponymous temple in Budhwar Peth, a few hundred metres away from where the pandal is erected for the festival. The deity, bedecked with gold and precious stones, is kept in a majestic pandal themed differently every year. The pandal is a big draw and a great leveller, attracting common citizens and celebrities for Ganeshotsav. Thousands of devotees mill around at all times of the day and well into the night offering prayers, coconuts and precious objects to the deity. The mandal is among the oldest, yet the most modern. It is among the first to having started accepting online and cashless donations, and has its own accounts on social media platforms like Facebook, YouTube, Twitter, Pinterest and Instagram. This year, the mandal’s officials said they will not accept any offerings in the form of flowers, fruits, sweets or coconuts from any devotee, nor will they distribute any prasad at the temple, keeping with social distancing and hygiene protocols. The massive heaps of coconuts that accumulate during the festival fetch the mandal crores of rupees in an auction. Every day, truckloads of coconuts have to be ferried from the pandal to the makeshift store room opposite Sarasbaug where the pandal decorations are readied every year. The mandal is also encouraging people not to congregate in large numbers outside the temple. Livestreaming of the rituals will be available, and LED screens of that livestream shall also be put up around the temple. Online darshan, online abhishek and online aarti are also on offer so that devotees do not miss their favourite Bappa. The Dagdusheth Ganapati is to Pune what Lalbaugcha Raja is to Mumbai. The deity was installed by Dagdusheth Halwai and his wife Lakshmibai over a 100 years ago, when they lost their only son to the plague. Every year, Ganeshotsav is celebrated with deep faith and enthusiasm, not only by Dagdusheth’s family but the entire neighbourhood. The idol and the jewellery are worth and insured for millions, and the volume of crowds that visit the pandal each year compel the police to ban traffic on the entire thoroughfare leading up to it. The sheer number of offerings placed at the temple also requires management by the temple’s trustees, as does the number of celebrity visitors. Hemant Rasane, one of the trustees, said it is near impossible to put a count to the number of people who visit each year. It can be around 40-50 lakh over the ten days. It’s a place where all big political leaders from all parties visit, including nearly every chief minister of Maharashtra. The current chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has also visited multiple times, he added. “Other celebrities like members of the Kapoor family, Lata Mangeshkar and the Bachchan family have also visited and placed offerings. Amitabh Bachchan came here after he recovered from his illness back in the 1980s. As for the number of coconuts placed here, lakhs of them remain till the end of Ganeshotsav. Local coconut sellers and others take part in the auction that we organise, and the proceeds go to the trust,” Rasane added. Other elements of the festival at this pandal, including the Atharvashirsha recitation en masse, will not be carried out this year. But for long-term observers of Ganeshotsav in Pune, these are aspects which devotees will accept as a necessity. “It will hurt devotees who gather to express their faith. But the health of the people is more important right now. This is an inconvenience just for a year. Ganeshotsav is a festival that has adjusted to everything that has happened over the years,” said Anand Saraf, an observer of the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-time-in-128-years-dagdusheth-mandal-lets-go-of-pandal-over-covid/articleshow/77471849.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
August 11, 2020||Goa||AAP takes to street to protest ‘unholy alliances’ in Goa’s politics||Panaji: AAP held a street protest in Panaji to highlight the government’s lopsided priorities and “unholy alliances” on Goa’s political chess board. Party functionary Pradeep Padgaonkar said that despite being the single largest party after 2017 elections, Congress “sold their MLAs to BJP”, allowing BJP to form a government against the mandate of the people. Rahul Mhambre said that poor administration and misplaced priorities of CM Pramod Sawant had left the state penniless. Valmiki Naik and Mario Cordeiro were among those who spoke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-takes-to-street-to-protest-unholy-alliances-in-goas-politics/articleshow/77472948.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Trichy||Woman, twin sons charred to death||Trichy: A 29-year-old woman and her three-year-old twin sons were charred to death near Rayanur in Karur district in the early hours of Monday after their house caught fire due to a short circuit. The deceased have been identified as K Muthulakshmi, and her twin sons Ranjith and Dakshith. The trio were fast asleep when the house caught fire. Muthulakshmi was living alone with her children in her tile-roofed house after her parents had gone to their native place in Ramanathapuram district a few days ago. She had come to Rayanur with her husband six years ago to make a living. According to the neighbours, the couple set up an eatery in Rayanur. She got separated from her husband last year over differences and her parents came to her home. Struggling to make ends meet, Muthulakshmi had sent her parents to Ramanathapuram to get help from relatives. Karur SP P Pakalavan denied reports that accident happened after a mobile phone caught fire while being charged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-twin-sons-charred-to-death/articleshow/77472931.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Univs adopt 2-step, simplified e-admission to avoid crowding||Kolkata: Several Calcutta University-affiliated colleges and institutes in the districts have introducing a two-phase, simplified admission system, cutting down on the mandatory information to be filled in the initial stage, so that candidates with no computer or internet at home can spend minimum time at cyber cafes and outdoor while applying online for undergraduate courses. Maulana Azad College, Bethune College, Basanti Devi College, Bangabashi (Morning) College, Muralidhar Girls’ College, Raja Rammohan College and APC College, and others, like Medinipore College (Autonomous), Raja Narendra Lal Khan College, Barasat Government College and Taki Government College, have decided to follow the system. While several universities in the state, including CU, started the admission procedure from Monday, Rabindra Bharati University will start on Tuesday. At Jadavpur University, the arts and science faculties will begin the application process from August 14 and is likely to continue till September 4. Siddhartha Datta, member of Inotech Lab, which created the online application forms, said they came up with a brief first step so that crowding at cyber cafes could be avoided. “Lakhs applying to institutes affiliated to CU, Vidyasagar University and Burdwan University are from the suburbs and villages. Most of them do not have internet access at home. So, we are following a two-phase process.” A principal added, “Only selected candidates will have to give us more details for registration.” “Initial details, such as name, contact, scores and applying subject will allow them to know if they are eligible for a course. Once they fulfil the criteria, they will be automatically registered on the college portal under honours application,” Datta said. Only after their names appear on merit lists will they have to provide further details, such as Kanyashree and BPL data and annual income to seek scholarship. “Those can be filled from mobiles. Unlike earlier, it will need much less time,” he said. A senior admissions committee member at Bethune College said the simplified, two-step process would encourage more students to apply. “Unlike at many other colleges, at our institute, candidates can apply for multiple honours courses on a single attempt,” he said. East Calcutta Girls’ College principal Shukla Hazra said they had put up guidelines on their website on how to apply online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/univs-adopt-2-step-simplified-e-admission-to-avoid-crowding/articleshow/77471850.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||Amidst India-China tension, ITBP DG visits border posts in U’khand||Nainital: The director general (DG) of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), SS Deswal visited forward border areas in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand on Monday. Deswal is currently on a four-day visit to the state. “The DG had reached Joshimath on Saturday. The next day, he travelled to the Valley of Flowers and Mana Pass. He is inspecting other forward posts in Chamoli district as well,” said an official who did not wish to be named.Uttarakhand shares a 350-km-long border with China, a substantial part of which is adjoining the Chamoli district which has two strategically important sectors like the Mana Pass and Barahoti. Apart from these two locations, the Niti and Malari valleys lying in the area also border China. All these locations are patrolled by the ITBP and its soldiers are stationed on the forward posts. Sources said that Deswal is trekking to these areas accompanied by ITBP personnel. To reach Valley of Flowers, one has to trek at least seven kilometers from Pulna village while for Mana Pass, the trek is at least 24 km long. This is the second visit by the ITBP chief to Uttarakhand in less than a month. In July, Deswal had met chief minister Trivendra SinghRawat and flagged the issue of diminishing population in the border villages. The chief minister had then promised to revive tourist activity in the border areas and had cleared a sum of Rs 10 crore under the chief minister’s border area development project. Rawat had further said that the state government will work with the ITBP to develop the border areas in order to prevent migration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amidst-india-china-tension-itbp-dg-visits-border-posts-in-ukhand/articleshow/77468189.cms||Prashant Jha
August 11, 2020||Pune||IUCAA mobile app to help detect comorbid Covid-19 patients faster||PUNE: A cellphone app developed by the Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics would be used in the city from Tuesday for early detection of comorbid Covid-19 patients and quick intervention. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said on Monday the surveyors would use the app — capable of alerting all senior civic officials in case of any exigency — during the daily surveillance of houses. The senior officials would instantly receive an alert through the app — Vayashree Lite — in case of any issues on parameters entered pertaining to comorbid patients, he said. Rao told TOI, “Faster detection and treatment is the main use of this app.” He said earlier the surveyors had to take down notes after surveying each house and make the entries officially after returning to office, which was a time-consuming process. Now, the app developed by the IUCAA would enable the surveyors enter the parameters every alternate day. If there is any change in parameters, the senior officials will receive an alert and action can be taken immediately. IUCAA director Somak Raychaudhary said as a part of the Pune Knowledge Cluster initiative, they had been interacting with the administration and the Covid task force. “In a meeting concerning data management and visualisation, we suggested that we can develop a simple phone app for door-to-door survey, which will ensure better contact tracing. The teams will benefit from it as will be able to directly send the data collected to the server with just one click instead of writing on paper first and then entering data later,” he said. The public outreach officer at IUCAA and team leader Samir Dhurde, who helped in designing the app, said it would make the Covid-related surveys more efficient. “The customised app has been named ‘Vayashree Lite’. It has been developed in a week for the Pune Minicipal Corporation (PMC) surveyors. An online training for all field personnel was conducted today (Monday). The app allows faster collection of vital data such as temperature and oxygen levels on surveyors’ android phones and supports their instant uploading on the administration’s servers for further analysis. At present, it would be used in the Pune Municipal Corporation limits only.” Dhurde said the app developers’ team comprised programmers from Namware Software. The institute provided this support as a part of social duty without any charges, he added. (BOX) Divisional commissioner ensures treatment Pune divisional commissioner Rao on Sunday personally ensured that treatment was given to a 28-year-old Covid-19 positive patient at an Aundh hospital after he received frantic calls from relatives. He first sent his team and then visited the hospital himself to ensure that proper treatment was given to the patient. He said a district task force had been set up for any such interventions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/iucaa-app-to-help-in-early-detection-of-comorbid-covid-19-patients/articleshow/77471888.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 11, 2020||India||1 in 4 migrants went home on foot during lockdown: Survey||NEW DELHI: A comprehensive survey, covering 25,371 respondents in rural India, including households with 963 migrants who had returned during the lockdown, found that 22.5% or about one in four migrants interviewed said they undertook the journey on foot, while another 6.9% percent partly walked and used vehicular transport. About 2.6% said they cycled back to their villages. While the survey does not share details of the distances travelled — relevant in terms of how far they were from native villages — their experience captures how economic distress, fear of Covid -19 and hunger led to people leaving cities in whatever mode of transport that was available. When asked if the local administration facilitated their return home, by giving money, train ticket, bus service or some other vehicle, some 409 responded in the affirmative and 554 said no. These were migrants who returned. Of these migrants, 17.8% had returned to their villages by bus, 11.6% by train, 10.2% by car or jeep, 7.8% by truck and 1.5% by tractor. Once home, faced with hardships, many said they will return to cities after lockdown or when the epidemic subsided. One third (33%) said they would go back to cities and 16% weren’t sure. When asked if the local administration facilitated their return to the villages during lockdown, by giving money, train ticket, bus service or some other vehicle 409 responded in the affirmative and 554 said no. The interviews of the over 25000 plus respondents including migrants from across 179 districts in 20 states and 3 union territories was carried out between May 30 and July 16. The survey has been conducted by Gaon Gonnection – a rural media platform in coordination with New Delhi-based Centre for Study of Developing Societies (Lokniti-CSDS). The report covers a range of issues including migration, impact on farmers, impact on poultry and dairy farmers, hunger, livelihood and MGNREGA, government schemes, debt and financial stress, health, water, perceptions, asset ownership and next six months. The survey found that many people had a lot of difficulty in accessing food during the lockdown. Around 35% of the surveyed households went without eating the whole day either many times or sometimes, 38% skipped an entire meal in a day several times or sometimes and 46 percent cut 1-2 items from their meal often or sometimes. “Thus it could be argued that the high difficulty in accessing food seems to have resulted in a fairly high incidence of hunger among rural households and this seems to have happened despite government ration reaching many of these households,” it is noted. However, despite the difficulties, a perception assessment found that 74 per cent rural respondents said they were satisfied with the manner in which the Central government has handled the COVID-19 pandemic. Some 78% respondents said they were also satisfied with the steps taken by their state government, the survey found. It is pointed that around 83% of the households had a ration card and about 71% claimed that they had received wheat or rice from the government during the lockdown. This means that around 29% households did not receive rations despite having a card. As far as the 17% households without ration cards are concerned, only a little over one in every four of them said that they received food grains from the government during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1-in-4-migrants-went-home-on-foot-during-lockdown-survey/articleshow/77474165.cms||Ambika Pandit
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||The Doon School’s wall collapses in heavy rainfall, swollen Tons and Nemi rivers enter settlements||Dehradun: A portion of The Doon School’s boundary wall facing Chakrata Road collapsed due to the heavy rainfall on Monday morning. However, no one was hurt in the wall collapse and the debris was removed soon by the school administration to avoid any inconvenience to commuters. A statement issued by the school later in the day said, “Due to the continuous and heavy rainfall that began in the early hours of August 10, a portion of our boundary wall facing Chakrata Road was damaged at approximately 6:15 am. The school immediately responded by clearing the debris on the road to prevent disruption to traffic. We are also working closely with the local authorities and preparations for repair work has begun.” Meanwhile, water entered several houses along the Tons and Nemi rivers on Monday morning at Santur Kotda village in Sahaspur. Subsequently, the affected residents were shifted to safer places with the help of the police. Amit Singh, a local, said, “The river water entered our houses and damaged the structures. It has become dangerous to live around the area as heavy rainfall can wash our houses. The authorities must consider constructing pushta (retaining wall) along the river as a protective shield.” The other parts of the city that got affected during heavy rainfall on Monday were Kishan Nagar, Gaziwala and Badri Nath colonies. The rain water entered the houses in these areas leading to residents having to vacate their houses for some time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/the-doon-schools-wall-collapses-in-heavy-rainfall-swollen-tons-and-nemi-rivers-enter-settlements/articleshow/77468204.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Medical student jumps to his death at Delhi's AIIMS hostel||NEW DELHI: A 22-year-old MBBS student at AIIMS died after allegedly jumping off the fifth floor of his hostel on Monday evening. Atul Thakur, DCP (south), said a classmate of the medicine student, identified as Vikas, noticed him jump and immediately raised an alarm. Vikas was rushed to the ICU in an ambulance, where he died during treatment. Police are scanning his mobile phone to establish the reason behind the act. No suicide note has been found so far. But a preliminary inquiry revealed that Vikas was suffering from a mental health issue, and was undergoing counselling. His family lives in Bengaluru and has been informed. An inquest proceeding under Section 174 of Code of Criminal Procedure has been initiated and a report regarding the cause of death will be presented before a magistrate. The body has been sent for an autopsy and will be handed over to his family on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/med-student-jumps-to-his-death-at-aiims-hostel/articleshow/77471906.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chennai||Back to business: More residents step out to shop||CHENNAI: Call it revenge shopping or pent-up demand. Around 47% more people moved around for retail and recreation, while 23% more people went out to supermarkets and pharmacies in the state between July 1 and August 4. Launched in April to help public officials gain insights on what has changed in response to Covid-19 policies, Google’s Mobility Report calculates changes in public mobility by comparing traffic on various dates with a baseline day in February 2020. The reports chart movement trends across different categories of places such as retail and recreation (including stores, cafes, restaurants, and cinemas), supermarkets and pharmacies, parks, public transit stations, workplaces, and residential pockets. Google arrives at the insights using anonymized sets of data from users who have turned on the location history setting on their Google accounts. Assuming 100 people visited retail stores in February, Google’s analysis of location data of users showed that movement was down 66% on July 1 and 50% on August 4. But this also means that there was a 47% rise in people movement between July and August (see graphic). “Footfalls have been better in the past few weeks. People have stayed without buying various essential small appliances in the 60 days of lockdown and these are seeing an uptick,” B K Shankar, CEO, Viveks, said. We are seeing faster closure of sales as people do not want to risk visiting various outlets but finish their shopping in single visits, he said. In similar terms, visits to supermarket and pharmacy rose by almost 23% from July to August as people gained confidence to go start buying groceries and other essentials on their own without relying on delivery services. The manager of a grocery store in Chennai said while most purchases were made via app-based delivery services before July, he now sees youngsters walk in and buy essentials themselves as the number of cases reduce in Chennai. “We get very few senior citizen customers,” he said. While movement of people has started, it was restricted to shopping as those who were working from home (WFH) preferred to stay put, the Google report showed. People continued to WFH and made very few social visits. The change in rate of mobility was negligible around residential areas and workplace hubs between July and August. There was also minimal difference or no change in the congregation levels of people in and around parks and public transport hubs as these continued to remain closed in the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/back-to-business-more-residents-step-out-to-shop/articleshow/77471909.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Pilot meets Rahul, Priyanka, cancels flight from Cong||New Delhi: A month after he revolted against chief minister Ashok Gehlot and left Jaipur with 18 supporting MLAs, Sachin Pilot met Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and rolled back his rebellion on the assurance that his grievances would be “redressed”. Though the terms of the peace deal remain to be worked out in detail, he may be offered an AICC post such as general secretary. TOI, in a front page report on August 5, had pointed to the possibility of a thaw between Congress and the rebels. The development marks a win for Gehlot who has all along claimed he has the numbers for a floor test and has been reluctant to accommodate Pilot. The meeting with Rahul and Priyanka was followed by a Congress statement, which said Pilot had expressed his grievances in detail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-meets-rahul-priyanka-cancels-flight-from-cong/articleshow/77472950.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ganeshkhind Road likely to open to traffic by Saturday||PUNE: With the demolition of the E-Square flyover complete, the Pune Metropolitan Regional Development Authority (PMRDA) hopes to open a clear and tarred Ganeshkhind Road to traffic by Saturday. On Monday, the last leg of the flyover’s demolition work was completed, “in record time” as per PMRDA commissioner Suhas Diwase. “The work progressed per schedule and, despite traffic diversions and the pandemic, there were no delays. The workers managed to meet the deadline,” Diwase told TOI. The flyovers were demolished to make way for a new, 1.5km long double-decker flyover, which will support vehicular traffic on one tier, and on the second tier, the viaduct for the Hinjewadi-Shivajinagar Metro corridor that is being executed by PMRDA. This corridor is expected to be completed by 2023. Matte and Associates, the sub-contractor appointed for the demolition, said the entire process took 25 days. “It took us 21 days to demolish the University flyover. Work had begun on July 14. Demolition of the E-Square flyover began in earnest on August 6,” the firm’s director, Ram Matte, said. The engineering firm had earlier demolished Mumbai’s Lalbaug flyover and a structure in Nagpur in a short window, which Matte said was their speciality. “The demolition here was slightly delayed as the entire road could not be closed off,” Matte said. Matte further said they flew more than 20 workers from Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh and also paid for the transport of more workers from other northern parts of India., as there was a manpower shortage in Pune. The workers stayed at vacant, unused flats about 1km from the site. “Transporting the huge machines by road from Udaipur, Rajasthan, was quite the test because the pandemic was at its peak two months ago,” Matte said. “We worked through nights to complete the work,” Matte said. Over 50 workers were deployed for the demolition, which was carried out simultaneously at six different spots. The debris has been moved to a site in Bavdhan. The reinforcement bars will be separated from the debris and crushed to size for use as road and pavement material. The new flyover is expected to cost Rs240 crore. With Pune Municipal Corporation stating that it would not share the cost, PMRDA said it would speak to the state government to work out a funding plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ganeshkhind-road-likely-to-open-to-traffic-by-saturday/articleshow/77471931.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Ex-DU students can get digital degrees||NEW DELHI: In a big relief to ex-Delhi University students who still haven’t received their degrees, DU has started an online portal to issue digital degrees. The university informed the high court on Monday that the students only need to register on the online portal (www.digicerti.du.ac.in) and give their details, including academic qualifications and name of their college. Once the details are verified, the digital degrees will be issued within a week, the varsity told justice Prathiba M Singh. She was hearing various petitions by 21 doctors who completed MBBS graduation in 2018 and 2019 from DU-affiliated colleges, but have not yet received their degrees on the ground that the contract with the printer had expired. TimesViewCovid-19 has forced changes in every aspect of our life. Technology has been an ally in our efforts to find a way out of the mess. Granting digital degree certificates is a timely move because it helps us maintain social distancing while allowing us to move ahead with our lives.The high court directed the university that digital degrees for all the doctors who moved the court should be issued by email on or before August 13, as they wish to apply for their residency programmes in the United States and to sit in the United States Medical Licensing Examination. The court had earlier asked DU to come up with a sample digital degree. “The court has perused the digital degree, which has been sent by email and it is satisfied with its content. The issuance of similar digital degree certificates duly verified by two officials of the DU and digitally signed by the authorised officer of the DU would, in the court’s opinion, satisfy the purpose of the petitioners,” Justice Singh said. The court said that the doctors can use the digital degrees for the purpose of their ECFMG applications and if the ECFMG authorities need any clarification, they may be addressed to the email IDs of DU officials Sanjeev Singh or Vinay Gupta. It also asked DU to examine if marksheets and transcripts of students can be issued digitally too and listed the matter for further hearing on September 7. DU officials told the court that data of all the students who have graduated up till November 2019 is available with the varsity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ex-du-students-can-get-digital-degrees/articleshow/77471936.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Starved of funds, NGO struggles to feed HIV positive kids||CHENNAI: For the past seven years, ARK India Service Society has been working for the welfare of children, especially girls, affected by HIV/AIDS. But, with the lockdown impacting the economy and the livelihoods of many, and fewer donors, they are struggling to not only support, but also house the children. “We have 14 girls aged eight to 17 years in permanent care at our home in Thoraipakkam,” says Jerome Selvaraj, founder, ARK India Service Society, who, along with co-founder Priyadarshini, has been caring for children with HIV/AIDS since 2013. “We also help about 80 other children who are living with their grandparents and other relatives in other parts of Tamil Nadu,” he says. The lockdown has taken a toll on them as fewer sponsors are coming forward to help. The children require nutritious balanced meals to help them fight the disease. “Every day they need health mix, two types of fruits, one egg and milk twice a day,” says Selvaraj. “We also provide protein -- chicken and fish -- three days a week.” After lockdown, only 40% of their donors are continuing to support the children. “We also need to find a permanent place to stay. Since these are children suffering from HIV/AIDS, people are reluctant to rent out their premises,” says Selvaraj. “Right now we have a 2,000sqft independent house in Thoraipakkam. But our landlord wants us to vacate the building soon. If we could buy some land we could build a permanent facility to house the children.” The society also supports children who are living with their grandparents or other relatives by networking with other NGOs in the field. K Sakthivel, 48, who is based in Thiruvarur, has been helping Selvaraj identify needy children in the area. “My wife, daughter and I are HIV positive. We have been working with Selvaraj to help provide nutritional support to children with HIV/AIDS,” says Sakthivel, who is the team manager for the positive network. Selvaraj says they have been giving nutritional kits to the children and also providing monetary support. “Many of them do not have parents or relatives so we get them admitted in hospitals. Some live with their grandparents, who find it difficult to give them the right diet and medicine. But, if we had a permanent facility, we could house more children and could provide them with better care,” he says. “We hope philanthropists will come forward to help us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/starved-of-funds-ngo-struggles-to-feed-hivve-kids/articleshow/77471929.cms||Priya Menon
August 11, 2020||Goa||Get well soon: Cong to Babashan||Panaji: Congress on Monday accused BJP of lying to the Supreme Court after its MLA Wilfred D’Sa claimed that he is suffering from Covid-19 and is admitted to the hospital. D’Sa, through his lawyer Misha Rohatgi, asked the apex court for a month to respond to the proceedings of the disqualification petition. Congress used the opportunity to take a dig at D’Sa, who is locally known as Babashan. “We pray for the good health and long life of Babashan,” state Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar said in a clear taunt against D’Sa. Rohatagi, in a letter addressed to the registrar of the SC said that respondent no 8 (Wilfred D’Sa) has yet to be discharged from the hospital after testing positive for Covid. Congress released a picture of the letter online. The hearing in the disqualification petition against 10 former Congress MLAs and two former MGP MLAs who joined BJP is listed for Tuesday. State Congress president Girish Chodankar accused the BJP of going to extreme lengths to delay the proceedings while Panjikar said that D’Sa’s lies are a desperate attempt to adjourn the proceedings. Panaji: Congress on Monday accused BJP of lying to the Supreme Court after its MLA Wilfred D’Sa claimed that he is suffering from Covid-19 and is admitted to the hospital. D’Sa, through his lawyer Misha Rohatgi, asked the apex court for a month to respond to the proceedings of the disqualification petition. Congress used the opportunity to take a dig at D’Sa, who is locally known as Babashan. “We pray for the good health and long life of Babashan,” state Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar said in a clear taunt against D’Sa. Rohatagi, in a letter addressed to the registrar of the SC said that respondent no 8 (Wilfred D’Sa) has yet to be discharged from the hospital after testing positive for Covid. Congress released a picture of the letter online. The hearing in the disqualification petition against 10 former Congress MLAs and two former MGP MLAs who joined BJP is listed for Tuesday. State Congress president Girish Chodankar accused the BJP of going to extreme lengths to delay the disqualification proceedings while Panjikar said that D’Sa’s lies are a desperate attempt to adjourn the proceedings. “BJP has crossed all limits of shamelessness and is stooping low to save imminent embarrassment to its government, which was formed by adopting all unethical and undemocratic means,” Panjikar said., adding, “Nothing better can be expected from the followers of Mahatma’s killers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/get-well-soon-cong-to-babashan/articleshow/77472953.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Rope in experts for monitoring CDV ’||AHMEDABAD: The additional director general (wildlife), of the Union forest ministry, Soumitra Dasgupta, advised the Gujarat forest department to rope in national institutes such as the Indian Veterinary Research Institute and Indian Institute of Virology, for disease surveillance and monitoring in lions. Speaking at a webinar marking World Lion Day, Dasgupta said after the outbreak of CDV and babesia in 2018, the Union government launched a project for which Rs 98 crore was sanctioned over three years. He said that the Union forest ministry and the Gujarat forest department are working together on disease monitoring. He said lions are not on the pride of Gujarat but of the nation. The other speakers advocated the need for setting up a population away from Gir, such as Barda in Gujarat. Dasgupta also touched upon the translocation to Madhya Pradesh and sought to know the Gujarat government’s opinion on it and on moving lions from Gir to Barda. However, Gujarat principal chief conservator of forests Shyamal Tikadar did not broach the the issue of translocation. S P Yadav, member secretary of the Central Zoo Authority, said there are 208 zoo-bred lions that can be released into the wild. He said there are 31 zoos that are active in conservation and breeding programmes with Sakkarbaug Zoo being the leader. Sakkarbaug has 26 male and 36 female lions. “It would be a good idea to release the captive population in the wild and establish a second population in another part of the country.” Tikadar said, “Policy makers have to take hard decision now otherwise lions will not be here for a long time if the community starts losing its tolerance. Humans and large carnivores can coexist only if the people start earning through eco-tourism.” He said revenge killings also happen in Gir. “We are sitting on a time bomb that can burst at any time,” he said. Wildlife expert Y V Jhala of the Wildlife Institute of India said lions are a resource for the people and they make money through illegal lions shows. Dasgupta, in his parting comments, said the issue of translocation to Madhya Pradesh has not ended. He called on Gujarat to take the lead and translocate lions to Barda for a start.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rope-in-experts-for-monitoring-cdv-/articleshow/77471923.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Confusion prevails on day 1 of exams as Delhi University struggles to manage logistics||NEW DELHI: Final year undergraduate and postgraduate students of Delhi University who sat for the first papers of the online open book examinations (OBE) on Monday described their experience as stressful and harrowing. They said there were problems like non-confirmation of answer sheets uploaded on the exam portal, delays in receipt of question papers and the provision of question papers of the wrong subject. The exams were held after Delhi high court gave DU the go-ahead for OBE on July 7. Disclosing that around 35,000 students had appeared for the exams on Monday, a university official said, “This is the first time any Indian university has conducted online exams on this scale.” TimesViewThe best of ideas can be rendered useless by ham-handed execution. Online Open Book examinations cannot be conducted on a shoddy, trial and error basis. The experience must have been a nightmare for many DU students. The mock tests conducted earlier had underlined the shortcomings in the preparation. The glitches must be rectified immediately and only then should any further exams be held.Annie Vaid, MA history student, had a torrid time, right from receiving the questions more than an hour after the scheduled start to finding the portal saying no history exam was scheduled for August 10 and, thus, leaving her with no upload facility. “Our class representative suggested we email the answers to the address provided on the portal in case of technical failures,” said Vaid. KK Koul, the nodal officer of Hindu College, confirmed many students had transmitted their answer scripts on email. “There were problems with the portal or net connectivity during uploading of the sheets. Some students of course, emailed their papers just to make sure,” Koul said. An English teacher revealed how confused the final year examinees were when they received the questions for a 3.30pm exam well in advance at 11am. “They began to answer though they now had eight hours to finish the exam,” the teacher said. A student added, “The confusion was compounded at 3.30 pm when we got a new set of questions.” At the School of Open Learning, Zubair was in a quandary to find the exam portal had uploaded both the Hindi and medieval history question papers. “I didn’t know what to do. When I called my teacher, he advised me to download the questions of the subject mentioned on the admit card, which was Hindi,” Zubair said. It took students as many as 40 minutes to upload the answer sheets. “My sister helped me to compress the answer sheets within the deadline. I don’t know how others coped,” said a biochemistry (H) student. Many of her classmates expressed worry about whether the lengthy answer scripts had been accepted by the portal. Sanjeev Sharma, who wrote his exam from his village in Bihar’s Jehanabad district, suffered poor net connectivity. “We do not have 4G internet, so I’m unsure whether my answer sheets have reached the university,” said a worried Sharma. “It took me a lot of time to convert the sheets into PDF files and to minimise them to the approved size.” Watch Online exams: DU students face harrowing time due to glitches in system||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/open-book-error-its-a-torrid-start/articleshow/77471971.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt announces Mukhyamantri Kisan Sahay Yojana||GANDHINAGAR: Keeping in mind the welfare of farmers, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani announced the Mukhyamantri Kisan Sahay Yojana for crop failures on Monday. Rupani said that irregularity of rainfall, especially in the kharif season, causes economic loss to farmers. He said that the state government has decided to implement this scheme to provide aid to all farmers in times of such calamities or crop damage during irregularities in rainfall in kharif season. The benefits of the Mukhyamantri Kishan Sahay Yojana will cover all farmers of the state. Around 56 lakh farmers of the state will be benefited through this scheme and farmers will not have to pay any premium for this scheme, he said. Briefing about the scheme Rupani said that, the farmers paying premium were benefited in crop insurance scheme, but under this scheme aid will be provided without any premium. Rupani said provision is being made to provide assistance in three natural risk circumstances – drought, heavy rainfall and unseasonal rainfall. Assistance for a loss of 33% to 60% will be Rs 20,000 per hectare. Farmers who suffer losses of over 60% will get an assistance of Rs 25,000 per hectare, up to a maximum of four hectares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-announces-mukhyamantri-kisan-sahay-yojana/articleshow/77471957.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Pune||One held for attempt to rob trucker||Pune: An alert night patrol team of the Sinhagad Road police nabbed one of the four men who had intercepted a truck on the Bhumkar bridge along the Katraj bypass and were in the process of robbing its driver of valuables during the wee hours of Monday. The other three suspects managed to flee the spot along with Rs1,700 in cash and a gold locket worth Rs2,500 of the truck driver, Manjit Bachalal Saha (35) of Aurangabad. Police identified the arrested suspect as Umesh Ramesh Jagdhane (30), an unemployed man from Bibvewadi. All the four suspects were armed with sharp weapons and were riding on a scooter and a motorcycle, police said. According to the police, Saha was carrying a load full of raw material from a private company in Satara to Mumbai in his truck when the incindent occurred on Bhumkar bridge around 2.30am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-for-attempt-to-rob-trucker/articleshow/77471941.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Pune||Cops link Khed double murder to criminal’s killing in May||PUNE: The double murder on Khapardara hill at Shiroli in Khed taluka on Friday was fallout of a criminal’s killing at Chikhali two months ago, revealed the police investigation. Three people were arrested on Sunday on the suspicion that they aided the duo’s killers and the police launched a search for six other suspects. The police said the victims — Niranjan Gurav (20) and Bajrang Jadhav (22) from Pimple Gurav — were hacked to death as the killers suspected them of helping those involved in the murder of Aniket Randive, a criminal on police records, at Chikhali on May 29. Acting on a tip-off, a Khed police team led by assistant inspector Rahul Lad arrested the trio from Shiroli, about 45km from the city. “Abhishek Bhalerao, Hrishikesh Wadekar and Nikhil Shinde had taken Gurav and Jadhav to the hill on Friday, where they were killed,” Lad said. “They were produced before a court and remanded in police custody till August 16,” Lad said. The bodies of the two victims were found on the hillock on Saturday morning. The breakthrough came the same day when the Khed police arrested one Manoj Lokhande for an offence under the Indian Arms Act. Lokhande told the police that he had shifted to Khed from Pune with his two associates. “When we showed him the photographs of the bodies, Lokhande identified the deceased duo as Gurav and Jadhav,” Lad said. He said Lokhande told the police that they had gone to Shiroli on August 6 after a brawl in Pimpri Chinchwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-link-khed-double-murder-to-criminals-killing-in-may/articleshow/77471950.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Don’t delay Gujarat bypolls: BJP, Congress to ECI||GANDHINAGAR: With few days left for the six-month deadline for byelections to be held for vacant assembly seats, both the ruling BJP and opposition Congress have written to the Election Commission of India (ECI), asking it not to delay byelections and conduct them with strict social distancing and other precautions. Byelections to five of the eight assembly seats are due before September 15, while the remaining three have to be conducted by December. Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda on Monday wrote to the ECI and requested it to conduct the byelections on eight seats with utmost care. The Congress sought that the poll not be postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Chavda said, “The ECI sought suggestions from political parties so we have suggested that the elections should not be delayed due to Covid-19, but utmost care must be taken while conducting the elections with medically advised precautions. Most other activities have started, so constitutional processes like elections must not be postponed.” Commenting on the Congress’ stance, C R Paatil, Gujarat BJP president said, “We are also of the opinion that byelections must also not be delayed due to Covid-19 and they should be held by taking all precautions. BJP will write to the ECI to conduct elections on time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dont-delay-bypolls-bjp-cong-to-eci/articleshow/77471942.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Pune||10 stolen bikes recovered, two arrested||Pune: The crime branch of the Pimpri Chinchwad police on Monday claimed to have solved 10 cases of vehicle theft with the arrest of two youths from Bhosari. Police recovered 10 stolen motorcycles, worth Rs4.10 lakh, from Swapnil Katkar (19) and Rahul Pawar (19), both from Bhosari. A crime branch team, led by inspector Uttam Tangade, arrested the duo on Sunday on a tip-off by police constables Ganesh Sawant and Nitin Khese. Tangade said that the suspects used to steal motorcycles from parking lots in Bhosari, Bhosari MIDC, Sangvi and Khadki areas. The probe revealed that the duo sold some of the motorcycles at throwaway prices. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/10-stolen-bikes-recovered-two-arrested/articleshow/77471968.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh virtually inaugurates GSL’s steel preparation facility||PANAJI: Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday inaugurated Goa Shipyard Limited’s (GSL) new steel preparation facility, which will be utilised to construct the two guided missile frigates for the Indian Navy. The steel shop has been built at a cost of Rs 27 crore as part of GSL’s modernisation programme, GSL officials said. “These activities of creating and expanding indigenous capability in defence will be significant in boosting the self-confidence of the Armed Forces in defence preparedness,” Singh said after the digital inauguration of the facility. The digital inauguration was done through direct video link with the ministry of defence in New Delhi. Minister of state for defence Shripad Naik was present at GSL for the inauguration. “The state of art steel preparation shop has been completed under Phase 3B of modernisation programme with installation of required machinery. The facility is ready for utilisation for plate and stiffener cutting and forming operations required for indigenous construction of the frigate project and other upcoming projects,” chairman and managing director of GSL, BB Nagpal, said. To mark the Atmanirbhar week, GSL will launch a Coast Guard off-shore patrol vessel on August 13 and will follow it up by inking an agreement with IIT Goa on August 14. The memorandum of understanding with IIT Goa will explore Artificial Intelligence and other technology improvements in shipbuilding. Goa Shipyard has successfully indigenised the gear boxes for off-shore patrol vessels, a critical propulsion system which has saved foreign exchange and is also a significant step towards self-reliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/def-minister-rajnath-singh-virtually-inaugurates-gsls-steel-prep-facility/articleshow/77472960.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nashik||Police call for Ek Gaon Ek Ganpati concept in villages||Nashik:The Nashik rural police have been appealing to all the Ganesh mandals to opt for ‘Ek Gaon Ek Ganpati’ concept, which means one village will have one Ganpati celebration, following the outbreak of Covid-19. Superintendent of police Arti Singh, said, “Every year, our endeavour is to motivate more and more villages in the rural district to opt for the ‘Ek Gaon Ek Ganpati’ concept. Over the years, we have received an overwhelming response. This time it is more important to opt for this concept in order to contain the spread of coronavirus,” The meetings with the residents of the villages have already begun at the police station level.Police officials said when there one Ganpati celebration in a village, the possibility of conflicts among groups is very less.Apart from this, opting this concept would means less pollution. Every year, Ganpati mandals, which take all the precautions to ensure there is no pollution are awarded by the police.This time with the limitation on the number of people gathering for any programme, police would be stressing on a low-key celebration of the festival. Last year, 1,338 villages had adopted the ‘Ek Gaon Ek Ganpati’ concept.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-call-for-ek-gaon-ek-ganpati-concept-in-villages/articleshow/77469277.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Presidency may have to restart admission process from scratch||Kolkata: The state higher education department has requested Presidency University to reopen its application process for admissions to undergraduate as well as postgraduate programmes, said an official at education secretariat Bikash Bhavan. A decision will be taken in the university’s admissions committee meeting by the end of this week. Presidency had completed its application process in February, had slated the entrance exams for April 11 and 12 and had decided to declare the results by May 8 till the pandemic hit. “The university is holding discussions with departments, the heads of which are trying to arrive at a consensus on admission criteria. Since the university, earlier Presidency College, has traditionally been holding admission tests, it is a tough call to decide on the criteria,” said a higher education official. A Presi official declined to divulge any details, except plus-two marks were likely to be considered. The HoDs at Presidency have been advised to submit their suggestions on criteria by Wednesday. Another government official said since several science subject exams could not be held in HS and other major subjects were suspended for ISC and CBSE boards, some departments might include Madhyamik marks or set other parameters. “A final decision is likely to emerge by the end of this week,” said a source. Senior officials said with all state-run universities being told to start admissions from August 10, Presidency could not be an exception. “When the West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination Board were to conduct the Presidency UG entrance tests, the situation was different. The application process ended much earlier this year, leaving out many as they were studying for plus-II boards then. Now, as many will stay back in Bengal due to the pandemic, they should get an opportunity to apply to Presidency,” said the Bikash Bhavan official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/presidency-may-have-to-restart-admission-process-from-scratch/articleshow/77471951.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Six police stations start digitizing all documents||PUNE: Six police stations under the jurisdiction of the Pune commissionerate have started digitizing all their records. This endeavour is part of project ‘Digital Bank’, which is aimed at maintaining paperless records. ‘Digital Bank’ will subsequently be extended to all 24 police stations, senior officers said. The six police stations — Bibvewadi, Market Yard, Wanowrie, Kondhwa, Hadapsar and Mundhwa — have started digitizing all their chargesheets, applications, inquiry reports, crime data, preventive action details and other documents that need to be preserved for posterity. “The project is aimed at doing away with physical maintenance of documents and saving space at police stations,” deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Suhas Bawache told TOI. He said the project would also save time and expedite investigations. To avoid all these hassles, the documents are being scanned and saved in a secure PDF format according to year, serial number and investigating officer in a server, and can be easily accessed via computers or smartphones. Bawache said the project has no financial impact on the police department. All the police stations already have multiple scanners on their premises. A team of policemen dedicated to digitizing all the documents has been set up. “The Bibvewadi police have scanned 1,200 chargesheets while Hadapsar and Mundhwa police have scanned over 500 and 200 documents each,” he said. In all, 50% of all the documents at these police stations has been completed and they are aiming to scan the rest soon, Bawache said. Documents dating back to 2015 are being scanned in the first phase. “In the second phase, documents filed between 2010 and 2014 would be digitized. The project would continue till all important documents since the year each police station was established are digitized,” a senior police officer said. The officer said they would continue to maintain physical records. “But going forward, no new physical documents will be filed — our records will be paperless,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-police-stations-start-digitizing-all-documents/articleshow/77471961.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 11, 2020||Chennai||Class X boards: 100% pass, but high scores come down||CHENNAI: All the 9,39,829 regular candidates from schools who registered for the Class X exam cleared the boards this year, the Tamil Nadu Directorate of Government Examinations (TNDGE) said on Monday. Though schools registered 100% pass, many said the high scores have come down compared to previous years since the marks were calculated based on quarterly and half-yearly results. The results have not included the private candidates and long absentees, TNDGE said in a separate release. Rasika S who scored 488 out of 500 said she was not satisfied as she did not get a centum. “I was aiming for more than 490. The evaluation was very strict in our school and I had scored 476 in half-yearly and 472 in the quarterly exams. If the exams were conducted, I would have scored centums in three subjects,” she said. She secured 99 in Tamil, science, and social science. V Subesh, another city student, scored 424 out of 500. “I was not well when the quarterly exams were conducted. The poor score in quarterly exams affected my total,” he said. Schools say students have scored low marks compared to Class XII results due to the weightage on quarterly and half-yearly exams. Considering the prevailing Covid-19 situation, the state government cancelled the Class X board exams scheduled between June 15 and 25. It announced that the marks would be awarded based on quarterly and half yearly marks, 20% weightage was given to attendance. “Our half-yearly and quarterly exams are tougher than board exams. Students who score 65% or 70% in those exams get above 90% in board exams. Though all cleared the exams, the number of high scorers has come down,” said N Vijayan, senior principal of Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Tambaram. B Purushothaman, senior principal of Everwin Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Kolathur, said schools do not encourage centums in half-yearly and quarterly exams. “On an average, the marks have come down by 10%,” he said. Candidates can get provisional mark sheets from August 17 to 25. They can approach DGE for grievances. Private candidates may have to appear for board exams later as they had no quarterly and half-yearly exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/class-x-boards-100-pass-but-high-scores-come-down/articleshow/77471969.cms||---
August 11, 2020||India||Faced similar taunts: P Chidambaram backs Kanimozhi on Hindi row||CHENNAI: The Chennai airport episode involving DMK MP Kanimozhi and a CISF officer over the issue of “communicating in Hindi” on Sunday has given the stick to the Dravidian parties to beat the Centre with on the issue. If that is on expected lines, it has also managed to bring the north-south divide over Hindi to the fore. “One can’t simply ignore this as an issue involving one CISF officer. It clearly indicates the seriousness with which the Centre’s machinery is working to impose Hindi,” MDMK general secretary Vaiko said. “This is also clearly seen in the thrust given to Hindi and Sanskrit in the Centre’s NEP. Tamil Nadu will go to any extent to prevent any autocratic attempt by the Centre to impose Hindi,” said Vaiko. Stating that language is an emotional issue, Dravidar Kazhagam president K Veeramani urged all the MPs from Tamil Nadu to unite to bring in necessary change in the attitude of the Centre on this. “Tamil Nadu government too should not see this as an issue concerning any single party and write strongly to the Centre,” Veeramani said, while adding that integration is not for the soil, but for people. Soon enough, others joined the fray, with Congress veteran P Chidambaram terming it as not unusual. “I have experienced similar taunts from government officers and ordinary citizens who insisted that I speak in Hindi,” he tweeted. Former Karnataka CM H D Kumaraswamy wasn’t far behind. “I raise my voice against the insult meted to... Kanimozhi. Now, it is apt to debate how political leaders from the South were snatched off their opportunities by Hindi politics and discrimination,” he tweeted. DMK president and Kanimozhi’s half-brother M K Stalin also spoke out. “Is Hindi the benchmark for being an Indian. Is this India or ‘H’india,” he asked. Kanimozhi had twitted that a CISF official had asked her if “she was an Indian” after she asked the latter to speak in English or Tamil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/faced-similar-taunts-p-chidambaram-backs-kanimozhi-on-hindi-row/articleshow/77474176.cms||D Govardan
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: In a first, differently-abled student gets 85% in board exam||JAIPUR: A differently-abled student from Jaipur has scored over 80% in Class XII board exams. Nikhil Vaishnav, a hearing and speech impaired student of Govt Seth Anandi Lal Poddar Mook Badhir Senior Secondary School, Jaipur, has got 85.75%. According to the principal of the school, this is probably the first time that a student with such condition has scored over 80% in state boards. There are seven schools for disabled students in the state, out of which four are for deaf and dumb students and three for visually impaired. Differently abled students sit for board exams along with general students, but their results are announced by the Board of Secondary Education, Rajasthan (RBSE), separately. With the help of his family, Nikhil communicated to TOI that he is happy with his results and his hard work has paid off. “It is a proud moment for me. People always assume that students with condition like ours cannot achieve much. I didn’t have anyone outside the school to guide me in studies. I used to video call my teachers who were always available for help,” said Nikhil. In boards, there are four subjects for differently abled students – Hindi, History, Political Science and Drawing. Nikhil scored 343 out of 400. He scored 95 in drawing, 90 in political science, 89 in Hindi and 69 in history. Commenting on the result, school principal Bharat Joshi said, “We have to take special care of these students. After school video calls, extra classes are taken to make these students well versed with the course. Nikhil’s result is an inspiration for other students as well. He is probably the first student with such condition to score over 80% in state boards.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/in-a-first-differently-abled-student-gets-85-in-board-exam/articleshow/77472008.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Agra||At Covid-19 meet, UP deputy CM’s nosebleed causes scare||Agra: Officials during a Covid-19 review meeting in Agra were sent into a tizzy on Monday when UP deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma who was presiding over the meeting started bleeding from the nose. A team of doctors from the district hospital was rushed in and found the nosebleed to be the result of a minor injury. Sharma had arrived in Agra from Lucknow in a state aircraft. After landing at Kheria air base in the morning, he went to Circuit House to chair the meeting. Mayor Naveen Jain said the deputy CM, who is diabetic, had complained of discomfort in the flight too. “We asked him to take some rest, but he insisted on continuing the review meeting. He had some snacks and confirmed he was feeling better. After chairing the meeting and interacting with public representatives, he left for Mathura,” said the mayor, Chief medical officer, Dr R C Pandey said, “The deputy CM’s blood pressure was normal and the bleeding stopped after first-aid was administered to him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/at-covid-19-meet-up-deputy-cms-nosebleed-causes-scare/articleshow/77468268.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 11, 2020||Agra||Agra gets Kisan Bhavan plan off the blocks||Agra: The Agra district administration is searching for a plot of land to build a 'Kisan Bhavan', a facility where farmers who visit the city can rest in ease. The proposal was made by Fatehpur Sikri MP Rajkumar Chahar. According to the MP, a large number of farmers from Bah, Pinahat, Jagner, Fatehpur Sikri and other blocks have to travel over 50 km km to either to visit government offices in the city or for personal work such as purchasing farm equipment or for repairing their tractors and other machines. They need a facility where they can take rest, organize a meeting or stay overnight if need be. Chahar said, “I have proposed to the district administration to search for a plot in the central part of the city, connected to the main road. It should preferably be near the collectorate or office of the divisional commissioner." The cost of construction of the Kisan Bhavan will be borne by public representatives -- two MPs and nine MLAs of Agra district. "Each of us will contribute Rs 30 lakh from the funds provided by the government,” Chahar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-gets-kisan-bhavan-plan-off-the-blocks/articleshow/77468265.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 11, 2020||Pune||Panel to speed up survey for tunnel||Pune: A three-member committee will look into speeding up the survey of tunnel from Pashan to Kothrud. Once built, the tunnel is expected to ease the burden of heavy traffic in these areas and on Senapati Bapat Road. The civic administration has got green signal from the defence department for the survey. A feasibility report is key to finalise the commencement date. Funds have been set aside in the PMC budget. “We had approached the department for the survey. We have their approval and the actual study can start,” a senior PMC official said. The tunnel is in two major sections, from Sutardara to Panchvati and from Panchvati to Gokhalenagar. Approval from the ARAI, NCL and the forest department is also needed for this project. The committee will also coordinate with Pune Metropolitan Development Authority for a metro rail. Deputy chief minister and guardian minister Ajit Pawar last Friday gave directions to civic officials to speed up the survey. “The defence ministry has given approval to conduct the study. The ground work for the feasibility report should be carried out speedily,” he told civic officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/panel-to-speed-up-survey-for-tunnel/articleshow/77471972.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Pune||Dams in Pune 62% full as rainfall improves in catchments||PUNE: Continuous rainfall over the past few days as ensured that the four reservoirs that supply water to the city were fulled to 62% of their capacity. The India Meteorological Department has forecast light rainfall, with isolated instances of heavy showers for Pune and surrounding areas for the next 24 to 48 hours. The state irrigation department reported the four reservoirs collectively had 18.44 TMC of water till Monday morning — 62.2% of the total storage capacity. Of these, Khadakwasla had 1.87 TMC, Panshet and Varasgaon had 7.65 TMC and 7.33 TMC, respectively, and Temghar had 1.59 TMC. In Pune city, the Shivajinagar observatory recorded 8mm of rainfall till Monday evening, with Lohegaon receiving 0.6mm. Skies remained overcast and humidity remained high, with a relative humidity of 95%. IMD said Pune will receive light rainfall on Tuesday too, while some parts in the region — including ghat areas — will receive isolated heavy showers over the next 24 hours. These include some catchment areas of the dams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dams-62-full-as-rainfall-improves-in-catchments/articleshow/77471997.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Supreme Court to Delhi govt: How are 13 pollution hotspots faring?||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Delhi government to file a report on whether pollution levels at 13 identified hotspots in the national capital had reduced in the last five months after the court directed the government to take specific measures to deal with the problem. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari asked Delhi chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev, who appeared before the court through video-conferencing, to file an affidavit on action taken by the authorities to control pollution levels at those sites. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has identified 13 hotspots —- Rohini, Dwarka, Okhla Phase II, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, RK Puram, Bawana, Narela, Mundka and Mayapuri — based on the high particulate matter (PM) concentration in these areas. Dev informed the bench that pollution levels have been low in the last few months due to the lockdown and actions were being taken on different fronts, including by removing traffic bottlenecks in those areas. He informed the court that teams had been constituted to specifically deal with all the hotspots and efforts will be intensified in the coming days. Referring to the pollution caused by construction work, the chief secretary said an order has been passed making it mandatory to use anti-smog guns at construction sites. He said anti-smog guns are operational at 20 places and the process is on for deploying them at 13 other places. He said the government also directed other developers to use the machine and passed the order that no construction would be allowed on 19 projects till anti-smog guns are deployed. Briefing about the steps taken by the Punjab government to prevent stubble-burning in the state, its chief secretary informed the bench that it is facing financial crunch to provide subsidies to farmers to purchase equipment like mulcher, cutter-cum spreader. "Financial position of the state is weak after Covid-19. We need financial support," chief secretary Vini Mahajan told the bench while seeking the court's direction to the Centre to grant funds. The court said it will examine the plea and asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to consider it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-to-govt-how-are-13-pollution-hotspots-faring/articleshow/77472063.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||HC faults Telangana govt for giving land dirt cheap to director||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday sought to know from the state government as to how it could allot a five-acre prime land at Mokilla village in Shankarpalli mandal of Rangareddy district to Telugu film director N Shankar at a throwaway price. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a petition filed by J Shankar, an unemployed youngster of Dharmapuri in Jagtial district, questioning GO No. 75 issued by the municipal administration department on June 21, 2019. The state counsel said the allotment was made after the state cabinet took a decision to this effect. The bench observed that state cannot dole out largesse in the name of cabinet decisions which cannot be abused this way. “Just because the film director promised employment to 300 people, the price of the land cannot come crashing down,” the bench said, while seeking to know the status of the land. The state counsel said that no structures had been raised in the land because a status quo order was issued by the court in the past. “But, land was levelled to some extent prior to this order,” he said. The bench observed that when the HMDA is saying that the price is Rs 2.5 crore per acre, how could the state give away the same for a mere Rs 5 lakh per acre. The bench asked the government to file its counter and adjourned the case to August 27. N Shankar filed a counter urging the bench to vacate the status quo order. He contended that he wants to develop a world-class film studio at the site at a cost of Rs 50 crore. He said the studio will contribute to the growth of the city, adding that the proposed studio would provide direct employment to 300 youngsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-faults-t-govt-for-giving-land-dirt-cheap-to-director/articleshow/77472013.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: CBI raids premises of Ambience promoter in ‘illegal’ mall case||NEW DELHI: Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday raided premises of Ambience Group promoter Raj Singh Gehlot in Delhi and Chandigarh after registering an FIR on the directions of Punjab and Haryana high court. Apart from Gehlot, CBI has named Ambience Limited, Ambience Developers and Infrastructure, and some yet to be identified officials of the town & country planning department in Haryana Urban Development Authority. According to the FIR, Gehlot constructed Ambience Mall in Gurgaon on a plot meant for a housing project. The court has quashed the Haryana government order that had allowed conversion of approximately 10.9 acres from residential into commercial land. The residents of Ambience Lagoon Complex then filed a PIL calling the mall an unauthorised structure. Enforcement Directorate is also probing Gehlot under Prevention of Money Laundering Act and raided seven places in Delhi in July. At least Rs 16 lakh in Indian currency and Rs 24 lakh in foreign currencies have been seized from his residence. A case of money laundering was filed in the construction of Hotel Leela Ambience Convention in east Delhi, for which a loan of Rs 800 crore was sanctioned by a consortium of banks. The funds were allegedly diverted by Gehlot and his associates. In the CBI case, a spokesperson said the FIR had been filed in relation to the alleged illegal construction of a commercial building by “blatantly flouting the building bylaws and statutory provisions in collusion with others”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cbi-raids-premises-of-ambience-promoter-in-illegal-mall-case/articleshow/77472023.cms||Raj Shekhar
August 11, 2020||Agra||BJP slams BSP’s ‘caste politics’ after Mayawati announces to build ‘Parshuram hospitals’||AGRA: Uttar Pradesh’s deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Monday accused the opposition BSP of indulging in caste politics a day after its chief Mayawati announced to build hospitals in the name of Parshuram - an announcement which was seen as the Dalit leader’s overtures to the state’s Brahmin community. Against the backdrop of the foundation laying ceremony of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, a promise made by BJP in its election manifesto, BSP chief Mayawati announced on Monday to build statues and hospitals in the name of Parshuram “after coming to power”. Even Congress also made a similar overture and asked the state government to announce holiday on Parshuram Jayanti. It didn't go down well with the BJP. On Tuesday, while addressing an event in Agra, Sharma said, “They have always exploited and harassed people in the name of religion and caste. No one can expect them to give relief to anyone. When SP came to power, it destroyed all the statues built by the BSP." The deputy CM was addressing the media after attending a Covid-19 review meeting here. Sharma later left for Mathura to attend another meeting to review the preparedness of Janamasthami. “Though outsiders will not be allowed in the temple town during the celebrations, a live telecast of Sri Krishna Janamsthan temple (lord Krishna’s north place) will be telecast,” Sharma said in Mathura where outsider’s entry has been barred. “All the temples will be decorated and all rituals will be conducted inside the temples across the district,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bjp-slams-bsps-caste-politics-after-mayawati-announces-to-build-parshuram-hospitals/articleshow/77468273.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha fire services will have its own manual||Bhubaneswar: The Odisha fire services directorate has decided to frame a model manual for better management and functioning of the organisation. The directorate has been functioning since 1942 in accordance with the Odisha police manual 1940. “We have constituted a committee under the chairmanship of our additional director general of police (fire services and home guards) Soumya Mishra. The Odisha fire service Act 1993 had the mandate to prepare its own manual. We are hopeful of drafting our manual in next three or four months,” director general of police (fire services and home guards) Satyajit Mohanty said. According to the plan, the proposed model manual will define the roles and responsibilities of the personnel of fire stations and the directorate. “We will also have chapters on response during fire call and rescue and disaster management. Procedures of disciplinary action, recruitment policy and career promotion, among others, will also be incorporated in the model manual,” Mohanty said. He said the directorate should have its own rules and regulations in place as it is a unique organisation in the country with the dual mandate of conventional firefighting and multi-disaster response. The wing has already earned accolades from different states for having extended its helping hand for carrying out rescue and restoration work in the wake of natural calamities. Disaster management skills became an integral part of the fire service training programme following the catastrophic super cyclone in the state in 1999 that killed over 10,000 people. “Our state is vulnerable to natural calamities like cyclone and floods that occur very often. The state government laid emphasis on effective disaster management after the 1999 super cyclone. We started training them on skills of carrying out rescue and restoration activities during calamities,” another fire official said. At present, a total of 341 fire stations with around 5,000 personnel exist across the state. Each fire station is also known as fire and emergency response centre (FERC). The fire services personnel are subjected to rigorous training every month. The organisation has three training centres — Odisha fire and disaster response academy (OFDRA) in Bhubaneswar, Odisha fire and disaster response institute (OFDRI) at Naraj in Cuttack district and Odisha state watermanship and lifeguard institute (OSWALI) at Ramchandi in Puri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-fire-services-will-have-its-own-manual/articleshow/77469279.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
August 11, 2020||Nashik||Repair work to be finished by 1st week of Sept: NHAI||Nashik: The entire repair work of the Mumbai-Agra highway on Kasara Ghat will be completed by the first week of September, said senior officials of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI).Last year, the highway section had caved in at two separate areas over a distance of 200m. While the work of one patch is over, the work of the other patch is underway. Officials said most of the work is completed, only the work of asphalting and the finishing touches at some places are remaining. An NHAI officer said the work would have been completed earlier but due to the outbreak of Covid-19, they had lost three months.The highway is more prone to damage in the Kasara Ghat owing to heavy rainfall during the monsoon. During the monsoon last year, the old ghat road, which is a part of the highway from Mumbai to Nashik, had caved in at two places. Initially, the vehicular traffic on the old ghat road had to be diverted to the parallel Nashik to Mumbai stretch. After some repair work on the damaged part, the road was open for vehicles but with barricades near the damaged structure. Due to the long time taken by the highway authorities to complete the repair work, the highway police conducted a series of meetings and wrote a number of letters to NHAI to finish the repair works at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/repair-work-to-be-finished-by-1st-week-of-sept-nhai/articleshow/77469299.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 11, 2020||Goa||Impose stay on school fee hike: Khaunte||Panaji: Given the lower operational costs, the state government should consider imposing a moratorium on fee hikes at educational institutions and direct institutions to accept deferred payment of fees, Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who holds the education portfolio, could also explore the possibility of lowering the free structure, Khaunte said during a press conference on Monday. “Infrastructure, maintenance and utilities costs are minimised in wake of online education. This outlook should enable managements to trim or delay fees payment to a certain extent, which will bring a big relief to the cash strapped families in most low income groups,” he said. The former revenue minister said that the state could even consider a lump sum grant to those institutions that reduce fees. “These are difficult times for every sector and this is also the time that people expect welfare measures from the government,” said Khaunte. The MLA asked the government to ensure that terminally ill patients get access to treatment along with treatment for Covid-19. Khaunte said that suppression of information about Covid, especially its spread in Goa, is detrimental as it could make people careless. “This suppression of information from the public to support the egoistic “Bhivpachi Garaz Na” stance is what is making the people careless. If the gravity of the situation is imposed upon the people by revealing the correct facts and figures, people will become more vigilant about their own safety,” said Khaunte.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/impose-stay-on-school-fee-hike-khaunte/articleshow/77472981.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Agra||Covid-positive woman flees home, FIR lodged||Agra: An FIR has been lodged against a 25-year-old woman in Mathura who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19 for allegedly fleeing her house and violating home isolation norms. The current whereabouts of the woman are unknown, said police. The FIR was registered under sections 269 ((negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 ((malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and other relevant sections of the IPC on Sunday after a complaint by the health department. The Epidemic Control room in charge, Dr Bhudev Singh, also alleged that the woman had misbehaved with the medical team when it had gone to her house to provide her a medical kit and advise home isolation. According to the FIR, the health department officials had taken samples of employees working at a salon centre in Krishna Nagar on August 5 and three of them, including the woman, were found to be positive for Covid-19. Mathura has recorded 1,200 Covid-19 cases of which 788 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-positive-woman-flees-home-fir-lodged/articleshow/77468275.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Agra||FIR against lekhpal for trying to bribe Hathras MP to stop transfer||AGRA: Hathras police on Monday lodged an FIR against Lekhpal for allegedly attempting to give a bribe of Rs 50,000 to BJP MP Rajvir Diler at his residence for stopping his transfer from Sikandrarao to Sadabad in the district. According to the complaint given by the MP, Lekhpal, Virendra Varsol, was transferred to Sadabad on August 4 on the basis of a complaint against him by local residents. Varsol then approached the MP on August 8 at his residence when he was attending a public hearing. The lekhpal allegedly offered a sweet box along with Rs 50,000 to the MP for stopping his transfer. MP Diler said, “The lekhpal wanted to malign my image. I have informed the DM and SP regarding this matter and asked them for departmental action along with an FIR against him." Confirming this, Hathras SP Vikrant Vir told TOI that an FIR is being registered against the lekhpal under relevant sections of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/fir-against-lekhpal-for-trying-to-bribe-hathras-mp-to-stop-transfer/articleshow/77468284.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Not wearing a mask? Stand for an hour and face challan||Times News Network Ludhiana: If you are spotted without a mask, you will not just have to pay a fine of Rs 500, but also undergo a punishment.The city police have started making the violators stand on roadsides for not wearing a mask after issuing a challan.The step comes following the verbal orders of chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh. During a live session on social networking sites on Saturday, the web audience had suggested the time penalty to the chief minister.Commissioner of police Rakesh Kumar Agrawal said, “The police have implemented the orders. Violators are made to stand for up to an hour after issuing challans. A mask is also given to them. On Sunday and Monday, Ludhiana Police issued over 900 challans.” “People pay the fine on the spot. Those who make excuses and do not pay the fine are booked for violation. The drive aims at making people understand the significance of wearing a mask. As the Covid-19 cases are increasing at an alarming rate, residents must take all precautionary measures to stem its spread,” he added.Since the lockdown, the Ludhiana Police have issued 45,000 challans to those not wearing masks and collected Rs 2.35 crore in fines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/not-wearing-a-mask-stand-for-an-hour-and-face-challan/articleshow/77470535.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Outer Ring Road phase II to be ready by August-end||LUCKNOW: The construction of the 12km phase II of Outer Ring Road (ORR) connecting Faizabad Road to Sultanpur Road has entered its final leg. It is expected to be complete by August end, paving way for traffic decongestion in many parts of the city. Uttar Pradesh Public Works Department (UPPWD) has completed the construction of girders required for the two railway overbridges (ROBs) falling on the road near Barabanki district. “Now, it will take about a month for railways to lay pathways for the ROBs,” said an official. The rest of the work is complete, they added. ORR is a dream project of Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh, whose representative Diwakar Tripathi told TOI, “Construction of ROBs is going on at a steady pace and the phase would open for public by the end of next month.” Once the phase is complete, traffic coming from Faizabad Road will be able to go towards Sultanpur Road directly without entering Lucknow. Similarly, commuters coming from Shaheed Path towards Faizabad Road will have the option of going to Mohanlalganj directly. This will ease traffic congestion in areas like Chinhat, at Polytechnic crossing, Gomtinagar, Munshipulia and some parts of Jankipuram as well. Construction of the second phase costing around Rs 300 crore had started in November 2018 and was to be completed by March 2020. It was delayed due to land acquisition issues in some parts falling on the way. Some delay was also caused by the lockdown. Being constructed in five phases, the work of the 94km-long ORR had started in 2015 and was to be completed by 2021. However, the project got delayed due to several issues. Phase I from Lucknow to Sitapur constructed by UPPWD became functional in October 2018. The second phase, also under UPPWD, will be operational soon. The remaining three phases are being constructed by National Highways Authorities of India (NHAI). Officials said that the authority has got approval for soil mining for the construction of the 25km third phase from Sultanpur Road to Mohanlalganj and construction will start soon. The construction of the fourth phase and fifth phase will begin later. The entire ORR, once complete, will enable traffic coming from cities like Barabanki, Sultanpur, Sitapur, Kanpur, Hardoi and Faizabad bypass the state capital, thereby reducing traffic congestion and travel time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/outer-ring-rd-phase-ii-ready-by-aug-end/articleshow/77472977.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
August 11, 2020||Pune||Out on parole, convict robs hosp staffer||PUNE: Crime branch officers arrested a convict out on an emergency parole and his accomplice on Sunday for robbing a private hospital’s ward boy of his cellphone and cash, totally worth over Rs8,000, at Ramwadi on the pretext of offering him a lift on the night of August 1. Venkatesh Tagare (35) from Khadki, has 55 cases of burglaries and robberies registered against him. He was released on parole in May in view of the Covid-19 spread. His aide, Sunny Gaikwad (27), has four pickpocket cases registered with the Pune railway police. “The duo were arrested from Khadki and seven cellphones and a stolen scooter were seized,” said inspector Anjum Bagwan from the crime branch. They were sent to the Yerawada temporary jail on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/out-on-parole-convict-robs-hosp-staffer/articleshow/77472040.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 11, 2020||Pune||Std X student found hanging||PUNE: A Class X pass-out from Jambhe village in Mulshi taluka was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his house on Sunday evening, police said. “The 17-year-old student had scored 71% marks in SSC and was preparing for admission to Class XI,” an officer from the Hinjewadi police said. The student’s grandfather discovered him hanging on Sunday evening. “He was taken to a hospital in Pimpri Chinchwad, where he was pronounced dead,” the officer said, adding that the reason behind the extreme step was not known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/std-x-student-found-hanging/articleshow/77472010.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Agra||Rainfall causes waterlogging in different parts of city||Agra: Heavy rainfall on Monday afternoon caused water logging in different parts of the city. The rainfall continued for around 50 minutes. The drains were left choked due to garbage overflow, causing inconvenience to commuters. Waterlogging has caused traffic jams in different parts of the city. Meanwhile, in Agra, major potholes have made driving a two-wheeler dangerous on city roads. Besides, several streetlights in each of the 100 municipal wards of the city are not working. In major parts of the city, where drainage cleaning was conducted, locals had complained of sub-standard quality of work.Sanjay Place, Subhash Bazaar, Bodla, Shanganj, Roshan Mohalla, Shastripuram, Bijlighar, Johri Bazaar, Awas Vikas, Albatia road, Dayalbagh, Balkeshwar, Lohamandi, Deewani, Mughal road, Namner, Arjun Nagar, Trans-yamuna, Kamla Nagar are some affected markets places in the city where water has gone inside the shops and warehouses. There are 32 major and 400 small drains in Agra which flow through 100 municipal wards in Agra and discharge into river Yamuna. Many of these drainages are interconnected and hence a blockage affects large parts of the city. Additional municipal commissioner KB Singh said, “Following heavy rainfall waterlogging has taken place in the city. Water was drained after the rainfall stopped.” According to the meteorological department, the weather will remain generally cloudy with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers till August 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/rainfall-causes-waterlogging-in-different-parts-of-city/articleshow/77468306.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nashik||8 Nashik rural cops contract Covid-19||Nashik: Eight personnel of the Nashik rural police have contracted Covid-19 while performing their duties. Senior police officers said the personnel were among the frontline workers and some of them have been infected despite taking all the precautionary measures. They added that many citizens were still negligent about social distancing, mask-wearing and other safety protocols required to check the spread of the virus and as a result, police personnel on duty were also contracting the infection. The officers said once the viral spread is curbed in the district, chances of policemen getting infected would also reduce. Initially, a large number of cops who had been deployed to Malegaon had caught the virus. Subsequently, as the situation improved, the bandobast was withdrawn and the infection rate among the policemen also dropped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/8-nashik-rural-cops-contract-covid-19/articleshow/77469319.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Common PG entrance tests to start from Sept 30||Bhubaneswar: For the first time, the higher education department will hold the Common PG Entrance Test (CPET-2020) between September 30 and October 7 for admission to PG courses in the state’s universities and autonomous colleges. According to the department sources, the online common application form (CAF) will be available on www.samsodisha.gov.in from 2 pm onwards on Wednesday. Last date for online application is 11.45 pm on August 31. Students can download hall ticket from the website from September 20. Candidates, whose final undergraduate (UG) results are yet to be published can also apply online to appear for the test. But, they must upload their marksheet before the preparation of the final merit list by 11.45 pm on October 10 (11.45pm). The universities conducting CPET will handover the entrance marks to Odisha Computer Application Centre (OCAC) here by October 20 and the state merit list will be published on October 25. The universities will complete the admission process by November 20 and start first year class of PG from December 1, said the official sources. “Any change in the dateline will be published in the newspapers and websites,” said the department sources. Asoka Kumar Das, vice-chairman of Odisha State Higher Education Council, said the department will conduct the entrance test for eight days because students from different subjects are expected to appear for the test. “The examinations will be conducted in different sittings to accommodate students of more than 50 subjects,” he added. In April, higher education minister Arun Kumar Sahoo had discussed with vice-chancellors of state universities about holding the test. Another meeting was held recently to finalise the process before publication of advertisement for the entrance test. The common entrance test will bring all universities to a single platform and students will fill a single form and appear for one entrance test for all state universities. After appearing this one test, students will get a seat in any of the state universities according to his/her eligibility and entrance performance. Currently, a student has to submit application forms separately for each university and appear for multiple entrance examinations on different dates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/common-pg-entrance-tests-to-start-from-sept-30/articleshow/77469311.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Procedure given a go-by, says petitioner||Hyderabad: In the previous hearing of the case, senior counsel S Satyam Reddy had argued on behalf of the petitioner that the government allotted the land without following any procedure though per acre price in the area was more than Rs 5 crore. The bench while issuing notices to the HMDA, revenue and municipal administration wings ordered status quo in the past. On Monday when the hearing in the case resumed, the state counsel furnished to the court the counter copy filed by HMDA. In the counter, the HMDA officials indicated that the price could be in the range of Rs 2.5 crore at the time of initiation of allotment process. The market value fixed by the state registration department was Rs 20 lakh per acre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/procedure-given-a-go-by-says-petitioner/articleshow/77472114.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chennai||All pass at corporation schools||Chennai: While those who were expecting centums were disappointed by the Class X results based on half-yearly and quarterly results, for some it brought unexpected cheer. The 100% pass meant a family in Kotturpuram got its first Class X-pass. Parents of Kishore, a student of a corporation school, said they feared their son would not pass the board exams as his marks in school were very poor. “We were elated that we have the first SSLC pass student in our family,” said Kishore’s mother. Kishore is among the 5,988 students who were studying at corporation schools and have cleared the Clss X board exams. But there were the likes of Dharma Ganapathy, a student from the Thiruvotriyur higher secondary school, who was sad as he could not write the board exams. “I would have scored more had I written the exams. I got 384,” he said. Thirty-five students scored above 450, 170 scored above 400 and 493 students scored above 350 from the corporation schools. Assistant education officer, V Munian, said their analysis of the school’s performances will be submitted to the corporation commissioner soon. “About six schools in Mylapore, Alwarpet, Anjanaiyya Nagar, Jafferkhanpet, KP Street and Vanniya Teynampet have been securing 100% results in the past six years. Performance of some schools has been below par and we will hold a meeting with the headmasters soon. This year, the number of students who scored above 350 and 400 are fewer,” he said. K Maheshwari Kalpana, head mistress of Chennai high school Kotturpuram said even those who were absent for the exams were passed. “Many students had a lot of personal problems and couldn’t attend school. This would be a really good chance for these kids to resume education, this year,” she said. Registrations of students in class 11 have begun. “Enrollment will begin only after the government makes an announcement. For now, the students names have been registered,” said Munian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/all-pass-at-corporation-schools/articleshow/77472087.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Madurai||SSI arrested in Tamil Nadu custodial deaths case dies of Covid-19||MADURAI: One of the police officers arrested in connection with the Sathankulam custodial torture case died of Covid-19 early on Monday. Special sub-inspector Paldurai tested positive on July 24 and was admitted to the Rajaji government hospital the same day. Paldurai had uncontrolled diabetes and a heart condition. His wife, Mangaiyar Thilagam, had on Saturday petitioned the Madurai police commissioner to allow her to shift Paldurai to a private hospital at her expense as his condition was worsening. Mangaiyar Thilagam alleged that some police personnel at Sathankulam had falsely implicated her husband in the case. She claimed he had nothing to do with the torture of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks, who later died in hospital of injuries inflicted in the Sathankulam police station. Paldurai was one of the 10 police personnel arrested in the case. The body was cremated with full police honours at the Thathaneri electric crematorium later in the evening. A police officer said Paldurai had not been convicted and was considered a serving police officer. Head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj, arrested in the same case, tested positive for Covid, and were lodged in the Madurai central prison on June 28. Seven out of eight CBI officials who came to TN to investigate the custodial deaths also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ssi-arrested-in-tn-custodial-deaths-case-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77474368.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||BJP’s tribal wing gets new president||Panaji: BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Monday announced the name of Prabhakar Gaonkar as the new president of BJP’s Scheduled Tribe Morcha. Speaking to mediapersons, Tanavade said that once the new president is elected, all the morchas of the party will stand dissolved. He also said that the party has started the process of reconstituting all the morchas, including Mahila, Yuva, Minority, SC, Kisan, etc. “By the end of the week, president of the party morchas would be announced,” he said. After being elected as president of ST Morcha, Gaonkar said that his aim would be to solve the long pending issue of the ST community. Meanwhile, former MLA Vasudev Meng Gaonkar will rejoin the party soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjps-tribal-wing-gets-new-president/articleshow/77473019.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Streaming soon: Janmashtami celebrations||NEW DELHI: To minimise crowds at temples during Janmashtami, mandir authorities are requesting devotees to opt for virtual darshan of Lord Krishna on August 12. Most temples are organising round the hour live telecasts of puja, tableaux and other related activities on their YouTube channels or their website. The Covid-19 pandemic discourages big gatherings. Preparations are under way at ISKCON Temple in Delhi for the birth festival of Krishna. “Entry will be through invitation. No other devotees will be allowed into the temple this year,” informed Vrajendra Nandan Das, national director, ISKCON Communications India. Das also said there wouldn’t be a procession or a tableau this time. “The grandeur has been curbed due to the coronavirus risk,” he said. “However, people can watch the events on our website. We request all devotees to be with us in virtual form on this auspicious day.” Every year, Janmashtami sees devotees from numerous nations congregating at the ISKCON Temple. “But this year, our guest house was closed during lockdown. Plus, there are no international flights operating, so devotees from other countries won’t be able to attend the event,” said Das. “There is an arrangement for distribution of prasad but only for invitees.” Das added that the temple authorities had also “compromised with decorations”. He said that the Janmashtami flowers were usually imported from Thailand, but there was no supply this year. The temple is getting flowers mostly from local markets and some states, Das said. At Laxmi Narayan Temple on Mandir Marg, more popularly known as Birla Mandir, the temple authorities have decided not to serve prasad at all. “We will decorate the jhankis and people can see them though they have to maintaining social distancing,” said Vinod Mishra, temple administrator. “Also, due to the pandemic, thermal scanning will be done at the temple entrance and hand sanitisers will be made available. No one will be allowed to stand or gather inside the temple.” At Jhandewalan Mandir, the celebrations will be aired on the temple’s YouTube channel from early morning, though none of the four processions with tableaux depicting Lord Krishna’s birth, organised before the festival by the temple management committee, will take place this time. “These tableaus are already on display inside the temple complex, while the main celebration will take place on Wednesday,” said Ravindra Goel, trustee, management committee. “We will distribute packed prasad outside the temple. There won’t be any gathering allowed in the mandir. Those who want can avoid coming here but be a part of the celebration via our YouTube channel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/streaming-soon-janmashtami-celebrations/articleshow/77472109.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 11, 2020||Bengaluru||M’luru plasma donors head to B’luru||Mangaluru: Two men from Bajpe who recovered from Covid-19 travelled all the way to Bengaluru to donate plasma. Advocate Jeeshan Ali I M from Idya and businessman Hyder Ali from Bajpe were accompanied by volunteers of Wellness Helpline which co-ordinated the donation Health Care Global Enterprises Ltd. Zakaria Farvez, co-ordinator, Wellness Helpline, said there is an urgent need for plasma therapy in Mangaluru. “We heard that an 85-year-old patient is under treatment in a private hospital and required plasma. We looked at various options and decided to go to Bengaluru along with donors,” he said. The team left in a private car around 5.30pm Sunday for Bengaluru. They collected the plasma and left Bengaluru at 2.30am to reach Mangaluru around 8am. The plasma was extracted on Monday. Dr Shalini Thakur, coordinating donor accrual, HCG Plasma Bank said, “We’ve been shifting plasma to Mangaluru, Hubballi, Chennai, Mysuru and Andhra Pradesh for the past two weeks. It’s the first time donors came from other cities.” Meanwhile, the donors urged people who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma. Wellness Helpline is a group of several like-minded NGOs with doctors and district officers. Ziyauddin Ahmed, a member, said, “We’re currently building a database of donors. Many are willing but not everyone is ready to travel to Bengaluru. We urge the government to grant permission for a unit in Mangaluru.” Khasim Ahmed, a co-ordinator, is currently in talks with the district administration and elected representatives. Dr Farhan Fazal, consultant, infectious diseases, KMC Hospital, said, “Convalescent Plasma therapy is the process of giving plasma which contain antibodies from a cured person to an infected person. This requires a cured Covid-19 patient, adequate antibody levels in the patient’s blood, blood banks equipped to extract plasma, and permission from the Drug Controller General of India. “ He said plasma therapy has been used for many infections and hence its use is not unique for Covid, though scientific reviews are mixed. Since treatment for Covid is limited, plasma therapy could possibly help. “We have blood banks but no permission to extract plasma,” he said. Dr Sadashiva, district surgeon and superintendent, district Wenlock Hospital, said approval from the authorities is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mluru-plasma-donors-head-to-bluru/articleshow/77470243.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 11, 2020||Nashik||Burglars break into bank, steal 3 computers||Nashik: One desktop computer and two laptops were stolen from the branch of a nationalised bank in the Raviwar Karanja area of the city sometime between Saturday and Sunday. The unidentified burglars had made a hole in the rear wall of the bank located on the ground floor of the Yashwant Mandai building in the old city area.However, no cash as stolen as the burglars could not break open the bank vault.The burglary came to light only on Monday morning when the bank employees came to work and found that the cupboards and drawers had been broken into. There were documents scattered everywhere and the computers were missing. After the burglary was reported, senior officers including police commissioner Vishwas Nangare Patil visited the bank branch to take stock of the situation. There was no security guard and even the digital video recorder (DVR) of the closed-circuit television (CCTV) installed on the bank premises was stolen. “When the burglars entered the bank, the alarm did not go off. The criminals also stole the DVR. Nonetheless, we will soon nab the culprit by analysing their modus operandi and fingerprints at the crime scene,” said Nangare Patil.The police commissioner said there could be two to three burglars who made a hole in the wall from the air conditioner duct. Though the burglars tried to break open the vault, as was evident from the signs of tampering, they were not successful. Raviwar Karanja is a busy market area. The burglars took advantage of bank holidays on Saturday and Sunday to commit the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/burglars-break-into-bank-steal-3-computers/articleshow/77469343.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 11, 2020||Chennai||SSI arrested in Tamil Nadu custodial deaths case dies of Covid-19||MADURAI: One of the police officers arrested in connection with the Sathankulam custodial torture case died of Covid-19 early on Monday. Special sub-inspector Paldurai tested positive on July 24 and was admitted to the Rajaji government hospital the same day. Paldurai had uncontrolled diabetes and a heart condition. His wife, Mangaiyar Thilagam, had on Saturday petitioned the Madurai police commissioner to allow her to shift Paldurai to a private hospital at her expense as his condition was worsening. Mangaiyar Thilagam alleged that some police personnel at Sathankulam had falsely implicated her husband in the case. She claimed he had nothing to do with the torture of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks, who later died in hospital of injuries inflicted in the Sathankulam police station. Paldurai was one of the 10 police personnel arrested in the case. The body was cremated with full police honours at the Thathaneri electric crematorium later in the evening. A police officer said Paldurai had not been convicted and was considered a serving police officer. Head constable Murugan and constable Muthuraj, arrested in the same case, tested positive for Covid, and were lodged in the Madurai central prison on June 28. Seven out of eight CBI officials who came to TN to investigate the custodial deaths also tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ssi-arrested-in-tn-custodial-deaths-case-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77472112.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chennai||5,914 fresh Covid-19 cases,114 deaths in Tamil Nadu; fatalities cross 5,000||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 114 Covid-19 deaths and 5,914 positive cases on Monday, which pushed the cumulative toll to 5,041 and the case tally to 3,02,815. Across the state, 53,099 people were still under treatment for the viral infection. Of the 5,041 fatalities, 59 were above 90, 488 were in 80s, 1,199 were in the 70s, 1,450 were in 60s, 1,067 in their 50s, 490 in their 40s, 204 in their 30s, 62 in 20s, 22 below 19, including nine between 0-9 years. Since August 1, the state has reported 1,106 deaths, 22% of the total fatalities. “The deaths are high because we have reconciled deaths since August 1 across all the districts. Some of them were from June,” said a senior public health official. A four-month-old girl with chromosomal anomaly died after testing positive for the viral infection on June 24, four days after she was admitted to Thiruvarur Medical College Hospital. Her death was reported by the state 47 days later on Monday. Nearly, 12 days after a 31-year-old man died of 90% burn injuries at the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on the same day of admission; his death was included in the Covid-19 registry. Fourteen deaths reported on Monday were between August 1 and August 4.  A 70-year-old woman was admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on July 16, died on Sunday following respiratory failure and pneumonia. She tested positive for covid-19. Two men – a 54-year-old and a 58-year-old -- died ten minutes apart at 11.30 am and 10.40 am at the Kilpauk Medical College on August 8. The eleven districts in the north together reported 3,240 cases and 44 deaths. Chennai, the epidemic hotspot in the state, reported 976 cases and 25 deaths. Its three neighbours Chengalpet (483), Tiruvallur (399), and Kancheepuram (310) together logged 1,192 cases and 12 deaths. Other districts in the north to report fresh cases in three digits were Cuddalore (287), Vellore (189), Ranipet (184), Tiruvannamalai (154). While Kallakuruchi reported 85 cases, Thirupathur had 84 and Villupuram 89. The southern region reported 43 deaths and 1,511 fresh cases. While Kanyakumari reported seven deaths – the highest number of deaths in the region, Theni reported the highest number of cases at 357. Madurai, Tenkasi, Tuticorin and Virudhunagar reported 10 deaths each. Kanyakumari (205), Tuticorin (196), Virudhunagar (189), Dindigul (173), Tenkasi (114), and Madurai (100) reported a three-digit increase in fresh cases. The Western districts together reported 617 cases, compared to 532 in the central region. But the central region reported 15 deaths compared to 12 in the west. Coimbatore reported seven deaths, and Salem (west), Pudukottai and Thanjavur four each. Coimbatore reported 292 cases, Salem 128, Pudukottai 133 and Thanjavur 123.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/5914-fresh-cases114-deaths-in-tn-fatalities-cross-5k/articleshow/77472108.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur roads unfriendly for cyclists, pedestrians||JAIPUR: With majority of the city roads encroached and vehicular traffic increasing, earmarking a dedicated cycle corridor for safe movement remains a challenge for city planners. The civic agencies, including Jaipur Smart City Limited (JSCL), are promoting cycling, but in absence of space on many major roads, providing a safe passage will be a difficult task after traffic resumes completely, post Covid. At present, in the absence of safe passage, only 7% people ride cycle in the city. However, as per the National Urban Transport Policy, the city traffic should comprise 31% cyclists and pedestrians. A senior town planner said, in street design guidelines, pedestrians and cyclists have a top share on the road. After this, public transport should be given priority. A person driving a car should be given the least importance. “In Jaipur, the entire right of way is reserved for automobiles and on majority of city roads there is no space. On a 9-metre road, 4.5 metres should be dedicated to cyclists and pedestrians. However, the entire corridor is utilised for vehicle movement or parking,” he said. Experts believe, in an ideal situation, city roads should have elevated lane made of a synthetic track that would be three to four inches above the road to give the cyclist a smooth ride. The practice has been followed across the world to separate cycle track from transport corridor. As laying synthetic track is an expensive affair, the roads can be merged with footpath to provide safe passage. However, a recent study conducted by JDA revealed 72% of footpaths are encroached in the city. A senior JDA engineer said, “Around 77% of city roads are unfriendly for pedestrians and cyclists. Vehicles are parked on the footpaths in violation of the National Urban Transport Policy. According to the Indian Roads Congress, all roads which have pedestrian traffic are supposed to have a footpath with a minimum width of 1.5 metres and cycle track with 2 metres.” Sources said, in a study which was concluded in 2019, revealed that in JDA’s periphery, adequate walking and cycle space is not available on 89% of the roads. “In the total 2,743km road network, footpaths are not available on 2,452.8km in JDA periphery,” said a source. The situation is the same on roads falling under the JMC periphery as out of total 1,329.4km road length, footpaths are not available on 1,072.7km area, which is approximately 81%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-roads-unfriendly-for-cyclists-pedestrians/articleshow/77472097.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bareilly||Azam Khan’s key aide arrested from Rampur court premises moments before surrender||Rampur: Former Uttar Pradesh minister Azam Khan’s close aide, Alay Hasan, was on Monday arrested from the court premises here moments before he was to surrender before a magistrate in connection with a case of alleged land grab. Hasan, a retired circle officer of Rampur police, is a co-accused in most of the land grab cases registered against SP leader Azam Khan-- who is in jail along with wife and son for the last over five months.A lawyer of Hasan, on condition of anonymity, told TOI, “Alay Hasan was scheduled to surrender before the court of chief judicial magistrate on Monday afternoon. But he was arrested and sent to the jail from there. He couldn’t appear in court.”A reward of Rs 25,000 was announced on any information leading to the arrest of Hasan. During the course of the probe against Azam Khan, police had registered 53 criminal cases against him.Rampur’s district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh said, “I appreciate the effort of Rampur’s superintendent police Shaghun Gautam and also of the entire police team which arrested the wanted criminal.”The Rampur district administration had put up the name of Azam on the anti-land mafia portal of the state government. Both Azam and Hasan had been named in the FIRs lodged by 26 local farmers, accusing them of forcibly acquiring their land for Jauhar University during the SP regime.“As many as 26 farmers had claimed that Azam and his close aide Alay acquired their land for the Mohammad Ali Jauhar University through coercion,” Rampur SDM Prem Prakash Tiwari has said.While Hasan had obtained anticipatory bail in one of the cases, he was arrested in another.Hasan was arrested in a case registered at Civil Lines police station under section 447 (punishment for criminal trespass) and 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offence in order to commit extortion) of IPC on the complaint of an Aghapur resident identified as Munnay Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/azam-khans-key-aide-arrested-from-rampur-court-premises-moments-before-surrender/articleshow/77469360.cms||Nazar Abbas
August 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Gadvasu lab tests 100 samples on Day One||Ludhiana: A week after the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) allowed Covid-19 testing at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu), a lab was inaugurated on its premises on Monday. The Day One saw the lab testing 100 samples.The ICMR approval had come on August 3. It is the first government-run laboratory at a veterinary university in the state. Earlier, the health department used to send samples to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, a day after collecting them in Ludhiana, which led to delay in results.Dr JPS Gill, director of research and nodal officer of the lab, said, “We have started with 100 samples a day. In the initial stage, the sample number will be less as everything has to be sanitized and we have a small stock. But after a week, it will go up to 250. We aim to achieve within a month a target of processing 1,000 samples daily, but it would depend on the availability of manpower and the number of equipment and kits. We will also get an automated RNA extraction machine.”Gadvasu VC Dr Inderjeet Singh said, “The lab will speed up Covid-19 testing, as the need of the hour is timely management of the disease.”Manpreet Singh Chhatwal, special secretary, animal husbandry, said, “Under ‘One Health’ concept, veterinary professionals are widening their sphere of expertise by serving humans too.”Medical education and research minister OP Soni and food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu inaugurated the lab.At present over 900 tests are conducted in Ludhiana at the three labs in Gadvasu, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital and Christian Medical College and Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gadvasu-lab-tests-100-samples-on-day-one/articleshow/77470598.cms||Mehak Jain
August 11, 2020||Lucknow||108 ambulance employees’ flash strike hits patients||LUCKNOW: The employees of 108 ambulance services went on a flash strike on Monday night demanding salary hike and payment for overtime affecting the shifting of Covid-19 patients to hospitals for about two hours. Non-Covid patients also faced problems. The staff went on strike at 8.30pm and resumed work at 10.30pm after district administration gave assurance of constituting a committee to address their genuine demands within two months. There are 52 ambulances under 108 services in the city, of which 35 are deployed in Covid-19 duty. The health officers were on their toes, diverting ambulances of government hospitals on non-Covid duty and those from private hospitals for shifting Covid patients. The district magistrate met the leader of the striking employees to resolve the issue. GVK EMRI spokesman Sunil Yadav said there was no impact of strike and most demands of employees have already been met. “There are no salary dues as of now,” he added. Chief medical officer Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh said the impact was partial. “Ambulances of government and private hospitals, on non-Covid duty, were pressed into service during the strike,” he added. Hanuman Prasad Pandey, president of the employees’ association, said work stopped for two hours in entire state, but strike was called off after DM’s assurance. He said the company had agreed to pay Rs 13,600 per month, but is paying only Rs 12,550, and instead of eight hour shift as per the agreement, workers are being made to work for 12 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/108-ambulance-employees-flash-strike-hits-patients/articleshow/77473017.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Madurai||HC disposes plea seeking Covid trauma counselling||MADURAI: Madras high court has disposed of a plea which sought to engage experts to give motivational speeches to the public to help them overcome depression and to prevent suicides due to Covid-19 fear. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam, was hearing the public interest litigation filed by P Prakash, a resident of Theni district. However, the judges observed that though the petitioner prayed for a larger relief, the court without going into the merits of the claim, directs the authorities to consider the representation and pass appropriate orders within eight weeks. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that on account of uncertain spread of Covid-19, people are under the impression that they would die soon and few have started taking their own lives. Hence, he suggested that suitable psychiatric counselling through trained people should be given to prevent such incidents. The judges observed that suicides happen in a spur of the moment depending on the will of the concerned individual. The judges observed that several NGOs are available to give psychiatric counselling and the said information is also put out in public domain. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-to-provide-counselling-to-overcome-covid-fear-disposed-of/articleshow/77472089.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Promoting cycling among residents goes in vain (edited, vox pop with Hemendra, 370)||Jaipur: Efforts made by the authorities to transform Jaipur into a cycle city or to promote use of cycle amongst residents have been in vain so far.The Jaipur Smart City Ltd (JSCL) authorities have started a campaign to promote bicycle riding under Cycle4Change Challenge – an initiative by the Smart Cities Mission, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. JSCL has asked for citizen feedback about cycling in the city. This, however, seems to be another formality by the authorities without developing infrastructure in the city.In 2011, Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) developed a 500-metre cycle track on Bhawani Singh Marg i.e. from JDA circle to Rambagh Circle. This is city’s lone cycle track which is unfortunately been converted into a parking lot where auto-rickshaw and cars are been parked for entire day.The road that passes through the area is divided into three sections — a multi-functional zone, a bicycle track and a vehicle lane. Due to less space and no continuity of the cycle track beyond Rambagh Circle, this seems to be a failure.Similarly, JSCL painted a strip with green colour at Kishanpole Smart Road for non-motorized vehicles. In already congested roads of the Walled City, where there is not enough space for walking, this plan also failed.Kishan Saini, a shopkeeper in the market said, “What was the use of this lane in such cramped place I don’t understand? With time the green paint has faded and people are parking and riding wherever possible.”Another ambitious project by the JSCL was cycle-sharing project. Under this, at 20 spots in the city cycle-sharing stands were constructed. However, at only three places – Ramniwas Garden, Jawahar Circle and Landscape Park this is working. In other places, the structure of the stand has been constructed but not functioning.Commenting on the Cycle4Change Challenge campaign, Neha Khullar, director project at NGO Muskaan Foundation for Road Safety, Jaipur said, “It can be successful if the government is willing to amend the infrastructure of the city. Painting one stretch of road or just making 2-km a cycle track will not change anything but with planning, infrastructure has to be developed or else it is not possible to promote cycles in Jaipur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/promoting-cycling-among-residents-goes-in-vain-edited-vox-pop-with-hemendra-370/articleshow/77472118.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Delhi||85% of work complete, Pragati Maidan tunnel may open by year-end||NEW DELHI: The 1.2km tunnel under Pragati Maidan is likely to be opened by the end of the year as 85% of its construction has been completed. The tunnel will connect India Gate with Ring Road through Purana Qila Road and Mathura Road. While it is dimly lit at present, officials said LED lights would be installedand a world-class road laid in 3-4 months. The six-lane tunnel would reduce half the snarls caused by three major traffic signals on the stretch. Earlier, it had been decided that all tunnels and underpasses would be opened together. However, with only 50% staff working on the project due to acute labour shortage, two T-junctions and an underpass would be opened next month as over 95% work had been completed on these structures before the lockdown was announced. A PWD official said that their aim was to open all the underpasses by early 2021. If this deadline was met, the commute on Mathura Road, Ring Road and Bhairon Margwould become a smooth experience. The project seeks to make Mathura Road from the ITO W-point to Delhi Public School and Bhairon Marg-Ring Road intersection signal-free. Due to the delays on account of construction ban during winter and the lockdown, the budget of the project has risen from Rs 932 crore to Rs 1,000 crore. The main beneficiaries of the project would be commuters heading towards east Delhi from south and Lutyens’ Delhi via India Gate and ITO. Vehicles going towards south Delhi from ITO would also have access to the tunnel from Mathura Road, providing a much-needed alternative to Bhairon Marg, especially during peak hours. This would also eventually reduce the traffic volume at ITO. Two elevated cloverleaf roundabouts on Ring Road are being built for south and north-bound traffic. Both roundabouts are almost complete. The U-turns at Bhairon Marg and Subramaniam Bharti Marg are being replaced with elevated U-turns, giving more space to vehicles going towards ITO. Instead of traffic signals, the three crossings at Sher Shah Road, Bhairon Marg and Subramaniam Bharati Marg will have underpasses for south-bound vehicles. Two more U-turns will be constructed at Sunder Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/85-of-work-complete-pragati-maidan-tunnel-may-open-by-year-end/articleshow/77472111.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 11, 2020||Delhi||‘Corruption’ in Delhi civic bodies: AAP and BJP trade charges||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Monday released an audiotape wherein it claimed that “a relative of the New Ashok Nagar councillor of BJP is heard asking a builder for money for allowing house construction and other activities in the area”. The builder is unidentified. After releasing the audiotape at a press conference, AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak demanded immediate suspension of the councillor and her associates. AAP claimed that it was just one example of corruption in the BJP-ruled corporations. Pathak further alleged that in the audiotape, there are three different cases where the councillor’s brother-in-law has taken money from the builder. He demanded an FIR against him and the arrest of the people involved. “In 2017, BJP fielded new faces in municipal elections. These new councillors are more corrupt. In Delhi, everybody knows that BJP councillors take money. To clean the drains, to make buildings and in all other sectors, they take money from top to bottom. Nishant Pandey, the brother-in-law of councillor Rajni Pandey, handles all the corruption of the area,” Pathak alleged. “Delhi Police should immediately lodge an FIR. If it does not arrest these people within 48 hours, then it will be clear that BJP is also part of this corrupt nexus,” Pathak stated. AAP MLA Rohit Mehraulia said, “Every person in the area knows about the corrupt nexus between BJP and the builders.” Rejecting the allegations, Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta said AAP has a “habit of levelling baseless allegations and later apologising.” East Delhi mayor Nirmal Jain said that the allegations are baseless adding that AAP is resorting to these tactics in view of the next municipal polls. “Some unnamed contractor is allegedly talking to a relative of the councillor. Firstly, it has not been confirmed whether the person is actually the relative and even if we assume it to be correct, how can we blame a person for acts of her relative?” Jain questioned. “The councillor does not know anything about this case,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corruption-in-civic-bodies-aap-and-bjp-trade-charges/articleshow/77472119.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC to Congress: Why not move archaeology department on treasure?||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday sought to know from Congress functionaries as to why they did not file a complaint with the archaeology department on the purported Nizam-era hidden treasure lying beneath the ‘G’ block in the old secretariat complex which was demolished recently. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy posed this question to Congress leaders Mohammed Shabbir Ali, A Revanth Reddy, Anjan Kumar Yadav and Konda Vishweshwar Reddy. The bench said if they were so sure about the treasure trove they should have approached the archaeology wing. The petititioners complained to the court that they have an objection to the attitude of the state and police for not allowing them to visit the demolished site. “Our representations to the DGP on July 28 and 30 went unattended to,” their counsel T Rajnikanth Reddy said. The bench asked him as to what these leaders would do at the site. “Public representatives have no powers of investigation. They should have filed a complaint to the archaeology department. They should have taken steps strictly in accordance with law. Why did they not do it,” the bench asked. When the counsel said cops have a responsibility to take a decision on their representations, the bench said that the DGP is required to deal with them. The petitioners’ counsel told the court that the state had admitted that a 200-year-old temple and ancient mosques were unintentionally razed in the process. The bench issued notices to the state government and police asking them to explain their case. State’s special counsel A Santhosh Kumar sought two weeks’ time to file their counter. The bench directed the government and police to file their counters and adjourned the case to two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-cong-why-not-move-archaeology-dept-on-treasure/articleshow/77472186.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 11, 2020||Chennai||152 illegal faculty appointments at Pachaiyappa’s Trust colleges unearthed; notice issued||CHENNAI: At least 152 out of 234 faculty members, appointed to six colleges under the Pachaiyappa’s Trust Board were unqualified for the post, and hence the board has now issued notices to the illegal appointees asking why their recruitment should not be cancelled. The appointments were made between 2014 and 2016. “Only 60 of the total 234 candidates were qualified candidates,” board chairman Justice P Shanmugam said in the notice. Notices have been slapped only on 152, as the remaining 22 have moved courts against their removal. “The illegal selection betrayed the Tamil Nadu government, UGC, universities, education departments and the public confidence and the reputation to the name of Pachaiyappa’s. The continuance of illegal appointees will misguide and set a bad precedent, as it is a blot on the fair and equal selection and morale of the students and society for generations,” Justice Shanmugam said in the notice. They were appointed as assistant professors, librarians and physical education directors in Pachaiyappa’s College; C Kandaswamy Naidu College for Men; Chellammal College for Women (all in Chennai); Pachaiyappa’s College for Men; Pachaiyappa’s College for Women (both in Kancheepuram) and C Kandaswamy Naidu College for Women in Cuddalore. Candidates with correspondence or distance mode degrees, UG and PG degrees with cross majors and those without mandatory qualifications like NET, SLET or PhD were appointed as faculty members. Assistant professors with nil experience have been awarded the maximum marks of 14. In some cases, teaching experiences were taken into account without reference to the date of acquiring minimum educational qualification. “The selection and the appointment made in the light of lack of educational qualifications, experience and other basic requirements are patently illegal and liable to be canceled on the ground that the candidates have failed to satisfy as UGC prescribed qualifications,” the notice said. More than 4,300 candidates responded to job notifications and about 2,000 attended the interview during the period. Following complaints in final selection, the trust board checked the applications of selected candidates and was shocked to find gross violations of rules by the trustees in the appointment of faculty members. “Illegalities in the selection have denied hundreds of deserving candidates their right of equality and proper selection and appointment. The education of thousands of students coming from economically weaker sections for whose benefit the public trust was conceived by Pachaiyappa have been compromised,” the notice further said. The notice said it is proposed to cancel the appointments of 152 candidates and directed the concerned to show-cause as to why their selection and appointments should not be canceled within seven days from the receipt of the notice. When contacted, Justice P Shanmugam confirmed issuing show-cause notice to 152 ineligible faculty members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/152-illegally-appointed-faculty-in-pachaiyappas-trust-colleges/articleshow/77472187.cms||A Ragu Raman
August 11, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Two held for spreading misinformation on Covid||Bhubaneswar: Capital Police on Monday arrested two persons, including a recovered Covid patient, for allegedly spreading misinformation on the pandemic on social media. At the centre of the arrest is an audio clip of a purported phone conversation between the two persons, which went viral on social media a few days ago. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday lodged a police complaint against a news channel for running the audio clip in a bulletin. “During investigation, it was found that the two accused persons recorded a conversation, edited it and circulated the clip on social media with mischievous intent. In the conversation, they spoke of misleading and false information about the state government’s Covid management,” a senior police officer said. Police said the accused talked about Covid reports of patients being manipulated by the government to help hospitals reap profits. “We booked them under relevant sections including 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease and dangerous to life) and 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease) of the IPC and sections under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act,” the officer said. A number of people took to social media and criticised police for the arrests. “Odisha Police have arrested two men who posted their phone chat online. Their ‘crime’? One of them allegedly tested Covid +ve & spoke of fake ‘treatment’ at massive govt cost. This is just the latest in massive corona-related corruption scams in Odisha,” tweeted BJP national vice-president Baijayant Panda. Police defended their action and said they had arrested a number of people in the past four months for allegedly spreading misinformation on Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/two-held-for-spreading-misinformation-on-covid/articleshow/77469384.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Madurai||CM offers condolence to kin of man who died in wall collapse||Kanyakumari: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has offered condolences to the kin of a man from Kanyakumari district, who died after a wall collapsed due to sea erosion on Saturday. The CM also announced Rs 4 lakh compensation to the kin of the deceased from the state disaster relief fund.According to a statement from the chief minister’s office on Monday, the victim Pradeep Ashwin of Neendakarai-B village near Agastheeswaram in Kanyakumari district had suffered grievous injuries when the compound wall of a house collapsed due to sea erosion. He was taken to the hospital but died on the way.The CM stated that two others – Libin and Vidush – suffered injuries in the wall collapse and were undergoing treatment in the hospital and wished for their speedy recovery||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-offers-condolence-to-kin-of-man-who-died-in-wall-collapse/articleshow/77472113.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Madurai||HC gives bail to duo involved in transporting PDS rice illegally||Madurai: The Madras high court has granted bail to two men, arrested in connection with illegal transportation of PDS rice, after they undertook to pay a non-refundable deposit of Rs 5,000 each to the Madras High Court Madurai Bench Advocate Clerk’s Welfare Association. The petitioners - Saravanan, a owner of a rice mill and Murugavel, a temporary employee of a PDS shop were arrested by the Sivaganga civil supplies CID on July 22 since they were involved in illegal transportation of PDS rice in a van. They were booked under sections of the Essential Commodities Act. Saravanan and Murugavel, who were arrayed as first and third accused respectively in the case moved the high court Madurai bench seeking bail. Hearing the plea, justice V Bharathidasan granted bail to the petitioners and directed them to pay Rs 5,000 each to the association. The judge also directed the petitioners to report before the police as and when required for interrogation and also directed them not tamper with evidence or witness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-gives-bail-to-duo-involved-in-transporting-pds-rice-illegally/articleshow/77472095.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Municipal corporations launch campaign to free Delhi of garbage||NEW DELHI: Mayors of three municipal corporations jointly launched a “Garbage-free Delhi” campaign via videoconferencing on Monday. “The Prime Minister has recently launched Gandagi Bharat Chhodo--a cleanliness campaign for garbage-free India. On the same lines, all the three municipal corporations of Delhi have launched a campaign to make the city garbage-free,” said North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash. He added that the campaign would emphasise on micro-level monitoring of day-to-day cleanliness and lifting of solid waste in the capital. The north corporation lifts 4,500 metric tonnes of garbage every day, out of which 2,300 metric tonnes of garbage are sent to the Narela-Bawana waste-to-energy plant. “The corporation will install 55 more compactor machines and six mobile compactor machines for mechanised garbage disposal. About 2,000 MT of legacy waste at the Bhalswa landfill site is being cleared daily through 15 trommel machines,” added the mayor. The north corporation was ranked 282 in the national 2019 swachhta rankings. South Delhi mayor Anamika sought participation of people to make it a grand success. “We have made all efforts to reduce the height of Okhla landfill site in cooperation with IIT-Delhi. To dispose of the garbage in a proper manner, four bio-methanation and four drum composter plants have been installed in all four zones,” she added. SDMC was ranked 138th in the last year’s cleanliness survey. “We have requested all the area councillors to organise an intensive cleanliness drive in their wards. Special cleaning drives will be carried out during festivals,” said east Delhi mayor Nirmal Jain. “Nine compost plants of one tonne capacity each have been installed by EDMC and work on other such plants is in progress. We have also succeeded in reducing the height of the Ghazipur landfill site,” he added. EDMC’s rank in the previous swachhta survey was 240.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpns-launch-campaign-to-free-capital-of-garbage/articleshow/77472122.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Pvt hosps start discreet patient profiling to prevent non-payment||Kolkata: Following the government cap on deposit amounts, hospitals are walking on a tight rope by continuing with “discreet profiling and counselling” of patients to avoid last-minute bill-payment hassles while being on the right side of the law.While most have decided to be ‘lenient’ about the Rs 50,000 admission deposit allowed in the advisory, they will continue to gauge patient parties’ ability to afford the cost of treatment without insisting on immediate payment. This will be done through a brief interaction at the emergency while the patient is being stabilized or observed and the kin would be ‘advised’ a shift in case they have payment issues, hospitals said.The method has already been working well at several private hospitals since the onset of Covid-19. According to the CEO of a private hospital, there have been several instances where the kin agreed to shift the patient after they were apprised of the costs involved. “Advance payment is not an issue and we have been giving patient parties up to two days to pay it. But since the cost of treatment is often steep, many are finding it difficult to bear it. So, we are now profiling and counselling patient parties, telling them gently about the charges involved and advising them to shift the patient once s/he is stable,” he said. Most prefer government hospitals if they can’t afford the charges, he added.Another private hospital off EM Bypass said they have had non-payment issues almost everyday since the onset of Covid. It prompted them to start counselling and profiling patients on admission and it has helped. “This is the best option and it has helped both patients and us. Many are not aware of the charges and come to us in an emergency. But surprisingly, we have had more affluent patient parties backing away on hearing the cost than those who really can’t afford,” said the hospital chief.Patient profiling has helped to reduce non-payment of bills by 50% over the last few weeks, said an official of another private hospital. “While it is difficult to estimate the costs, we prefer to make a slightly exaggerated projection to keep the patient party prepared for the final bill. Often, they are not prepared and really can’t afford to pay. But honestly, that rarely happens in our hospital,” he said.Patients who have been on ventilation for 10 days or more without improvement are being given concessions at a private hospital. “We realize that the bill could be touching several lakhs and the patient party may not be able to pay. In such cases we charge only the costs and consumables and stop charging for consultations and ventilation. This leads to a loss for us but it’s better than troubling the patient parties,” said the hospital chairperson.Another EM Bypass hospital said it “either arranges for funding through its guest/patient support cell or arranges for them to be shifted to government hospitals”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pvt-hosps-start-discreet-patient-profiling-to-prevent-non-payment/articleshow/77470631.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
August 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Day after protest, pvt hosp sacks nursing staff||Ludhiana: A day after the nursing staff of SPS Hospitals held a protest in support of their demands, including release of their increments, they complained on Monday that the hospital management has terminated the services of protesting members and asked them to come with apology letters to rejoin their services.The aggrieved nursing staff, however, went a step further during the day and submitted a memorandum listing their demands to the deputy commissioner’s office. A nursing staff member Uzair Aalam said they went to join their duties, but the hospital management told their representative that their services have been terminated. So, later they approached the DC, who told them to wait for a day, so that he could talk to the hospital.However, on their return, they were again asked to write apologies and wait for two days, after which they would decide whether they would be taken back. They were also told that in any case, 50% of the nursing staff would be terminated.According to the nursing staff, half of their colleagues have already given apology letters, whereas others have not. They, however, demanded that even if they are being terminated, they should be given experience certificates.The hospital management, on the other hand, claimed that the nursing staff members had refused to do Covid-related duties, a claim that was strongly refuted by the staff members.Medical superintendent of the hospital Dr Rajiv Kundra said, “They are giving apology letters, because they know they are at fault and not the hospital. It is a pandemic situation, but they had refused to do Covid duties. Many have given apology letters and the management is considering them. But the nuisance creators may have to be sacked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/day-after-protest-pvt-hosp-sacks-nursing-staff/articleshow/77470641.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nashik||Bicycle rider killed in accident||Nashik: A 52-year-old man was killed in an accident after the bicycle he was riding was hit by a speeding motorcycle on Gangapur Road on Saturday. Gangapur police have registered an offence of causing death due to negligence under Section 304 A of the Indian Penal Code against the biker concerned. The deceased has been identified as Vinayak Ananda Bramhane, a resident of Govardhan village near Gangapur. “At 8.30 pm on Saturday, Bramhane was riding his bicycle on the Gangapur Road near Someshwar temple when the speeding biker — Kailas Patidar (42) — who was proceeding towards Anandwali knocked him down from behind,” a police officer said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bicycle-rider-killed-in-accident/articleshow/77469403.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: No X-ray, USG at Dilasa, Ponda patients to travel 15 km for care||PONDA: For Ponda residents worried about where to go in case of an emergency after the taluka’s sub-district hospital is converted into a Covid hospital, on Monday, the authorities said casualty services would be made operational from the Dilasa palliative care centre at Farmagudi. However, doctors said neither an X-ray machine nor Ultra Sonography (USG) equipment would be available at the centre. This would require patients or accident victims in need of an X-ray having to be moved either to the Dharbandora primary health centre at Piliyem, 15km away from Ponda, or 30km to the Goa Medical College (GMC). Medical superintendent of the Ponda sub-district hospital Dr Vikas Kuwelkar told TOI that there is no alternative as far as the equipment is concerned. All the medical officers who were at the casualty of the sub-district hospital will, however, be available at the Dilasa centre’s casualty, he said. The USG equipment is needed at the sub-district hospital for ante natal cases as most pregnant Covid positive women will be shifted to the Ponda hospital, Kuwelkar said. “Critical and other patients in need of hospital admission and clinical investigations will be referred to the Goa Medical College until alternative arrangements are put in place,” Kuwelkar said. The palliative care centre is run by the Indian Medical Association’s charitable trust and is located about 3km from the sub-district hospital. Chairman of the trust Dr Santosh Usgaonkar said that they have handed over the entire premises to the government following a request from chief minister Pramod Sawant. “During this period, patients who need palliative care will not be admitted here and the three in-patients, who were stable, have been referred to other hospitals. Four patients who were to be admitted have been advised to seek care in other hospitals,” Usgaonkar said. “Our palliative care consultants will be available for telephonic consultation. Pain relief medicines can be procured by registered patients from our Dilasa pharmacy,” Usgaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-x-ray-usg-at-dilasa-ponda-patients-to-travel-15km-for-care/articleshow/77473030.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
August 11, 2020||Ludhiana||‘No beds are available. Need one for patient. It is an emergency’||Ludhiana: Even as the district administration claims to have sufficient beds for Covid-19 patients, a city resident faced a tough time in getting one for a symptomatic patient.Anubhav Garg, a resident of Rajguru Nagar, tweeted to the Punjab Police on Sunday night, “I need a bed for Covid symptomatic person in Ludhiana immediately. No beds are available. It’s an emergency.” Thereafter, the Ludhiana Police replied, “Sufficient beds are available. Patient can go to civil hospital. Our nodal officer will also be contacting you.” While speaking with The Times of India, Garg said, “My 53-year-old neighbour showed Covid-19 symptoms. On Sunday, we approached a prominent private hospital for his admission. But the hospital was not willing to take the patient till his Covid-19 report was received. We called up another private hospital and got the same reply. Then we tried to approach the civil hospital, but nobody took our calls. At last, I decided to tweet to the Punjab Police.”Garg received a call soon after the tweet. “Thereafter, my uncle’s test was conducted and his report came positive,” he added.On whether his neighbour got a bed, Garg said, “He needs level 2 or level 3 bed. But only level 1 beds are available. Now, with the help of the administration we are taking him to a private hospital. But there is a waiting. We hope to get a bed by evening.” Chief medical officer Rajesh Bagga said, “Sufficient beds are available at civil hospital for level 2 patients. On Monday, we got nasal oxygen cannula which is an advanced level 2 care. Beds are available at different hospitals, too. But anyone having respiratory problems has to get the test done, so that required treatment can be given. Report of the test through Truenat comes within two hours.”Check on app“Residents can know about the availability of beds through the recently launched mobile application ‘HBMS Punjab’ or can contact nodal officer Dr Milan Verma on his cellphone 9814292007. He coordinates with private hospitals and civil hospital for accommodating corona positive patient,” the CMO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-beds-are-available-need-one-for-patient-it-is-an-emergency/articleshow/77470636.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Super Sunday: Crowds, smiles return to malls in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The retail industry in Kolkata is showing definite signs of recovery with malls registering a sales surge and rise in footfall in the post-Covid era on successive Sundays. Customers have also gradually begun to shift from purchase of only essentials to buying fashion and leisure items. Encouraged by the turnout and the turnover, mall operators projected a return to 50%-65% of the pre-Covid business by mid-September. Most malls had reported decent footfall on August 2 with South City, the ‘weather vane’ among malls registering 13,000 walk-ins. The figure soared to nearly 19,000 on Sunday. Among other malls, City Centre-I in Salt Lake clocked 15,000, City Centre-II in New Town 9,000 and Acropolis 8,000. While Quest and Forum acknowledged that Sunday’s footfall was the highest since malls reopened for business on June 8, they did not reveal figures. At South City mall, the parking lot filled up for the first time in over six months. In all, there were 2,500 cars and 700-plus two-wheelers. Customers appeared relaxed and in a mood to shop rather than rush through the purchase of essentials. They spent time at luxury and fashion stores, at restaurants and at the food court. “It appears people are beginning to overcome lockdown jitters and rising Covid numbers to accept the new normal and step out to visit places they considered safe while taking adequate precautions,” said South City mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree. The mall recorded a turnover of Rs 82 lakh on Sunday with food & beverage accounting for Rs 10 lakh. “On Sunday, we recorded the highest ever retail sales and food court business since the outbreak of Covid-19. In the Rs 1-crore turnover recorded on Sunday, the highest sales was registered at lifestyle stores followed by accessories, hypermarket, apparel and jewellery. It is a booster shot for the retail and F&B industry,” said Acropolis mall general manager K Vijayan. Others said Sunday’s turnout held great hope of a sooner-than-expected revival. “Retailers are delighted with the response. Everyone did decent business after a long time. If the momentum persists, we should be at the 60-65% of pre-Covid business by September 15,” said Ramesh Pandey, wholetime director of Ambuja Neotia group that owns and operates the two City Centre malls in Kolkata. While retailers were apprehensive about the complete lockdown when they were announced in July-end, they now believe the staggered lockdown that was announced in advance has helped business by ensuring savings on electricity and other recurring costs on those days while catering to higher footfall and sales on others. Quest and Forum, too, said they had registered the best sales since reopening in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/super-sunday-crowds-smiles-return-to-malls/articleshow/77470624.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar governor okays new statute for assistant professor jobs||PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan on Monday approved the new statute for the appointment of assistant professors in the universities of Bihar. The state government had already approved the statute prepared by a three-member committee of the vice-chancellors of Magadh, Munger and Purnea universities. The statute for the appointment of assistant professors for the universities of Bihar, 2020, provides that the appointment shall be made through an all India advertisement and on the recommendation of the Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC) on the basis of the guidelines laid down by the UGC and accepted by the state government. Applicants must have at least 55% marks or equivalent grade at master’s level. Besides, they must have cleared the National Eligibility Test (NET) conducted by the UGC or CSIR or a similar test like SLET or SET approved by the UGC and candidates who have been awarded a PhD degree in accordance with the UGC (minimum standards and procedure for award of PhD or MPhil degree) 2009 or 2016 with necessary amendments. The statute further provides that the maximum age for appointment of assistant professors will be 55 years as on January 1 of the advertisement year. The interview board shall have at least three subject experts nominated by the chairman of the commission. Shortlisting of candidates shall be based on the points scored by them in the academic qualifications and academic achievements. The current reservation policy of the state government shall be strictly followed category and subject-wise as per the reservation roster prepared by the university or the state government. The commission shall consider both academic qualifications and performance in the interview for selecting the candidates. There shall be 100 marks on qualifications and 25 on interview. The procedure for interview shall be decided by the commission and the merit list prepared by it shall remain valid for one year from the date of issuance, according to the statute. With the approval of the statute, the commission is likely to advertise the vacancies of assistant professors in different universities of the state soon. Necessary preparations have reportedly been made by the commission for making these appointments soon after the release of university-wise vacancies along with reservation roster by the state education department. The last advertisement for appointment of assistant professors was made in 2013, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/guv-oks-new-statute-for-assistant-prof-jobs/articleshow/77469440.cms||B K Mishra
August 11, 2020||Lucknow||Janmashtami at home with DIY dresses, green jhankis||LUCKNOW: Coronavirus pandemic has changed the way festivals are celebrated and Krishna Janmashtami celebrations too will be no different this year. While temples are planning virtual celebrations, devotees will celebrate the birth of Lord Krishna at home. From ‘jhankis’ made with recycled products to hand-made attires of Lord Krishna, devotees are planning to celebrate the day with fervour while staying indoors. Ananya Singh, a resident of Tilak Nagar, used to visit the market every year to buy clothes and jewellery for Lord Krishna. However, she plans to prepare clothes all by herself. “Every year, we used to go to temples and enjoy Janmashtami but this year we won’t step out. We can’t visit temples this time. This Janmashtami will be different because of ‘bhog’ in which I plan to add food items which are rich in Vitamin C and good for immunity. I am using my mother’s saree sew clothes for the Lord,” she says. Satvik Pandey of Gomtinagar, who organizes grand celebrations every Janmashtami, says this year he has made a ‘jhanki’ with plants and leaves from his garden. He plans to celebrate the day virtually. “I will make video calls to my friends and family members because I cannot have many people around. As decorative items were not available, I thought Lord Krishna lived close to nature and decided to make ‘jhanki’ with eco-friendly material,” he says. Aarna Raj, a student of a private university in Lucknow, plans to decorate the house with paper flowers, rather than buying material from shops. “Though the way we celebrate has changed, festive spirit remains the same. It’s better to use old recycled items for decoration rather than buying them. I am planning to hang an earthen pot and a ladder for ‘dahi-handi’ ritual for my younger brother,” says Aarna. Aliganj resident Asha Jaiswal has decided to distribute sanitizer and masks among underprivileged, along with ‘prasad’, on Janmashtami. “Many people can’t afford masks and sanitizers. Keeping in view the message of Lord Krishna to help everyone, I decided to distribute sanitizers and masks,” she says. “I will make a ‘jhanki’ in which I will place Lord Krishna on a golden throne,” she adds. Kiran Gupta, who rents out her accommodation to girl students in Indiranagar, reminisced the time when she used to celebrate the day with girls enacting ‘Krishna Leela’. This year she will celebrate the day virtually with her PG inmates who are residing in different cities. (With inputs from Vidushi Agarwal, Godhooli Sharma and Raghav Duggal)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/janmashtami-at-home-with-diy-dresses-green-jhankis/articleshow/77473036.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Noida||Zurich AG launches topographical survey of Jewar site||GREATER NOIDA: Keen on starting work at the earliest, Zurich Airport International AG has initiated a topographical and geographical survey of the land acquired for the Jewar airport project even before the signing of the concessionaire agreement.  As part of the four-day survey, a private agency roped in by the Swiss company on Sunday launched drones to capture the images of about 1,400 hectares of land along the Yamuna Expressway. The team also picked up soil samples from the site, officials said. Selected as the bidder, Zurich AG had obtained security clearance from the Union home ministry, the last hurdle, on May 19. However, the signing of the concession agreement between UP government’s Noida International Airport Limited (NIAL) and Yamuna International Airport Private Limited, the special purpose vehicle constituted by Zurich AG, is yet to take place as the signatories on behalf of the Swiss company have not been able to come to India till date due to the government’s ban on international air travel. NIAL officials said that Zurich AG is in constant touch with them and are keen on beginning work. So, before starting the construction and development work, the company has hired a private agency, which will collect data and send a report covering vegetation, urban planning and infrastructure (covering rail, road, canal, pipeline, power line among other features), along with elevation and aerial photographs to the company. The agency has already collected soil samples from multiple sites and kept them in separate trays marked with geographical coordinates of the particular site. Officials said that aerial photogrammetry will be used by the company to figure out the constraints that would come up during construction work and begin work to get them resolved. “Soil testing report, elevation, aerial photogrammetry will come handy in finalising the preliminary design of the airport site in advance,” said a senior NIAL official. NIAL has deputed 20 security guards with the survey team to ensure the entire exercise gets conducted in a seamless manner. “Management of crowd becomes important in rural areas whenever any exercise with drones is launched. A lot of people have a tendency of getting to close to drone operators to find out how the machines operate and how the live feed is generated. Hence providing security for the exercise was deemed important,” he said. The latest deadline issued to Zurich AG to sign the concession agreement is expiring on August 17. “However, since international flight operations remain suspended in the country, the directors of the company based out of Kuala Lumpur and Switzerland haven’t been able to come to Greater Noida yet to sign the agreement and complete other formalities,” said Shailendra Bhatia, NIAL’s nodal officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/zurich-ag-launches-topographical-survey-of-jewar-site/articleshow/77473045.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka SSLC exams: Blind student overcame grief over brother’s death to score 92%||MYSURU: There was more than just the fear of the pandemic that Nandini KP, a student of class X of Rangarao Memorial School for the Differently Abled, had to live with during the summer. While preparing for the SSLC examinations, Nandini lost her elder brother in a road accident in May, and she had to overcome near numbing grief before she could ready herself for the key examination. However, Nandini, who is visually-impaired, has never shied away from challenges, and she put up a brave face, and continued her preparations, and the results of the exam attest to her strength of character: Nandini secured 576/625 (92%) in the examination. A resident of Arasu Kallahalli in Hunsur taluk, Nandini’s father Prakash KS is a farmer, while her mother Bhagya is a homemaker. Nandini credited her entire support system, comprising her parents and friends, for helping her deal with grief and keeping her focussed on the upcoming preparations, for her success. “The examinations were quite easy,” she said. On the other hand, Rajarajeshwari G’s is a heart-wrenching story in its own right. Rescued by members of the Rural Literacy and Health Programme who found her five-year-old self, along with her brother, begging on the streets, Rajarajeshwari has succeeded in becoming the empress of her fate, securing 371/625 (59%) in the SSLC examination. An orphan, Rajarajeshwari, who has a keen interest in drawing and dancing, is keen on pursuing commerce in pre-university. Meanwhile, two students at the Government Children’s Home For Girls in Mysuru – Lakshmi H (367/625) and Bhagya R (362/625) - have also made their institution proud by overcoming adverse circumstances to emerge triumphant. On the other hand, Nikhil Kumar, a student of a government school for blind students in Tilak Nagar, aced the SSLC exam, securing 86%, while his schoolmate Prajwal scored 527/625 (84%), much to the delight of the school’s teachers and management. Authorities at the school said that all seven students from the institution who appeared for the SSLC examination had cleared the test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/blind-student-overcame-grief-over-brothers-death-to-score-92/articleshow/77472207.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Auto driver held for killing paramour||Hyderabad: A 30-year-old married woman was murdered by an auto driver, with whom she was allegedly in an extra-marital relationship. According to Uppal police, Anjaiah attacked Renuka with a beer bottle, trampled her neck and choked her to death . The incident took place when Renuka, a resident of Nacharam, was with Anjaiah in Chilkanagar, Uppal on Sunday night. “Anjaiah purchased food and liquor while he was bringing the victim to his residence. While he was consuming liquor, she asked him for Rs 20,000. As Anjaiah refused to give her money, Renuka abused him. Following this, Anjaiah hit killed her,’’ Uppal inspector, Ranga Swamy told TOI. Though the incident took place around 8.30 pm on Sunday, it came to light only on Monday morning when the neighbours alerted the police. Anjaiaj and Renuka were in a relationship for the last four years. As Anjaiah’s wife had left the city, he brought Renuka to his residence. A case was registered against him under section 302 (murder) of IPC. The accused is in the custody of the local police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-driver-held-for-killing-paramour/articleshow/77472200.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Blast in food factory, owner dies||Udupi: Robert Furtado, 53, owner of a food production factory, died after an oven blast was reported at the unit located in Airody village in Kotal police station limits on Monday. Following the incident, a team of police officials including ASP Kumarchandra and Circle Inspector, Ananthpadmanabh rushed to the spot. According to police, Robert along with his staff was working at the unit for bread and other bakery products when the incident occurred. The blast reportedly occurred when he switched on the oven that was running on gas. It did not work and he opened the door to check, resulting in a blast. A staff identified as Ramesh sustained minor injuries. The impact such a that Robert and the door fell about 10-20 meters away from the oven. Experts have visited the spot to study the cause of the incident, said Ananthpadmanabh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/blast-in-food-factory-owner-dies/articleshow/77470207.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||SC likely to hear Goa’s contempt plea in Mhadei case on August 14||KERI: The contempt petition filed by Goa government against Karnataka over the diversion of the Kalasa nallah into the Malaprabha river is likely to come up for virtual hearing on August 14 before the Supreme Court. Goa had filed the contempt petition on August 8, 2018, after a team from Goa’s water resources department (WRD) conducted an inspection of the Kalasa project site at Kankumbi and submitted a report of their findings to the state government. “We have already conducted a meeting with the advocate general Devidas Pangam and discussed the strategy to be taken for the virtual hearing on August 14,” Chief engineer of WRD, Shrikant Patil, told TOI. In its petition, Goa stated that the water in the catchment of the Kalasa nallah within the jurisdiction of Karnataka was diverted in the reverse direction of the natural flow, to a concrete conduit. The petition mentions that as a result of the diversion the Surla nallah flows through the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary, which goes on to form the famous Barazan and Ladkecho Vazar waterfalls, is now seeing a significantly reduced flow. This has caused an adverse impact on the flora and fauna, the petition stated. Meanwhile, the apex court on August 24, will also take a decision on the admission of the special leave petitions filed by Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka and directives are likely to be issued for conducting physical hearing in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-likely-to-hear-goas-contempt-plea-in-mhadei-case-on-aug-14/articleshow/77473052.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
August 11, 2020||Madurai||Gyms open to lukewarm response after 5 months||Madurai/Trichy: Gymnasiums that opened on Monday after five months received lukewarm response as fitness enthusiasts were in no hurry under the current circumstances. Gym owners say as only a few members are visiting now, it is easy maintain six feet distance between each another. Gym owners said that they followed all precautionary measures such as sanitization after every batch, checking temperature before letting people in, ensuring visitors wore mask and gloves and carry their own towel and water containers. Only people in the age group of 15-50 were allowed inside gyms. The air conditioners in the gyms were turned off as per rules and the users were told not to share the equipment during the slot. Facemasks were made mandatory except during the treadmill session, gym owners added. In Madurai, which has 159 gyms, owners said that it will take six months to earn any profit while the money received at present will be sufficient only to pay rent, electricity charges and maintenance cost. On the other hand, gym goers heaved a sigh of relief as they are able to hit the gym after a big break. They say keeping the body fit will help to keep diseases away. Many exercised caution in choosing their set of exercise as they did not want to exert stress on their body by doing harder ones after a long time. Sheik Mohaideen, a gym goer said, “It will take at least a couple months time to get back to the fitness level of pre-Covid times. I started slowly with stretching exercises and will gradually progress to harder exercises.” T Meenakshi Sundaram, joint secretary of Madurai District Amateur Body Builders Association, said that they are happy with the government decision to allow gyms to function. “We had represented the state government through the district administration to waive off rent and electricity charges, but they have not been met. However, allowing the gyms to function itself is a moment of cheer for us,” Meenakshi Sundaram said. In Trichy, starting from 6am, gyms have created 45 minute pre-booked slots for their clients to workout, not exceeding 10 members on the floor at a time. Hand gloves were made mandatory, while some of the gyms insisted their clients to bring two towels, one for wiping their sweat and the other to be placed over the equipment to avoid body contact. “The opening day’s response was not as expected. Our clients hesitate to return,” said Vignesh Ramanathan, a gym owner from Thillai Nagar, Trichy. “I am planning to return to the gym after a week or so. Although disinfection is done after every batchvacates, I decided to wait,” said H Vignesh, a gym goer from Woraiyur. Gym owners said they are sharing pictures and videos sharing precautions taken in gyms and social distancing boxes in the official WhatsApp groups to encourage their clients to return.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gyms-open-to-lukewarm-response-after-5-months/articleshow/77472126.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ludhiana||10 more succumb; toll tally mounts to 178||TNNLudhiana: Eleven persons, including 10 Ludhianvis, died of Covid-19 on Monday. The day also saw 280 patients from the district and 28 from outside testing positive for the virus.The health department said a 59-year-old Covid-19 positive woman from Jassiyan; a 48-year-old man of Chandan Nagar, who had liver problem and anemia; a 52-year-old woman of Malakpur, who had diabetes and hypertension; and a woman, 45, of Guru Nanak Nagar in Khanna died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala.A 54-year-old woman of Lalheri Road in Khanna, who had diabetes and blood pressure issues, and a 90-year-old man of Karol Nagar, who had diabetes, hypertension and heart problem, breathed their last at DMCH. A diabetic woman, 52, of Basant Avenue succumbed at SPS Hospital.A 27-year-old Down syndrome patient of Harcharan Nagar died at Deep Hospital. A resident of Payal, who had TB and kidney problem, died at PGI, Chandigarh. A 70-year-old man of Ludhiana who had diabetes and hypertension died at CMCH.An 80-year-old Covid-positive woman from Moga, who had diabetes and kidney problem, breathed her last at Ludhiana civil hospital. The health department officials said with this, the district toll tally has climbed to 178 and 45 outsiders have died here so far.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said to date 72,995 suspected patients have been tested here.Of the pending reports of two days, 137 were positive, of which 134 belonged to Ludhiana, one each to Nawanshahar, Tarn Taran and Bathinda.Of the 171 positive reports received from private hospitals and a laboratory, 146 were from Ludhiana, four from Kapurthala, two each from Jalandhar, Bathinda, Barnala, Ferozepur, Sangrur, UP and Haryana, one each from Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Amritsar, Patiala, Moga, Hoshiarpur and Pathankot.The officials said of the 280 positive cases, 91 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 77 were positive cases’ contacts, 35 from OPD, 14 cops, 10 healthcare workers, one domestic traveler, six pregnant women, 45 from tracing process and one severe acute respiratory infection case.The Ludhiana case count now stands at 5,312 and that of outsiders at 615.The civil surgeon said 826 samples were sent for testing on the day. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 1,699 active cases in the district. To date, 25,622 persons have been kept under home quarantine. The number of such persons is 4,896 at present. “On Monday, 352 persons were sent for home quarantine,” the DC added.No public dealing work at CP officeThe Ludhiana commissioner of police on Monday evening put up a message that read, “Due to four fresh cases of coronavirus among employees of commissioner of police office, Ludhiana, the public dealing work has been postponed for three days till August 13. To date, 221 employees of Ludhiana Police have been found to be positive. Of them, 163 are still suffering from it. SHOs of five police stations, Division 3, 4, 6, Laduwal and Dugri, have also been found to be positive. Public is advised not to go to these police stations for the next three days unless there is an emergency. Residents can email their complaints at cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in or dial 112 for emergency.”ASI among the deadPolice officials said an ASI was among those who died of Covid-19. He breathed his last at PGI, Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/10-more-succumb-toll-tally-mounts-to-178/articleshow/77470664.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Min, 3 IAS officers accused of malpractice in sanitiser purchase||Bengaluru: A former BJP MLA has filed a complaint with the Karnataka Lokayukta, accusing a minister from the BJP government, three IAS officers and three other officials of indulging in malpractice in purchase of sanitisers from different companies when Covid-19 pandemic had begun in March. Sarvabhouma Bagali from Indi has named seven persons who allegedly caused loss of many crores of rupees to the state exchequer. “The government in March placed orders for sanitisers with an Andhra Pradesh-based company which charged Rs 2,500 per unit of five litres of sanitisers. The company had sold one unit of five litres to Andhra Pradesh government for Rs 520. The state has purchased 15,000 units of sanitisers for Rs 2,500 and has nearly Rs 3 crore excess when compared to the rates at which AP paid,” Bagali said.  According to him, initially, the firm quoted Rs 97.44 per 500 ml sanitisers and the government placed an order. “But the firm did not supply. The government increased the price to Rs 108 per 500 ml and then again to Rs 138 and still, supply was not made. Finally, the price was fixed at Rs 250. When the firm did not agree for Rs 97.44 as quoted in the tender papers, why did the government not opt for another firm, which had quoted Rs 99? Why did the government revise the price thrice?” Bagali asked. In another case, the government hasn’t acted against a firm that had supplied poor quality sanitisers, he alleged. “Officials found the the sanitisers supplied to Ramanagara and Kalaburagi were of sub-standard quality. The company should have been blacklisted. But no action has been initiated against the company till now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/min-3-ias-officers-accused-of-malpractice-in-sanitiser-purchase/articleshow/77470115.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 11, 2020||Mysuru||Man tries to kill wife at Lawyer’s office||Mysuru: A woman is battling for life at the government-run KR Hospital after her husband allegedly attacked her with a knife at an advocate’s office in Periyapatna on Monday. The man has been arrested, police said. Mamatha had separated from husband Raghu, a financier, two months ago. Since then, she had been living with her lover. Mamatha and Raghu had applied for divorce and were summoned to the advocate’s office to sign a mutual petition for divorce, police said. When Mamatha arrived at the advocate’s office around 12 noon, an enraged Raghu pulled out a knife and allegedly attacked her throat and neck leaving her badly injured, police said. She was shifted to hospital and her condition is said to be critical. Mamatha and Raghu of Doddahonnur in Periyapatna, had tied the knot seven years ago and the couple had five-year-old twin daughters. Raghu has been taking care of children since Mamatha left them, Periyapatna police said. Man ends life after tiff with wifeA mason hanged himself in front of the main door of his house in the early hours of Monday. HD Kote police said Govindanayaka had quarrelled with his wife and had left home. He returned around 2am but his wife didn’t open the door fearing he may assault her. She was shocked when she opened the door around 6am and saw him hanging. The incident took place at Vishwanathaiah Colony in HD Kote. The couple had differences and frequently quarrelled over trivial issues. Govindanayaka leaves behind two children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-tries-to-kill-wife-at-lawyers-office/articleshow/77470537.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Madurai||Minister consoles kin of Munnar landslide victims||Tuticorin: Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju on Monday met the relatives of victims from Barathi Nagar near Kayathar, who lost their lives in the Munnar landslide incident and consoled them. He also paid homage to the portraits of the victims kept in the Tuticorin village. He distributed compensation to the tune of Rs 3.5 lakh as his personal contribution. He handed over Rs 50,000 each to Saranya, Vijay, Arumugam and Murugan, who lost more than one person in the landslide on August 6. The minister also gave Rs 25, 000 each to Sivagurunathan, Dharmalingam, Suresh and Arumugam, who lost a relative each in the incident. He gave an additional Rs 50,000 towards travelling expenses so that the relatives can take part in last rites in Kerala. Raju assured relatives of helping them with getting e-passes and travel arrangement. He also listened to their grievances and assured that they would be taken to the notice of the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and get them addressed. Tuticorin district collector Sandeep Nanduri and district superintendent of police S Jayakumar were also present during the minister’s visit. Many from Barathi Nagar have been working in tea estates in Munnar for several years now. So far, 43 people have been declared dead in the landslide of which 22 were from Barathi Nagar. Eleven more people were rescued and undergoing treatment. A search is under way for 28 missing people. The minister said that Tamil Nadu chief minister has spoken to his Kerala counterpart and assured all possible support. He also sought best treatment for the injured. Once the complete list of people affected by the landslide is available, it would be taken to the notice of the TN chief minister to provide compensation on behalf of the government, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minister-consoles-kin-of-munnar-landslide-victims/articleshow/77472146.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Khader opens helpline to address rain woes||Mangaluru: Mangaluru MLA U T Khader has set up a helpline for people who are in distress due to heavy rain and floods. “Aggrieved people in my constituency may contact the helpline for help in case of any rain-related emergency. Coordinators have been appointed for rural and urban areas in the constituency. Local bodies in rural and urban areas will also be making necessary arrangements to help people in distress. While our team is ready to help in case of any emergency, I have also requested institutions and organisations to join the rescue operations,” Khader said. Those in rural areas can contact Nasar Malar (8951452363), Sathar Belma (9972024400), Arun Ishwar Ullal (9731444111) and Naveen D’Souza (9448460360). People in and around Ullal may dial 9449149785 or 8277997418 for help. “I have discussed rain-related situation with DC K V Rajendra, and also asked the district administration to take all precautions before opening dam gates. Officials have also been told to expedite the process of distributing compensation to those who have lost property,” he said, adding that he has directed the officials not to delay in giving compensation to people who have lost property due to sea erosion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/khader-opens-helpline-to-address-rain-woes/articleshow/77470572.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Recovered cops to donate plasma for infected patients||Ludhiana: After defeating Covid-19, these cops are ready to become life saviours. Eighteen cops, including two women SHOs and DCP (law & order), will donate their plasmas to Covid-19 patients to help them fight off the disease.To date, over 118 cops of Ludhiana commissionerate have tested positive and one of them, assistant commissioner of police Anil Kohli, lost his life to the virus. Kohli was to be given plasma therapy, but he succumbed before that.Deputy commissioner of police (law & order) Ashwani Kapur said, “I have recovered from the disease. I am looking forward to be a part of this noble cause as plasma therapy can be a life saviour. More people should come forward and join the cause. We must fight Covid-19 together. Citizens should take all precautions to stop its spread.” Joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezian said, “DCP Ashwani Kapur, Jodhewal police station SHO sub-inspector Arshpreet Kaur Grewal, Moti Nagar police station SHO sub-inspector Simranjeet Kaur and 15 other cops are going to donate plasmas for Covid-19 patients.”Simranjeet Kaur, 26, who had contracted the virus on June 21 said, “I have always wanted to serve society which is why I chose this profession. Donating plasma is also a way of serving society. More people should come forward for this.”Simranjeet Kaur had contracted the virus when she was deputed at Shimlapuri police station as an additional SHO. She had tested positive after an ASI of the police station got infected.Arshpreet Kaur Grewal was the first woman cop to catch the infection on April 18. She was a contact of ACP Kohli.Arshpreet Kaur said, “This is the smallest thing anyone can do to save lives. When I was admitted to a hospital after testing positive, I had told doctors that I would donate plasma.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/recovered-cops-to-donate-plasma-for-infected-patients/articleshow/77470654.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 11, 2020||Hubballi||Covid-19: North Karnataka districts go down the rank list||DHARWAD/ BELAGAVI/ RAICHUR: The performance of nine educational districts coming under the North West zone has not been satisfactory, thanks to Covid-19 and the disturbance it has caused to the education sector. According to the KSEE Board, Dharwad district, which was in 28th position last year, has moved to 27th position with ‘B’ grade. The board has announced grades — instead of pass percentage — while declaring the district-wise ranking this year. In 2019, Dharwad district had registered a pass percentage of 75.04. Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, Sirsi, Uttara Kannada, Chikkodi, Belagavi, Vijayapura and Bagalkot educational districts come under the jurisdiction of the additional commissioner of public instruction (NW zone). Except Uttara Kannada (10th) and Sirsi (15th), the other districts stand in 25 and 33 places. Uttara Kannada has secured ‘A’ grade; Sirsi, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Dharwad and Chikkodi have secured ‘B’ grade; Belagavi, Gadag and Haveri have secured ‘C’ grade. In 2019, Uttara Kannada stood fourth, Sirisi 12th, Chikkodi 13th, Haveri 19th, Belagavi 24th, Vijayapura 25th, Bagalkot 27th, Dharwad 28th and Gadag 31st. In the rank list, it was not clear whether the actual pass percentage of the districts has improved or not. Many academicians and experts feel that judging the performance of a district on the basis of the district-wise ranking is misleading and unscientific. Even if a district stands at the lower level in the rank list, if the actual pass percentage has improved over the previous year, it should be considered an improvement. “Rank list is only a relative assessment,” said a retired director of public instruction. Major Siddalingayya Hiremath, additional commissioner of public instruction (NW zone), told TOI that he is happy with the results in the zone as the exams were conducted strictly, the adverse conditions notwithstanding. Teachers blamed the CCE system for the poor performance where the students face examination only at Class X, after being promoted casually under the no-detention policy till Class IX. Dharwad DDPI Mohankumar Hanchate said Hubballi, Navalgund and Kalghatagi taluks have secured ‘B’ grade, while Dharwad Rural and Kundgol have been awarded ‘C’ grade. Meanwhile, Raichur has risen from 33rd place to 28th, thanks to the work of ZP CEO Lakshmikanth Reddy G. On his directions, the district education department conducted many preparatory exams, distributed question-and-answer booklets among the students, and gave attention to slow learners. Education activist Syed Hafizullah said Raichur would have had a better ranking than 28th had the exams were held as per schedule. “The CEO meticulously planned on improving the learning skills, and it paid off,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/north-karnataka-districts-go-down-the-rank-list/articleshow/77472506.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Mysuru||Chief priest’s daughters fly in from Australia, NZ||Madikeri: Search operation by NDRF team to locate five people, including the chief priest of Sri Cauvery temple, reported missing following a massive landslide in Talacauvery, was disrupted by the mist in the early hours on Monday. The team did not succeed in tracing out the bodies on Monday and the operation will continue on Tuesday, said officials. The chief priest Narayanachar’s daughters — Namitha from Australia and Sharada from New Zealand— reached Bhagamandala on Monday and met district minister V Somanna. Three teams, including NDRF, SDRF and the local police were simultaneously conducting search operations from Cherangala to Talacauvery, MLA K G Bopaiah told TOI. He said the body of Swami Anandathirtha will be handed over to the family members on Tuesday. Commencement of puja The district in-charge minister V Somanna, MP Prathap Simha alongside MLA KG Bopaiah and DC Annies K Joy attended a meeting with the Talacauvery Temple Committee to discuss commencement of regular puja at the temple premises. The temple priests have suggested remedial rituals to be conducted before restarting the puja and V Somanna extended support to the recommendations. The regular rituals at the temple will, however, begin only after the road to the temple is cleared off the landslide.  “A stretch to the temple of about 180 metre is blocked. This has to be cleared diligently as it should not affect the site where operation to find missing persons is under way. This road will be cleared for the priests to walk up to the temple area to carry out the regular rituals,” said the contractor in-charge. Meanwhile the driver who ferried priest Narayanachar’s daughters from Bengaluru Airport to Bhagamandala has tested positive, while the daughters have tested negative. Pictures 1.Narayanachar’s daughters and granddaughters at the site 2. Search operation 3. Minister discussing with Archak’s daughters 4. Minister and MLA at the site||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chief-priests-daughters-fly-in-from-australia-nz/articleshow/77470078.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lack of transparency, inflated medical bills patients’ pet peeves||KOLKATA: Complaints about lack of transparency in charges have been pouring in from Covid patients’ kin, many of whom have been slapped with huge bills. While some alleged that the bills have been inflated, others have pointed at poor communication from hospitals and ambiguity in the charges. Most complaints of alleged inflated bills have emerged from families of patients who have been in ICU rather than from those treated in general Covid wards. A majority of the allegations centre around charges for medicines, consumables and investigations. Take the example of south Kolkata resident Indira Das, who spent over Rs 6.5 lakh for her ailing father, a cancer patient with severe breathing trouble who died last month. “My father was admitted at a private hospital for nine days. He had Covid symptoms but his report was negative. He didn’t recover even after nine days and the hospital asked me to take get him discharged saying he could get infected from other patients. I paid around Rs 3.2 lakh that was covered by his insurance,” said Das. His condition kept deteriorating at home and he was admitted to another private nursing at Entally when his oxygen saturation level had dropped drastically. “The nursing home conducted some tests. I never got some of the reports. Some of my relatives who are doctors said the tests were unnecessary. He was released from the nursing home after 10 days and I had to foot a bill of Rs 3.5 lakh. I knew there were discrepancies but since my father was still ill, I couldn’t confront them. He died a week later,” Das said. The average bill amount for patients at a general Covid ward could be between Rs 1.5 to Rs 2.5 lakh for 10 days. But for patients in ICU/ITU, the bill on the first day itself could be as high as Rs 2 lakh. An amount ranging between Rs 45,000 and 60,000 per day could be the average cost for such patients. The cost spikes if s/he is on support like ECMO or costly therapies. “Allegations of inflated bills could be true in a few cases but not all are genuine. Clear communication and more transparency in the billing system can solve this issue to a large extent,” said West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission chairperson Justice Ashim Kumar Banerjee. The commission has already asked private hospitals to keep the patients’ families posted on the bills on a daily basis and explain to them whenever there is a substantial hike. The commission so far has received two complaints about inflated bills. Both cases are under trial. Actor and model Madhabilata Mitra whose entire family was infected with Covid 19 but were later treated and cured, accused a private nursing home of demanding between Rs 2 to Rs 4 lakh within a day of admission her mother who tested positive on May. “I got a call from the nursing home asking me to shift my mother to another hospital. The caller said, they could arrange admission to another hospital and also provide an ambulance but said we had to arrange for Rs 2 to Rs 4 lakh immediately,” alleged Mitra. She shifted her mother to Medical College & Hospital, Kolkata, where the latter recovered after undergoing treatment for 22 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lack-of-transparency-inflated-med-bills-patients-pet-peeves/articleshow/77470633.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 11, 2020||Lucknow||Cabinet empowers govt to suspend clauses of 2 Acts||LUCKNOW: In a move that will allow the state government to arm itself with the power to suspend certain provisions within The UP Industrial Disputes Act of 1947 and the Uttar Pradesh Factories Act of 1948, the cabinet made necessary amendments to these Acts on Monday. The move comes after the Centre reportedly did not allow sweeping suspension of a majority of labour laws in the state, announced in May this year to ease conditions for industrial development in the aftermath of the Covid-19-linked economic slowdown. Sources said that the suspension of most labour laws for a period of 1,000 days, was done as part of “reforms” that would help kickstart industrial work in the state. The Centre, however, reportedly said that these were in violation of the International Labour Conventions to which India is a signatory. “The amendments approved by the cabinet on Monday would entail adding a section to these acts which would empower the state government to suspend certain provisions of the Acts under special circumstances for up to 1,000 days,” an official said. “Now, the changes in labour laws wouldn’t be as sweeping as the government had initially planned, but the Monday’s cabinet decision still gives it enough room to suspend provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the Factories Act to help industries. UP and several other states had decided to suspend a majority of labour laws for a period of 1,000-1,200 days. As a reason for this move, the government had issued a note in May which said: “The horticultural and economical activities in the states have been severely affected and slowed down due to the outbreak of Covid-19. This is because businesses and economic activities came to a halt more or less due to the national lockdown.” It added that the government had cleared the ‘Uttar Pradesh Temporary Exemption from Certain Labour Laws Ordinance, 2020’ to exempt all establishments, factories and businesses from the purview of all, but three labour laws and one provision of another Act, for a period of three years. The Uttar Pradesh government was initially forced to retract its order on 12-hour per day work hours after a PIL was filed in the Allahabad High Court against the ordinance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cabinet-empowers-govt-to-suspend-clauses-of-2-acts/articleshow/77473056.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 11, 2020||Goa||Decades old pics, literature, gramophone records at Kala Academy to be digitised||Panaji: Scripts, gramophone records, photographs and other material dating back to the 1970s is going to be digitised by the Kala Academy to be preserved for posterity. “The library is an important asset of the Kala Academy. It is therefore important to take care of its holdings,” a Kala Academy official said. “We are going to digitise the library’s contents for the Goa College of Theatre Arts. Accordingly, we will carry out the work,” KA chairman Govind Gaude said. Some of the plays that were performed in the recent years have been videographed and uploaded on YouTube. However, texts and other holdings of the library continue to be only within the confines of the institute. The academy’s library has rare literature written by playwrights in Goa, copies of which cannot be found elsewhere. “In some cases, old playwrights have submitted their handwritten scripts and have lost the additional copy. Such texts are safely kept in our cupboards. The notable ones will be digitised while others will be scanned,” the official said. Many of the scripts are of plays that have taken place at Kala Academy over the past 40 years. Sources said that some of these were plays that were written and performed especially for the Kala Academy competition, but they were never published and are thus not in public domain The library also has rare musical recordings of celebrated vocalists, including Kesarbai Kerkar. These are being digitised from the magnetic tapes. Artworks of renowned artists like Laxman Pai and Vasudev Gaitonde are among the institute’s prized possessions. Photo albums of various functions held at the institute and attended by renowned personalities are also fast disintegrating, sources said. Librarian Rupa Kamat said that there are about 15,000 holdings in the library. “We have a wide variety of holdings ranging from texts to photographs. These need to be preserved for posterity,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/decades-old-pics-literature-gramophone-records-at-kala-academy-to-be-digitised/articleshow/77473050.cms||Nida Sayed
August 11, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly’s Subhash Nagar out of Covid hotspot zone||Bareilly: The district administration has removed Subhash Nagar from the list of Covid-19 hotspot areas in the city and is likely to remove DD Puram as well. These localities were declared as containment zones and sealed a month ago. However, residents of Rajendra Nagar will have wait as fresh cases continue to be reported from the locality. Ravindra Kumar, SP (City), said with a drop in positive cases have been reported from Subhash Nagar and DD Puram areas, While Subhash Nagar has been removed from the containment zone list, restrictions on movement are likely to be relaxed for DD Puram soon. A final decision on DD Puram is yet to be taken, he added. Residents of Subhash Nagar will now be allowed movement and market areas will also begin to function. However, Covid-19 protocols, including wearing of face masks and maintaining social distancing, will be mandatory for those venturing out. Some of the restrictions are likely to be partially lifted in DD Puram area, where movement may be allowed at some places, sources said. According to sources in Bareilly police department, soon after Rajendra Nagar was declared a hotspot, barricades had been put up on the roads to curb movement by public. However at some places, locals threw caution into thin air and removed the barricades. Residents started thronging the roads despite restrictions put in place. Inspector Balvir Singh of Prem Nagar explained that the area is much bigger than Subhash Nagar and requires strict vigilance in order to ensure that sealing guidelines are followed by locals. Restrictions will continue to be in place in Rajendra Nagar, he added. After several people were tested positive for Covid-19, city areas such as Prabhat Nagar, Delapir-Dharamkanta, DD Puram Road and Rajendra Nagar, were completely sealed in July. Till date, around 3,500 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Bareilly district and of these, around 1,700 are active cases while some 80 people have succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareillys-subhash-nagar-out-of-covid-hotspot-zone/articleshow/77469577.cms||Maria Khan
August 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Two more private hospitals start Covid care centre||LUDHIANA: Two more private hospitals have started Covid care centres on their premises from Monday. These include 25-bedded centre at Verma Super Speciality Hospital near the DMCH and 10-bedded centre at Arora Neuro Centre on Mall Road here. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma and Commissioner of Police Rakesh Kumar Agrawal on Monday visited both hospitals and thanked the hospital managements for assisting the district administration in this hour of need. Varinder Kumar Sharma assured the residents that there is no shortage of beds for Covid treatment in the district. He said that people should not panic and check the status of vacant beds through the mobile app “HBMS Punjab” or on official web links “https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district" or “www.hbmspunjab.in". He said that data of all private hospitals providing Covid treatment has been added on the mobile app as well as on the web links. Commissioner of police Rakesh Kumar Agrawal said that the Covid care centre capacity at Verma Super Speciality Hospital could be extended to 40 beds in the coming days as per the requirement. He said that this facility has seven level 2 beds and 18 level 3 beds. He said that he is hopeful that more private hospitals would start Covid treatment in the coming few days. ADC (development)-cum-nodal officer Covid Sandeep Kumar was also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-more-pvt-hospitals-start-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77470688.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Madurai||SHRC seeks govt report on plea against e-pass system||Madurai: The state human rights commission (SHRC) has directed the chief secretary of the Tamil Nadu government to submit a report within four weeks regarding the hurdles faced by people due to the e-pass system in effect in Tamil Nadu. The order is based on a representation from the Dindigul district president of Tamil Nadu Makkal Nugarvor Peravai, V Visvarathinam.In his representation last week to the acting chairperson of the SHRC, retired justice D Jayachandran, the petitioner ascertained that the e-pass system is against the constitution as each individual has the right to travel. Visvarathinam pointed out how the state government is implementing it even though the Centre has stopped using it.According to Visvarathinam, people from the economically weaker section, who are unable to travel to neighbouring districts for work every day, are among the worst-affected without the e-pass. People travelling for medical emergencies, stranded, those unable to see their aged and ailing parents are also affected, he said and added that during the admission season, students and parents are unable to visit educational institutions in other districts.Noting the blanket rejection of e-passes in various districts, the petitioner also observed that there have been instances of e-pass scams in which the police registered cases and are probing. Considering all these circumstances, the petitioner stated that these are violation of human rights of individuals and appealed to the SHRC to help people get back their basic right to travel.The SHRC on August 7 directed the state that the matter will be listed for further consideration before the commission within four weeks, before which the chief secretary should submit the report without fail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/shrc-seeks-govt-report-on-plea-against-e-pass-system/articleshow/77472155.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hubballi||North Karnataka Ganeshotsava mandals in dilemma||HUBBALLI: Many Sarvajanik Ganeshotsava mandals across North Karnataka are in a dilemma as there is no clarity from the government on installing Ganesh idols in public places. As the festival is fast approaching, idol makers have prepared clay Ganesha idols. Many organisers are waiting for clarity from the government to book the idols and kick start preparations for setting up pandals. The Ganesh mandal committees have approached the pollution control board and district administration, but the lack of any specific government order has meant they haven’t got any response so far. Mohan Limbikai, the chief minister’s legal adviser and the president of Hubballi Sarvajanik Shri Ganeshotsava mahamandal, said the government has made it clear that no festival will be celebrated with a huge gathering due to the Covid-19 pandemic. As per the government’s earlier order gathering of more than five people has been banned during festivals, he said. “Instead of celebrating Ganesha festival with great fervour, the Ganesh mandals should contribute to the CM,’s or PM’s Relief Fund or use the money for public welfare,” he added. Hubballi Sarvajanika Shri Ganeshotsava Ganeshotsava committee mahamandal secretary Amaresh Hippargi said, “There are more than 750 Ganesh mandals in Hubballi. As there has been no clarity from the government, we will soon hold a meeting. We are likely to take a decision to install small Ganesha idols at temples in our respective areas instead of celebrations in public places.” Vijay Jadhav, president, Shri Lokamanya Tilak Ganesh Mahotsava mahamandal, Belagavi, said, “We already met the DC and requested him to issue guidelines, based on which the festival will be observed. But DC has said there are no specific guidelines from the government yet. There are more than 350 Ganeshotsava committees in Belagavi and surrounding areas. Some of them have decided to install idols at temples in their areas and some have decided to install smaller idols in pandals while following government’s guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/with-no-clarity-from-govt-ganesh-mandals-in-n-ktaka-in-dilemma/articleshow/77470147.cms||J Abbas Mulla
August 11, 2020||Madurai||Virudhunagar crosses 10,000 Covid-19 cases||MADURAI: Virudhunagar with 10,155 cases has become the second district in south after Madurai to touch the five-digit mark. After crossing 1,000 cases on July 7, the district added more than 9,000 cases so far. The district had recorded more than 500 cases a day once, more than 400 cases thrice, 300 or more cases on 10 occasions and more than 200 cases on seven days. As many as 577 cases were reported on July 28. The district got the warning bell when cases started to climb when e-pass free travel was allowed and people started frequenting neighbouring Madurai in June. Health department officials said that the second warning bell was when Madurai crossed 10,000 cases on July 27. Aggressive testing by conducting 2,858 fever camps, which included around 100 a day for the last few days, help bring down the daily positive cases. The average daily cases in the district between August 5 and 9 are only 140 as against 310 a day during the previous four weeks. Of the 1,740 hamlets in the district, 361 hamlets had people affected by Covid-19 and only 130 have active cases. The number of containment zones in the district was reduced from 177 on Saturday to 108 on Monday. “When five or more cases are reported from a locality we form containment zones there and it will continue till a door-to-door screening for fever and sample collection is completed,” Virudhunagar district collector R Kannan told TOI. While Sivakasi, Virudhunagar and Aruppukottai towns and the adjoining rural areas have more active cases it has started coming down in the eight other blocks. Though testing capacity of the district is only 1,000 a day sample collection has been increased to 4,000 a day last week in a phased manner over the last three weeks. A special team under the district revenue officer is coordinating sample testing mechanism as 75% of the samples have to be sent to other districts for testing. Around 2,000 samples are sent to Coimbatore every day, followed by 1,000 samples on alternate days to Chennai, 1,000 on alternate days to Erode and 500 on alternate days to Kanyakumari for testing. Backlog of pending samples has also been reduced. It has been cleared till August 6 and the current backlog is only around 5,000 samples. Daily positivity rate that was 33% when around 300 samples were collected went as high as 37% when the district reported 400 to 500 positive cases a day. Now positivity is only around 5 to 7% in the last 10 days. One of the reasons for the spike in mid-July was a technical snag in one of the testing units in the government hospital which showed more results as positive. An expert team from the Madurai medical college attended to it and carried out the course correction 15 days ago. Results from the rectified unit were crosschecked with the same samples sent to a laboratory in Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/virudhunagar-crosses-10000-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77472188.cms||M K Ananth
August 11, 2020||Patna||‘Ignored’ by Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, Chirag Paswan demands CMP ahead of polls||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan created ripples within the NDA on Monday by claiming that the JD (U) national president and chief minister, Nitish Kumar, has been “completely ignoring him” and hence he is left with no option but to seek a common minimum programme (CMP) for the NDA ahead of the state election. He also repeated his demand to defer the Bihar polls owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, but iterated that LJP is prepared to fight on all 243 seats in the state. “Of late, CM has been completely ignoring LJP and me. The situation was better till Pashupati Kumar Paras ji (Chirag’s uncle) was state minister. I was able to raise the views and demands of our party in the state cabinet. However, our communication with the Nitish-government deteriorated after he went to Lok Sabha and the situation worsened after I launched the Bihari First, Bihari First Yatra in February this year,” Chirag told TOI on Monday. The Jamui MP further said programmes such as Jal Jeevan Hariyali and Seven Resolves are JD (U) programmes so CMP is a must to incorporate and safeguard the vision and interest of each ally. Chirag has written several letters to CM NItish in the past few weeks on a range of issues, including ‘poor’ handling of returnee migrants and students, backlog in issuance of ration cards as well as Covid-19 management in Bihar. “The CM never replied to any of my letters. I have not been able to meet him. I am not even able to contact him. I have been completely ignored by him,” Chirag said. Claiming that this lack of communication is the reason behind his demand for CMP, Chirag said, “I am concerned what will happen if NDA wins and he becomes CM again. My party’s vision and agenda for development of Bihar will continue to be ignored. So to get proper attention post elections, I very strongly demand a CMP for NDA. The CMP will have the vision of all constituents of NDA and whoever forms the government will be bound by it.” Asked what steps he is willing to take if his CMP proposal is not accepted, Chirag said, “My party will cross the bridge, when we come to it.” Chirag has also been asking the Election Commission to defer the assembly polls in Bihar. “Bihar is faced with the double whammy of Covid-19 and floods. When it is time to save people’s lives, how can we hold elections and put their lives at risk? Moreover, voter turnout may plunge as people may be scared of coming to polling booths,” he said. Chirag went on to say that President’s Rule in Bihar is a feasible option if the pandemic does not subside and elections have to be deffered. On Covid-19 management in Bihar, the two-time MP from Jamui said, “It could have been much better. Latest reports suggest that testing per million is still very low in Bihar and it ranks third in terms of spread of the virus. It is known to everyone that healthcare infrastructure is poor in Bihar and I hope the CM is taking the correct steps to tackle this crisis.” He added, “The situation drastically improved in Delhi after Union home minister Amit Shah directly intervened in Covid management. I would want the same for Bihar, too, as the situation is not good here.” JD (U), however, dismissed the allegations. “The allegations are baseless. All constituents have been given their due respect. As far as CMP is concerned, we are in the last phase of electioneering and it would be better if such things are discussed post-election,” JD (U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. Another JD(U) national-level functionary said on condition of anonymity that it's BJP which should reply to the demand of CMP as "the LJP is in alliance with them not us". BJP’s state general secretary Devesh Kumar said, “Our national president J P Nadda Ji has made it clear that we will contest the Bihar election in alliance with JD (U) and LJP. The alliance is based on complete understanding among all. There can be minor ruptures but they get resolved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ignored-by-cm-chirag-demands-cmp-ahead-of-polls/articleshow/77469466.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Trade Unions hold rally, protest march under ‘Save India Day’ slogan||Ludhiana : On a call given by the central trade unions under the ‘Save India Day’ slogan, various trade unions, including INTUC, AITUC, CTU, CITU held a rally and protest march from Punjabi Bhavan to the mini-secretariat here on Monday. The rally was presided over by Swaran Singh of INTUC, Ramesh Ratan of AITUC, Paramjeet Singh of CTU and Vijay Mishra, general secretary of CTU, who was the main speaker at the rally. Addressing the gathering at the mini-secretariat, he said that, “With the opening up of some industrial units all workers are not being taken back and only a small percentage was finding their place back in jobs and that also on reduced wages and refusal to pay lockdown period salary. Such denial of employment and pressing for wage reduction have to be unitedly combated. The MSMEs themselves are reporting that 30-35% units may not be in position to start their activities. The unemployment rate is high and job losses continue. Malnutrition will increase, hunger deaths will become a daily reality and there is a real threat of depression resulting in suicides among workers, say eminent scientists and medical experts. All these issues are enraging workers.” He further said that the government not only failed in taking necessary steps to contain the pandemic in time, wasted four precious months, imposed unplanned lockdown at a short notice, bringing in severe miseries to the people, especially the migrant labour, but also failed in taking essential steps for upgrading health system and providing the safety equipment to frontline warriors. It could not recognise the immense services provided by employees of railways, defence, banks, insurance, telecom, postal and other sectors providing essential services during lockdown period. It did not address the problems they faced, it faultered in dealing with the problem of Covid-19 as a law and order issue instead of treating it as a medical emergency. It has caused immense miseries to millions of workers, farmers and other vulnerable sections of the society, whereas the government stood only by the side of the corporates and big business houses. Various other speakers reiterated their opposition to disinvestment and wholesale privatisation of public sector enterprises, entry of FDI in core sectors up to the tune of 100% in Indian Railways, defence, port and dock, coal, Air India, banks, insurance telecom, power, postal and also in space science and atomic energy, etc. They said other financial sectors were also being targeted for large-scale privatisation even as steps were being taken in favour of corporates to usurp natural resources and business of the country while mouthing the slogan of Aatma-Nirbhar Bharat shamelessly. They continued that the decision of DA freeze of 48 lakh central government employees and DR freeze of 68 lakh pensioners, which is also having impact on the state government employees, has not been withdrawn despite vehement opposition from government employees and CTUs. Neither the demand of cash transfer of Rs 7,500 to all non-income tax paying persons has been accepted. The government shamelessly withdrew its own order payment of lockdown period wages, no retrenchments and no cut in wages in the Supreme Court when some employers went to court against these orders, they added. Some of the speakers were of the view that the government was continuing with its arrogant attitude of going ahead with privatisation and sale of PSUs and dangerously liberalizing foreign entry in vital sectors of the economy like defence production from 49% to 74%, along with corporatisation of 41 ordnance factories. The policy of surrendering of sanctioned posts and ban on creation of new jobs in various government departments continues in detriment to young aspirants for jobs. On the top of it the continuous price rise of essential commodities are adding to the miseries of common man. “A government which has no respect and concern towards the rights and basic survival entitlements of workers and the people does not deserve any cooperation. We the workers/employees and trade unions need to do everything possible to be in solidarity with each other, unitedly face the disease while taking all precautions necessary, stand with each other to defend our rights of union, collective bargaining, decent working condition, wages and future securities, etc. This government has demonstrated cruel insensitivity to the basic human needs of the workers and people. Those who addressed the rally include comrades D P Maur, Jagdish Chand, Vijay Kumar, Charan Sarabha, M S Bhatia, Chamkaur Singh, Taarsem Jodhan, Prof Jaipal Singh, gulzar Goria, Jeet Kaur Daad,Gujit Singh Jagpal, Manpreet Kaur, Swaranjeeet Kaur, Master Firoze, Kaur Chand, Balveer Kaur Gill and Sarabjeet Sarhali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/trade-unions-hold-rally-protest-march-under-save-india-day-slogan/articleshow/77470694.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Madurai||Mixed response to awarding of Class X marks in Madurai dist||Madurai: The marks of all Class X students, who were already declared pass in the state board exams, were announced on Monday. However, there was mixed reaction from students and teachers in Madurai district to the marks that were awarded based on attendance, quarterly and half yearly exam performances. A total of 39,995 students -- 20,294 boys and 19,701 girls -- were declared pass in the district. In the city, 1,755 students from 24 corporation schools had cleared the exams. “Addition of attendance has boosted the marks a little. But, we could have scored better if we had written the exams. None of my classmates have got centums because teachers don’t give us centums when we write quarterly and half-yearly exams,” said K Sivathmika, a students from a private matriculation school. Teachers and principals said that most students did not have any issue with the marks. “Many private and aided schools had already put behind Class X exams and started classes for Class XI unofficially. Marks meant little this year. It was strange to see this calm atmosphere on the day of the results,” said the principal of a private school. “My students did not score any centums. But, there was no drastic change in expected marks. We already have the grasp of children’s abilities as well and so we could guide them to choosing the right group for Class XI,” said G Vimala, a Class X science teacher. Meanwhile, in Ramanathapuram, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Dindigul, Theni, Sivaganga, Kanyakumari and Virudhunagar districts, a total of 1,92,350 students cleared their exams. However, private candidates were not included as it is not possible to make calculations based on previous exams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mixed-response-to-awarding-of-class-x-marks-in-madurai-dist/articleshow/77472195.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Nuvem MLA tells SC he’s in Covid hospital, rushes to correct statement||PANAJI: While seeking a four-week adjournment in a disqualification petition filed by Congress before the Supreme Court, Nuvem BJP legislator Wilfred D’Sa — in an apparent goof — told the Supreme Court on Saturday that he was yet to get discharged from the state’s Covid-19 hospital, when in fact it is Cuncolim MLA Clafasio Dias who had been receiving treatment for the virus. Both D’Sa and Dias are among the 10 state legislators facing the case under the anti-defection law. Dias was discharged from the GMC, Bambolim, on the same day the application was filed. Although there is no clarity on how the error occurred, D’sa swung into action to rectify it. “Instead of mentioning respondent 9 (Clafasio Dias) it was mentioned as respondent 8 (Wilfred D’Sa) in the application seeking adjournment. I have instructed the advocate to make the necessary correction and inform the court,” D’Sa told TOI. “The counsel for respondent no. 8 will be seeking an adjournment of four weeks on account of the respondent no. 8 yet to be discharged from hospital after testing Covid positive,” the application stated. The matter is likely to come up for hearing in the Supreme Court on Tuesday. When asked about what is done in such instances, advocate Cleofato Coutinho said if a mistake is obvious and is admitted, it may be considered favourably. Speaker Rajesh Patnekar, in a application filed before apex court, has requested that the hearing be adjourned for two weeks as he is in the process of filling an additional affidavit to bring on record further information and documents that would have a bearing on the present dispute, and which could not be completed earlier on account of the Covid-19 situation in Goa. Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar, however, told TOI that he has filed an application to object to the move for adjournment. On July 24, the Supreme Court had adjourned the hearing for two weeks in the petition filed by Congress seeking an expeditious decision on the disqualification petition filed against the legislators before the state’s speaker. In August 2019, Congress filed a disqualification petition before the speaker against the 10 rebel MLAs who quit and joined BJP a month before. On July 10, 2019, rebel Congress MLAs led by Kavlekar had joined BJP claiming that the Congress Legislature Party had split. The remaining nine MLAs were Isidore Fernandes, Nilkanth Halarnkar, Jennifer Monserrate, Antonio Fernandes, Francisco Silveira, Wilfred D’Sa, Clafasio Dias, Filipe Neri Rodrigues and Atanasio Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nuvem-mla-tells-sc-hes-in-covid-hosp-rushes-to-correct-statement/articleshow/77473053.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Noida||At Wish Town, registrations can now begin for completed flats||NOIDA: With the Supreme Court reinstating Anuj Jain as the interim resolution professional (IRP) of Jaypee Wish Town project last week, the registration cell has asked buyers to deposit money and get their properties registered. The next date of hearing is on August 31. “We have started the registration work. We will get to know how many buyers would come forward to get their flats registered in a week, we are working on it,” IRP Jain said. The registration cell letters ask buyers to carry PAN card, an address proof, and extra photographs of allottees and their family members for social club membership. The letter inviting registration of flats also includes guidelines to be observed as precautions for Covid-19. According to the guidelines, only the allottee and co-allottee are to be present for the registration formalities in Sector 128 office. All allottees have been also asked to wear face masks and carry their own hand sanitizers, apart from pens for signing documents. All registrations will be carried out as per prior online appointment. “I have received a letter asking me to deposit the registration money. The appointment date has not been sent yet,” GD Khare, a buyer said. “The buyers whose apartments are already completed will now get the chance to get their flats registered since the IRP has been reinstated with adequate responsibilities. The fate of the remaining buyers who are waiting for the flats will only be decided in coming hearings at the Supreme Court. The case will be next heard on August 31,” said Raunak Jain, a lawyer representing a section of Jaypee Wish Town buyers. After prolonged insolvency proceedings of Wish Town, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) had given the construction rights for the pending flats to state-owned NBCC in March this year, but the company moved NCLAT, the appellate body, against NCLT, claiming their resolution agreement was dishonoured with the addition of extra financial liabilities. Last month, a group of buyers had moved the Supreme Court, seeking direction to the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) to persuade NBCC to immediately start construction in the Wish Town project and complete around 20,000 pending flats at the earliest. On August 6, the court disbanded the interim monitoring committee overseeing the operations of the project and reinstated the IRP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/at-wish-town-registrations-can-now-begin-for-completed-flats/articleshow/77473058.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
August 11, 2020||Goa||Decision on KA’s open air auditorium to be in public court||Panaji: Art and culture minister Govind Gaude said that the government will hold a public hearing to decide on whether to strengthen or demolish the open air auditorium at Kala Academy. Gaude told TOI that he will receive the final report from public works department (PWD) on the structural strength of the open air auditorium soon. “First, I will call a meeting of all stakeholders, including environmentalist and NGOs, and even members of the media as they are a witness to the functioning of Kala Academy,” he said. He also said that after the first meeting, he will hold a public hearing. The Kala Academy had also reached out to CSIR-Structural Engineering Research Centre (SERC), Chennai, for solutions to strengthen the building structure. To ascertain the structural strength of the building complex, an audit of the structure was done by Goa College of Engineering (GCE) and a Mumbai-based consultancy firm Gem Engserv Pvt Ltd, which was appointed by Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC). The firm’s audit report of the open-air auditorium suggested need for major repairs. However, a second opinion was sought by the GSIDC. The construction of Kala Academy complex was completed in 1981. It was renovated and refurbished in 2004. Situated along the confluence of the Mandovi on the banks of the Arabian Sea, the building has auditoriums, an art gallery, an amphitheatre with regular classes for school of drama, western and Indian music, and dance. TOI had published a series of reports about the government’s intention to demolish Kala Academy’s open-air auditorium, which was built by renowned architect Charles Correa. The High Court of Bombay at Goa had taken suo motu cognisance of TOI’s news reports and called for replies from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/decision-on-kas-open-air-auditorium-to-be-in-public-court/articleshow/77473087.cms||Murari Shetye
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad-based company buys 700 ton ammonium nitrate, to be stored at Keesara||HYDERABAD: A city-based explosives company has purchased 742 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, days after the massive blast in Lebanon’s Beirut where ammonium nitrate was the cause of huge destruction at the port that killed more than 200 lives. Salvo Explosives & Chemicals Private Ltd bought the consignment in a recent auction by the Chennai customs department. Sources said the company is planning to store the stock at its manufacturing unit in Ankireddipally village in Keesara mandal on the outskirts of the city. On Sunday evening, 181 tonnes of ammonium nitrate in 10 containers was dispatched to Hyderabad by road from Chennai, which is likely to arrive soon. The remaining consignment of 561 tonnes in 27 containers would also reach Hyderabad in the coming few days. A Shyam Sunder Reddy, MD of Salvo Explosives and Chemicals Private Ltd, said the ammonium nitrate would be stored in the company warehouse as per the instructions of government authorities. “We have followed the safety precautions as mentioned by the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO). A police team also visited our warehouse and took down details,” Shyam Sundar told TOI. Malkajgiri DCP Rakshitha K Murthy confirmed about the police team visit. “Along with other government agencies, we have also checked the facilities at the explosives unit to ensure that the consignment would be stored in a safe manner. The first consignment has not yet arrived yet,” the DCP added. Sources said proper safety measures have been put in place for the transportation of ammonium nitrate. “Apart from portable fire extinguishers in each container, private security personnel will be accompanying the vehicles till they reach the destination,” sources said. The 742 tonnes of ammonium nitrate was seized by the Chennai customs in 2015 after a company imported it without proper licence. After the explosion at the Beirut port, the Centre had asked customs officials to shift ammonium nitrate lying at ports and container freight stations to safer places. On Sunday evening, 181 tonnes of ammonium nitrate in 10 containers was dispatched to Hyderabad by road from Chennai, which is likely to arrive soon. The remaining consignment of 561 tonnes in 27 containers is also expected to reach Hyderabad in the coming few days, according to sources||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-co-buys-700-ton-ammonium-nitrate-to-be-stored-at-keesara/articleshow/77472214.cms||Mahesh Buddi
August 11, 2020||Goa||Five more die, ten days of August have seen 35 Covid-19 deaths in Goa||PANAJI: The first ten days of August saw 35 persons succumb to the Covid-19 pandemic, an average of more than three deaths a day, and almost half of all Covid deaths reported in the state. On Monday, five more persons were reported to have died of the novel coronavirus, taking the death toll to 80. The state’s total Covid-19 count, too, soared past the 9,000 mark, after 317 new infections were detected. At present, there are over 2,700 active cases in Goa. While three persons — a 49-year-old woman from Aquem, a 73-year-old man from Quepem, and a 47-year-old man from Zuarinagar, all with comorbid conditions — died at the ESI-Covid hospital, two others — a 55-year-old man from Chimbel and a 74-year-old woman from Ponda — died at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said that two of the day’s 12 cases in the city can’t be traced since they provided incomplete addresses. Also, a peon at the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) tested positive, after which the office was sanitised. Others who tested positive on Monday include an employee at the office of the health minister, a GMC lab technician and staff nurse, both residing at Campal, a doctor at the ESI-Covid hospital, a PWD engineer at the St Inez office, and a police staffer attached to the Calangute police station. Meanwhile, a day after health minister Vishwajit Rane announced a second Covid hospital, he engaged in a discussion with the Yale Institute of Global Health to learn about better contact tracing practices. “We exchanged treatment protocols, discussed Centre for Disease Control (CDC) guidelines on discharge policy, the cutting-edge saliva testing being done in the US as an alternative to swab testing, and how the turn-around time for sample testing needs to be cut down for effective contact tracing,” he said, adding that the government will implement the knowledge gathered through the call to fight the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/5-more-die-10-days-of-aug-have-seen-35-covid-deaths-in-state/articleshow/77473062.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 11, 2020||Ghaziabad||Woman shot dead after argument in Loni||GHAZIABAD: A 32-year-old woman was shot dead by an unidentified man following a heated exchange in Loni on Monday. The victim has not been identified yet, and no ID card or other documents were found on her. Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, SP (rural), said the incident took place around 1pm on Monday, when the woman came to Loni on a bike with the man. After an argument, he allegedly shot her in the head with a pistol, he added. “CCTV footage shows her sitting behind the man on the bike. At the spot where the crime took place, an argument broke up between the two and the woman was beaten up by the man. When she slapped him, he took out his pistol and shot her in the head,” he said. “The locals informed police after they heard a gunshot. A team reached the spot and sent the body for an autopsy,” Jadaun said. He added that police have checked with people in the nearby villages but no one has been able to identify her. A photo of the man has been posted on social media too for identification. “We have sent the photos of the duo to all police stations and are trying to trace them,” Jadaun said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/woman-shot-dead-after-argument/articleshow/77473089.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
August 11, 2020||Goa||In Goa, men account for two of every three Covid deaths||Panaji: Two out of every three Covid-19 deaths in Goa are men. Data from the directorate of health services reveals that of the 80 people who have died of the infection in Goa, 53 are men — almost twice the number of women, 27. Since the state’s first Covid death on June 22, the state has witnessed more than a death a day. However, this average has gone up considerably this month, with the first ten days of August reporting 35 deaths. Most of the women who died of the infection have been elderly, statistics reveal, with 40% of them in their 70s. The gender imbalance in Covid deaths in the state mirrors international trends. It has been observed around the world that while men and women share an equal risk of getting infected with the virus, a vastly disproportionate number of deaths are those of men. For instance, in mid-February, the Chinese Centre for Disease Control analysed data from over 70,000 Covid patients, and reported that men were almost twice as likely to die from the disease than women. In the US, data mapped by the Harvard GenderSci Lab also reveals the death rate among men from Covid to be substantially higher than that of women in almost all states. A top doctor who worked with Covid patients told TOI that women are protected with the estrogen hormone before menopause, and as a result, are at a lower risk of developing comorbidities like heart disease during this period. “However, after menopause, women are at as much risk as men at developing heart disease,” the doctor said, adding that fewer women may be succumbing to Covid as they have fewer lifestyle diseases than men. In Goa, diabetes is more common in men than women, an expert said, adding that factors like alcohol and other addictions play a role in men developing comorbidities, whereas most women are generally more disciplined with their diets. While most Covid fatalities in the state are middle-aged or older persons — 70% of those who died were in the 50-79 age group — there have been exceptions, such as the death of a 14-year-old girl from Vasco, a 29-year-old from Altinho-Panaji, and two men each in their 30s and 40s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-goa-men-account-for-two-of-every-three-covid-deaths/articleshow/77473088.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials inspect tank works at Mecca Masjid||Hyderabad: After protests from activists over the construction of a brick platform in the water tank used for ablution at Mecca Masjid, a team of government officials visited the mosque to inspect the construction of the tank on Monday. Advisor to the state government, AK Khan, along with other officials inspected the work. The contractor was constructing a platform using brick and cement inside the water storage tank to prevent leakage of water from the sump. Activists had raised concerns over the ongoing work stating that the use of bricks and cement will affect the beauty of the water tank which is of historical importance. After inspection, the team decided not to use bricks and cement for restoration of the wazu gah and recommended the contractor to remove the bricks and replace it with the cement and iron rods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-inspect-tank-works-at-mecca-masjid/articleshow/77472269.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Pig catchers in Hubballi-Dharwad must take Covid-19 test||Hubballi: Those signing up to catch pigs will mandatorily have to undergo a Covid-19 test, Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation has said. The directive comes in the run-up to a planned drive to eradicate the stray pig menace in the twin cities. The problem has become acute this monsoon with sounders of swine roaming freely around and dirtying the place, especially in extension areas such as Keshwapur, Gokul Road, Old Hubballi, Navanagar besides others. To put an end to this menace, HDMC has roped hig catchers from Tamil Nadu and Tumakuru, but to ensure they don’t spread the virus, the corporation has decided on mandatory tests. Dr Ravi Saligoudar, a veterinary doctor with the corporation, said due to the lockdown, the corporation was unable to keep the pig population in check. “Now we have begun to round up strays and already 70 pigs have been shifted from Hubballi city. We will launch a full-fledged drive soon,” Saligoudar said. Saligoudar said the Covid-19 test was a precautionary measure, in keeping with the circumstances. “As soon as the catchers reach Hubballi, we will subject them to rapid antigen tests. They will be part of the drive only if they test negative. We have already informed contractors that tests are mandatory. It is also acceptable if they produce the latest test report from their place.” Suresh Itnal, commissioner, HDMC, said Covid-19 cases have been increasing by the day in the twin cities, but other work cannot be neglected. “We need to carry out this drive at the earliest, but we also need to take all precautions,” Itnal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pig-catchers-in-hubballi-dharwad-must-take-covid-19-test/articleshow/77470215.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Pune||Pune’s Covid recovery rate (75%) higher than nation’s||PUNE: Over 75% of Covid-19 patients in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) have gone on to make successful recoveries, data released on Monday showed. The region’s recovery rate is now higher than the national average of 70%. The state’s average is around 67.5%. On Monday, data showed that 82,432 from among 1,09,326 patients had recovered. The region’s recovery rate, except for the month of April when it ranged between 9% and 16%, has been on a steady climb. On June 19, the recovery rate was 61%, followed by 65% in July. These figures are a substantial improvement from early May, when the recovery rate stood at just 24%. Officials said widespread testing, isolation and swift care had helped ensure fast recoveries in patients. “Increased testing has helped. And early detection of symptoms is leading to quicker treatment and recovery,” said Bhagwan Pawar, health officer for Pune district. Pawar said the administration is keeping a close eye on the number of recoveries. Sets of data compiled by both the Pune Municipal Corporation and the Pune Smart City Development Corporation indicate a rise in recovery rates. Experts say the new recovery rate data suggests the pandemic may be easing in impact in the region. Medical practitioner Abhijit More said: “Increased testing will only help improve the recovery rate. It’s definitely a good sign that suggests the situation in Pune is improving. The number of positive cases is likely to see a dip in September as well.” Information provided by the district administration (gathered from Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad, Pune rural and the cantonments) showed that there are around 26,000 active patients — 14,000 in hospitals and 12,000 isolated at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-covid-recovery-rate-75-higher-than-nations/articleshow/77472229.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
August 11, 2020||Lucknow||CM sends spl secy-level officer to assist DMs in Lucknow, Kanpur||Lucknow: With Lucknow and Kanpur together accounting for 900 Covid-19 cases a day, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that two special secretary- level officials will now assist the district magistrates in controlling the spread of the virus and ensuring that health services are up to the mark. One special secretary-level official each will also be appointed for Varanasi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur, Bareilly and Bahraich. On Monday, Lucknow and Kanpur had recorded 629 and 269 cases, respectively while Varanasi reported 148 cases, Prayagraj 223, Gorakhpur 255, Bareilly 197 and Bahraich 70 cases. As the number of containment zones in the state climbed to 10,350—with 41,490 confirmed Covid-19 patients, the CM stressed on increasing the number of beds in L-2 and L-3 Covid hospitals which provide facility for oxygen and ventilators. As Lucknow is currently recording the highest number of cases in the state, the CM said that the number of beds should be increased in KGMU, SGPGI and RML Hospital, with special instructions to complete a new hospital under KGMU for Covid treatment before the scheduled deadline of October. “During Monday’s review, the CM said that where necessary, additional manpower for hospitals should also be hired. Covid hospitals should also be established in all medical colleges and a nodal officer to monitor the arrangements at these hospitals should be appointed by the health education department,” said Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary (home). The CM added that it was crucial to continue with all measures required to break the Covid chain. In that context, it was necessary to focus on public awareness programmes through television, radio, newspapers, public address systems, posters, banners, etc. Police and administration have been told to enforce the rule on wearing masks and maintaining social distancing very strictly. After the incident in Ahmedabad where at least eight Covid patients died in a fire that broke out in the ICU, the CM has said that fire safety norms have to be followed very strictly. The fire department has carried out an inspection of several hospitals, both private and government over the past three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-sends-spl-secy-level-officer-to-assist-dms-in-lucknow-kanpur/articleshow/77473090.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 11, 2020||Madurai||Southern TN reports 1,511 cases, 43 deaths||Madurai/ Trichy: As many as 1,511 fresh Covid-19 cases and 43 deaths were recorded in the 10 southern districts of the state taking the tally to 67,063 cases, which include 51,756 discharged cases, and 14,265 active cases. The toll has climbed to 1,042 in the region. The highest number of Covid-19 cases in the region was reported in Theni (357) for the fifth consecutive day. Meanwhile, the death toll of the Covid-19 patients were on the rise in the central region as it recorded 15 more deaths, which include a four-year-old girl on Monday. The region also witnessed 532 fresh cases taking the tally to 18853, which included 5,043 active cases, a dip for the third day. Theni district continues to report rapid spike in Covid-19 cases, which took the total cases to 8,257 cases, which include 3,049 active cases and 97 deaths. Theni is also the only district in the southern region with more than 3,000 active cases and is next to Chennai and Thiruvallur in the number of cases. In the south, seven districts reported more than 100 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday. Kanyakumari, with 205 fresh cases took its tally to 6,553 cases, including 1,787 active case and 80 deaths. It also saw the most number of deaths (7) on Monday in the southern region. Meanwhile, 100 fresh Covid-19 cases or more on Monday were reported in Tuticorin (196), Virudhunagar (189), Dindigul (173), Tenkasi (114) and Madurai (100). After July 26, 173 cases is Dindigul’s highest ever single-day spike. However, the total active cases in the district remain at 714, the third lowest in the region. Sivaganga (59) and Ramanathapuram (35) continued to report the least number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the region. The two districts, with only 446 and 408 active cases remain the districts with the least number of active cases in the region. Out of the 43 Covid-19 deaths recorded on Monday, except for three deaths, one each in Theni, Tirunelveli and Ramanathapuram, all other deaths were of patients with various co-morbid conditions. In the central region, four patients each from Pudukottai and Thanjavur died of Covid-19 while Nagapattinam recorded three deaths, Trichy two, and Karur one. The deaths happened between August 8 and August 10 except the death of a patient on August 1. The regional tally of the Covid-19 casualties was 224, as per state medical bulletin. Trichy, which had been reporting fresh cases between 90 and 100 since July 9, recorded only 56 cases out of the 1,284 samples tested. Pudukottai and Thanjavur districts continued to maintain steady flow of cases with 133 and 123. Fresh cases reported in the other districts were Nagappattinam – 57, Ariyalur – 54, Karur- 44, Perambalur – 35 and Tiruvarur – 30. Meanwhile in Karur, a lab was closed for a day on Monday after two medical staff - a doctor and a lab technician - in the testing lab tested positive. There is one RT-PCR equipment at the lab, which is used for testing roughly 350-400 samples per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-tn-reports-1511-cases-43-deaths/articleshow/77472199.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Facing losses, food stall owners await start of more trains||Ludhiana: After facing financial losses in the past two months due to limited movement of trains across the northern region, local vendors and tea stall owners at the city railway station are waiting for restart of all major long route train service since August 12 as they are not in a position to pay rent to the railway authorities in absence of any earnings. Though, there are several food stall owners who have decided to shut down their stalls inside the station for the next few months if the railway extended their decision to not restart the service of all major long route trains. Besides, they are also following problem of disposing of huge amount of food items stored in their stalls which have not been sold and had got expired. Many tea stall owners have already given up their business of selling food items to passengers and indulging in the sale of vegetables and fruits on city roads after failing to sustain their livelihood and managing household expenses in these tough conditions. There are almost 15 vendors who have food stalls at the station for around 90,000 passengers passing who used to pass through the city station during peak hours of tourist season. But after the outbreak of Covid-19 and cancellation of trains, several food stall owners have been struggling to fulfil their basic needs. A food stall owner, Rajesh Kumar, said, “After the railways resumed the service of some long route trains in June, I reopened my food stall inside the city railway station to sustain livelihood but we have faced huge losses in the past two months as we are not getting adequate response from passengers who mostly bring their own food items and drinking water bottle with them.” Another food stall owner Surinder Gupta said, “After the outbreak of Covid-19, life of food stall owners have totally changed as we have faced massive downslide in our business of selling food items to passengers as these days passengers are not buying even a single water bottle during the present hot and humid weather conditions.” He further said, “Most of food vendors have almost finished their savings in the past four months. Several food stall owners have decided to leave their decade old profession of selling food items and switch to selling fruits and vegetables on roadsides for managing household expenses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/facing-losses-food-stall-owners-await-start-of-more-trains/articleshow/77470749.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
August 11, 2020||Pune||IUCAA to build India’s first optical atomic clock||PUNE: The Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA) will build India’s first optical atomic clock. The accuracy level of the clock is so high that it may miss only one second over the entire age of the universe which is 13.8 billion years, approximately. The clock will be a part of the futuristic Precision and Quantum Measurement laboratory (PQM-lab) being established on the campus. It will be useful for mega-science initiatives such as Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory (LIGO-India) and in fundamental science research. The Department of Science and Technology launched Quantum Enabled Science and Technology (QuEST) in 2019 under which building a PQM lab led by IUCAA Associate professor Subhadeep De was sanctioned. “We have got Rs 10 crore funding from DST for the laboratory and the optical atomic clock which will take at least three years to build,” De said. As the race to produce the first quantum computer, or other quantum technologies becomes cut-throat, India announced in Budget 2020, a National Mission on Quantum Technologies and Applications, with a total outlay of Rs 8,000 crore for five years to be implemented by the department of science and technology. But for any quantum technology to work, it requires an ultra-precision optical atomic clock that can keep up with the quantum speed, which is billions of times faster than classical computers. “Currently the US, Canada, France, Germany, Italy have an optical atomic clock. Japan has one and China is developing one. We are planning to be the first in India. Moreover, the technology outcomes from PQM-lab will lead to the indigenous development of technology which can be only be imported,” De said. It will help in advanced astronomical instrumentation, quantum communication, meteorology, mega-science initiatives like LIGO-India, Thirty Meter Telescope and researching questions of fundamental science such as gravity, dark matter etc. Apart from supporting the national missions, the technological outcomes from the PQM-lab will lead to products that can be commercialised. It will help India move towards tech-driven economic growth by import substitution and self-reliance, IUCAA director Somak Raychaudhury said. The project aims at training human resources so that when the age of quantum technology comes, India is not short on skilled manpower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/iucaa-to-build-indias-first-optical-atomic-clock/articleshow/77472225.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 11, 2020||Noida||Police complaint filed as part of ceiling in Hyde Park flat falls||GREATER NOIDA: A resident of Hyde Park in Sector 78 filed a complaint against the builder and the society’s maintenance agency after a portion of his ceiling fell down on Monday. The complainant, Ajay Pandey, told the Sector 49 police that the incident happened at 12.40 pm when his five-year-old son was taking online classes. “My son had a narrow escape as a chunk of cement fell on his laptop and on the sofa where he was sitting,” he said, adding that he had bought the 3BHK flat for Rs 70 Lakh in November 2018. Apart from Pandey, other residents said this is the seventh such incident that has happened in the society in the recent past. “Recently, a big portion of concrete had fallen on my car,” Pandey said, adding that similar incidents occurred in flat number 302 and 304 of the society. The residents said they had informed the Noida Authority’s additional CEO about the matter but got no response. “We had written to the Noida Authority that the builder is trying to escape with bad quality construction and sought their intervention but got no response,” Pandey said. He demanded the authorities should question the builder as to why the structures were collapsing in just four years. “We seek criminal investigation in the matter,” he said. The resident has been told to visit the magistrate in order to get an FIR registered since the matter is not criminal, said Sector 49 police station station house officer. General manager (maintenance) of the society, KK Upadhyay, said only a small portion of the plaster of Paris had shredded from the ceiling. “We offered immediate repair but the resident denied help and called the police. The damaged ceiling is part of the construction work, which the resident himself had done in the apartment,” he said. The society has over 2,200 flats in 23 towers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/police-complaint-filed-as-part-of-ceiling-in-hyde-park-flat-falls/articleshow/77473105.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
August 11, 2020||Goa||Dip in pepper yield due to wilting disease: Experts||Panaji: Production of black pepper, which was steadily on the rise since the past few years, suffered a slight setback for the 2019-2020 season. Figures shared by the directorate of agriculture revealed that a total of 315 tonne of pepper was produced in the state in this agriculture year, as compared to the 346 tonne produced in 2018-19. The agricultural year is counted from July to June. Experts from ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute, Old Goa, said that wilting disease on pepper vines may have led to the slight decrease in this year’s yield. “Old plantations have chances of catching wilting disease and once affected, it may take another three to four years for the new vine plantations to come up,” ICAR-CCARI director, EB Chakurkar said. Further, he said that even if 10-20% of the vines are destroyed due to heavy rainfall, or irregular management by the farmer, production can get affected, thus bringing down the numbers. As a remedial measure, experts at the institute suggest that pepper farmers adopt new technologies such as use of grafted pepper varieties and protected cultivation of bush pepper, which they say can help in boosting yield threefold. “Through the directorate of arecanut and spices development, we have undertaken a project to improve spice production in the state. We have already replicated four models in fields for bush pepper production,” Chakurkar said. There is, however, a general lack of proper guidance for pepper farmers on how to tackle wilting. Netravali-based pepper farmer Chinmay Tanshikar, who has been reaping the benefit of proper maintenance of his pepper cultivation, says that production has increased by nearly 50% since the last two years and he has been able to harvest 1,000 kg of the prized spice. “If we continue this way, we can produce up to 2,000 kg of pepper each year. Innovative ideas to control the wilt can go a long way in maintaining the health of the ,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dip-in-pepper-yield-due-to-wilting-disease-experts/articleshow/77473110.cms||Nida Sayed
August 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Railways to float tender for upgrading its colonies||Ludhiana: Days after reports of dengue threats looming large over the railway colonies due to their poor upkeep, officials of the engineer department of Northern Railway have decided to soon float a tender to rope in a private construction company to upgrade its basic infrastructure. Those residing in these colonies have been struggling to get better facilities for the past several months with wild grass growing everywhere and sewerage getting choked every now and then, along with crumbling walls of houses. The action has been taken after witnessing heavy rainfall for the past few days, which aggravated the poor living conditions at the railway colonies as it has become one of the best places for mosquito breeding, which has raised health concerns among the employees. Families of railway employees had been continuously expressing their anger over the poor conditions of railway quarters by claiming that the railways keeps on promoting swachhta campaigns but it is limited to railway stations only. The authorities are not concerned about the condition of their colonies. There is no check on the workers deployed to clean the colonies. One of the family members of a railways official who resides in these quarters on condition of anonymity said, “In the wake of poor conditions of railway quarters, most of the time rainwater enters their locality and remains accumulated on the pathways for several days and this then becomes a mosquito breeding ground, He said, “Apart from that, due to poor conditions, families of railway officials have to face the brunt of insect bites due to the wild growth of congress grass in areas where there is stagnant water. Those residing here are in constant fear of getting malaria or some other disease. Two months back a snake had also come out from the same site which exposes the indifferent attitude of the authorities concerned towards the safety of railway employees.”  He further stated that, “There are as many as 13 railway colonies in the city and a total 1,770 quarters but most of them are unsafe. Besides, in some outsiders are also residing illegally. Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said that, “A few days ago the engineering department of Northern Railway had held a meeting with local officials to discuss the road map for renovation of railway colonies in an advance way. Railways will soon float the tender to hire a construction company to commence the development work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railways-to-float-tender-for-upgrading-its-colonies/articleshow/77470759.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
August 11, 2020||Vadodara||3 die in house collapse in Panchmahal||Vadodara: Three members of a family were killed when a house collapsed in the Kanjipani village of Jambughoda taluka in Panchmahal district. The incident took place early on Monday morning when the family was sleeping in the house. According to officials, the family used to stay in a pucca house and had made some extensions to it using bricks and a thatched roof. The original as well as the extended portion of the wall collapsed due to heavy rains in Jambughoda taluka throughout Wednesday night. Officials said that the taluka had received 75mm rainfall in the night. Sources said that the house was occupied by four persons including an elderly woman, her two sons and her grandson. “Three of them died as they were under the structure that collapsed. One of the two men was sleeping in the side of the room and hence survived,” said sub-divisional magistrate A K Gautam. The deceased have been identified as Dayli Baria, her son Radta Baria and Radta’s son Vishnu Baria. Radta’s wife had left the home after a tiff some years back leaving her son behind. Radta’s brother Ramesh was rushed to a hospital for treatment and his condition is reported to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/3-die-in-house-collapse-in-panchmahal/articleshow/77469559.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar records highest one-day 21 Covid deaths||PATNA: The state on Monday reported the highest one-day official deaths due to Covid-19, with 21 people succumbing to the virus, taking the toll to 450. The number of deaths in Patna went up to 88 with seven more deaths reported on Monday. With 3,021 fresh Covid-19 cases reported, the tally has reached 82,741. However, with 54,139 recoveries, active cases stand at 28,150 in Bihar. As per data shared by the health department on Monday, 2,824 people recovered in 24 hours till Sunday, taking the recovery rate to 65%. While the health department reported seven deaths from Patna, two deaths each were reported from Munger and Siwan, taking their respective toll to 22 and 10. Araria, Bhagalpur, Gaya, Kishanganj, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur, Nawada, Vaishali and Supaul reported one death each. According to AIIMS-Patna nodal in-charge for Covid-19, two deaths were reported at the hospital. One was a 62-year-old man from Nehru Nagar in Pataliputra, while another was a 64-year-old man from Bhagalpur. New patients from Hardinge Road, Adarsh Nagar in Phulwarisharif, Finance Colony, Bhoothnath Road and Jay Prakash Nagar were admitted at AIIMS-Patna on Monday. NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh informed about three deaths at the hospital. One was a 76-year-old man from Bakarganj in Patna and he died of cardiac arrest. “Another was a 38-year-old male from Dararpur in Mehnar. He had a medical history of asthma and third was a 74-year-old male from Simari in Raghopur in Supaul. He had a medical history of asthma, hypertension and TB,” said Dr Mukul. He further said 11 patients were admitted at the NMCH, and till Monday, there were 76 patients admitted. Of these, one is on ventilator support, 50 on oxygen and 25 in ICU while there are 363 available beds. Patna registered 402 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 13,892. However, with 9,801 recoveries and 88 deaths, active cases stand at 4003. Other districts which reported large number of cases are Begusarai (171), Buxar (169), Vaishali (149), east Champaran (141), Samastpur (116), Saran (113), West Champaran (108) Saharsa (96), Nalanda (93) and Gaya (92).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-highest-one-day-21-covid-deaths/articleshow/77469554.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 11, 2020||Bengaluru||To-let boards mushroom in Bengaluru as work from home spurs migrant exodus||BENGALURU: A drive through Kammanahalli and surounding areas in north-east Bengaluru may give the impression of an exodus, given the ‘To-let’ signboards in front of every other building. Residential property owners says these are not only a fallout of the pandemic and subsequent Work From Home protocols but also a pointer to the crumbling home rental scene. WFH has prompted many migrants, including IT professionals, to vacate their houses and head to their home towns. Children’s online classes further enabled this. Joby Thomas, 40, used to reside in Devarachikkana Halli with his wife and son. On July 13, before the week-long Bengaluru lockdown came into effect, the Thomas family left Bengaluru, their home since 2000. “We went to my parents’ home in Kottayam after realising there’s no point of staying in Bengaluru as my wife who works in finance has to work from home and our son in class VII has online classes,” said Thomas, who ran a digital marketing business in Banashankari II Stage. He vacated his office last month, adding that all, except a restaurant, in that building moved out. IT professionals Amit Yadav and Rajiv Ranjan stayed with four co-workers in a two-bedroom apartment in Kadubeesanahalli. “We left mid-June and the last person left for his home town last week as all of us have received official orders to work from home till mid-2021. The landlord, otherwise very pricey, was desperate to retain at least two of us,” said Ranjan over phone. Rental furniture and storage facilities to keep one’s furniture and other essential household items for a fee have lightened the burden of shifting out. “I pay monthly rent of Rs 32,000 for my flat in Nagavarapalya but working from home since March 25. I don’t see any point in staying back and paying such a huge amount. I’ve spoken to a storage unit and am waiting for word from my landlord,” said Mahesh K, a medical transcription professional from Telangana. Healthcare woes have contributed to the exodus. “My mother is 71 and suffers from wheezing. Her regular doctor now prefers online consultation. People like us with old family members don’t want to stand helpless without even being able to find an ambulance,” said a 39-year-old IT employee, who spoke on condition of anonymity. He and his family vacated their flat in Sarjapur of seven years to return to Tuticorin. Brokers too are badly hit. “I’d have regular business during pre-Covid days as in a month, at least two people would be looking for a flat and a few out to buy property. But now it has all stopped. Tenants are leaving or demanding reduced rents threatening to move out. I have a dozen unoccupied flats I know of and have not been able to find a single tenant in the past few months,” said S Devendran, a real estate broker in CV Raman Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/to-let-boards-mushroom-in-bengaluru-as-wfh-spurs-migrant-exodus/articleshow/77470557.cms||Petlee Peter
August 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Civil contractor’s cash bag with Rs 8 lakh stolen from car||PUNE: Two men stole a bag containing Rs8 lakh from a luxury car that was parked near a housing society’s gate in Maharshinagar between August 7 and 9. The car’s owner Priyatosh Paigude (37), a civil contractor, registered an FIR with the Swargate police station on August 9. Paigude and his partner jointly run a construction firm on Prabhat Road. On August 7, Paigude had kept cash in a white bag, which he kept in the car near the hand break to pay the salaries of the workers at his construction sites. Later, he and his partner travelled to Uruli Kanchan in the car for some work. Paigude later dropped his partner at his residence around 8.30pm and then reached his residence in Maharshinagar and parked his car on the main road. However, he forgot the cash bag in the car. Senior inspector Bramhanand Naikawadi from Swargate police on Monday said, “Paigude did not visit his office on August 8. Around 11.30am the next day, one of his neighbours informed him that the window glass of his car was damaged. Paigude then rushed to the car and found the cash bag missing.” Naikawadi said inspection of the car revealed the suspects had initially pulled out the music system from the car, but they did not steal it. Instead, they stole the cash bag and fled. “We are checking CCTV cameras and working on certain clues to arrest the suspects at the earliest,” he said. The suspects have been booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civil-contractors-cash-bag-with-rs-8l-stolen-from-car/articleshow/77472287.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Man recovers from Covid-19, hangs himself in Karnataka's Karwar||KARWAR: A 47-year-old man, who had recovered from Covid-19 a month ago but was ostracised by villagers, committed suicide on Monday by hanging himself at his house. The deceased is Ratnakar Naik, 47, a resident of Shirwad in Karwar. He was working in a private pharmaceutical company in Goa and the company had turned into a Covid hotspot. Thereafter he returned to Karwar and tested positive. He underwent treatment and recovered. But life was not the same after he returned to his village. Though he had recovered from Covid-19, villagers, including some of his friends and relatives, feared that he was still a carrier of the virus. They looked at him with apprehension and kept him at a distance. Whenever he came out of house, people avoided him. If he went to the nearby well to fetch water, people would run away after seeing him, said his family members. Ratnakar gradually slipped into depression and stopped coming out of his house. On Monday he hanged himself from the roof at his house. Karwar rural police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/man-recovers-from-covid-hangs-himself/articleshow/77470374.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Lucknow||Compensate power for shutdowns: Min||Lucknow: UP energy minister Shrikant Sharma on Monday directed officials to provide additional power in areas where power disruption has taken place following a shut-down. Presiding over a review meeting of Lucknow, Kanpur, Jhansi and Chitrakoot, Sharma said that power supply should be assured as per the roster. Many districts face power outages because of shutdown to correct a snag. This results in the lessening of the duration of total power supplied. Sharma said that the areas will be provided additional power to compensate for the power shutdown. Sharma was also apprised about large-scale complaints of faulty billing, causing problems to consumers. To this, he sought an inquiry to be conducted to address the problem. He said if needed FIRs be lodged against agencies producing faulty bills. Sharma reiterated that the department has decided to monitor 60 feeders in every district to bring line losses to less than 15%. Currently , the line losses hover between 25 and 30% in different districts. The power minister also urged MLAs and MPs to adopt 10 feeders and help the government in bringing down line losses. The power minister came across complaints of delay in fixing or replacing transformers which go dysfunctional after developing snags. He admitted that the department has been receiving such complaints from some districts. Meanwhile, Sharma asked officials to address complaints which they receive through social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/compensate-power-for-shutdowns-min/articleshow/77473113.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Meerut||Alert onlooker confronts brothers secretlycremating their father, blows lid off murder||Meerut: An alert onlooker confronted two men secretly cremating a body after he became suspicious over only two persons present at the cremation site in UP's Bulandshahr district. The duo at the spot were brothers who were cremating the body of their father. The incident took place in Mubarikpur village of Khurja Dehat police station limits in the district on Sunday evening. "Brothers, Gabbar and Virendra, have been arrested for killing their father over a family dispute," police said. Deepak Kumar, the onlooker, confronted the brother duo with a volley of questions to which the latter could not come up with a satisfactory response following which Kumar alerted the local police. "I was on my way on a motorcycle when I spotted the duo trying to cremate the body with the help of cow dung cakes. It was strange for only two persons to be present at the cremation, taking place in a village. I stopped to probe further. Both the men at the spot gave contradictory replies. So, I became suspicious," Kumar said. Kumar soon alerted the local police unit which reached the spot and removed the partially burnt body from the pyre and found strangulation marks on the body. The two brothers later confessed to have killed their father and were cremating him secretly to hide evidence of their wrongdoings. "The arrested men claimed their father had bad intentions against the wife of one of the sons which led to frequent quarrels in the family after which the brothers decided to kill their father," Harendra Kumar, Bulandshahr SP (rural), said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/alert-onlooker-confronts-brothers-secretlycremating-their-father-blows-lid-off-murder/articleshow/77469544.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Mysuru||Temporary wall to bar entry of people on Wellesley Bridge in Mandya||Mandya/ Shivamogga: As part of the measures being undertaken to mitigate the damage caused by the flood in Mandya district, deputy commissioner MV Venkatesh on Monday ordered the construction of a temporary wall to prohibit entry of people on Wellesley Bridge, which is in a dilapidated condition. Venkatesh on Monday paid a visit to flood-hit areas in Srirangapatna taluk and took stock of the measures undertaken as part of the government’s rehabilitation efforts. The DC instructed police personnel and revenue department staff to remain vigilant and restrict movement of people in vulnerable areas. At the iconic Wellesley Bridge, built across the River Cauvery, Venkatesh ordered the officials to open it to the public only after the water level receded considerably. Meanwhile, police have put up barricades at various spots along the banks of the river to prevent people from venturing in. Meanwhile, a slight drop in the amount of rainfall in the catchment areas of the Cauvery resulted in a corresponding decrease in the inflow to the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir in Mandya. Consequently, the authorities at the dam reduced the outflow from KRS to 25,000 cusecs as against 74,000 cusecs last week. Against its capacity storage of 124.8ft, the current water level of the KRS dam is 119.6ft. In the meanwhile, the outflow from the Kabini Dam came down to 20,000 cusecs thereby considerably mitigating the situation in Nanjangud, which has been struggling to deal with the inundation of its roads and houses. ‘Do you think you’re working in Pakistan?’ Lashing out at officials in the forest department in Shivamogga for their failure in dealing with the aftermath of the heavy rainfall, district in-charge minister KS Eshwarappa on Monday asked them if they thought they were working in Pakistan, an allusion to the purported inefficiency that marks a failed state. Eshwarappa, along with Thirthahalli MLA Araga Jnanendra, expressed disappointment with the negligent attitude of the foresters for not clearing the trees uprooted by the rain in the district. Eshwarappa asked the foresters to identify acacia and eucalyptus trees planted near electricity poles, which he said posed a threat to public safety, and asked them to clear them at the earliest. In all, as many as 314 electricity poles have come tumbling down in Thirthahalli taluk, of which 116 have been replaced. The remaining poles will be replaced in the next three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/temporary-wall-to-bar-entry-of-people-on-wellesley-bridge-in-mandya/articleshow/77470630.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad woman kills 8-month-old daughter, self||HYDERABAD: Upset with her husband, a housewife residing in an apartment in Uppal, killed their eight-month-old daughter before killing herself by jumping off the fourth floor of the building on Monday. According to Uppal police, 38-year-old Mar Margaret first pushed off her child and then jumped herself. Both died on the spot. Margaret had been married to Simon Prabhakar for three years. “She was upset with her husband due to some personal issues. Prabhakar had tried to talk to her but when the former was not around, she took the extreme step,’’ said Uppal inspector Ranga Swamy. Police have registered a case under section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPc. Mary, a native of Kurnool district in Andhra Pradesh, was a nurse while Prabhakar works as a real estate businessman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-kills-8-month-old-daughter-self/articleshow/77472303.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Bains to hold protest today against CP, police for inaction||Ludhiana: A day after Lok Insaf Party (LIP) workers were booked by Ludhiana police after Congress workers beat them up and tossed their turbans, LIP supremo MLA Simarjit Singh Bains has opened a front against the police. Coming live on his FB page, Bains not only launched veiled attacks against Ludhiana commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Aggarwal, but also asked his supporters to gather in large number on Tuesday to stage a dharna outside the CP office at 11am. In a sensational claim, Bains said that one of the attackers of LIP worker Sunny Kainth was a policeman and a resident of Mehmoodpura village and was on one year leave. Bains, who for two days did not comment on this issue as he claimed he was unwell, has now demanded that an FIR be registered against Congress workers and other accused as per the statement recorded by Kainth. Speaking on the issue Bains said, “Our workers who were holding a peaceful protest on the issue of non-availability of ventilators in the civil hospital, were beaten outside MP Ravneet Bittu’s residence and their turbans were tossed under a well-planned conspiracy hatched by the Congress workers in connivance with the police. If the police is not involved in this cowardly act, then why did a SHO called my workers on their phone to come outside MP Bittu’s residence and why all policemen who were present on the spot became mute spectators when the Congress goons attacked LIP workers and how such a huge crowd was allowed to gather inside the house of the MP.” Bains added that, “This is big failure of the Ludhiana police commissioner and he is totally incompetent to run the law and order of the city. How is it possible that an SHO can play in the hands of gangsters and make phone calls to our workers to trap them to get their turbans tossed. Moreover, one of the attackers who has beaten up Kainth and committed sacrilege act by deliberately removing his turban is a policeman who is on 1 year leave and resident of Mehmoodpura village.” He continued, “All these incidents clearly point out that everything was allegedly done by the police at the behest of the ruling party and to please some leaders. But LIP will not tolerate this injustice and on Tuesday we will stage a massive protest against Ludhiana police and CP for their failure to do justice to us and not registering a case against the attackers as per the statement of our workers. We will not sit silent until action is taken.” On Saturday, a protest by LIP was organised against non-availability of ventilators in the civil hospital and to mock Congress MP Bittu for his inaction in the matter. LIP workers had first collected donations from public at Bharat Nagar Chowk and the collection was to be handed over to Bittu as a mark of protest but when LIP workers reached outside Bittu’s home they were attacked by Congress workers, who were allegedly hiding inside the home of the MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bains-to-hold-protest-today-against-cp-police-for-inaction/articleshow/77470769.cms||Mohit Behl
August 11, 2020||Business||Eye on China: Govt mulls duty hike on textiles, cameras, laptops||NEW DELHI: The government is considering increasing customs duty on close to 20 product segments including laptops, cameras, textiles and aluminum goods, while placing some steel items under import licensing, as part of its latest move to restrict imports from China. The issue is now before the finance ministry, which had earlier spurned the proposal from the commerce and industry ministry, sources told TOI. A senior officer said that the revenue department is expected to move ahead by notifying some tariff hikes. “It is not a China-specific duty action but an overall increase in customs duty, although the idea is to focus on products which are coming in large volumes from China,” another officer explained. India-China border stand-off: Complete coverageIn recent weeks, the government has been wary of duty hikes as it has noticed diversion of imports from countries with which India has free trade agreements, especially Asean members such as Vietnam or Thailand. In fact, the perceived inaction by the revenue department has prompted the commerce department to impose curbs such import licensing of tyres and TV sets, which many in the government believe is turning the clock back by a few decades. Read Also327 items form 3/4th of imports from China, ‘can be alternatively sourced’Just 327 products — ranging from mobile phones and telecom equipment to cameras, solar panels, air-conditioners and penicillin — accounted for nearly three-fourths of the imports from China, a study has estimated. The study points out that it is possible to find alternative sources to get theseSome steel products are being considered for import restrictions by the Directorate General of Foreign Trade, which is the licensing agency. Apart from some of the import restrictions, the Narendra Modi administration has also banned 59 Chinese apps, while shifting foreign direct investment (FDI) from China-based entities to the approval route instead of the earlier system which only required companies to inform the Reserve Bank of India post-investment. Further, a registration system has been mandated for Chinese suppliers and contractors who wish to participate in government contracts. Government officials said that the moves are meant to clearly signal India’s displeasure at the recent intrusion in Ladakh, which has also resulted in the death of 20 Army personnel. “Even if it means higher costs, we can’t be doing business with them,” an officer said. Separately, the government is working on promoting domestic manufacturing by offering incentives to mobile manufacturers and pharma companies producing bulk drugs, with a few more sectors expected to be added in the coming weeks. India has a massive trade deficit with China, which was estimated at $48.7 billion in 2019-20, the lowest in five years. The government has accused China of not responding to its requests to allow more exports from India, resulting in higher deficit. Watch Now eye on China, govt mulls duty hike on textiles, cameras, laptops||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/eye-on-china-govt-mulls-duty-hike-on-textiles-cameras-laptops/articleshow/77474244.cms||Surojit Gupta
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Five burglars held, Rs 1.3cr cash seized||Hyderabad: Five burglars, who broke into the house of a businessman and allegedly stole Rs 2.5 crore, were arrested on Monday. The Golconda police recovered Rs 1.3 crore cash from the offenders. The accused were identified as Md Afsar (24), driver of the complainant, Mirza Ashwaq Baig (22), the complainant’s farm house worker, Rehman Baig (23), employee of a food delivery service, Md Ameer (20), a plumber from Akberpura, and Syed Imran (23), an electrician from Akberpura. The money was recovered from Rehman Baig’s in Akberpura. Asaduddin Ahmed, a real estate businessman from Balreddy Nagar in Tolichowki, had complained that between July 21 and 23, Rs 2.5 crore cash was stolen from his house when the family was away. Hyderabad commissioner of police Anjani Kumar said that Afsar and Ashwaq knew that Asaduddin kept huge amount of cash at home. On July 21, Asaduddin fumigated his house and went to his farm house in Shamirpet along with his family for a few days. During the early hours of July 23, the accused broke into the house of Asaduddin and stole the cash. Though the complainant alleged that Rs 2.5 crore was stolen, police said that he had not given any receipts related to the same. “We recovered Rs 1.29 crore cash and the accused confessed that it was the total amount they stole,” Golconda police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/five-burglars-held-rs-1-3cr-cash-seized/articleshow/77472317.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||‘Pass law to keep tabs on anti-Hindu content’||Panaji: The ninth edition of the annual All India Hindu Convention hosted at Ramnathi in Ponda, Goa, . There were 2.5 lakh people in attendance, said the Hindu Janjagruti Samiti (HJS). At the end of the meeting of right-wing Hindu organisations, a resolution was passed to press the central government to carve out a separate ‘Panun Kashmir’ in the valley for rehabilitation of the displaced Kashmiri Pandits. They also demanded that a law be passed to regulate content in web series. “It was resolved that a ‘Central Commission for Naming’ be formed with immediate effect to revert the names of cities, towns, roads, etc, currently named in the country after foreign invaders, to their original names. Another resolution said that the government should impose censorship on web series, taking into account the severe denigration of Hindu dharma, deities, saints, etc, in addition to showcasing nudity and violence,” national spokesperson for HJS, Ramesh Shinde, said. Other resolution at the convention said that a law be framed to send back Rohingya Muslims currently sheltered in Delhi. The organisations also said that after work of construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya begins, their demand for construction of Vishwanath Temple and Shrikrushna temple should also be fulfilled. Panaji: The ninth edition of the annual All India Hindu Convention hosted at Ramnathi in Ponda, Goa, went online this year due to the pandemic. There were 2.5 lakh people in attendance, said the Hindu Janjagruti Samiti (HJS). At the end of the meeting of right-wing Hindu organisations, a resolution was passed to press the central government to carve out a separate ‘Panun Kashmir’ in the valley for rehabilitation of the displaced Kashmiri Pandits. They also demanded that a law be passed to regulate content in web series. “It was resolved that a ‘Central Commission for Naming’ be formed with immediate effect to revert the names of cities, towns, roads, etc, currently named in the country after foreign invaders, to their original names. Another resolution said that the government should impose censorship on web series, taking into account the severe denigration of Hindu dharma, deities, saints, etc, in addition to showcasing nudity and violence,” national spokesperson for HJS, Ramesh Shinde, said. Other resolution at the convention said that a law be framed to send back Rohingya Muslims currently sheltered in Delhi to protect national security. The organisations also said that after work of construction of the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya begins, their demand for construction of Vishwanath Temple in Kashi and Shrikrushna temple in Mathura should also be fulfilled. Hindu Janajagruti Samiti’s Charudatt Pingle said 2023 is the target year by when establishment of Hindu Rashtra will take place and that contributing towards it is a spiritual exercise. The convention also resolved to push the Centre “to approve conclusive laws for nationwide ban on cow slaughter and religious conversions taking into consideration the strong sentiments of the Hindu society”. “The atrocities on Hindus in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka must be investigated by the government of India and the International Human Rights Commission, in addition to providing protection to the minority Hindus. A resolution was also passed to stop the government takeover of Shri Nataraj Mandir in Tamil Nadu and follow the apex court’s ruling of abolishing the government’s control over temples across India and hand over the managerial powers to the devotees,” Shinde said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pass-law-to-keep-tabs-on-anti-hindu-content/articleshow/77473131.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nashik||Trimbakeshwar starts online darshan facility||Nashik: The Trimbakeshwar temple trust has started the online darshan facility of Lord Shiva for the devotees from Monday. The temple trust took this decision in the interest of the pilgrims who are not able to visit the temple due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Santosh Kadam, one of the trustees of temple, said they planning to start the online darshan facility for a long time, but technical issues delayed the process. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/trimbakeshwar-starts-online-darshan-facility/articleshow/77469572.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly’s Subhash Nagar out of Covid hotspot zone||Bareilly: The district administration has removed Subhash Nagar from the list of Covid-19 hotspot areas in the city and is likely to remove DD Puram as well. These localities were declared as containment zones and sealed a month ago. However, residents of Rajendra Nagar will have wait as fresh cases continue to be reported from the locality. Ravindra Kumar, SP (City), said almost no positive cases have been reported from Subhash Nagar and DD Puram areas, While Subhash Nagar has been removed from the containment zone list, restrictions on movement are likely to be relaxed for DD Puram soon. A final decision on DD Puram is yet to be taken, he added. Residents of Subhash Nagar will now be allowed movement and market areas will also begin to function. However, Covid-19 protocols, including wearing of face masks and maintaining social distancing, will be mandatory for those venturing out. Some of the restrictions are likely to be partially lifted in DD Puram area, where movement may be allowed at some places, sources said. According to sources in Bareilly police department, soon after Rajendra Nagar was declared a hotspot, barricades had been put up on the roads to curb movement by public. However at some places, locals threw caution into thin air and removed the barricades. Residents started thronging the roads despite restrictions put in place. Inspector Balvir Singh of Prem Nagar explained that the area is much bigger than Subhash Nagar and requires strict vigilance in order to ensure that sealing guidelines are followed by locals. Restrictions will continue to be in place in Rajendra Nagar, he added. After several people were tested positive for Covid-19, city areas such as Prabhat Nagar, Delapir-Dharamkanta, DD Puram Road and Rajendra Nagar, were completely sealed in July. Till date, around 3,500 Covid-19 cases have been reported in Bareilly district and of these, around 1,700 are active cases while some 80 people have succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareillys-subhash-nagar-out-of-covid-hotspot-zone/articleshow/77468534.cms||Maria Khan
August 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Relax 25% SDRF cap, Pinarayi Vijayan urges PM Modi||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala has sought additional financial assistance from the Centre in the wake of the monsoon wreaking havoc in the state on top of efforts to contain the Covid-19 outbreak. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the state has requested the Centre to allow it to utilize SDRF (state disaster response fund) for Covid-19 containment activities beyond the 25% expenditure cap. He made the appeal during a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday. Vijayan said he made the case for liberal aid with testing and quarantine facilities weighing heavily on the state’s finances. A detailed report on the state’s financial liabilities will be submitted to the Centre. The CM said that with the state facing monsoon floods for the third consecutive year all possible precautions have been taken. The death toll in the landslide at Pettimudy, Idukki has increased to 48, after five more bodies were recovered on Monday, the CM said. He said the search for 22 more persons is on with heavy rains staying away. Along with NDRF, state disaster management authority, police, fire force and forest department officials are undertaking the search for the remaining persons feared trapped in the debris, he added. With rains abating, the overall situation in the state has improved. There are 25,057 persons in 720 relief camps across the state, Vijayan said. The downpour has left 37 houses completely destroyed in Thiruvananthapuram, with another 218 suffering partial damage. There are 583 persons in two relief camps in the district. As much as 5,885 hectares of farmland was destroyed. In Kollam, 373 persons are housed in six relief camps, while the 125 camps in Pathanamthitta are catering to 4,657 affected persons. Water continued to be released from Moozhiyar, Maniyar and Pamba dams in the district. In Alappuzha, 4,449 persons have been housed in 74 relief camps. In Kottayam, 5,647 persons were relocated to relief camps. Water levels in the Meenachil and Manimala rivers continue to be above the danger level. In Ernakulam, there is no room for concern with water levels in major rivers yet to reach dangerous levels. The threat of landslides in Palakkad saw 27 persons being relocated to a relief camp. In Wayanad, the respite from rains has improved the situation in the Karappuzha and Banasurasagar dams. Nearly 4,217 persons have been housed in 81 relief camps in the district, the CM said. He added that though the monsoon has weakened, the state will continue to be on high alert for some more days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/relax-25-sdrf-cap-cm-urges-pm/articleshow/77470792.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Super fans’ can cut annual bill by Rs 4,000||NEW DELHI: An average two-bedroom household in Delhi with four fans can reduce its annual power bill by up to Rs 4,000 by replacing normal ceiling fans with super-efficient fans, also known as ‘super fans’, according to a PwC concept paper prepared for Energy Efficiency Services Ltd under the power ministry. The paper, based on a study of the Delhi market, says each super fan can yield a saving of Rs 960 per year by consuming 192 units less, assuming a daily run-time of 16 hours for eight months and an average tariff of Rs 5 per unit. That’s not all. Assuming a base number of a million fans, super fans can result in energy saving of 192 million units and monetary saving of Rs 96 crore per year. Super fans are rated at 25 watts by the Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) against 75-80 watts for normal fans sold in the market. There are another set of fans tagged as ‘efficient’ under BEE’s star rating system. Super fans, however, are considered a better option due to their higher saving potential. But despite the huge potential, households rarely give the ubiquitous equipment a second thought while checking their monthly power bill. “Ironically, in spite of near-universal presence in households, the ceiling fan has so far been overlooked in the energy efficiency discourse. In spite of the available energy-efficient technologies, ceiling fans sold in the country are of very low efficiency,” the paper says. EESL launched a replacement programme in 2015 along with ‘UJALA’, the Central scheme for replacing all incandescent and CFL lamps with LED bulbs. UJALA proved a runaway success and has resulted in annual energy saving of 47,568 million units and cost saving of Rs 19,027 crore. But the super fan scheme faltered in the absence of support from discoms. Given the higher consumption of fans against average 9 watts for an LED bulb, the saving potential from super fans is huge. Watch Delhi: Now ‘super-efficient fans’ can cut annual bill by Rs 4,000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fan-following-switch-to-super-saver-can-cut-your-annual-bill-by-up-to-rs-4k/articleshow/77472353.cms||Sanjay Dutta
August 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Poet writes to PM Modi, offers his five acre land for ‘Babri mosque’||LUCKNOW: Renowned Urdu poet Munawwar Rana has sent a letter to PM Modi expressing willingness to donate his ancestral 5.5 acre land next to river Sai in Rae Bareli, for construction of a grand Babri Masjid. The poet has also said that the five-acre land in Dhannipur village sanctioned by the government in lieu of Babri Masjid, should be used for building a hospital in the name of King Dashrath, the father of Lord Ram. TOI is in possession of the two-page letter sent to the PM by speed post. The 69-year-old poet who received the Sahitya Akademi award for Urdu but returned it in 2015 over the “intolerance” issue, has also asked the PM for a new Muslim waqf Board for protection of waqf properties. Speaking to TOI over phone, the poet reiterated that, “Land for the mosque was thrown away in a far off area in Dhannipur. It is better then that instead of igniting more hate between Hindus and Muslims, Raja Dashrath hospital be built on the said land. People should see what Muslims did.” “In any case mosques are not built on government lands or those usurped by force,” he added. In the letter, Rana has said that Rae Bareli is a city of historical, cultural and religious importance.  “It is desirable then that the land in my son Tabrez Rana’s name be given for construction of a grand Babri Masjid,” the letter states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/poet-writes-to-pm-offers-his-5-acre-land-for-babri-mosque/articleshow/77473122.cms||Yusra Husain
August 11, 2020||Kochi||Malappuram lives up to its Samaritan reputation||KOZHIKODE: Late on Sunday, Air India Express officially tweeted a “standing ovation” and “bow to humanity” to the people of Malappuram for their remarkable contribution to rescue and relief work following the crash of flight IX 1344 on the night of August 7 in which 18 people, including the pilot and co-pilot, died. After the plane overshot the tabletop runway and plunged 35 feet into the valley below, it was local residents of nearby Kondotty who were the first responders. It was pouring that night and, worse, Kondotty was a Covid ‘critical containment zone’ under official curfew but that didn’t deter people from rushing out of their homes and sifting through the wreckage to pull out survivors. Before the police and ambulances came, local people had already taken over, ferrying the injured in autorickshaws, vans, trucks and, in one case, an Audi to nearby hospitals. It didn’t end there. After the official machinery got its act together, local youth queued up all night to donate blood as WhatsApp messages requested emergency assistance for the injured passengers. For Malappuram residents, renowned across the state for their openness and generosity, the Karipur tragedy immediately brought to mind the Kadalundi train accident 19 years ago in which 57 people died but over 200 were saved thanks to intrepid locals who thought nothing of diving into a foaming river to fish out drowning passengers. Last Friday, for three hours after the AI Express flight crashed, 23-year-old Abu Irshad hailing from Kondotty shuttled eight times non-stop in an ambulance rushing inured people from the plane crash site at Karipur airport to various hospitals. While he accompanied injured persons in six trips, he sat along with dead bodies in two trips. Now Irshad along with five of his friends are under institutional quarantine for 14 days along with 30 others at the Kottukkara PPM higher secondary school as a Covid-19 precaution as some rescued passengers of the flight have tested Covid positive. Irshad’s friend Swadiq Ameen, a BTech student, had just completed a 14-day home quarantine on Wednesday after two of his cousins tested positive. Swadiq had entered the plane wreckage and had extricated five injured passengers. Irshad and Swadiq are among the over 200 local volunteers from Kondotty who took the lead to conduct a community-led rescue operation which helped reduce casualties in the worst airline accident the state has ever witnessed. The civilian volunteers did selfless service as first responders to rescue the passengers from the plane wreckage and ferry them to the hospitals unmindful of even their personal safety amid the high risk of Covid-19 pandemic in the Kondotty area which is a containment zone and a large community Covid-19 cluster for the last several weeks. “I have been out of job for the last one month as the tools shop in which I have been working at Kondotty has been closed as the area is a Covid-19 containment zone. Now we have to stay under quarantine for 14 days. But that doesn’t matter when compared to the satisfaction of being able to help save lives during that hour of tragedy,” Irshad said. He said that he didn’t not have even a face mask as the one he had had got soiled in the rain while helping a local resident salvage his furniture from his flooded house nearby from where he rushed to the crash site. “How will one think about all those when you see scores of people crying for help and women and children lying there bleeding? At that moment saving lives was the only thing in our minds,” Swadik said. Mohiyudheen Ali, a bank employee who was at the site till 11pm, said that what was on display was a natural reaction of a society who doesn’t think twice when lives are at stake. “We have seen the same scenes of compassion during the Pookiparambu bus tragedy and in the Kadalundi train accident in 2011. I am sure the response would have been the same if the mishap had taken place at any other place in Malappuram,” Ali said. “It is the result of the social capital which has arisen out of the social bonding and harmony which has evolved in the district cutting across religious and political differences. I had seen people coming to the plane crash site in whatever vehicles they had –– from autorickshaws to Audi cars to trucks –– to take the injured to hospitals,” he added. The blood bank at Kozhikode Government Medical College was literally overwhelmed with donors who waited in long queues even till the wee hours of the morning after requests for blood were sent across WhatsApp groups and flashed on news channels. “We had shortage of blood at the blood bank due to Covid-19 and just within an hour of our request to blood donor WhatsApp groups at 9pm, donors started pouring in. We collected blood from 77 persons but around 200 people had arrived at the KMCH to donate blood. As we could collect enough, we took the telephone numbers of remaining volunteers and told them that we would contact if needed,” Dr Deepa Narayanan, head of transfusion medicine at Kozhikode government medical college said. Other hospitals in the city too had seen tremendous response from blood donors. Nineteen years back on a monsoon Friday afternoon on June 22, 2001, the district had seen similar scenes of courage and kindness when the small riverside village of Vallikunnu in Malappuram and Kadalundi on the Kozhikode side of the river when the four coaches of the Mangalore-Chennai Mail derailed and fell from a bridge into the Kadalundi river killing 57 people. But over 200 passengers were rescued by the over 500 people who had rushed to the spot braving the heavy rains. The mosque next to the accident site had given the call for people to come to the site over its mike system and the villages own Khalasis (boat makers), fishermen, local boatmen and sand miners turned up in large numbers and ventured into the river to rescue stranded passengers from the half sunken bogies. People lined up on two sides of the 2km mud road to the accident site to clear the road for vehicles carrying the injured. “The Karipur plane rescue operation reminded me of the one that we carried out at Kadalundi. People including Khalasis, fishermen and others went about rescuing people on their own as if by clockwork without waiting for anyone to tell them what to do- from mobilising vehicles to rescue and regulating traffic,” said Najeeb NV, who had participated in the rescue operations. Watch Air India Express tweets “standing ovation” for Malappuram samaritans||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mpuram-lives-up-to-its-samaritan-reputation/articleshow/77469583.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida hospital starts suicide helpline||GREATER NOIDA: Sharda hospital on Monday launched a dedicated 24x7 suicide helpline to address increasing queries related to anxiety and depression. The helpline will be manned by a senior, trained psychiatrist from the hospital’s department of psychiatry unlike the usual appointment of juniors for the job. Additional faculty will be deployed if the queries increase. Residents can dial +918287446305 and 0120-2329700 with Extn 9735 to reach the specialist. The “suicide helpline” is separate from the current 24x7 Covid control room helpline number 0120-2323625, which was launched by the hospital on July 1. Elaborating on it, Dr Kunal Kumar, head of department psychiatry at Sharda University’s School of Medical Sciences and Research (SMSR), said that the idea of the helpline came from the work and queries they received while organising mental health camps by the department of psychiatry that currently has 10 members, including four resident professors, two assistant professors, one associate professor, two clinical psychologists, four junior residents and one senior resident doctor. “We have been working on mental health programmes through dedicated camps since pre-Covid days and we noticed that during the pandemic, the number of patients with anxiety, stress, tension etc. related issues increased in the district,” the doctor said, adding that they received of 1-2 calls related to feelings of suicide every second or third day and the number has further increased now after Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/greater-noida-hospital-starts-suicide-helpline/articleshow/77473121.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
August 11, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Hospital, hotel staff ill-equipped to handle fire safety gadgets||VISAKHAPATNAM: Fire safety in most hotels and hospitals in Andhra Pradesh is restricted to fire extinguishers only. Neither do most hospitals hold training sessions on fire safety for their medical and paramedical staff, nor are employees of most hotels trained to handle eventualities like the Vijayawada fire, which broke out on Sunday. Under such circumstances, in case of a fire, the entire responsibility of fire-fighting falls on guards from outsourced security agencies. But the catch is that even several security agencies do not trains their employees in fire fighting measures. “We are in the trade for the past 18 years. Most companies, including hospitals and hotels, approach us to seek consultation on fire safety equipment, which would help them obtain the fire licence. Despite our repeated requests most of these companies don’t ask us to train their employees or organise periodic mock drills,” said Molleti Bhaskar Rao, from a fire training institute in Visakhapatnam. TOI on Monday spoke to several doctors, nurses, paramedical staff of hospitals and employees of various hotels. Most of them accepted that they had neither been offered fire safety training nor had they attended any mock drill. A few security guards at budget hotels in Vizag city confessed that they had never handled a fire extinguisher in their life. “We do organise training for our employees. But the problem is, it is a continuous process and not cost effective. The best way is to outsource the responsibility to a security agency where guards have expertise in fire-fighting. Moreover, we mostly have visiting doctors we do not force them to take the training,” a senior official at a private hospital told TOI. Experts, however, blamed the fire services for their lapses in ensuring that citizens are trained. Although as per provisions under the AP Fire Services Act, 40% of the occupants or employees in every residential and commercial buildings should have training in fire management, at the time of renewal of licences (no-objection certificate), fire officials only check the fire-fighting facilities installed in the premises. “Although it is mandatory for us to check whether 40% occupants or employees are trained in fire-fighting management, it is not possible for us to check it physically. Usually, we rely on documents provided by the applicants and issue or renew the NOC,” said a fire services department senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hospital-hotel-staff-ill-equipped-to-handle-fire-safety-gadgets/articleshow/77475012.cms||Arpit Basu
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Gang of two that duped people with higher returns on FD busted in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two people, who were running a fake firm and duping others by offering them higher returns on fixed deposits, were arrested on Monday. The accused would target people living in slums and JJ colonies, offering them higher interest on smaller deposits. So far, 30 people living at a camp near Meharchand Market have approached the cops alleging that they were duped. According to the police, the accused would visit various slum areas and ask people to deposit Rs 100 per day for one year, assuring them a return with 15% interest. They were identified as Sudhir Prakash Sharma (40) and Naveen Sachdeva (48). The duo ran an illegal finance company — Sachdeva Group — from 2013 and operated from a house in Kalkaji without any permission. “The men would visit various slums and lure the public to open fixed deposits with them. On an investment of Rs 100 per day for a period of one year, the public was assured an amount of Rs 41,400 after 12 months. Initially they returned the maturity amount to win their trust, and more people started investing in their schemes,” said DCP (South) Atul Thakur. On Saturday, one Zahira Khatoon, a resident of Harijan Camp in Meharchand Market, along with other women of the area approached the cops at Lodhi Colony police station claiming that they were duped. The women sold corn at India Gate and had saved the money over a long period of time. Sudhir, who was roaming in the area convincing residents to invest, was nabbed by the cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-of-2-that-duped-people-with-higher-returns-on-fd-busted/articleshow/77472319.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: 794 more +ve, casualty count rises to 489 in Haryana as 6 succumb||CHANDIGARH: Six more persons died of Covid-19 in Haryana on Monday even as 794 new cases pushed the state’s caseload to 42,429 cases and 489 fatalities. Meanwhile, 711 patients were discharged during the day, raising the number of total recoveries in the state to 35,492 and the recovery rate to 83.65%. Now, there are 6,448 active cases in the state, including 114 on oxygen support and 22 on ventilators. While Rewari reported three fatalities, two deaths were reported from Panipat and one from Faridabad district. Meanwhile, Gurugram, once in top three districts in the state in terms of new patients, dipped to sixth position. Among the districts that reported fresh cases were Faridabad (154), Ambala (84), Panipat (72), Rewari (71), Panchkula (59), Gurugram (57), Yamunanagar (44), Kurukshetra (43), Rohtak (40), Karnal (32), Sonipat (31), Hisar (23), Sirsa (22), Fatehabad (15), Kaithal (14), Bhiwani (11), Jhajjar (10), Nuh (5), Charkhi Dadri (4) and Jind (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/794-more-ve-casualty-count-rises-to-489-in-haryana-as-6-succumb/articleshow/77481898.cms||Manvir Saini
August 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Hospital, hotel staff ill-equipped to handle fire safety gadgets||VISAKHAPATNAM: Fire safety in most hotels and hospitals in Andhra Pradesh is restricted to fire extinguishers only. Neither do most hospitals hold training sessions on fire safety for their medical and paramedical staff, nor are employees of most hotels trained to handle eventualities like the Vijayawada fire, which broke out on Sunday. Under such circumstances, in case of a fire, the entire responsibility of fire-fighting falls on guards from outsourced security agencies. But the catch is that even several security agencies do not trains their employees in fire fighting measures. “We are in the trade for the past 18 years. Most companies, including hospitals and hotels, approach us to seek consultation on fire safety equipment, which would help them obtain the fire licence. Despite our repeated requests most of these companies don’t ask us to train their employees or organise periodic mock drills,” said Molleti Bhaskar Rao, from a fire training institute in Visakhapatnam. TOI on Monday spoke to several doctors, nurses, paramedical staff of hospitals and employees of various hotels. Most of them accepted that they had neither been offered fire safety training nor had they attended any mock drill. A few security guards at budget hotels in Vizag city confessed that they had never handled a fire extinguisher in their life. “We do organise training for our employees. But the problem is, it is a continuous process and not cost effective. The best way is to outsource the responsibility to a security agency where guards have expertise in fire-fighting. Moreover, we mostly have visiting doctors we do not force them to take the training,” a senior official at a private hospital told TOI. Experts, however, blamed the fire services for their lapses in ensuring that citizens are trained. Although as per provisions under the AP Fire Services Act, 40% of the occupants or employees in every residential and commercial buildings should have training in fire management, at the time of renewal of licences (no-objection certificate), fire officials only check the fire-fighting facilities installed in the premises. “Although it is mandatory for us to check whether 40% occupants or employees are trained in fire-fighting management, it is not possible for us to check it physically. Usually, we rely on documents provided by the applicants and issue or renew the NOC,” said a fire services department senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/hospital-hotel-staff-ill-equipped-to-handle-fire-safety-gadgets/articleshow/77470798.cms||Arpit Basu
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ministry staffer ran arms racket from ordnance factories, held||NEW DELHI: An employee of the Union labour and employment ministry has been arrested for allegedly running an interstate racket selling weapons made in ordnance factories to criminals in Delhi. According to DCP (Crime) Bhisham Singh, Mohammad Insar Khan (31) worked as a junior statistical officer at the ministry. The gang used to buy these weapons using fake licences issued in the name of family members of history-sheeters and sold them to criminals in Delhi, he said. The Crime Branch has also arrested the owner of the gun shop from where the gang was sourcing weapons. No record has been found of the ammunition and weapons sold using fake licences. Paras Chopra, the owner of Chopra Gun House in Haryana’s Karnal, allegedly said these were sold to criminals without any verification of arms licences. Khan told the cops that he used to supply sophisticated automatic pistols made in ordnance factories from criminals based in Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh, to those in Delhi. The UP criminals bought these sophisticated arms from different gun houses in the state and Haryana. The racket was busted by the cyber cell of the Crime Branch after inspector Vijay Shanwal received a tip-off that a gunrunner was coming to India Gate to deliver a consignment. A trap was laid and the accused was arrested at Tilak Marg. A .32 bore automatic pistol made in the Kolkata ordinance factory, along with one extra magazine and five live cartridges, were found on him. He revealed that he had collected the pistol from Deepak alias Furtila of Baghpat. Though Furtila couldn’t be found during a raid in his house, 14 live cartridges and a magazine were seized. Furtila is involved in more than 15 criminal cases in the state. Khan then led the cops to Chopra, the Karnal shopowner who had allegedly sold the pistol to Furtila. Khan, who used to collect weapons from Uttar Pradesh and supply these in Delhi, was earlier accused in a case of fraud and criminal conspiracy in Lucknow. “Khan got a government job as a junior statistical officer in 2012 through SSC Combined Graduate Level Exam. He was arrested in August 2012 by Ameenabad Police Station, Lucknow in a case related to cheating in an examination for stenographers conducted by Staff Selection Commission, New Delhi,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ministry-staffer-ran-arms-racket-from-ordnance-factories-held/articleshow/77472314.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 794 more +ve, casualty count rises to 489 in Haryana as 6 succumb||CHANDIGARH: Six more persons died of Covid-19 in Haryana on Monday even as 794 new cases pushed the state’s caseload to 42,429 cases and 489 fatalities. Meanwhile, 711 patients were discharged during the day, raising the number of total recoveries in the state to 35,492 and the recovery rate to 83.65%. Now, there are 6,448 active cases in the state, including 114 on oxygen support and 22 on ventilators. While Rewari reported three fatalities, two deaths were reported from Panipat and one from Faridabad district. Meanwhile, Gurugram, once in top three districts in the state in terms of new patients, dipped to sixth position. Among the districts that reported fresh cases were Faridabad (154), Ambala (84), Panipat (72), Rewari (71), Panchkula (59), Gurugram (57), Yamunanagar (44), Kurukshetra (43), Rohtak (40), Karnal (32), Sonipat (31), Hisar (23), Sirsa (22), Fatehabad (15), Kaithal (14), Bhiwani (11), Jhajjar (10), Nuh (5), Charkhi Dadri (4) and Jind (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/794-more-ve-casualty-count-rises-to-489-in-haryana-as-6-succumb/articleshow/77472345.cms||Manvir Saini
August 11, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: 794 more +ve, casualty count rises to 489 in Haryana as 6 succumb||CHANDIGARH: Six more persons died of Covid-19 in Haryana on Monday even as 794 new cases pushed the state’s caseload to 42,429 cases and 489 fatalities. Meanwhile, 711 patients were discharged during the day, raising the number of total recoveries in the state to 35,492 and the recovery rate to 83.65%. Now, there are 6,448 active cases in the state, including 114 on oxygen support and 22 on ventilators. While Rewari reported three fatalities, two deaths were reported from Panipat and one from Faridabad district. Meanwhile, Gurugram, once in top three districts in the state in terms of new patients, dipped to sixth position. Among the districts that reported fresh cases were Faridabad (154), Ambala (84), Panipat (72), Rewari (71), Panchkula (59), Gurugram (57), Yamunanagar (44), Kurukshetra (43), Rohtak (40), Karnal (32), Sonipat (31), Hisar (23), Sirsa (22), Fatehabad (15), Kaithal (14), Bhiwani (11), Jhajjar (10), Nuh (5), Charkhi Dadri (4) and Jind (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/794-more-ve-casualty-count-rises-to-489-in-haryana-as-6-succumb/articleshow/77481897.cms||Manvir Saini
August 11, 2020||Kochi||‘Poor visibility hindering search’||IDUKKI: Poor visibility is the main hurdle in the rescue and search operations at the landslide site in Pettymudy, said Rekha Nambiar, who is leading the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team at Pettimudy. “Due to heavy fog, the visibility is only up to 20-30 feet. In addition, there are huge rocks all over the place. We have to move these rocks to continue the search,” Rekha said. Waterlogging in the landslide site is another hurdle before the team. “We can’t dig further deep to search for the bodies due to this issue,” she said. The team has already recovered nine bodies from Kanniyar river and they have intensified the search for the others who are missing. The search will continue for the next three days, the NDRF team head said. With the recovery of six more bodies on Monday, the death toll in the Pettimudy-Rajamala landslide rose to 49. According to Idukki district collector H Dineshan, “The bodies were recovered from Kanniyar river near the estate layams (cluster of workers’ quarters) which were destroyed in the landslide in the early hours of Friday. The bodies recovered on Monday were identified as Pratheesh (32), Veluthayi (58), Vinodini (14), Joshwa (13) Rajalakshmi (12) and Vijayalakshmi (8). “Due to the bad weather and heavy rainfall we stopped the search at 5.30pm. As per our data, 21 people are still missing. The search will resume on Tuesday morning,” said Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan. Earlier in the day, around 100 people, divided into teams, began searching along the banks of the river at the landslide site in Pettimudy at Rajamala. The forest department is leading 10 groups who are conducting search along the river bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/poor-visibility-hindering-search/articleshow/77470874.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 11, 2020||Amritsar||Covid-19: Death toll crosses 600 in Punjab, tally set to hit 25,000||CHANDIGARH: The Covid-19 death toll in Punjab crossed the 600 mark on Sunday as 20 people succumbed to the virus, taking the casualty count to 604. In just 10 days, Punjab has reported at least 200 deaths. Also, 988 new cases were reported from 21 of the total 22 districts in the state, taking the tally of cases to 24,889. Of these, 659 new patients, who account for 66.7% cases reported in the last 24 hours, are from four districts. The health department removed two duplicate deaths added in the August 9 tally. The virus claimed the lives of seven people in Patiala, six in Ludhiana and three in Jalandhar. Two deaths were reported in Ferozepur, while a person each died in Mohali and Moga. A total of 22 patients were in a critical condition and on ventilator support when this story was filed. Also, another 29 patients were on oxygen support. Ludhiana continued to report the highest number of cases for two weeks in running. Of the total new cases, 246 were from Ludhiana. It was followed by Patiala, where 198 people tested positive and 156 new cases in Jalandhar. In Sangrur, 60 people were found to be infected, while 59 new cases surfaced in Mohali, 37 in Gurdaspur, 28 in Hoshiarpur, 25 in Faridkot, 24 in Bathinda, and 23 in Barnala. Also, 15 cases were reported in Fatehgarh Sahib, 14 each in Nawanshahr and Fazilka, 13 in Tarn Taran, 11 in Mansa, 10 in Muktsar, six each in Ferozepur, Moga and Kapurthala, and five in Ropar. As many as 416 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged to 15,735.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/death-toll-crosses-600-in-punjab-tally-set-to-hit-25k/articleshow/77481810.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Death toll crosses 600 in Punjab, tally set to hit 25,000||CHANDIGARH: The Covid-19 death toll in Punjab crossed the 600 mark on Sunday as 20 people succumbed to the virus, taking the casualty count to 604. In just 10 days, Punjab has reported at least 200 deaths. Also, 988 new cases were reported from 21 of the total 22 districts in the state, taking the tally of cases to 24,889. Of these, 659 new patients, who account for 66.7% cases reported in the last 24 hours, are from four districts. The health department removed two duplicate deaths added in the August 9 tally. The virus claimed the lives of seven people in Patiala, six in Ludhiana and three in Jalandhar. Two deaths were reported in Ferozepur, while a person each died in Mohali and Moga. A total of 22 patients were in a critical condition and on ventilator support when this story was filed. Also, another 29 patients were on oxygen support. Ludhiana continued to report the highest number of cases for two weeks in running. Of the total new cases, 246 were from Ludhiana. It was followed by Patiala, where 198 people tested positive and 156 new cases in Jalandhar. In Sangrur, 60 people were found to be infected, while 59 new cases surfaced in Mohali, 37 in Gurdaspur, 28 in Hoshiarpur, 25 in Faridkot, 24 in Bathinda, and 23 in Barnala. Also, 15 cases were reported in Fatehgarh Sahib, 14 each in Nawanshahr and Fazilka, 13 in Tarn Taran, 11 in Mansa, 10 in Muktsar, six each in Ferozepur, Moga and Kapurthala, and five in Ropar. As many as 416 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged to 15,735.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/death-toll-crosses-600-in-punjab-tally-set-to-hit-25k/articleshow/77472363.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR extends aid of Rs 1.5L to IIT student||Hyderabad: MAUD and IT minister KT Rama Rao on Monday provided a financial assistance of Rs 1.5 lakh to the daughter of an auto driver, who is pursuing her course at Indian Institute of Technology-Indore. The minister, in his personal capacity, handed over a cheque for Rs 1.5 lakh to meet the course fee and a the cost of a laptop to Anjali, a native of Hasanparthy in Warangal district. The MAUD minister had helped Anjali during her first year at IIT also. Her father Ramesh runs an auto in Hasanparthy to make ends meet. Failing to arrange the huge fee for Anjali’s higher education, the family approached KTR over Twitter. The minister immediately responded to the tweet and within a short time Ramesh and Anjali met KTR at Pragathi Bhavan. He promised to take care of her education and provided assistance for her to join IIT-Indore. A student of Telangana State Residential Junior College, Hasanparthy, Anjali scored well in the JEE and secured a seat in IIT-Indore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-extends-aid-of-rs-1-5l-to-iit-student/articleshow/77472352.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Allow odd-even classes for XII, Manish Sisodia told||NEW DELHI: Providing Wi-Fi in colonies rather than main roads and calling Class XII students to school on an odd-even basis in small groups were a few of the suggestions that were made by parents of a government school while interacting with deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday. Some parents even shared how they had shifted their children from private to government schools. Sisodia, while reviewing the semi-online classes being held owing to the novel coronavirus pandemic, asked officials from the Southeast district to contact the municipal corporation for details of students who had joined Class VI this year as 34% of them were untraceable. The father of a Class XII student studying in Kautilya Government Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya at Chirag Enclave said, “I have taken mobile phone connections of all major telecom firms, but have been facing network connectivity issues. I wish Wi-Fi was within the colony instead of the main roads as it would help in uninterrupted learning.” Class XII student Arib Ahmed’s mother told Sisodia that the doubts of students were not getting cleared during the online sessions. “My son is facing problems in physics and chemistry,” she added. The deputy chief minister promptly asked the teachers to help the student. While giving details about the semi-online learning, the zonal education officer stated that students of KG to Class X were being provided worksheets through WhatsApp, while online classes were being held for all subjects for Class XII. The officials were asked by Sisodia to find out why the number of children appearing for classes X and XII were decreasing in the district. To establish contact with 34% of Class VI students who were untraceable, Sisodia asked the officials to call the principals of primary schools run by the municipal corporation and get their details. “The children from primary schools were transferred directly this year without even filling the basic information in the forms,” he added. The education minister stressed that online teaching could never compensate for physical classes. A parent, who was also a teacher in the school, said, “Please consider calling Class XII students who will be appearing for the board exams next year in small groups on an odd-even basis.” Sisodia asked everyone to pray that schools open soon. Many parents lauded the teachers for their efforts in holding online classes. A man told the deputy chief minister that he had transferred his son from Balwant Rai School as the fees were very high. “I am very happy that he got admitted to this school,” he added. Another parent requested that online PTM be started. The idea was endorsed by Sisodia and he directed the officials to check its feasibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/allow-odd-even-classes-for-xii-sisodia-told/articleshow/77494515.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 11, 2020||Nashik||Mangala Express diverted via Pune till August 20||Nashik: The Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Mangla Express has been diverted via Pune due to a crack developing in a tunnel near Pernem railway station in Goa. According to an official from Bhusawal division, the 02618-Up Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Mangala Express — passing through Bhusawal, Nashik, Kalyan, Panvel and forward through the Konkan route including Ratnagiri before reaching Goa and proceed to its destination — has now been diverted from Panvel towards Pune, Miraj, Londa before reaching Madgaon in Goa for its future course of journey. “A crack has developed in one of the tunnels between Madurai Pernem Railway stations of Konkan Railway in Goa. Hence, trains on this route have been stopped at least till August 20,” the official said. Similarly, The 02617-Down Ernakulam-Hazrat Nizamuddin Mangala Express train will run from Ernakulam to Madgaon and thereafter be diverted towards Londa, Miraj, Pune before reaching Panvel and taking its regular course of journey towards Kalyan, Nashik, Bhusawal and Delhi. “The diversion of the train has been announced with immediate effect till August 20,” he said, adding that the people who have booked the tickets for the train on intermediate railway stations should take the necessary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mangala-express-diverted-via-pune-till-august-20/articleshow/77469600.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 11, 2020||Lucknow||Jhansi prison locks out Covid, all 210 infected inmates cured||LUCKNOW: Covid cases have been increasing sharply in the state, but Jhansi district jail has beaten all odds to become virus-free on Monday after as many as 210 inmates had tested positive for novel coronavirus infection on July 22. The detection of Covid cases had fuelled fears of a big outbreak among the inmates living in confinement. However, the prison officials designed a containment plan involving hi-tech monitoring and providing hospital-like facilities to the Covid positive inmates that helped in their recovery and prevented further spread. “The treatment and containment plan succeeded and would now be adopted in other jails also,” said senior prison officials. District magistrate of Jhansi, Andra Vamsi, told TOI on Monday, “The reports today show that none of the inmates are infected now. All the reports have come negative. There was a sudden surge of cases in the jail. We immediately got all the inmates, officers and staff tested. Of the total 1,328 persons tested, 210 tested positive.”“We shifted all the positive inmates in two barracks and deployed a health team for each. An ambulance was also stationed at the jail in case of any eventuality,” he said. “We started CCTV-based monitoring system to observe the patients in barracks round-the clock. The jail administration also worked very hard and kept checking inmates using pulse oxymeter every hour,” he added.Jhansi jail superintendent Rajiv Shukla, who supervised the operation, told TOI, “Initially, we decided to shift all the 210 inmates in a temporary jail. But it posed security risk.” “We then decided to completely segregate the infected inmates from inside the prison only. It was challenging, but all the precautions prescribed by doctors were followed strictly,” said Shukla. “We served them ‘kadha’ twice every day and hot water throughout daily, provided a nutritious diet and made them do yoga every morning,” he said. Director General, prisons, Anand Kumar told TOI, “Jhansi jail and district administration have succeeded in their plan and all the inmates are now Covid-19 negative.” We have already started replicating their model in other district jails also,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jhansi-prison-locks-out-covid-all-210-infected-inmates-cured/articleshow/77473154.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Death toll crosses 600 in Punjab, tally set to hit 25,000||CHANDIGARH: The Covid-19 death toll in Punjab crossed the 600 mark on Sunday as 20 people succumbed to the virus, taking the casualty count to 604. In just 10 days, Punjab has reported at least 200 deaths. Also, 988 new cases were reported from 21 of the total 22 districts in the state, taking the tally of cases to 24,889. Of these, 659 new patients, who account for 66.7% cases reported in the last 24 hours, are from four districts. The health department removed two duplicate deaths added in the August 9 tally. The virus claimed the lives of seven people in Patiala, six in Ludhiana and three in Jalandhar. Two deaths were reported in Ferozepur, while a person each died in Mohali and Moga. A total of 22 patients were in a critical condition and on ventilator support when this story was filed. Also, another 29 patients were on oxygen support. Ludhiana continued to report the highest number of cases for two weeks in running. Of the total new cases, 246 were from Ludhiana. It was followed by Patiala, where 198 people tested positive and 156 new cases in Jalandhar. In Sangrur, 60 people were found to be infected, while 59 new cases surfaced in Mohali, 37 in Gurdaspur, 28 in Hoshiarpur, 25 in Faridkot, 24 in Bathinda, and 23 in Barnala. Also, 15 cases were reported in Fatehgarh Sahib, 14 each in Nawanshahr and Fazilka, 13 in Tarn Taran, 11 in Mansa, 10 in Muktsar, six each in Ferozepur, Moga and Kapurthala, and five in Ropar. As many as 416 people were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged to 15,735.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/death-toll-crosses-600-in-punjab-tally-set-to-hit-25k/articleshow/77481808.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Noida||Fish farming applications to be examined on Tuesday||GREATER NOIDA: The fisheries department will examine the status of applications received by entrepreneurs for establishing ponds and fish farming in Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad and Hapur on Tuesday. Having launched the Matsya Sampada scheme this financial year, the fisheries department had floated 30 schemes to boost fishery production in Uttar Pradesh. The registration process was initiated on July 6 and was supposed to end on July 25, but due to lockdown restrictions, the department decided to extend the deadline till August 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/fish-farming-applications-to-be-examined-on-tuesday/articleshow/77473136.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Pune||Man in net for killing father-in-law in Pune||PUNE: The Pune rural police arrested a 40-year-old Daund resident on Monday on the charge of stabbing his father-in-law to death at Nazare Supe village near Jejuri in Purandar taluka on Sunday following some domestic dispute. The suspect, Suresh Sadashiv Bhosale, had run away from the spot after the incident. Police identified the deceased as Kisan Desha Kale (60). A team headed by inspector Padmakar Ghanwat arrested Bhosale after receiving a tip-off that he would be arriving in Daund. A case against Bhosale was registered with the Jejuri police and he was handed over to the local police for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-in-net-for-killing-father-in-law/articleshow/77472357.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Pune||42-year-old woman found drowned in Khadakwasla lake||PUNE: A 42-year-old woman was found drowned in the Khadakwasla lake late on Sunday evening. The Haveli police identified the woman as a resident of Warje later in the evening after the Warje police confirmed a missing person’s complaint matching the woman’s description. Inspector Ashok Shelke of the Haveli police said, “Local residents saw the woman’s body floating on the lake waters, following which they raised an alarm. Police pulled out the body from the waters with the help of the local residents.” The case has been transferred to the Warje police for further investigations, Shelke said, adding, “Prima facie it is a case of suicide and we have make a note of the same.” Senior inspector Machindra Pandit of Warje police, said, “The woman was a homemaker while her husband is an autorickshaw driver. The couple on Sunday visited the market and returned home around noon. Her daughter had gone to work and the woman was alone in the house after her husband too went out for work.” The woman left her house in the afternoon and was not seen again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/42-year-old-woman-found-drowned-in-lake/articleshow/77472327.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi to see more rain in coming days||NEW DELHI: The capital saw another humid day with light rain recorded in parts of the city on Monday. According to IMD, more rain is expected on Tuesday, while the intensity is likely to be the highest on Wednesday, when parts of Delhi could see heavy showers, an official said. “Most locations saw very light to light rainfall. Some rain activity is likely to occur overnight,” said a Met official. IMD classifies rainfall as “light”, “moderate”, “heavy” and “very heavy” when it is between 2.5mm and 15.5mm, 15.6 and 64.4mm, and 64.5 and 115.5mm and beyond 115.6mm in a 24-hour period, respectively. The capital’s maximum temperature on Monday was 35.8 degrees Celsius — one notch above normal, while the relative humidity oscillated between 71% and 94% in the past 24 hours. The capital had a dampened start to August, with the overall rainfall deficit increasing to 33%. Only three districts — New Delhi, North and North West — have so far received “normal” rainfall this season, while the remaining saw “deficient” rainfall, IMD data stated. At 72, Delhi’s Air Quality Index (AQI) was in the “satisfactory” category on Monday, which with more rain is likely to improve further in the next 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-to-see-more-rain-in-coming-days/articleshow/77472360.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kochi||Puthur village officer attempts suicide||THRISSUR: In a shocking incident, the village officer of Puthur attempted to end her life by cutting the veins on her hand when the president and other members of that panchayat launched a sit-in in front of her office on Monday. The panchayat office-bearers, including president Mini Unnikrishnan and standing committee chairperson Shaji P G, were protesting against the alleged delays in getting the certificates required for submitting applications for houses under the Life Mission scheme. The village officer, Simy C N, was shifted to the Jubilee Mission Hospital by police and others. According to reports the condition of the 48-year-old village officer is improving. She may have to undergo a plastic surgery on Tuesday, her brother Dileep Narayanan said. Simy later told media from the hospital that the panchayat officer-bearers were harassing her for the last four years. “I was getting completely exhausted by their harassment. Today I had come to the office after my Covid tests, and the panchayat office-bearers and others started abusing and insulting me. This continued despite a police team’s arrival. It was then that I thought it was better for me to end life rather than suffer this extreme harassment,” Simy said. Simy is a leader of the pro-Congress NGO Association, while the panchayat is being ruled by the CPM-led front. NGO Association state secretariat member K V Sanalkumar said defects in the servers and the backlog of the applicants were the main reasons for the delays in issuing the certificates. “The government and the CPM are trying to harass the officers who are not politically aligned to them,” he alleged. Congress leader T N Prathapan, MP, who visited Simy in the hospital, demanded that the police must register case for abetment for suicide against the panchayat office-bearers. Panchayat president Mini Unnikrishnan, however, denied the charges and said she or any of the panchayat members had not harassed or abused her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/puthur-village-officer-attempts-suicide/articleshow/77469608.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Surat||nCov kills two more SMC employees||Surat: Two more employees of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday. This included a sanitary inspector Nitin Modi (57) and senior clerk Anil Parmar (53).Modi, working with the Vector Borne Disease Control (VBDC) department. He is survived by a wife and two children — a son and a daughter.“He was under treatment at a private hospital for the last seven days. In fact, he talked to his colleagues through video calling on Monday. He could not speak but waved his hands apparently an indication of his deteriorating health,” said an SMC official.The second victim, Parmar was also working in the VBDC department as a senior clerk. He died on Monday morning.On August 6, a sanitary inspector Tushar Shah (53) posted at the Khatodara ward succumbed to Covid-19. Since May 19, about 15 employees of the SMC have died due to Covid-19. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/ncov-kills-two-more-smc-employees/articleshow/77469625.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nashik||Three-day annual dance festival begins||Nashik: The Natraj Pandit Gopikrishna Jayanti Mahotsav, an annual dance festival organised by Kirti Kala Mandir, started this year with the performance by young Kathak exponent Avani Gadre on Monday The 27th edition of the three-day classical festival titled ‘Ummeed – For Better Tomorrow’ took place online on the social media handle of Kirit Kala Mandir, said Aditi Nadgauda-Panse, the daughter of Rekha Nadgauda, who started the Mandir. The performance of Avani Gadre – who has performed internationally and was a resident of Nashik– began with Ganesh Vandana. She is a former student of Kirti Kala Mandir. On the second day of the festival, Ayaan Banerjee who has been trained in Kolkata under guru Sandip Malik, will perform. The final day of the festival will see a performance by London-based danseuse Urja Desai-Thakur, who is the disciple of guru Kumidini Lakhiya in Ahmedabad. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/three-day-annual-dance-festival-begins/articleshow/77598150.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre nod for NIV north zone centre in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Accepting Punjab’s request, the Centre has given its in-principle approval for setting up a National Institute of Virology centre for the north zone in the state. An official spokesperson said the letter of in-principle approval has been received by Punjab chief secretary Vini Mahajan from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) director-general Prof Balram Bhargava, who has also requested Punjab to identify about 25 acres of land on long lease so as to enable ICMR to set up this centre at the earliest. Approximately Rs 400 crore would be required for the NIV centre with BSL-3 facility and an additional Rs 150 crore would be needed for the BSL-4 facility, excluding the land which will be provided by the Punjab government. The project will be funded by the Centre and Punjab will contribute land free of cost, confirmed the Punjab chief secretary. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had proposed the centre in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in April in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic. He welcomed the approval, saying that the NIV centre would prove to be a milestone to boost research in the field of virology. He added that this centre would go a long way in addressing the requirements of the northern region — Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, UP and UTs of Chandigarh and J&K. The National Institute of Virology (NIV) in Pune is the only institution in the country capable of providing a well-coordinated medical and public health response to an emergency. Pointing to the unprecedented crisis faced by the country due to Covid-19, Amarinder said he hoped that the NIV centre would be instrumental in providing diagnostic support, undertake research in basic virology, build capacity in the field of virology to promote universal health coverage, develop rapid and affordable quality diagnostic assays for viral diseases, besides introduction of teaching courses for the M Sc medical virology and DM, virology. The project is likely to come up in New Chandigarh and is expected to kick off once suitable land is identified. The chief minister had proposed to set up the centre in Mohali’s Medicity. He had also pointed out at the time that the centre could easily be incubated in PGIMER, which is barely 7-8 km from the Medicity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-nod-for-niv-north-zone-centre-in-punjab/articleshow/77472381.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Noida||Noida: Woman dies after consuming toilet disinfectant, husband detained||GREATER NOIDA: A 38-year-old woman ended her life by allegedly consuming toilet disinfectant at her residence in Stellar Jeevan Society of Noida Extension on Monday afternoon. Her husband has been detained in the case. The deceased, Ekta, was a native of Kullu who lived with her husband, Lalit Kumar, in the highrise. Police said they received the information of the death around 2.30pm. “Her husband informed police that she died after consuming toilet disinfectant, a bottle of which has been recovered from the flat, however, the husband could not give a satisfactory answer as to why he did not take her to a hospital,” said Ankur Agarwal, the additional DCP of zone 3. During questioning, Kumar told police that the couple had been married for the past six years and were going through a rough phase in their marriage. “It has been revealed that the couple had a marital discord. The husband of the deceased has also confessed that he had slapped his wife a few days ago over an argument. He has been detained while the body has been sent for an autopsy,” Agarwal said, adding that the case seems suspicious due to which a detailed investigation is being done. Meanwhile, police said the woman’s family members have not been able to reach Greater Noida as they are infected with Covid-19. “We have informed the family. They will send someone to take the body. A case will be lodged after the investigation or if the family alleges foul play,” the DCP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/woman-dies-after-consuming-toilet-disinfectant-husband-detained/articleshow/77473153.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
August 11, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: Two more die, Himachal Pradesh fatalities now 15||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported two Covid-19 deaths on Monday, one each in Mandi and Solan, taking the state’s casualty count to 15. The deceased include a 70-year-old man from Mandi town and a 49-year-old man from Solan’s Baddi town. The state also reported 92 new cases on Monday, while 24 patients recovered. Now, the number of total cases has gone up to 3,463, of which 1,215 are active, 2,205 patients have recovered, 16 have died and 26 have migrated out of state. Sources said the deceased in Mandi had high blood pressure and was admitted to zonal hospital in Mandi, where he remained admitted for two days. When his condition deteriorated on Sunday night, he was shifted to Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk, where he died in the wee hours. His sample was taken to a medical college, and it tested positive after death. The man from Baddi was referred to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital in Shimla on August 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/2-more-die-hp-fatalities-now-15/articleshow/77472386.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ghaziabad||37-year-old missing woman found dead in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: The body of a 37-year-old woman, who had been missing since August 6, was found near the Hindon river on Sunday night. One person has been arrested in connection with the case. Police said the woman has been identified as Madhuri alias Palak and she used to work at a spa in Noida’s Jagat Farms. She stayed in Indirapuram with her three children. Rahul, Madhuri’s brother, said she left home to go to work around 9 am on August 6. “She used to return around 9 pm. But when she did not come home even after 10 pm, we started looking for her. We called up our friends and relatives and also visited the spa. Finally, we lodged a complaint with police on August 9,” he said. Manish Kumar Mishra, SP (city), said that around 10.30 pm on Sunday, Indirapuram police teams found the woman’s body and tried to contact the family. But no one responded to phone calls. “Around 11.30pm, a police team went to the woman’s house and informed the family about the body. The family members identified the woman,” he said. “Investigation revealed that the woman lost her husband a few years ago and she was in a relationship with the accused,” Mishra said. The man, named Mustafa, has a meat shop in Indirapuram. “The woman had demanded some money from him, but he could not arrange for it. Mustafa, then called her to his shop, slit her throat with a knife and dumped the body where he used to dump waste from his meat shop,” Mishra added. The accused has been booked under sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/37-year-old-missing-woman-found-dead/articleshow/77473161.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
August 11, 2020||Delhi||Zoo’s pride: feast for the royals on their day||NEW DELHI: Monday was a special day for six-year-old siblings Hema and Aman, who had come to Delhi in 2014 from Chandigarh, and 11-year-old siblings Sundaram and Aqeela as the four lions were at the centre of attention of zookeepers. To celebrate World Lion Day, they were to receive a special feed of extra red meat, but rain played a spoilsport. However, the zookeepers spent extra time with the animals and pampered them to make them feel special. For the four lions, their three zookeepers — Kirpal, Ramkesh and Vinod Kumar — are part of their “pride” as they spend a majority of the day with them while looking forward to their share of red meat. As the big cats haven’t been in the wild, they are not used to hunting or exercising by chasing other animals. This exercise is provided to them by the zookeepers. The National Zoological Park on Monday gave a platform to the zookeepers to share their experience and how these “misunderstood” animals behave with them. “Taking care of a lion might sound dangerous, but the animals are anything but ferocious. Unlike a wild lion, the ones at the zoo are not aggressive and look forward to seeing us. They have also figured out when it’s time for their feed, which shows they are smart,” said Kirpal, an assistant keeper who handles lions. He added that the lions spend a good part of the day outside their enclosures to feel close to nature. Vinod Kumar, another zookeeper, said lions in the wild become aggressive to show dominance, but those in the zoo are the opposite. “Being with siblings helps. They are quite playful and like their time outside the enclosure. Visitors don’t matter to them as they get lost enjoying their surroundings,” he added. The curator of Delhi zoo, Riyaz Khan, said rain made their special meal difficult, but the animals were pampered well on their big day. “We wanted to give them a nice meal, but the weather in the morning made it difficult. The zoo is planning to bring in more lions,” Khan added. Delhi zoo director Ramesh Pandey said the aim of the programme was to create awareness about the animal and its loss of habitat, climate change and conservation efforts required in the future. Elephants at the zoo would be provided special feed on August 12, World Elephant Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/zoos-pride-feast-for-the-royals-on-their-day/articleshow/77472336.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Majority of first-gen public hospitals in want of fire NOCs||Visakhapatnam: Several first-generation government hospitals, including the King George Hospital, did not procure NOCs from the fire department owing to lack of proper fire safety equipment and measures. In fact, almost all government hospitals in the city do not have fire NOCs. Even though these hospitals, constructed decades ago before modern fire safety requirements were put in place, have made alterations and renovations to meet the fire safety criteria, they have not fully adhered to the guidelines. When asked about additional fire safety requirements needed for old buildings that house hospitals, GVMC regional fire officer Niranjan Reddy said they ensure additional fire safety retrofitting in these treating facilities. “However, structural stability is a must. The modification will include additional escape routes and other structural changes to meet the government-stipulated fire safety criteria. We have issued notices to several government hospitals and will inspect all the treatment facilities and ensure proper safety devices and measures,” said Reddy. As per existing guidelines, hospitals shall have provision for two levels of safety within their premises. The ‘comparative safety’ covers the component of protection against heat and smoke, when taking the occupants outside the premises is not feasible or possible; while the ‘ultimate safety’ covers complete removal of the occupants from the affected area to an assembly point outside the hospital building. Hospitals shall make provisions for sufficient open space in and around the building to facilitate the free movement of patients and emergency vehicles. Besides, the minimum width of the ramps in the hospitals shall be 2.4 metres and those with cark parks in the basement shall be six metres. A qualified fire officer and trained staff shall be appointed for all hospital buildings, which are 15 metres and above or have over 100 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/majority-of-first-gen-public-hospitals-in-want-of-fire-nocs/articleshow/77470880.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Galgibaga, Mashem locals want footbridge over river||POINGUINIM: The residents of Galgibaga and Mashem, who live on either side of River Galgibaga, have demanded that a footbridge be built over the 100m-wide river. They said they have been severely inconvenienced ever since the ferry and canoe services were discontinued after the bridge on the Manohar Parrikar bypass road was commissioned. Locals said they even took the risk of crossing over to the other side using a 1m-wide temporary metal structure that had been put up to move material for the bridge and for the workers. However, the corroded metal structure was dismantled in April this year. The villagers said that they now have to trudge for 1km to get on to the approach road of the bridge and after crossing over to the other side have to walk another 1km to get into the other village. “Using ferries and canoes, locals would cross the river for medical services, shopping, and to attend schools, religious activities, etc. The people are greatly inconvenienced, and a footbridge over the river is the need of the hour,” Fermina Barretto, a retired teacher, said. Canacona MLA and deputy speaker Isidore Fernandes told TOI that the footbridge is “in the planning stage” and that permissions from the Captain of Ports, river navigation department, forests department, etc, are being sought. PWD’s assistant engineer Subash Pagi said the process of obtaining the NOCs has started , after which they “will prepare estimates”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/galgibaga-mashem-locals-want-footbridge-over-river/articleshow/77473169.cms||Albert Fernandes
August 11, 2020||Delhi||DDA fined Rs 40 lakh for not clearing Yamuna debris||NEW DELHI: Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has imposed a fine of Rs 40 lakh on Delhi Development Authority (DDA) for failing to remove debris and construction material along the Yamuna floodplain near Signature Bridge and Nizamuddin Bridge. The committee has also imposed a fine of Rs 20 lakh on Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC) for leaving construction material on the floodplain, months after work had been completed. DPCC, which has imposed these fines after site inspection last week, had acted on a complaint by activist Bhim Singh Rawat, who had shared images of the debris on the floodplain underneath Nizamuddin Bridge. Rawat had stated that, despite flagging the violation in February 2020, the debris continued to remain there and was simply “levelled”. The activist also highlighted that construction material and debris had been left underneath the Signature Bridge, which could permanently “alter” the area. “Already a channel near Nizamuddin Bridge, which was being fed by the river, has now been blocked and dried completely. A large number of violations were pointed out to both DDA and DPCC during the site inspection,” said Rawat, who is a part of the South Asia Network on Dams, Rivers and People. The DPCC notice to DDA stated that earthen work and leftover earth (approximately seven trucks) were still lying scattered on the banks of Signature Bridge, while the floodplain along the Nizamuddin Bridge had been raised by 2-4 feet due to dumping of debris. “The warning boards against dumping were also placed over the debris/cubes, which shows negligence and inaction on the part of DDA,” said DPCC in its letter. The notice sent to DTTDC, meanwhile, stated that the construction yard, which was being used for building Signature Bridge, was yet to close down, with containers, equipment, vehicles and heaps of soil and waste material still lying on its banks. “This area is earth-filled and raised, affecting the flood passage on the banks of the Yamuna,” said the notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dda-fined-rs-40l-for-not-clearing-yamuna-debris/articleshow/77494538.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 11, 2020||Kochi||Active monsoon phase over: IMD||Kochi: After an onslaught of extremely heavy rainfall that lashed hilly regions and the coasts, the skies turned relatively calm on Monday with scattered rainfall in some places. The weather department said the strength of the monsoon westerlies over southern parts of the Arabian Sea has declined since August 9 and is likely to reduce further during the next five days. In this scenario, rainfall activity is very likely to reduce further over Kerala. Only a few places recorded more than 10cm of rain on Monday. Thodupuzha received 12cm while Kudulu (Kasaragod) recorded 11 cm. Kannur and Taliparamba each logged 10 cm. While Haripad and Ernakulam South each registered 8 cm, Alappuzha, Naval Airport, Piravom, Vaikom, Irikkur and Hosdurg all received 7 cm. With the reduction in intensity of rainfall, the caution levels at many dams were lowered with just four major KSEB dams still on red alert. They include Kallarkutti, Lower Periyar and Irattayar in Idukki and Muzhiyar in Pathanamthitta district. Poringalkuthu in Thrissur and Kallar in Idukki are on yellow alert. Kuttiyadi in Kozhikode and Pampa in Pathanamthitta are down to level blue, which is the first stage of alert. Yellow is the status of dams releasing waters as a precautionary measure and red indicates the third stage based on the mandate of the central water commission. As for irrigation reservoirs, Neyyar, Maniyar, Bhoothathankettu, Malankara, Mangalam, Siruvani, Moolathara, Karapuzha and Pazhassi are releasing water as a precautionary measure following rise in water levels. The water levels of Manimala, Achankovil, Kaliyar and Meenachil rivers remained steady or reduced slightly. Yet concerned district administrations are on alert. Heavy rainfall of 7-11 cm is expected in some places in the state on Tuesday, but by and large the active phase of the southwest monsoon is over. The monsoon will continue in its normal phase this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/active-monsoon-phase-over-imd/articleshow/77470892.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||3 motorists die in separate accidents||Hyderabad: Three persons died in two different bike accidents in the city on Sunday. A student, Shashikant (18), and a carpenter, Sai Kiran (19), were travelling on a two-wheeler from Shadnagar to Uppuguda, when the rider tried to overtake a lorry. The rider lost control of the bike and crashed into the road divider. Both Shashikant and Sai Kiran fell from the bike and died on the spot after suffering severe head injuries. They were returning to their residence at around 9.30 pm after attending a function. Police reached the spot and shifted the dead bodies to Osmania General Hospital (OGH). A case was registered under section 304 (negligence causing death) of IPC. In an another fatal accident, a youngster, E Antony, was allegedly over speeding while riding his two-wheeler in Nallakunta. The bike skid and he fell. As he was not wearing a helmet, he suffered severe injuries. Officials said that Antony was riding his bike from Hindi Mahavidhyalaya to Fever Hospital stretch, when the accident took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-motorists-die-in-separate-accidents/articleshow/77472396.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Lucknow||NSA slapped on Peace Party president for stoking tension||LUCKNOW: Peace Party president Mohammed Ayub, who was arrested on July 31 for releasing an advertisement in Urdu dailies raising questions on the Constitution, was booked under the stringent National Security Act (NSA) on Monday. Ayub, a former MLA from Sant Kabir Nagar (2012-17) was arrested from Bharhalganj in Gorakhpur after a case was registered against him for writing a piece to stoke communal passions. According to Lucknow police, Ayub had moved a bail application on August 1 which was rejected by the magistrate. He again moved the court for bail following which Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash invoked NSA against him. Assistant commissioner of police, Hazratganj, Abhay Mishra said, “Ayub had written an objectionable piece on July 30 which could have led to communal tension ahead of festivals.” “An FIR was lodged against Ayub by police outpost incharge KK Singh. Ayub deliberately made comments which are against the spirit of the Indian Constitution and the democratically-elected government,” he added. The ACP said Ayub was charged with promoting enmity between groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, and under the provisions of the Information Technology Act. Later, he was also charged with sedition. A senior official said Ayub had a history of disrupting communal harmony. He was booked in 2008 for promoting enmity between groups. Cases were registered against him under similar charges at Dudhara police station in Sant Kabir Nagar in 2012, Bhakhira police station in Sant Kabir Nagar in 2017 and Hazratganj police station in Lucknow in 2017. In 2017, Ayub was also booked by Lucknow police in connection with the rape of a 12-year-old girl. The case is still pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nsa-slapped-on-peace-party-president-for-stoking-tension/articleshow/77473165.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Surat||12-day ‘period leave’ for women in Surat firm||SURAT: On the heels of food delivery aggregator Zomato that declared 10 days ‘period leave’ per year for its female staff, a Surat-based digital marketing firm has made a similar announcement. Bhautik Sheth, founder of iVIPANAN on Sunday announced 12 days of period leave per year for its female staff with immediate effect. The firm founded in 2014 has a total nine employees of which eight are female. “In the process of giving a more healthy and happy working environment, we are announcing a monthly menstrual cycle paid leave for all our female team members from today (Sunday) with immediate effect,” Sheth wrote in an email to his employees. “We keep thinking about how we can give more comfort to our team, how can we make the working environment human-friendly, how can we make the working environment healthy and friendly,” he added. Talking to TOI, Sheth said, “We understand the discomfort faced by female team members during periods. The work stress and office environment can increase their pain and discomfort levels. Now any female team member is eligible to take one paid leave per month during their menstrual cycle.” Sheth said that menstruation is still a taboo in Indian society. “Even today females working in offices become conscious of taking a bag, purse, and plastic bag in a hand while going to the washroom. We want to break this stigma and send a strong message to all small-size businesses in India to understand the biological difference in male and female,” he added. Watch Surat-based firm declares 12 days ‘period leave’ for its female staff||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/12-day-period-leave-for-women-in-surat-firm/articleshow/77469653.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||CM seeks 100% central share in desert areas||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot in a letter to the Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat sought 100% share of Centre in desert areas and 90:10 in other areas under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Gehlot also requested for release of the amount in four quarterly instalments by the Centre so that the work in the districts could be carried out in an uninterrupted pace.He wrote in the letter that the total cost of 60 major drinking water projects sanctioned with central assistance was Rs 20,529 crore. In this, the share of the Centre was Rs 10,548 crore and the share of the state was Rs 9,981 crore. Against this, only Rs 5,474 crore was given by the Centre till the financial year 2018-19, while the state government spent Rs 8,764 crore. Under the national rural drinking water programme, the allocation in 2014-15 was Rs 1,304.64 crore, while in 2018-19, only Rs 550.82 crore were allocated. According to the original approval, till the completion of these schemes, the central government’s outstanding amount is Rs 5,073 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-seeks-100-central-share-in-desert-areas/articleshow/77472407.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: This ambulance can enter narrow lanes with ease||RAJKOT: Atul Auto, the pioneer of Sauashtra’s famed ‘chhakda’, is set to launch a low-cost three-wheeler ambulance that has been specifically designed to transport Covid-19 patients. On Monday, the company donated its first such ambulance to the Rajkot Civil Hospital and is now planning to kickstart commercial production on a big scale. According to company officials, the diesel-run ambulance is a modified version of its three-wheeler cargo vehicle and the design has been made in such a way that it can easily enter the narrow lanes to reach out to patients. “We designed this ambulance after a special request was made by the Rajkot district administration. It needs to reach out to patients living in narrow bylanes of residential societies with ease,” Yogesh Ranjan, general manager, Atul Auto, told TOI. “After the success of this ambulance, we plan to take this model to an all-India level,” said Ranjan. At present, the civil hospital has X ambulances while the requirement is more due to the spike in Covid-19 cases in the city. However, these vehicles and 108 ambulances can’t enter the narrow lanes and the patients have to be brought out on the stretchers, sometimes covering long distances from inside the societies. The Rajkot district administration is also planning to buy more such ambulances. According to sources, the company plans to manufacture around 250 such ambulances by the end of this financial year. It plans to commercially customize ambulances as per needs of a particular region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/this-ambulance-can-enter-narrow-lanes-with-ease/articleshow/77469679.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
August 11, 2020||Bareilly||95 test positive for Covid-19 at Bareillycentral jail, five at district jail in two days||Bareilly: At least 95 inmates and officials lodged at Bareilly central jail and five inmates at the district jail tested positive for Covid-19 in last 48 hours. As most of them are asymptomatic, they have been isolated in the hospitals on the campuses of the two jails here, said authorities. The health department had conducted random tests on around 350 inmates at the central and collected 95 samples from the district jail. Thus far, in total, 100 inmates and officials tested positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly jails while an inmate who was suffering from pulmonary tuberculosis died of the novel coronavirus infection on July 22. After the fresh cases, the authorities geared up to sanitise the premises of both the jails, including the barracks. Bareilly additional chief medical officer (ACMO) Dr Ashok Kumar told TOI, “We are counselling inmates to maintain an appropriate distance from each other. Two of the positive cases at the central jail are symptomatic and have been isolated separately. We have sanitised the jails and adjoining areas. Random sampling would also be done in areas adjoining the jails.” District jail superintendent Vijay Vikram Singh told TOI, “We are ensuring the inmates as well as the staff members follow the guidelines and maintain social distancing. We are not permitting entry of officials with any symptoms on the jail premises and random sampling is being carried out quite often.” Central jail superintendent Ashok Kumar, however, couldn’t be reached for comment. At Shahjahanpur district jail, meanwhile, 88 inmates have so far been tested positive for Covid-19 and an undertrial lost his life to the deadly virus during treatment. Jail superintendent Rakesh Kumar said, “The new inmates are being lodged at the temporary jail. We are not permitting any articles on the premises from outside without sanitisation. Besides, health officials are conducting random sampling of inmates and we have directed the security to strictly follow the guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/95-test-positive-for-covid-19-at-bareillycentral-jail-five-at-district-jail-in-two-days/articleshow/77469662.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 11, 2020||Vadodara||Three dilapidated houses crash in city||Vadodara: Three dilapidated houses in old city areas of Vadodara collapsed due to overnight heavy rains on Monday. The first incident was reported from Kuberchand ni Pol in Wadi where an unoccupied house crashed. Locals called the fire brigade, but as there were no casualties, the firemen returned. However, later they had to rush again to Bardaan Lane in Jubileebaug as three residents were stuck under a house that had collapsed. Fire department sources said that two persons identified as Satish Rana and Aruna Rana were moved out quickly but Kishor Rana was buried under the debris. He was taken to SSG Hospital as he had suffered injuries. Another incident took place in Kalupura where a slab of terrace came crashing down. Two persons who were stuck inside were rescued by their neighbours. On Monday morning, a tree got uprooted at Panchvati Society in Gorwa and damaged a power line. The tree was moved by firemen from Chhani fire station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-dilapidated-houses-crash-in-city/articleshow/77469692.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Goa||Banana, areca nut farmers face crop loss due to heavy showers in Goa||PANAJI: Preliminary reports of the crop loss in Goa revealed that areca nut, banana and some paddy have suffered the brunt of the heavy rainfall last week. As of Friday, 400ha of cultivated areas had been damaged, stated the information shared by the zonal agricultural offices (ZAO) across the state. Low-lying areas were submerged inundating paddy fields. There was loss to farmers growing bananas due to tree uprooting and areca nut crop due to immature fruit drops. “Gradually the water has receded from paddy fields, so the crop is likely to survive. The seeds were transplanted weeks ago due to which the crop has been well established in the soil. If the submergence would have continued for four to five days, the crop would have started to rot. However, farmers of fruit bearing trees will incur losses since the crops have broken or the fruit has fallen,” an agriculture official said. The preliminary report is based on visual inspections by the ZAO officers and the area under crop loss that has been recorded. The details of damage and the amount of compensation due is yet to be tabulated by the directorate of agriculture. After the extent of damage is established, application forms will be sent out to the ZAOs. Following which, the farmers will be permitted to claim damages and avail of the compensation. Major losses have been reported from areas such as Pernem and Sattari. This was owing to the intense rainfall activity experienced in these talukas. “More people are involved in agricultural activities in these talukas. Many of them who stay in remote areas here don’t have an alternative means of livelihood and largely depend on agriculture. We are in the process of assessing the losses faced there,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/banana-areca-nut-farmers-face-crop-loss-due-to-heavy-showers/articleshow/77473192.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kochi||Gold smuggling: NIA court dismisses bail plea of Swapna Suresh||KOCHI: The NIA special court here dismissed the bail petition of Swapna Suresh, the prime accused in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, even as it found that the probe agency was yet to establish the terror link to the case. The court on Monday passed a seven-page order dismissing the petition and found that even though there was nothing on record to show that the proceeds of gold were used or intended to be used for terrorism, it remains a matter that needs to be probed further in the backdrop of the likely involvement of transnational forces. The court passed the order after examining the case diary submitted by the agency. The court also mentioned the letter by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to prime minister Narendra Modi which demanded a probe by a national agency to exclude the possibility of political intervention in the case, which was suggested by the defence. “Even though it is urged by Geo Paul (defence counsel) that without any basis the petitioner was all on a sudden implicated in the case due to political rivalry, the reply made by the learned additional solicitor general, based on the letter issued by the chief minister of Kerala on 08.07.2020 to the Prime Minister of India, wherein a request was made for an effective and coordinated investigation by the all the central agencies, stifles the contention very well,” the court observed. The court found that as per the case diary and other materials produced before the court, there was sufficient materials to prima facie believe that Swapna had a direct role in bringing gold for accused K T Rameez to Thiruvananthapuram in diplomatic cargo, on multiple occasions. “When it is found so, Section 43 (d) of UAPA mandates that she is not entitled to be released on bail,” the court ordered. “…the prosecution contends that, whoever smuggles any material, including gold, with the knowledge that it is likely to threaten the economic security of India, it amounts to a terrorist act. But the petitioner contends that the term ‘with intent to threaten or likely to threaten’ is the soul of the alleged penal act, and thus bringing gold with intent to make profit does not amount to ‘terrorist act.,” the court observed. A similar bail plea of Swapna is posted for orders to Wednesday by the additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offence) court in the customs case. Swapna is currently in the custody of the enforcement directorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gold-smuggling-nia-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-swapna/articleshow/77469657.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kochi||Idukki: Natural causes to blame for landslide, say experts||IDUKKI: The landslide which left four 'layams’ (living quarters of estate workers) under mud and debris at Pettimudy occurred on a 2.5km-long stretch of hilly terrain but with origins in the bordering forest area under Munnar wildlife division, an expert said. "The hill where this landslide occurred is a flat-topped one with barren rock. This facilitated pooling of water during the heavy rainfall on Thursday. The only passage available for this water is gullies, called geomorphic hollows, along which the present landslide was confined. This natural process was the sole reason for the initiation of the landslide at Pettimudy," said Dr Sajin Kumar K S, assistant professor, University of Kerala's department of geology. "The landslide initiation point is the boundary between two land-use categories: barren rock and forest plantations," he said. According to Anoop K R, field director, Project Tiger, Kottayam, "The landslide occurred in the Kanan Devan plantation area. The affected area borders forest land." Experts also suggest that the region has a history of landslides. There are records of another landslide in the same area around nearly half a century back, said Dr Kumar. The findings were arrived at after examining Google Earth images, he said. "The morphology of the area reveals the presence of a suspected paleo-landslide that, too, was confined to the same gully, (but downstream, and which originated from the boundaries of the forest and tea plantation). This landslide occurred at least 50 years ago based on the assumption that the tea plantation is 50 years old," said Dr Kumar. Idukki district geologist Biju Sebastian said the landslide originated in a shola forest. “Unfortunate natural aspects are behind the landslide, which caused debris to move through the tea plantation. I have submitted a detailed report to the district collector on the matter,” said Sebastian.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/natural-causes-to-blame-for-landslide-say-experts/articleshow/77470910.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Recovered patients call to be discharged||VIJAYAWADA: The fire accident at the Swarna Palace Hotel has raised doubts in the minds of patients about the quality of treatment offered by Covid Care Centres run by private hospitals. The report that eight of the 10 patients who died in the accident had tested negative for Covid-19 has brought issues of overcharging by private hospitals to the forefront. Patients have alleged that those who have recovered are being kept in isolation for the sake of collecting a higher fee. The state government had permitted private hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients and included Covid-19 treatment under the YSR Aarogyasri scheme. Most private hospitals are assessing the health of those who come to get admitted on the basis of a CT scan and high-risk cases are referred to state-run Covid-19 hospitals. Asympotmatic patients and those with mild symptoms are admitted to Covid Care Centre and pay for a 10-day package that includes treatment and meals. Following the accident, a number of low-risk patients undergoing treatment at private hospitals have said while the symptoms disappear within five to six days, they have stayed back as they paid for a 10-day package. “I got admitted to a private hospital fearing severe illness. I developed throat pain and severe fever. But all symptoms subsided within two days. I want to get discharged immediately but the hospital authorities are suggesting rest for four more days,” said a Covid-19 patient under treatment at a corporate hospital in the city. Authorities of the health department said the number of patients demanding they be discharged has increased following the accident. Meanwhile, Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz has directed officials of the health department to discharge all patients who have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/recovered-patients-call-to-be-discharged/articleshow/77470897.cms||Venu Lanka
August 11, 2020||Surat||57-year-old woman under home quarantine ends life||Surat: A 57-year-old woman, who was quarantined at home for Covid-19, ended her life at her residence in Pal area of the city on Sunday. The woman and her husband, 63, had tested positive of Covid-19 around a week back. Her husband is currently under isolation at a private hospital in the city. Maya Desai, a resident of Om Residency, was found hanging at her home. The couple used to live alone at their apartment while their son Mayur, who works at Ankleshwar, is settled in Bharuch with his immediate family. According to police, the deceased’s family members were present at the residence when the woman ended her life in her room. “The woman was quarantined since last one week. She was worried that she may infect other members in her family who used to visit her during weekends,” a police officer from Adajan police station said. Desai’s husband, who was an employee of a private firm in Hazira, had retired a few years ago. Mystery shrouds the source of their infection as the couple rarely moved out of their home during the Covid-19 induced pandemic, police sources said. “The victim had expressed her concerns about infecting other family members including her son. She was also worried as her health was not improving,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/57-year-old-woman-under-home-quarantine-ends-life/articleshow/77469705.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Dausa gangrape accused sent to five-day cop custody||JAIPUR: The three persons accused of gangraping a 17-year-old girl in Dausa were produced in court on Monday and sent to five days of police custody. Cops are meanwhile still looking for two other accused who had committed the crime. Although four persons raped the girl, cops claimed that there were others involved as well who played a role in the assault but are yet to be found. Dausa ASP Anil Chauhan said, “We have three accused in our custody and will question them to get details about the whereabouts of others. This was a heinous crime and we are investigating it swiftly so that no accused gets away. There are chances that more than five persons were involved who probably did not rape the girl but molested her in some way. We will catch them as well.” According to information, the accused kidnapped the girl around 11 am and dumped her back in the village around 5 pm during which time they kept calling others to rape her. Through sources, cops found that two accused took her and raped her near a temple and then called others to take advantage of the situation. The girl’s mother had gone out of the village and returned on August 6 after which she realised that something was amiss. Getting any information from the child was difficult for cops due to the challenges which the minor was facing but she still gave the names of the accused who all were from the same village as her.” According to sources, cops have detained the fourth accused as well though he has not been formally arrested. A case of gangrape, abduction as well as under POCSO Act has been registered. The minor’s medical examination was done and doctors claimed that fortunately she did not suffer any major injuries, claimed officials. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dausa-gangrape-accused-sent-to-5-day-cop-custody/articleshow/77472416.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||Recovered from Covid-19, but captured by lung infection||Nagpur: 56-year-old Gitesh Malani (name changed) recovered from Covid-19 at IGGMCH in June and got discharged. After a month, he started feeling restless and developed asthma-like symptoms. He reported to IGGMCH once again where he was diagnosed with pulmonary fibrosis. Officially, this is the first case of a Covid-19 cured patient in Vidarbha getting pulmonary fibrosis, a lung infection.Doctors say many may get this infection in the coming months. “The patient is undergoing treatment for fibrosis. It would be very early to term this as a developing trend in Nagpur or Vidarbha, but many Covid-19 patients who went through moderate to severe moderate symptoms generally experience lung fibrosis. This has been observed in places like Delhi and Mumbai, where the number of cases is high,” said Dr Radha Munje, head of pulmonology department, IGGMCH.Initially in Delhi and now in Mumbai, doctors have observed a worrying trend of cured Covid-19 patients returning a month or so after their discharge with pulmonary fibrosis which is a severe scarring of tissues in the lungs. This results in shortness of breath and sometimes requires oxygen support. Veteran pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat said that Nagpur is heading towards Covid-19 peak and more patients with moderate to severe symptoms will report now. “Most of these patients will get cured from Covid-19, but some of them will experience fibrosis after a month. We may get a sudden surge in the number of fibrosis patients in September-October,” he predicted. In Nagpur, nearly 4800 patients have recovered till date and almost an equal number are under treatment. Considering 15% of these patients are going through moderate to severe symptoms, more than 700 patients may suffer from lung fibrosis in the next month or two. Doctors lamented that people are taking Covid-19 very casually. “The disease is new and several aspects of it are yet to be studied. Getting cured from the infection is good but not the final way out. Instead, staying away from the disease by following rules and regulations is important,” said Dr Arbat. Even the ministry of health has issued a statement that reads, “It has been reported that a section of recovered patients may experience respiratory or heart-related issues, renal or liver complications, or even ophthalmological (eye-related) side-effects. Our experts are working on putting a document together to guide people on what kind of long-term care they would require, and what are the issues they may face.” Reports of 90% of recovered Covid-19 patients in Wuhan (China) suffering from lung damage was also in the media recently. With more than 60% recovery rate, and very less mortality rate (less than 3%), people have now started taking Covid-19 casually. People are coming forward to get tested for Covid-19, and those who test positive are adopting home isolation. Having moderate to severe moderate symptoms can take a toll months after Covid-19, said doctors advising that prevention from Covid-19 should be the first priority.LESSONS TO LEARN * Don’t take Covid-19 infection casually * It may have long term impact on your lungs * Getting infected and cured is good, but that’s not all * Moderate or severe symptoms most likely to affect lungs * Those cured from Covid-19 should check lungs periodically* Chest X-ray should be preferred, anti-fibrotic therapy could be used * Most importantly, prevention from Covid-19 is best way to manage risk* Wear masks, follow hand hygiene, avoid crowded places, stay safe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recovered-from-covid-19-but-captured-by-lung-infection/articleshow/77470893.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||Second test for home isolated patients only if symptoms prevail||Nagpur: Over 1,200 asymptomatic positive patients discharged on July 28 have completed 12 days in home isolation but many are unsure about their health status and whether they need a second test. As per ICMR and union health ministry guidelines, a patient under home isolation will stand discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and no fever for three days. Thereafter, the patient will be advised to isolate at home and self-monitor their health for further seven days. There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over.District civil surgeon Dr Devendra Patturkar said, “No second test is required unless the patient is symptomatic. 10 days for discharge and another seven for observation at home are required.”NMC zone officials said they are unaware of guidelines which indicate these patients would be considered Covid-free. But officially they remain active cases as they were handed over a discharge card with positive Covid remark. Some of them feel a second test is a must for them to ascertain whether they have become virus-free or not. The popular belief is that the virus range varies from two to 12 days and in certain cases, many remained positive for several days beyond this span. “Employers may not be aware of these guidelines. Our discharge cards, too, don’t mention that we will be corona-free after the 10-day discharge followed by the seven-day home quarantine. It just mentions 14-day home quarantine which is further confusing. There is no explanation as to how many days I remain a patient in home isolation and how many days after discharge or is it a 14-day quarantined after I stand discharged. I would be eligible for joining on August 17. I don’t even know if I stand discharged,” a patient said. Another patient, who was discharged after initial screening from MLA hostel CCC, said no one called her up since she returned home on July 28 evening. “I was told that the civic officials would call me up and give tele-consultation. But no one called up. Instead, I had to call them up to know if they will come for a second test,” the patient said. NMC zone officials said they were still busy with pasting stickers and shifting newly-detected cases to MLA hostel CCC for the initial screening. “We really couldn’t check on these asymptomatic patients unless someone informed us. We receive only a handful of such calls. We are yet to get queries about the second test, but if people want, they can get tested at any of our centres,” they said. A paramedic said she would be preferring a rapid antigen test once her home quarantined is over. “I’m working with a private firm. They have asked me to bring a certificate,” she said. However, there is also lack of clarity on the status of asymptomatic patients. As on date, the district civil surgeon’s data shows that 1,888 asymptomatic patients have opted for home isolation while 1,470 have been admitted to the dedicated covid hospitals (DCHs) and CCCs. As Nagpur started home isolation for positive patients from July 28, none qualify for a discharge status. On the other hand, total admissions and home isolation make up for 3,358 patients. Since August 1, Nagpur has seen 4,749 new cases which leaves the status of 1,491 unexplained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/second-test-for-home-isolated-patients-only-if-symptoms-prevail/articleshow/77470896.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 11, 2020||Goa||Heavy rainfall to continue all week, says IMD||Panaji: Heavy rain lashed parts of the state on Monday. Panaji recorded 35mm of rainfall as of 5pm. IMD had earlier said there would be weather systems forming over the Bay of Bengal which would usher heavy showers towards the Goa coast. The low-pressure area moved westwards towards Madhya Pradesh on Monday. However, this may not sustain for too long and is likely to get weakened by Tuesday, IMD officials said. “As a result, we can expect the rainfall over the next few days to be slightly lesser than Monday” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. “In the days following also there are chances of heavy rain, at least in isolated places,” he said. This is because there is another possible formation of an atmospheric circulation by August 13 over the North Bay of Bengal. The series of heavy rainfall will therefore continue this week as well, IMD warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-rainfall-to-continue-all-week-says-imd/articleshow/77473203.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Dehradun||Rain lashes several parts of U’khand: One killed, one feared drowned||Dehradun: Several places in Uttarakhand received heavy to very heavy rainfall on Sunday night and throughout Monday. Incidents of cloudbursts were reported from Tehri and Rudraprayag districts, causing landslides and road blockages in the hills. One person was killed in a rain-related accident and three others sustained injuries after the car they were travelling in was hit by a boulder on Pokhri-Gopeshwar road in Chamoli district on Monday morning. The deceased was identified as Nanhe Ram Tiwari (45), a resident of Pokhri. In yet another incident, a man reportedly got swept away by the strong currents of Saryu river in Bageshwar district on Monday morning. A team of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) was deputed to conduct rescue operation at the site. According to the regional meteorological centre, quite a few areas in state capital Dehradun received over 150 mm rainfall. For instance, the Sahastradhara area received the maximum of 170 mm rainfall. Similarly, Loharkhet in Bageshwar district witnessed 160 mm rainfall, while Mussoorie town received 120 mm rainfall, throwing normal life out of gear. Dhanaulti, too, recorded 90 mm rainfall, according to the Met office. Due to excessive rainfall, five families in Sirvadi village of Rudraprayag district were evacuated after their houses got flooded by an overflowing rivulet that had been swollen by incessant rainfall. “Heavy to very heavy rainfall was recorded at a few places in Uttarakhand on August 8 and 9. There would be subdued rain activity for the next 48 hours before rain picks up pace again from August 12 onwards,” said Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre. Due to recurring landslides triggered by continuous rainfall, the Badrinath and Kedarnath national highways remained blocked. The Badrinath highway was closed at Lambagad in Chamoli district, while the Kedarnath highway was obstructed at Banswada.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rain-lashes-several-parts-of-ukhand-one-killed-one-feared-drowned/articleshow/77468625.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar blames ‘unhelpful’ Nepal for floods, seeks PM Narendra Modi support||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday raised the issue of Nepal’s “non-cooperation” with PM Narendra Modi in Bihar’s flood management efforts. At a virtual meeting convened by the PM with chief ministers of six flood-affected states, Nitish sought the Centre’s intervention in the matter of Nepal’s non-cooperation saying, “There is a need of paying attention to the matter.” “Most areas of north Bihar are affected by floods mainly due to heavy rainfall in Nepal. As per the Indo-Nepal treaty, Bihar government’s water resources department (WRD) executes the flood management works in the bordering areas. The Nepal government has not been extending full cooperation for the past few years in this regard,” Nitish said at the virtual meeting via videoconferencing. Nitish further informed the PM that Bihar was badly affected in 2008 due to a breach in an embankment of Kosi river in neighbouring Nepal during the infamous Kosi deluge. “Even this year, the Nepal government did not extend its cooperation in repair of an old embankment in Madhepura district and another embankment built in the ‘No Man's Land’ in Madhubani district. Bihar officials held talks with their Nepal counterparts and tried their best to resolve the issues through dialogue, but they didn’t co-operated. The essential repair works which should have been completed by the mid-May were completed by end of June because of non-cooperation from Nepal,” Nitish said. The Bihar CM also drew the attention of the PM towards slow draining out of Ganga waters from Farakka barrage due to heavy silting of the river bed and sought the Centre’s intervention on the issue of silt deposit in the Ganga. “Altogether 13 districts of Bihar were affected by flood waters from Ganga in 2016. Draining out of water through Farakka barrage now takes too much time due to deposit of silt. Resultantly, the water from Ganga river remains spread in neighbouring villages for many days. The Centre should take notice of the problem,” Nitish told the PM. “As per the Indo-Bangladesh agreement, a discharge of 1,500 cusecs has to be ensured through the barrage. Of this, Bihar contributes 1,100 cusecs and is left with only 400 cusecs for its own use. This deprives Bihar of its due share of water from the Ganga, despite the river flowing through its territory,” he said. The CM also called for bringing the Kosi and the Mechi under the project of interlinking of rivers. Nitish also cited the “lack of clarity” in a Rs 1,880 crore state disaster risk management fund proposed by the 15th Finance Commission for the current financial year. He said the fund has been broken into two components which should be done away with. “This would ease the burden on the states exchequer on account of natural disasters. We need to spend a lot everywhere for repair works, disbursement of gratuitous relief and assistance to farmers,” he added. (With inputs from PTI )||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-blames-unhelpful-nepal-for-floods-seeks-pm-support/articleshow/77470197.cms||Madan Kumar
August 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh Medical Council warns doctors, hospitals against overcharging||VIJAYAWADA: Taking note of complaints raised by Covid-19 patients being treated at private hospitals, Andhra Pradesh Medical Council has warned corporate and private hospitals against collecting exorbitant fees. APMC chairman Dr BS Siva Reddy said, “The Council is empowered to take disciplinary action against any erring medical practitioners or corporate hospitals when they are found charging exorbitant rate, which is quite unreasonable.” Every medical practitioner should support the public by providing better treatment, he said. Corporate hospitals should only collect the fees fixed by the state government to treat Covid-19 patients. Any hospital or doctor found collecting more than the prescribed fee is liable to be punished, Reddy said. Medical practitioners should put the fee structure on display before starting treatment and he cannot charge beyond that. Similarly, hospitals should also have display boards with isolation room rents, bed charges, ventilator charges, he said. “We tried to get a bed in the corporate hospital for the fees prescribed by the state government. But they rejected admission. Later a marketing executive approached us with a package, which is five times higher than the prescribed fees. The government should take serious action on corporate hospitals,” said K Rama Rao a relative of Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/apmc-warns-docs-hosps-against-overcharging/articleshow/77470911.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Online services for students of tech varsity||Chandigarh: The Punjab government on Monday launched a portal of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Technical Education University to provide online services to the students. The portal was launched by Punjab technical education and industrial training minister Charanjit Singh Channi. The students of MRSPTU would be able to raise application requests online for availing services like provisional degree certificate (PDC) transcript, documents/degree/detailed marks card (DMC) correction, verification, and attestation, among others. Students would be able to pay fee online and receive the document copies online in their student login. Channi directed officials of technical education department and technical education board and IK Gujral Punjab Technical University (IKGPTU), Kapurthala, also to launch an online portal to provide services. Anurag Verma, principal secretary (technical education department), assured the minister that such an online service provider would be put in place soon there too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/online-services-for-students-of-tech-varsity/articleshow/77472427.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Rajkot||Cured of Covid, philanthropist gets back to serving patients||Rajkot: A brush with novel coronavirus happens to be a tough chapter in a patient’s life — not just physically, but psychologically too. However, even amid all the trauma some don’t get bitter, but definitely better. Meet 47-year-old Hitesh Sarvaiya, a mobile phone showroom owner in Savarkundla, who went through the entire Covid-19 drill – from 10 days stay at the civil hospital in Amreli to four more days at a quarantine centre – and yet he finds time and energy to fight the virus his way. Sarvaiya, who got discharged from the hospital on July 4, said, “Coronavirus breaks down any person mentally and I too was affected. But when I serve people and see them get benefited, I get more strengthened.” Sarvaiya had always been lending a helping hand to whoever needed his services — from providing ambulances to orthopaedic tools among many other things. However, after staying at the hospital himself, he got to observe the woes of patients coming to the civil hospital. Touched by their difficulties, especially in getting good food, Sarvaiya decided to provide food to patients and their relatives. He also provides maternity kits to pregnant women in the hospital. “After I got discharged, I formed ‘Seva Deep’ — a platform of 65 youths — who help me provide food to people from a humble background at the hospital,” said Sarvaiya who feeds 15 people daily at the hospital in Savarkundla. He further said that the packets are generously filled so that people do not stay happy for several hours. While the services are limited to just one hospital at present, he hopes to soon expand it to other hospitals too. “Women who cannot afford costly treatment or baby care products come to the civil hospital for delivery,” said the philanthropist who started providing such expecting moms with a maternity kit comprising a gown for the mother, a bedsheet, socks and clothes for the newborn. So far, Sarvaiya has provided around 500 such kits to needy women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cured-of-covid-philanthropist-gets-back-to-serving-patients/articleshow/77469737.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana resumes process to register properties with agricultural land||Chandigarh: The Haryana government, which had since July 22 temporarily halted registration of transfer deeds related to transfer of land/ properties in the state, will restart the process in a phased manner. The process for taking e-appointments for registration of agricultural land in rural areas of the state will start from Tuesday. However, the registration of agricultural land deeds will start from August 17. Similarly, e-appointments for the registration of land deeds in urban areas will start from August 17 and the date for re-starting registration of deeds will be shared soon. The decision on resuming registration process was taken by a meeting led by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and deputy CM Dushyant Chautala on Monday. The meeting also reviewed linkages of various departments with e-Registration system of revenue department. The CM was informed that the testing of the module for e-registration of agricultural land deeds, in rural areas, prepared by the revenue department, has been completed. Haryana has already made sweeping changes in the process of registration of property/land sale deeds after the alleged registries scam, which occurred during the lockdown and covers over 30,000 sale deeds executed without the mandatory no-objection certificates (NoCs). These land sale deeds were executed without taking NoCs from the town and country planning and urban local bodies departments in Gurgaon, Sonipat, Faridabad and Jhajjar districts. Khattar specifically directed that the decision regarding no registration of transfer of deeds of land for land in urban areas, as declared/notified under Section 7-A of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975 (as amended from time to time) and villages where the jamabandis are currently offline and not available on web-HALRIS will remain unchanged. Besides, this no registration of transfer of deeds of land will be done in controlled areas for the time being. The Haryana government is also using technology-based checks to prevent registrations in violation of the law by interfacing the web HALRIS application with TCP, ULBs, HSVP, HSIIDC, urban estates, police, forests, litigation matters on priority basis. There are a total of 32 lakh properties in urban areas across the state, of which 18 lakh properties are integrated with the department portal. The rest will also be brought on a single digital platform by October 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-resumes-process-to-register-properties-with-agricultural-land/articleshow/77472422.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Bareilly||CMO seeks equipment, manpower to upgrade300-bed hospital as Covid-19 level-2 facility||Bareilly: After UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials here to upgrade a 300-bed hospital to Covid-19 level-2 facility, Bareilly chief medical officer (CMO) has written to the director general (health) seeking equipment and manpower. Officials said they would have to set up an ICU and install ventilators. Besides, they would need experts to operate the equipment and other staff. The newly-constructed 300-bed hospital had been lying vacant for the past a few months and the health department started using it for examining and collecting samples of suspected Covid-19 cases since March. The hospital is currently being used for quarantining suspected cases on 100 beds while asymptomatic patients are being treated at another block of the hospital with 200 beds. When the construction of the 300-bed hospital began during the Samajwadi Party regime in UP, there was a plan to open a government multi-speciality hospital here. However, after the construction of the building was completed this year, the district administration and the district health department decided to shift the district hospital here and constituted a committee to check the feasibility. However, the chief minister during his visit to Bareilly to review the pandemic situation in the district directed the officials to upgrade the 300-bed hospital as a Covid-dedicated hospital of level-2 grade. CMO Dr Vineet Shukla said, “We have written to DG (health) to provide equipment and manpower for upgrading the hospital. We will need experts if the hospital is upgraded.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cmo-seeks-equipment-manpower-to-upgrade300-bed-hospital-as-covid-19-level-2-facility/articleshow/77469702.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 11, 2020||Nashik||Malegaon West, rural areas see rise in Covid-19 cases||Nashik: Malegaon is again witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, but cases are from Malegaon West and rural areas, resulting in overburdening of the treatment facilities. A total of 314 people have tested positive for coronavirus from these areas in the past 10 days. “There is a sudden rise in the number of patients, especially from Malegaon Camp, Soygaon, Sangameshwar and other rural areas outside the municipal limits,” said a senior civic health official on Monday. “As against the average five patients per day in the recent past, the Malegaon Municipal Corporation (MMC) is now witnessing an average of 31 cases per day. The highest number of 67 cases were registered on Sunday,” said the official. “The latest figure is the highest number since May 6, when the MMC had recorded 82 cases, all of which were from Malegaon East.” The official quashed rumours that Covid facilities have run out of beds. “While MSG College with 100-bed facility is full, the 230-bed Sahara Hospital still has more than 100 beds vacant,” said the official. The official added that the number of facilities in Malegaon East are lying vacant and that that people are reluctant to move there. Meanwhile, a total of 61 people tested positive in the textile town on Monday. Two patients died while 45 were discharged after recovery. The number of active patients is still less than 95, registered on July 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/malegaon-west-rural-areas-see-rise-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77469722.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Man arrested for murder attempt||Hyderabad: Hayathnagar police arrested one person for allegedly attempting to kill another man who is said to have been having an extra marital relationship with the former’s wife. The victim is battling for life after being attacked by the accused with a knife on his head and hands on Sunday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-murder-attempt/articleshow/77472435.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Lucknow||Ration cards to migrants: UP achieves 93% of target||LUCKNOW: With foodgrain distribution playing a crucial role in addressing the challenge of the large influx of migrants into the state, the state government has managed to achieve over 93% of the target of ration card distribution in the state. According to data from the food and civil supplies department accessed by TOI, the number of ration cards issued to migrants was 2.7 lakh against the target of 2.9 lakh. Following distribution of foodgrain, the state government managed to provide 1,789 metric tonnes of wheat, 1,192 MT of rice and 268 MT of chana. Food commissioner Manish Chauhan said that the department managed to reach out to the maximum possible number of migrants and issued ration cards. “Foodgrain supply was crucial in the times of lockdown,” he told TOI. Records show that the state government met 93.60% of the target in the rural areas where most of the migrants reached. As against a target of 2.71 lakh ration cards, the state government was able to provide ration cards to 2.54 lakh families in the rural areas. The coverage in the urban areas was a little less comprehensive -- 87% of the target. Records show that as against the target of 1.60 lakh ration cards, the food and civil supplies department could distribute 1.41 lakh ration cards. This ensured distribution of 127 MT of wheat, 84 MT of rice and 14 MT of grams. In all, the state government wheeled out ration on existing 3.56 lakh ration cards. Under this around more than 14 crore people got benefitted. The foodgrain distribution was done under three schemes – National Food Guarantee Scheme (NFGS), PM Gareeb Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) and Atma Nirbhar Bharat Yojana. Under PMGKAY scheme and Atma Nirbhar scheme, the government provides 5 kg of foodgrain and 1kg of chana dal free of cost to the targeted beneficiaries. At the same time, under NFGS, foodgrains are provided at subsidised rate. This was apart from the one-nation-one ration card scheme under which ration portability was provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ration-cards-to-migrants-up-achieves-93-of-target/articleshow/77473204.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC stays decision to include Gadarias under SC category||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday stayed the Haryana government notification regarding inclusion of ‘Gadaria’ community under the scheduled caste (SC) category. It also directed the Haryana chief secretary to file reply on the issue. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Dr Ambedkar Mission Sanstha, Palwal, through its vice-president Kishan Pal. According to the petitioner, the Haryana government was not competent to include Gadaria community under SC category. The petitioner has sought directions to quash the notification dated July 5, 2019, whereby the Haryana government modified the SC list as incorporated in the constitutional order 1950, being violative of Article 341 of the Constitution. Further directions have also been sought for quashing the notification dated July 7, 2020, whereby the Haryana government decided to issue SC certificate to ‘Gadaria’ caste. In July 2019, the Haryana government had issued a notification whereby ‘Gadaria’ caste was added as a synonym of Sansi caste. On July 7, 2020, the state government issued another notification directing that SC certificate be issued to members of ‘Gadaria’ caste. According to the petitioner, Article 341 of the Constitution specifically provides that the President may, with respect to any state or union territory, with consultation of the governor, by public notification specify castes, races or tribes or parts of or groups within castes, races or tribes which shall be deemed to be SCs for the purpose of Constitution. The petition also states that it is the legislative competence of Parliament to modify or vary such a list. “State of Haryana had not legislative competence to amend, vary, modify or clarify the list issued by the Union of India under Article 341 of the Constitution. The petitioner society and its members and entire SC community is directly affected by notification dated July 5, 2019, and July 7, 2020, issued by the Haryana government giving SC status to ‘Gadaria’ community,” the petitioner society has contended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-stays-haryana-decision-to-include-gadaria-under-sc-category/articleshow/77472448.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Sero-survey to check transmission trends’||Haryana is all set to carry out a sero survey to identify the spread of Covid-19 and monitor its transmission trends. Rajeev Arora, additional chief secretary (health), said findings of the study will be useful in implementin containment measures. “A sero-survey is testing a group of individuals to monitor trends in prevalence of Covid-19 as it helps in understanding the number of people affected by the disease. The study will help determine the burden of Covid-19 at the community level in the state and monitor the trends of transmission of SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19) infection,” he added Existing and ongoing data of laboratory results will be used to calibrate positivity rate among tests of RT-PCR in all districts for ongoing pandemic control and mitigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sero-survey-to-check-transmission-trends/articleshow/77472452.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nashik||Collector for converting referral hosp||Nashik: As the number of Covid-19 cases continues to go up in rural areas of Nashik, the district administration is considering to convert the Referral Hospital into a Covid facility for the treatment patients.“At this point in time treatment of patients is being carried out in a very good manner as a result of which we have good recovery among Covid-19 patients. But given the number of admissions currently, we are now trying to strengthen the infrastructure further so that any surge of patients can be accommodated easily,” district collector Suraj Mandhare said.Mandhare on Monday reviewed the operations of Emergency Operation Centre (EOC) in Nashik and after having discussions with the health officials, it was decided to convert the Referral Hospital into Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH).“This will ensure we get at least 150 to 175 bed Covid hospital ready to treat the people when required,” the collector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/collector-for-converting-referral-hosp/articleshow/77469732.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Demolition of old sectt complete||Hyderabad: The roads and buildings department has completed demolition of all buildings in the old Secretariat compound. It will take at least 15 days more to clear debris and level the site before it is handed over to the contractor for construction of new complex. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the department to invite global tenders for selection of reputed construction giants to build the new complex. Tenders would be invited soon. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/demolition-of-old-sectt-complete/articleshow/77472474.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Jaipur||New voters can register online||Now, a new or an eligible voter can add his name to the electoral roll online through NVSP portal or by downloading ‘Voter helpline’ mobile app. The voters can also make changes and delete their names from the electoral roll through this app or the portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-voters-can-register-online/articleshow/77472458.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Kochi||Natural habitat loss causes landslip: Madhav Gadgil||KOCHI: The landslide which occurred in Idukki’s Pettimudy, where around 50 people have lost their lives, is very similar to the one that killed 11 at Puthumala in 2019, according to noted ecologist Madhav Gadgil. “I understand that a big rock overtopping the tea plantation slipped down over a settlement of labourers, leading to this horrifying tragedy … This was a disaster waiting to happen,” he said. “As early as 2011, our Western Ghats Ecology Expert Panel (WGEEP) had designated this locality as a region of highest ecological sensitivity, ecologically sensitive zone (ESZ) 1. In Kerala rainfall increases steeply with elevation. High rainfall and steep slopes render localities susceptible to landslides; hence ESZ1 areas are susceptible to landslides,’’ he said. Gadgil pointed out that the extent of intact natural vegetation is the third component for assignment of ESZ1. “Landslides are under check in areas with intact natural vegetation because of the binding of the soil by roots. However, any disturbance to natural vegetation renders a locality with high rainfall and with steep slopes susceptible to landslides,’’ he said. The disturbances are largely man-made. “Such disturbances may include construction of buildings and roads, quarrying or mining, replacement of natural vegetation by plantations, or levelling of land using heavy machinery. Therefore, we expect that in ESZ1 areas such disturbance of natural vegetation and soil would mean greater danger of landslides,’’ he said. Gadgil pointed out that WGEEP had strongly recommended curbing these disturbing activities. “Had the panel’s recommendations been accepted, the extent and intensity of landslides in Kerala in 2019 and 2020 would have been much lower. Unfortunately, not only has the recommendation to bring such disturbing activities to a halt been ignored, instead the pace at which these disturbances are taking place has increased over the last nine years,’’ he said. He said that there are other compounding factors as well. “There are a large number of rock quarries afflicting the hilly regions of Kerala, and it is likely that some of them lie in the vicinity of Pettimudy. Even if they are not close to the landslide site shockwaves from the blasting of rocks in quarries slowly weaken the rocks in the surrounding areas enhancing chances of landslides. The last 40 years have been warmer than the average for the 20th century and twelve of the warmest years all occurred after 1998. “There is a broad scientific consensus that this climate change would lead to an increasing frequency of extreme weather events such as heat or cold waves or intense rainfall. As the world gets warmer there is more water vapour in the air leading to more frequent intense rainfall events,’’ he said. India is characterized by the world's highest levels of aerosols, minute particles emanating from automobile emissions and dust from construction, mining and quarrying, especially pulverizing rocks to produce mechanical sand. “As water vapour in air laden with aerosols begins to condense, it initially forms myriads of small water droplets. These then coalesce to form larger heavy water drops that lead to intense rain over shorter periods,’’ Gadgil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/natural-habitat-loss-causes-landslip-gadgil/articleshow/77470952.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||Virus fears pose grave challenge to Covid burials, bodies held-up||Nagpur: Relatives and volunteers are facing immense difficulty on a daily basis now in conducting burial of Covid victims in cemetery and qabristans in the city.According to volunteers conducting the last rites, bodies are being held-up for more than 24 hours as qabristan committees are citing different excuses to avoid burial on their premises. This, volunteers said, is increasing stress on mortuaries as keeping a Covid body is risky.Last week, the civic chief Tukaram Mundhe had held a meeting with office-bearers of the committees who had then agreed to cooperate with volunteers and relatives. On the other hand, Protestant Indian Christian Indora Cemetery Committee has demanded an alternate land as their Jaripatka graveyard is full and graves are already in a shambles beside other issues. On Monday, the committee wrote a letter to Mundhe expressing its inability to allow Covid burials amid stiff opposition from nearby residents, cemetery staff and community members. Committee president Reverend Ganesh Barve said monsoon has worsened the condition of graves and it is difficult to manually dig during rains. “The graveyard is waterlogged. If we allow burials, then other members are worried that the infection will spread. Diggers are also not ready to seal the grave after laying the body to rest fearing infection. A JCB can’t be brought in because of narrow entrance,” he said. On August 9, the committee had asked a family of Covid-19 victim to cremate the body and bring the ashes. But, the family preferred to bury the body at Mankapur ghat. Vandana Benjamin, president of Alpha Omega Christian Mahasangh, Maharashtra, said burial of bodies must be allowed as it is each community member’s right. “There are several directives from courts, civic bodies and Christian organizations. The committee must follow them,” she said. Benjamin had written to the committee seeking place for the Sunday’s deceased. Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed, who is coordinating Muslim burials, said committee members are mistaken that infection will spread. “As per guidelines, chances of transmission are low from a body. Burial won’t spread the virus. This is a misconception. Basically, nearby areas are pressuring committees to keep Covid victims away. We need to allay this fear. To get last rite as per wish is every person’s right,” he said. Regarding qabristans, Dr Ahmed accused the committees of treating the burial grounds as their personal properties. “A qabristan belongs to every member of the community. Despite the Waqf Board warning of dissolving committees denying Covid burials, office-bearers are creating hurdles on some or the other pretext,” he said. He said, “At one qabristan, gravediggers are not ready to dig. Triple charges are being taken. At another, they forced relatives to fill the pit after laying the body inside. It took a while as these pits are deep.”Ahmed said another committee has claimed before the NMC that it doesn’t have space. “Lot of land is available in qabristans,” he said. In their meeting with Mundhe, Ahmed too was present. “The committees have also demanded that Gorewada land earmarked for burials be immediately handed over to the community,” he said. Apprehensions And Demand Both Jaripatka cemetery and qabristan committees want alternate land for Covid burialsLand has been earmarked for qabristan at Gorewada. Members demand immediate handing overCommittees facing heat from nearby residents who fear spread of infection from bodiesDuring rains, manual digging not possible and entrance of graveyards narrow for JCB||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/virus-fears-pose-grave-challenge-to-covid-burials-bodies-held-up/articleshow/77470898.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 11, 2020||Nagpur||Covid patient’s mobile phone stolen from hosp||Nagpur: A 46-year-old Covid patient’s mobile phone handset was stolen from ward No. 44 of Mayo hospital in the early hours of Monday. The businessman from Jaripatka was admitted on Saturday.The phone was given to him for emergency use to convey any requirement to his family members. Already hassled with water shortage in his ward and down with fever and fatigue, the businessmen went to sleep after keeping the phone for charging. He was stunned to find the phone missing. After searching for it unsuccessfully, the businessman lodged a complaint at Tehsil police station. “It’s shocking to know that the mobile phone was stolen from the isolation ward. Nurses and doctors reacted indifferently when I shared my plight with them,” said the businessman. Senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar of Tehsil police station said the complaint has been received and probe has started. “We will try to find out the location of the stolen handset and take appropriate action. We will try to quiz the ward boys and maintenance staffer,” said the PI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-patients-mobile-phone-stolen-from-hosp/articleshow/77470903.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 11, 2020||Ranchi||Performing artists step out in ones and twos||Ranchi/Dhanbad: After bearing the brunt of lockdown for nearly three months, performing artists of Jharkhand are stepping outdoors in ones and twos to continue their work. Sourav Suman, a 26-year-old MTech student at BIT Sindri, runs a YouTube channel named Akki Rap King. On Sunday, Suman released a 3.18 minute long rap on Wasseypur in Dhanbad. Suman shot the video of his song across Maithon, Wasseypur, Bhatinda Fall, Dhanbad railway station and other parts of the district between May and June. “Though we planned the shooting of the song during the beginning of the year itself our plan had to be deferred owing to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. We could finally shoot the song once the Unlock came into force. We took all the precautions before commencing our shoot, although we couldn’t get permission at some of the sites for shooting,” said Suman. Nitesh Kacchap, one of the popular Nagpuri singers on YouTube, released his new song Macchardani Lagai Le on the YouTube channel, Ayush Films Nagpuri, two weeks ago. Shot during lockdown, the music video has already fetched over 1.5 million views. According to Jharkhand’s musicians across Nagpuri, Khorta and Santhali languages, YouTube has emerged the mainstay of their revenue. To keep their viewers engaged, over 300 songs are released annually across the three languages. Raman Gupta, a Ranchi-based actor of popular Nagpuri song ‘Mor 18 Sal Hoi Gelak Re’, rued about the plight of the state’s performing artists. “In between March and May, there was no work at all. July onwards, work began after seeking permission from the local authorities. But now, apprehending transmission, we are not being given permission for shooting outdoors,” Gupta told TOI. Artists like Gupta eke out their living by appearing in local music videos. “After sitting idle for nearly three months, I finally earned a few bucks last month,” Gupta said. Veteran folk artist Mukund Nayak said the state government must provide aide to the performing artists. “There are about 5,000 such performing artists, including traditional folk groups and contemporary artists, who are sitting at home without work. During the lockdown, I had written to Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda and chief minister Hemant Soren, urging them to arrange for financial aide. I had written to the state department of arts and culture as well. But nothing has moved in this direction,” Nayak told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/performing-artists-step-out-in-ones-and-twos/articleshow/77470412.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 11, 2020||Ranchi||12 Covid deaths, 630 fresh cases in state||Ranchi: Jharkhand reported 630 cases and 12 casualties in 24 hours until 10pm on Monday, including 99 cases and one casualty reported late on Sunday night. On Monday, 531 samples of the 6,252 tested returned positive, indicating a positivity rate of 8.4%. The total number of Covid-19 cases in Jharkhand now stands at 18,786; of which 8,849 are active, 9,748 have recovered and 189 have succumbed. Health department officials will be concerned as the virus now seems to be spreading in all districts barring Jamtara and Dumka and Santhal Pargana, where testing remains low, sources said. These two districts along the Bengal border have reported just 352 cases till date, a figure that has taken epidemic experts by surprise. Just 24 hours after Garhwa recorded its biggest single-day spike with 85 fresh cases on Sunday, Palamu reported 60 fresh cases taking the district tally to 123 reported in last two days. East Singhbhum and Ranchi reported 67 and 62 cases respectively. East Singhbum continued to dominate the casualty chart with five casualties on Monday. The lone death reported late on Sunday night too came from East Singhbhum taking the total number of deaths in the district to 72. Sahebganj and West Singhbhum and recorded two casualties each while Garhwa and Deoghar recorded on each. “All 12 casualties reported between had several age-related comorbidities and were admitted to various Covid hospitals after testing positive for viral infection,” said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/12-covid-deaths-630-fresh-cases-in-state/articleshow/77471716.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ranchi||Cops ‘thrash’ Koderma doc over parking row||Koderma: At a time when health workers are being hailed for their contribution in the frontline of the battle against Covid, a reputed doctor of the district on Monday said he was thrashed by police over parking his car, but the cops denied his claim and said it was the doctor who roughed up one of their colleagues and injured him. SP Ehtesham Waquarib said, “Action will be taken against the cops if found guilty.” IMA (Koderma) secretary Dr Sujit Kumar Raj termed the incident as unfortunate and demanded action against the guilty and the suspension of the officer-in-charge. The incident took place at Jhanda Chowk in Telaiya town where the doctor, Birendra Kumar, went to buy groceries after parking his car nearby. “Although I had parked my car in the parking zone, the police abused me and beat me up,” said Kumar, adding, “They even threatened to kill me inside the police station. Ram Narayan Thakur, the officer-in-charge of Telaiya police station, said, “The doctor parked his car in a no-parking zone and when I asked him to move the car he got angry and abused us. We had to bring him to the station after the doctor beat one of the cops and injured him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cops-thrash-koderma-doc-over-parking-row/articleshow/77471084.cms||---
August 11, 2020||Ranchi||DGP reviews status of Covid positive cops, law and order||Ranchi: After 2,565 police personnel, including one SP and an ASP, six DSPs and 25 inspectors, tested positive for Covid-19, DGP M V Rao on Monday reviewed the status of the infected policemen and a wide range of law and order issues during a meeting held with field officers through video conferencing. Of those infected, 1,672 are undergoing treatment, 887 have recovered while six have succumbed to the virus. In a press statement, the police department said the DGP reviewed the implementation of instructions to help Covid positive policemen. Rao also issued various instructions related to the improvement of the image of police, releasing of transferred officials within a week, suspension of officers, taking up welfare work for police personnel under the ‘Abhiyan Samman,’ updating of service books and intensive operation to arrest criminals and absconders. During the meeting, SPs, SSPs and the DIG gave short presentations on the status of policemen who have tested positive in their regions and other issues, including applications related to transfer of policemen, disposal of pending matters, investigation and the ‘Abhiyan Samman’. Notably, Abhiyan Samman has been started to ascertain and resolve the problems faced by state police personnel. A total of 259 jawans, havildars and fourth-grade employees have submitted applications under the scheme, out of which 62 were disposed of. The proceedings for 167 applications are on. ADGs Anil Palta, Prashant Singh and M L Meena and IGs Navin Kumar Singh and Suman Gupta were among the officers who participated in the meeting from the police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dgp-reviews-status-of-covid-positive-cops-law-and-order/articleshow/77471573.cms||---
