August 12, 2020||India||Railway to give surplus land for foodgrain storage facilities||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways will provide its surplus land parcels on lease at more than locations to Food Corporation of India (FCI) and other agencies of the food ministry for building storage facilities to see not a single grain is wasted. Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan and railway minister Piyush Goyal shared the common agenda of the two ministries after a review meeting on this issue on Tuesday. The FCI and other agencies under the food ministry have about 74.5 million tonnes of storage capacity, which includes gunnies of foodgrains kept under 'covered and plinth' (CAP), which is not a good practice to store grains. There are often reports of how gunnies of foodgrains get wet due to rain in different parts of the country. The current gap in storage capacity is more than 8 million tonnes. Three agencies under the food ministry – FCI, CWC and CRWC – have carried out the storage gap analysis to estimate the requirement. Out of the 87 locations shared by the FCI with the railways, land has been identified for 36 locations, which are in close proximity to railway stations. The inspections have been carried out at 24 locations. Similarly CRWC had sent a list of 11 locations for leasing railway land for construction of godowns and the railways has given positive signals at two locations in Gujarat and West Bengal. “We discussed the construction of storage facilities and warehouses on railway land. After completion of these works we will have more storage capacity and not a single foodgrain will be wasted,” Paswan tweeted. Goyal also said construction of storage facilities on surplus land of railways will pave the way for enhanced storage of food grains, leading to better agriculture supply chain and more gains to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railway-to-give-surplus-land-for-foodgrain-storage-facilities/articleshow/77492439.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 12, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh reports 34 new Covid cases, one death||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 16th coronavirus-related death on Tuesday after a 78-year-old woman from Sandhol succumbed to Covid-19 at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College Nerchowk in Mandi district. The state also reported 34 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 3,497 of which 1,180 are active, 2273 have recovered, 16 have died while 26 have migrated out of the state. Those tested positive for Covid-19, include 14 from Chamba, one each from Hamirpur, Kullu and Mandi districts, six from Kangra, eight from Sirmaur and three from Solan district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-pradesh-reports-34-new-covid-cases-one-death/articleshow/77492812.cms||Anand Bodh
August 12, 2020||India||Coronavirus in India: August turn? Growth in active cases slows||NEW DELHI: It could be early days yet, but there’s a hint of good news amid surging Covid-19 infections in India — the growth in active cases has distinctly slowed in August. In the first 10 days of this month, active coronavirus cases grew by half the number as in the previous 10 days despite a big surge in infections. The daily case count in the country was back above 60,000 after dipping on Monday. Fresh cases on Tuesday rose to 61,531, taking the total caseload past 23 lakh, as per data from state governments. Deaths reported on Tuesday were 852, a slight dip from the numbers in the past two days, while total recoveries rose to over 16.3 lakh. Active cases grew by nearly 5,000 to 6,46,927. While active cases continue to rise in the country, their growth has slowed. From August 1 to 10, active cases grew by 76,572. By contrast, active cases had risen by 1,52,195 in the previous 10 days (July 22-31) despite a lower number of new infections. There were over 5.7 lakh fresh infections in August 1-10 as compared with just over 5 lakh in the previous period. In the 10 days before that (July 12-21), India’s active case had risen by nearly 1.2 lakh. The slowing growth of active cases is mainly due to the fast rise in recoveries. An epidemic is said to be on the decline when the active cases start to fall in absolute terms. While India is still far away from that stage, a slowing of the growth in active cases is the first step in that direction. It, however, remains to be seen if the declining trend continues. As fresh cases returned to 60,000-plus levels on Tuesday, at least five states recorded their highest single-day spike in infections. Uttar Pradesh led the way with 5,130 new cases, becoming the fifth state in the country to report cases above 5,000 in a day. The other states with the highest surge in infections were Bihar (4,071 new cases), Assam (2,900, including cases from late Monday night), Rajasthan (1,217) and Haryana (798). A day after a significant dip in cases, Maharashtra on Tuesday added 11,000 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total caseload to 5,35,601. The state, however, reported a dip in deaths: it added 256, lowest in 14 days. With this, total fatalities in the state are 18,306. The state has reported over 1.13 lakh cases in 11 days in August, of which 10,940 cases are from Mumbai. The city for the second day in a row reported less than 1,000 cases (917), while recording 48 deaths. Cases in Bihar surged to a high of 4,071 Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total tally to 86,812. This was the first time the state has reported more than 4,000 cases in a day. The state health department also reported 15 Covid-related deaths, which took the toll to 465. Earlier, the maximum 3,992 Covid positive cases were reported in a day on Saturday. With 6,473 fresh discharges reported on Tuesday, Karnataka crossed the one-lakh mark in recoveries. Active cases now constitute only 42% of the state’s Covid-19 burden. The state reported 6,257 positive cases in the last 24 hours taking the active cases to 79,606. It also reported 86 new deaths. Bengaluru city reported 1,610 fresh cases and 1,508 recoveries and 17 deaths in the past 24 hours. Andhra Pradesh reported 87 deaths and 9,024 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 2,44,549. The toll mounted to 2,203, but about 9,100 patients were declared cured on Tuesday, outnumbering the fresh cases for the first time in weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/coronavirus-in-india-august-turn-growth-in-active-cases-slows/articleshow/77492750.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
August 12, 2020||India||Supreme Court gives equal inheritance right to daughters from 1956||NEW DELHI: Putting the last nail on male primacy in division of Hindu ancestral property, the Supreme Court in a landmark judgment on Tuesday cleared the legal cobwebs to declare that daughters will have inheritance rights equal to those of sons from properties of fathers, grandfathers and great-grandfathers right from the codification of the law in 1956. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S Abdul Nazeer and M R Shah ironed out the confusion arising from the apex court’s conflicting interpretations of the amended Section 6 of Hindu Succession Act, which came into force from September 9, 2005. The bench said whether the father was alive or not, daughters born before September 9, 2005, too could claim equal right in inheritance. “The provisions contained in substituted Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, confer status of coparcener (equal rights in inheritance) on the daughter born before or after amendment in the same manner as son with same rights and liabilities. The rights can be claimed by the daughter born earlier with effect from September 9, 2005,” Justice Mishra said in the 121-page judgment. Times ViewEquality of sexes is a fundamental principle of any modern, progressive society and state. The apex court judgment will rectify a discriminatory social practice. The decision needs to be welcomed. Better late than never!However, daughters, while claiming coparcenary rights, will not be able to question disposal or alienation of ancestral properties by the existing coparceners prior to December 20, 2004, as provided in the amended Section 6. The court also asked other coparceners in a Hindu joint family not to be alarmed by the judgment. “It is only a case of enlargement of the rights of daughters. The rights of other relatives remain unaffected as prevailed in the proviso to Section 6 as it stood before the amendment,” the SC said. The three-judge bench also examined the retrospective application of Section 6 and ruled that daughters would get the rights from 1956 when the law came into being. However, it clarified that the newly-conferred rights through the judicial interpretations would not be available to reopen alienation of ancestral property done so earlier through existing coparceners. Coparcenary property is one which is inherited by a Hindu from his/her father, grandfather or great-grandfather. Only a coparcener has the right to demand partition of property. Share in a property increases or decreases by death or birth in a family. Analysing the Mitakshara system applicable in various forms to property owned by Hindu families, Justice Mishra quoted a common saying noted in a 1996 judgment of the SC to sum up the bench's view towards daughters, "A son is a son until he gets a wife. A daughter is a daughter throughout her life.” The Centre, through solicitor general Tushar Mehta, had unequivocally conveyed that coparcenary was a birthright of daughters. Justice Mishra elaborated on it and said if daughters had a birthright, it would be incongruous to constrain it with the condition that to enjoy that right, her father must be alive. "As the right is by birth and not by dint of inheritance, it is irrelevant that a coparcener, whose daughter is conferred with the rights, is alive or not," the bench said. Terming the 2005 amendment granting equal coparcenary right to daughters as belated, the bench said, "The goal of gender justice, as constitutionally envisaged, is achieved, though belatedly, and the discrimination made is taken care by substituting the provision of Section 6 by the 2005 amendment Act. The classic Shastric Hindu law excluded the daughter from being coparcener, which injustice has now been done away with by amending the provisions in consonance with the spirit of the Constitution.” Watch Daughters have equal coparcenary rights in joint Hindu family property: Supreme Court||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-gives-equal-inheritance-right-to-daughters-from-1956/articleshow/77493244.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Cycling Baba stops over at Chandigarh on way to Ladakh||Dr Raj aka Cycling Baba, as he is fondly called, reached Chandigarh recently on his expedition if cycling from Delhi to Leh- Ladakh . Raj has cycled to 56 countries like USA, UK Australia and is now cycling in India. On his stop at Chandigarh, Cycling Baba and Cycle Adventures India, who have the same passion for tree plantation, united for the initiative of planting 5000 trees and started with planting saplings at Sector 16, Chandigarh. Cycle Adventures India also associated with Karamvir Singh, who has recently cycled to many destinations, like Chandigarh to Kashmir, Chandigarh to Nepal, to Malaysia. It is a one year old initiative under founder, Roahan Kalra who has been cycling since 2012 with many tours, solo and group rides. "On completion of one year and showing concern for safety of cyclists, we distributed safety stickers to all cyclists with their blood group mark to keep them safe on road rides," says Roahan. He adds, "In this one year, we planted many plants and trees. Now we want to plant rare varieties as well like Banyan and Ficus tree."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cycling-baba-stops-over-at-chandigarh-on-way-to-ladakh/articleshow/77493339.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Business||I-T dept searches Chinese entities over ‘laundering, hawala deals’||NEW DELHI: The income tax department on Tuesday launched a massive search operation on some Chinese individuals and their Indian associates and some bank employees spread across Delhi, Gurgaon and Ghaziabad for suspected links to money laundering and hawala transactions running into several thousand crores of rupees. “Based on credible information that a few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and hawala transactions through a series of shell entities, a search action was mounted at various premises of these Chinese entities, their close confederates and a couple of bank employees,” the I-T department said Sources in the department said one Chinese individual named Charles Pang had been detained and was being questioned, while premises were searched across the three cities during the operation. The latest action of the tax department, the biggest so far against Chinese entities, is seen as part of the effort to monitor and restrict business dealings with the Chinese in the aftermath of the border standoff. Sources did not disclose the identity of the Chinese companies and banks involved. The statement said the search action found that at the behest of Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were created in various dummy entities, entering into credits of more than Rs 1,000 crore over the period. It said a subsidiary of a Chinese company and its related concerns had taken over Rs 100 crore in bogus advances from shell entities for opening businesses of retail showrooms in India. “Further, incriminating documents in respect of hawala transactions and laundering of money with active involvement of bank employees and chartered accountants have been found as a result of search action. Evidence of foreign hawala transactions involving Hong Kong and US dollars has also been unearthed. Further investigations are under progress,” the statement added. Several actions have been unveiled by the government to cut off Chinese economic inroads in India and sources said plans are being readied to impose higher import duty on cameras, laptops and textiles as part of moves to restrict imports from China. As part of action aimed against Chinese entities, consignments from China have been subject to tough scrutiny, leading to delay in clearing of consignments ranging from electronics to pharmaceuticals. In April, the government amended the foreign direct investment policy to put a blanket ban on investments through the automatic route by entities from countries that share a border with India. The move was seen as an attempt to ward off the threat of “opportunistic” Chinese takeover of Indian companies, whose valuations have been hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic. Watch Hawala deals: I-T dept searches Chinese entities over ‘laundering'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/i-t-dept-searches-chinese-entities-over-laundering-hawala-deals/articleshow/77493751.cms||---
August 12, 2020||India||Teaseller’s daughter studying in US college dies in mishap, family alleges harassment||MEERUT: A CBSE topper who charted her way from a school in Bulandshahr to a top college in Boston was killed in a road accident on Monday morning. The family of 19-year-old Sudeeksha Bhati, daughter of a small tea shop owner and marginal farmer, said she was being harassed by two men on a Bullet when the accident took place. Police, after initially denying the claim, formed an SIT later on Tuesday to investigate the allegation. Two years ago, Sudeeksha had secured a full scholarship to Babson College in Massachusetts after topping the district with a score of over 98% in her Class 12 boards. Her trajectory was not without challenges — the Vidya Gyan School student had to drop out briefly in 2009 because the family didn’t have enough resources to keep her studies going. But she persevered. In March, halfway into her four-year undergraduate business programme, she had come home after the Covid-19 shutdown in the US. She was set to go back later this month. On Monday, she was on her way to visit a relative, riding pillion on a bike. "Two men on a Bullet riding next to us started harassing her. While performing stunts, they overtook us. I lowered my speed but the biker applied brakes all of a sudden. We rammed into the bike, my niece fell off and was hit in the head," said Satendra Bhati, Sudeeksha's uncle, on Tuesday. The accident took place near the Chirora intersection on Shyana Road in Aurangabad. She died on the spot. Satendra called her father, Jitendra, around 9am to give him the tragic news. Police and the district administration, however, had another version. When the case had been reported on Monday, police had registered only an accident and closed the books. "We were going at a speed of 30kmph… A Bullet raced ahead of us and applied brakes abruptly. Didi fell off the bike, nothing happened to me," her cousin, Nigam Bhati, a minor, said in a video statement tweeted by police. The biker who was ahead of them sped off, police said, and neither Sudeeksha nor her cousin were wearing helmets. She died with head injuries, Bulandshahr SP (city) Atul Srivastava said. "After the accident, neither the cousin nor any witness alerted us about any act of harassment," he added. Aurangabad police station SHO Subhash Singh said there was no CCTV footage of the accident spot. "A person called Hemant Sharma said he had witnessed the accident. Others also told us what they saw. The Bullet ahead of the bike stopped suddenly when a milk truck came from the opposite direction. The road doesn’t have a divider," he added. Bulandshahr district magistrate Ravindra Kumar also dismissed her uncle's statement. "Some claims are being made that Sudeeksha’s uncle was driving the bike. It is absolutely false. We have seen her cousin’s video statement. Aurangabad inspector Subash Singh spoke to her maternal uncle, who confirmed that her cousin was driving," he said. About the harassment allegation, he added, "An inquiry has been initiated. As of now, there is no evidence. Action will be taken on the basis of the findings." By evening, a three-member special investigation team (SIT) had been set up by the police. "An SIT under circle officer Deeksha Singh, with two crime branch inspectors, has been set up to look into the family's allegations. The report will be filed in three days," IG (Meerut range) Praveen Tripathi said. Sudeeksha’s family, meanwhile, is preparing to file a fresh complaint in the case. "Based on the complaint, an FIR will be registered," a senior police officer in Bulandshahr said. The harassment allegations stirred a storm online — #JusticeForSudeeksha was trending on Twitter for a few hours. The National Commission for Women has written to UP Police, seeking a "swift probe". A group of advocates held a prayer meeting for Sudeeksha in Greater Noida’s City Park area. Amid the confusion and counter-statements, BSP chief Mayawati condemned the incident. "Promising student Sudeeksha Bhati, travelling on a bike with her uncle in Bulandshahr, lost her life because of harassers. It is sad, shameful and condemnable. How will our daughters progress? BSP demands that the UP government take strict action against the culprits," she tweeted. Dadri legislator from BJP, Tejpal Nagar, met Sudeeksha’s family and offered aid of Rs 1 lakh himself, while seeking a compensation of Rs 25 lakh from the state government. Later in the day, Sanjay Singh, in charge of AAP’s UP unit, also visited her family. (Additional reporting by Shikha Salaria)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/teasellers-daughter-studying-in-us-college-dies-in-mishap-family-alleges-harassment/articleshow/77494072.cms||Piyush Rai
August 12, 2020||India||Situation not conducive to resume 4G internet services in J&K: Centre||NEW DELHI: The Union government told the Supreme Court on Tuesday that the persisting terror threat in Jammu and Kashmir would not allow resumption of 4G internet services in the Union Territory but agreed to provide high-speed internet in one district each in Jammu and Kashmir divisions on a trial basis after August 15. Attorney general K K Venugopal and solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre and the J&K administration, told a bench of Justices N V Ramana, R S Reddy and B R Gavai that the two districts would be chosen based on "low intensity of terrorist activities and with minimal spillover effects on neighbouring areas". The AG said faster internet services would not be provided on trial basis in districts adjoining the international border or the Line of Control. Official sources said that initially, 4G internet would be restored in Kupwara and Jammu districts. This decision was taken by the high-powered committee headed by the Union home secretary on Monday after taking into account the views expressed by the security agencies and local agencies in the UT while keeping in mind the security of the nation, border security and public safety. "The threat perception on the security front in J&K continues to be high. Internet speed related restrictions are not posing any hindrance to Covid-19 control measures, access to education programmes or carrying out business activities," the Centre said in its affidavit. "The committee was of the view that there is adequate access to the internet through broadband services available over landline to business and healthcare institutions. The committee was of the considered view that given the current security scenario, both in Jammu and Kashmir and in surrounding areas, the overall situation is still not conducive for lifting the limited restrictions on high speed internet through mobile devices whilst allowing broadband and 2G services across the board," the Centre said. The stance against resumption of 4G services came against the backdrop of reported remarks of the former J&K LG that the government could consider lifting the ban — a statement that had engaged the attention of the apex court. The bench headed by Justice Ramana, finding that the committee had met several times as per its judgment on May 11, closed proceedings on the contempt petition filed by NGO ‘Foundation for Media Professionals’. "We find there is no case made out to proceed further in this contempt petition, and the same is accordingly closed," the bench said. Appearing for the NGO, senior advocate Huzefa Ahmadi said the Centre's stand appeared to be a step forward and he would not press for contempt proceedings. However, both the AG and the SG said no contempt was committed by the Centre and that the SC’s May 11 order was implemented in letter and spirit. (With inputs from M Saleem Pandit)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/situation-not-conducive-to-resume-4g-internet-services-in-jk-centre/articleshow/77494289.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 12, 2020||India||Ready for long haul in Ladakh: Army to parliamentary panel||NEW DELHI: The Indian armed forces are prepared for the long haul in eastern Ladakh since the de-escalation process with China is likely to be a long-drawn affair, the country’s military brass has told a parliamentary panel. Sources said top military officers, led by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, told the public accounts committee (PAC) that necessary steps have been taken for deployment of soldiers in the harsh winter in the high-altitude region. The armed forces are ready for any contingency, they said. The CAG audit report on the state of clothing, rations and accommodation for soldiers deployed in the Siachen glacier region was the main agenda of the PAC meeting held on Monday, but a question was also asked on the ongoing military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh, said sources. As was reported earlier by TOI, several rounds of military and diplomatic talks have not yet led to any breakthrough in the stalled troop disengagement in Pangong Tso and Gogra areas of eastern Ladakh, while the deadlock over the rival military build-ups also persists in the strategically-located Depsang Plains. The latest round of major general-level talks on the Depsang-Daulat Beg Oldie sector, where the People’s Liberation Army has deployed over 12,000 troops, tanks and artillery guns, also ended in a stalemate on Saturday. India, too, has deployed additional brigades (each has around 3,000 troops) and T-90S main battle tank regiments in the Depsang plateau, which is located at an altitude of 16,000-feet and provides access to the DBO advance landing ground and the critical Karakoram Pass in the north. The Army has simultaneously undertaken a massive “advance winter stocking” for rations and other essential supplies for its well over 30,000 forward deployed troops in eastern Ladakh alone. The construction of insulated habitats for the troops, including pre-fabricated huts, arctic tents and large containers, is also now under way, while additional supplies of winter clothing and gear has also been ordered from domestic and foreign manufacturers. This has become necessary because with even the proposed troop disengagement process yet to fully take place at two of the four immediate face-off sites, the de-escalation and de-induction of troops from other sectors is simply not on the cards as of now. Watch Indian armed forces prepared for long haul in Ladakh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ready-for-long-haul-in-ladakh-army-to-parliamentary-panel/articleshow/77494513.cms||---
August 12, 2020||World||Biden picks Kamala Harris as vice-presidential running mate||WASHINGTON: Democratic nominee Joe Biden on Tuesday picked California Senator Kamala Harris, whose mother is a Tamilian from South India, as his vice-presidential running mate for the 2020 Presidential election. Harris, who was born in Oakland, California, and whose father is Jamaican, will be the first black and Indian American on a major US party ticket. She is also only the fourth woman in history to be chosen for on a major party's presidential ticket. "@JoeBiden can unify the American people because he's spent his life fighting for us. And as president, he'll build an America that lives up to our ideals. I'm honored to join him as our party's nominee for Vice President, and do what it takes to make him our Commander-in-Chief," Harris tweeted shortly after Biden announced his pick on social media. Read AlsoDemocrats' Vice-Presidential candidate is Black-Indian American Kamala Harris: All you need to knowNEW DELHI: Kamala Harris set the social media buzzing with people of colour and Americans of Indian descent expressing heightened emotions and a sense of pride after Democratic nominee Joe Biden announced Black-Indian American Kamala Harris as his choice of running mate to take on Donald Trump in"I have the great honor to announce that I’ve picked @KamalaHarris— a fearless fighter for the little guy, and one of the country’s finest public servants — as my running mate.," Biden announced an hour or so earlier, adding, "Back when Kamala was Attorney General, she worked closely with Beau. I watched as they took on the big banks, lifted up working people, and protected women and kids from abuse. I was proud then, and I'm proud now to have her as my partner in this campaign." I have the great honor to announce that I’ve picked @KamalaHarris — a fearless fighter for the little guy, and one… https://t.co/gnzCegPMfl— Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) 1597177052000Back when Kamala was Attorney General, she worked closely with Beau. I watched as they took on the big banks, lifte… https://t.co/aVlxdtBzDq— Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) 1597177052000Beau Biden, the former vice president’s eldest son, was the Attorney General of Delaware when Harris was AG of California. He died of cancer in 2015. Read AlsoHow it happened: Inside Biden's search for a running mateWASHINGTON: Gretchen Whitmer wanted out. The Michigan governor had caught the interest of Joe Biden and his vice presidential vetting committee, who were drawn to her prominence in a crucial battleground state and her aggressive response to the coronavirus outbreak there. But by late spring, theThe annotation from the Democratic nominee was aimed partly at allaying fears in some Democratic quarters about Harris’ credentials as a team player, and the attributes and strengths she brought to the ticket. She had chewed up Biden during the Presidential debates, and in turn, she had been chewed up by Tulsi Gabbard, before both of them dropped out. Despite this, she was on Biden’s shortlist because of her formidable record as a prosecutor and as a Senator in her relatively short stint in the Senate. Although California is a Democratic fortress and Biden does not need her help to win the state, the choice brings a geographical balance to the ticket because the former vice-president is from Delaware on the east coast. She is also expected to be a sparkling debater in a vice-presidential face-off with the staid Mike Pence. Still, there was the mandatory kvetching among the Democratic rank and file from followers of other major aspirants such as Elizabeth Warren, Susan Rice, Tammy Duckworth etc., who felt their candidates would have brought more to the table. For some, Harris’ record as California Attorney General that purportedly was unsympathetic to the black community was a problem. Others argued that a candidate from a swing state would have strengthened Biden’s hands. Biden and Harris are expected to make an appearance together in Delaware on Wednesday to president a united front. Although she considers herself Black, Harris has often spoken of her Indian roots, including visits to Chennai when she was young to spend summers with her grandfather who was a civil servant in the government of India. Her mother Shyamala Gopalan, was a breast cancer researcher who came to the U.S in 1960 to pursue a doctorate in endocrinology at UC Berkeley where she met Donald Harris, a Jamaican who was studying economics. Her parents divorced when she was seven and her mother passed away in 2009. She has a sister, Maya Harris, who is also a political activist and has worked in the Hillary Clinton presidential campaign. Although her Indian heritage did not appear to be a major factor in Biden's choice, there are significant Indian votes in some key battle ground states, besides the fact that Indian-Americans are the best-educated and highest-earning ethnic cohort in America and have lately become politically assertive and putting in campaign bucks. "There are a lot of Indian-American voters in this country, including in states that appear to be in play," noted George Conway, a Never-Trumper whose wife KellyAnne Conway is a Trump aide, while joking, "maybe he will pose for a chicken tikka masala taco bowl pic." Watch Analysis: Harris pick makes history, sets new tone||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-selects-california-sen-kamala-harris-as-running-mate/articleshow/77494621.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
August 12, 2020||India||PM Modi stresses on containment, contact-tracing, testing to win war against Covid-19||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday said there is an urgent need to ramp up testing in Bihar, Gujarat, UP, West Bengal and Telangana during an interaction with chief ministers of 10 states with heavy Covid-19 caseloads. Modi urged the chief ministers to work hard on containment and contract-tracing strategies, saying defeating the virus in the 10 states that account for 80% of cases will mean that the entire country would emerge victorious in its fight against the disease. He also called on the CMs to reduce case fatality rate to 1%, which would indicate success in detecting infections early and ensuring proper clinical management. The PM referred to home minister Amit Shah’s role in the plans developed and implemented for Delhi and the wider national capital region to say that the efforts showed that the spread of the virus can be checked and eventually controlled. TOI had in its Tuesday’s edition carried a report on India faring poorly in terms of tests per million population as compared to countries like the US, Russia and UK. The government has said testing needs to be calibrated according to the positivity rates. The states named by the PM are, however, seen as a cause for concern in terms of large populations and incidence of the disease. The states included in the discussions were Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Punjab besides the ones mentioned in the context of testing. “Our experience so far is that containment, contact-tracing and surveillance are the most effective weapons against the pandemic, with experts of the view that if cases are identified within 72 hours of onset, then infection slows down to great extent,” the PM said. He emphasised the need to trace and test all those who come in contact with an infected person within 72 hours. This should be followed like a “mantra”, with the same earnestness as washing hands, maintaining social distance and wearing masks, he said. The PM also asked states like Bihar, Gujarat, UP, West Bengal, and Telangana to urgently ramp up testing for early detection and timely treatment. He told CMs of the 10 states that such meetings and discussions are necessary as new situations are emerging amid the pandemic. The PM recounted Shah’s roadmap to tackle the pandemic in cooperation with Delhi and nearby states. “The main pillars of this strategy were segregation of containment zones and focus on screening, especially of those in high-risk categories. The results of these steps are there for all to see,” he said, adding steps like better management in hospitals and increasing ICU beds also proved very helpful. Highlighting the decline in Covid-19 fatality rate in the country, Modi said it was a matter of satisfaction and noted that it has been very low compared to the world average. Currently, the death rate due to Covid-19 in India stands at 1.99%. It has shown a significant drop from 3.33% in mid-June and 2.72% on July 10. The percentage of active cases in the total number of infected cases have also started showing a decline, while the recovery rate is increasing. The PM noted that these steps have boosted the confidence of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-stresses-on-containment-contact-tracing-testing-to-win-war-against-covid-19/articleshow/77494900.cms||---
August 12, 2020||India||UPSC: Cut-offs for EWS candidates lower than OBCs'||NEW DELHI: The cut-offs for economically weaker section (EWS) candidates in the civil services examination 2019, the final results of which were announced by UPSC last week, were lower than those for other backward classes (OBC) candidates for all three stages of the exam and less than the cutoffs for SC and ST examinees at the mains stage. As per cut-off marks for different stages of the examination announced by UPSC, those for prelims, mains and final round for general candidates were 98, 751 and 961 respectively while for EWS candidates, the marks were 90, 696 and 909. For OBCs, the cut-offs were 95.3, 718 and 925 respectively; for SC candidates, they were 82, 706 and 898 and for ST candidates, they were 77.3, 699 and 893. This is the first year that EWS quota has been applied in the civil services exam. This, even as a plea challenging the quota is pending in the Supreme Court. The apex court had last week referred the matter to a fivejudge bench. The cut-offs, on the face of it, indicate that those in the EWS category would have found it impossible to make it without the quota. It may also raise questions over the extent of the lag between EWS or ‘backwards among forwards’ and other categories. UPSC, as part of the results declared last week, had recommended 829 candidates for appointment to IAS, IFS, IPS and other Group A and B central services. Of these, 304 are in the general category, 78 in EWS category, 251 in OBC category, 129 SCs and 67 STs. As many as 182 were included in the consolidated reserve list. The commission has said that “cut-off marks are subject to changes, as may be necessitated by the orders that may be passed by courts in matters pending before them”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/upsc-cut-offs-for-ews-candidates-lower-than-obcs/articleshow/77494999.cms||---
August 12, 2020||World||Trump surprised Biden picked Kamala Harris as running mate||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Tuesday said he was surprised Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden chose Senator Kamala Harris as his running mate because she had been disrespectful to the former vice president during the debates. Trump said Harris had been "very, very nasty" to Biden during the primaries. "One of the reasons that it surprised me, she was probably nastier than even Pocahontas to Joe Biden. She was very disrespectful to Joe Biden and it's hard to pick somebody that that's disrespectful," he told reporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-surprised-biden-picked-kamala-harris-as-running-mate/articleshow/77495024.cms||---
August 12, 2020||India||Gehlot my elder and senior, but I have right to point what is not right: Sachin Pilot||Actions against MLAs opposed to CM Ashok Gehlot precipitated the political crisis in Rajasthan and he would still have the right to point out gaps in governance, Congress functionarySachin Pilot told TOI’s Subodh Ghildiyal. Excerpts:Now that you have ended your rebellion, what happened to your demand for a change of chief minister?Exactly a month ago, as deputy CM, I was served a notice by the SOG which was unacceptable to me. We felt there were many issues like governance, delivery and non-participative leadership in Rajasthan. We wanted to make the party leadership aware of this and came to Delhi. But there were lots of FIRs filed, ACB cases, suspension of MLAs. Actions in Jaipur precipitated matters. But we said from day one that we are in Congress and we will stay there. We are happy that Congress leadership has put out a roadmap to address our issues. Where do you stand today? What position do you expect now?Whatever I am today is because of the blessings of people of Rajasthan. My job in future is to fulfil the promises made to people. I have made no demands to the leadership. I am an MLA and have a job in my constituency. My karmabhoomi is Rajasthan and I want to work here. I spent seven years here as PCC chief. But I will do whatever is asked of me. What do you think about CM Ashok Gehlot now?He is an experienced politician and older to me. I have no personal animosity against him. But I do have the right to point out things that I believe are not right in governance, administration and day-to-day functioning. That is not anti-party or illegal or anti-national in any way. What’ll happen to the MLAs who sided with you in your rebellion? Will the sacked ministers be reinstated?They are Congress MLAs and senior people. They all deserve participation in party and government on merit. How that will happen, we have to see. There should not be any vendetta politics against them. Let the three-member AICC committee decide on the reinstatement of ministers. I don’t see the possibility of my returning as deputy CM. To have a house and a car is pointless if you don’t have the honour or are not able to work. Can things be normal again after the exchanges between you and Gehlot — you revolting and the chief ministercalling you “nikamma” and “nakara”?We will work together to fulfil the promises made to people... I felt deeply hurt when those words were used. However, I chose to not respond. Unparliamentary language is unbecoming of someone who aspires to be in a high office. I have never made any personal allegations against the CM. The chief minister said he never spoke to you since the government assumed office 18 months ago?The CM said so. I have nothing to say about it. But it gives you an idea how the government functioned for over one and half years. Will the police cases and disqualification notices against rebel MLAs be withdrawn?I think that there is a broad understanding on the direction to proceed. Some cases are in courts, so we will have to see how they pan out. Even your sympathisers in Congress said you were “in tight embrace with BJP”, citing your lawyers and place of stay as evidence?We all shared the legal and logistical cost incurred over three-odd weeks. The MLAs were fearful of coercive action by the Rajasthan police. So, they had to stay out of Rajasthan. The charge of working with BJP was all cooked up. Watch Rajasthan crisis: Sachin Pilot breaks silence, party forms 3-member panel to address his ‘grievances’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gehlot-my-elder-and-senior-but-i-have-right-to-point-what-is-not-right-sachin-pilot/articleshow/77495061.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
August 12, 2020||Patna||Remember period before 2005: Chhatra JD(U)||PATNA: Chhatra JD(U) incharge and former MLC Ranbir Nandan on Tuesday said the Nitish Kumar-led government has worked a lot for girls’ education in the state. “Girls are today walking shoulder to shoulder with boys. Thanks to more enrolment of girls in schools, literacy rate has increased in the state,” he added. Referring to the RJD regime in the state, Nandan said that was the era when no father wanted his daughter to step out of home and go to school. While interacting with Chhatra JD(U) members through social media, he said, “Remember the dark period in Bihar before 2005 when people were afraid of sending girls to schools. After coming to power, CM Nitish Kumar focused on bringing women to the mainstream. From proper education to job, a lot has been done for women in the state. Our daughters are our pride now. They are bringing laurels to the state.” Nandan said in 2005, 13 of 100 students had never been to school and majority of them were girls. “Now, the number has reduced to less than 1% and the government is trying to bring them to school too,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chhatra-jdu-remember-period-before-2005/articleshow/77490849.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 12, 2020||Patna||‘Congress will contest 80 seats in Bihar assembly polls’||PATNA: Congress legislature party leader Sadanand Singh on Tuesday said that his party would be contesting on at least 80 seats in the upcoming assembly election. This is almost double the number of seats on which Congress contested in the previous assembly election in Bihar. Singh’s statement came two days after a meeting with Congress state incharge Shaktisinh Gohil and at a time when discussions regarding state election is gaining momentum. This is also for the first time that a senior Congress leader has talked about the number of seats on which they are willing to contest. Talking to TOI, Singh also said, “This time, we will not compromise on seat distribution with the allies, especially the RJD.” Singh said though they have not held any talks in this regard with the RJD, state Congress leaders have expressed their views to party’s national leaders and the high command. “We have many good candidates and we do not want to disappoint them. Though we are preparing for all the 243 seats, we want 80 seats for our party candidates and we will help the alliance on other seats,” he added. In the previous assembly election held in October-November 2015, Congress had fought on 41 seats in alliance with the RJD and the JD (U), which contested 101 seats each. Explaining the formula of seat-sharing, Singh said apart from 41 seats, they also contested on one seat in the bypolls. “Hence we have already contested 42 seats. Now out of 243, if we take 80 seats, then there will be 163 seats left for other parties of the alliance,” he added. Supporting Singh, another senior Congress leader and former parliamentarian Tariq Anwar said, “Sadanandji is a senior party leader and he must have assessed before saying this.” However, Gohil did not comment on the issue. “This is not the right time to discuss about the number of seats or choice of seats,” Gohil told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-will-contest-80-seats-in-assembly-polls/articleshow/77490811.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 12, 2020||Patna||As demand for plasma goes up, AIIMS-Patna struggles to get donors||PATNA: As the demand for convalescent plasma therapy is rapidly rising, AIIMS-Patna is struggling to cope with it and arrange plasma for serious virus infected patients. Even though the district authorities has increased the number of plasma donations from five to 10 per day, the medical team at AIIMS-Patna is finding it difficult to convince people to donate blood. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna, told this newspaper that the demand for plasma therapy has been increasing as the plasma along with medication is helping Covid patients in building their immunity level as well as increasing the recovery rate. “On an average, 12-15 Covid patients at AIIMS-Patna need plasma therapy but right now, we have only two donated plasma in store. People are coming forward for donation but few in numbers. We are trying to convince the recovered patients, those who have completed 28 days of recovery, to donate blood from which plasma can be extracted,” Dr Sanjeev said. He added, “The demand for plasma is also coming from other hospitals, but as per protocol we can’t give to other health facilities. Besides, we do not have much stock of plasma ourselves.” So far, plasma therapy has been given to 80 Covid patients of whom 64 have recovered, including 2% of seriously critical patients. Dr Neha Singh, blood transfusion officer at AIIMS-Patna, said so far, 150 people have donated plasma after going through the crucial testing and screening process. “The therapy involves extraction of plasma from the blood of recovered Covid patients. These people should have good amount of antibodies. There are some who did not fulfil the parameters of donating plasma,” she said. She added, “We have set the target to collect 10 plasma per day. Some days the strength is full but on other days only few people turn up. Today, five persons donated plasma.” Altogether 1,355 recovered patients have completed 28 days of recovery in Patna, while 13,533 across the state, only 150 have come forward to donate plasma to the institute so far, which is 1.1% of the total recoveries. A Covid patient’s family member admitted at AIIMS said it took a while but he got a plasma donor for his father. “He is better after receiving the first dose of plasma. People are facing difficulty in getting plasma because only few people are coming forward for voluntary donation of plasma,” the man said. Another person from Begusarai said there should be a plasma bank as finding plasma donor is difficult. His uncle, who was also admitted at AIIMS, received plasma after he went through a lot of trouble. Dr Sunil Kumar, secretary of Indian Medical Association, Bihar, demanded that plasma donation should be carried out in all hospitals, where Covid treatment is taking place and has a blood bank facility. “The demand for plasma therapy has increased as more people are getting infected with Covid. The state government needs to take measures in this regard,” he told this newspaper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/as-demand-for-plasma-goes-up-aiims-patna-struggles-to-get-donors/articleshow/77490402.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Drug smuggler held, found Covid positive||PATNA: The police personnel posted at Phulwarisharif police station would undergo Covid-19 test after one of the two drug smugglers arrested were found infected with the virus on Monday. Phulwarisharif police station SHO Rafique-Ur-Rahman said they had to get the infected drug smuggler admitted to AIIMS-Patna for treatment while his associate Ajeet Kumar (23) was sent to jail. Rahman said two home guard jawans had taken the arrested duo for Covid-19 testing at Phulwarisharif primary health centre on Monday before producing them before a court. “As soon as the one tested positive, the guards left him inside alone and came out of the centre,” he said. He said even the smuggler was disheartened after knowing that he was Covid-19 positive. “ He didn’t move and kept sitting there. We were informed after which I went to the centre and took him to the hospital,” he said. The SHO said Ajeet was tested negative though both used to stay in the same room and share same bed. “Now all the police station staff would undergo Covid-19 test. Four, including the two home guards, were directed to get tested on Tuesday,” he said. Rahman said the entire police station, including the lock-up where they were kept for almost 18 hours, has been sanitised. He said the two were arrested on Sunday evening from Govindpur Mor in Phulwarisharif with 15 packets of brown sugar. He said both worked as daily wagers in the area and were native of Masaurhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/drug-smuggler-held-found-covid-positive/articleshow/77490695.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||1,300 new ventilators for Rajasthan Covid patients||JAIPUR: State’s healthcare facilities received a major boost as the government has procured 1,300 new ventilators for Covid-19 patients. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that the government has procured 1,300 new ventilators. He denied that there is any shortage of ventilators, but as the Covid-19 cases are constantly on the rise, the health department felt the requirement to get more ventilators. Some of the areas of the state are lacking facilitates of ventilators in hospitals. Recently, former MLA of Makrana of Nagaur district had written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot complaining that the government hospital in Makrana had no ventilator and in case if a patient requires a ventilator support, he would not get it. The chief minister’s office sent the complaint to the health department to the resolve the issue. A report of the health department issued recently revealed that dedicated Covid hospitals have 779 ventilators, dedicated Covid health centres have 111 ventilators and dedicated Covid care centres have 11 ventilators. The number of ventilators in all the hospitals is 901. Now, the number of ventilators has more than doubled. Besides, the state had 1,500 ventilators, out of those 901 are dedicated for Covid-19 patients. However, it is seen that few patients were put on ventilator support. On August 2, there were only 15 patients who were on ventilator support. In Jaipur’s RUHS Hospital, currently 10 patients have been put on non-invasive ventilator support, while two are intubated and on invasive ventilator support. “In some of the Covid-19 patients, who have more complications and breathing problems, they require ventilator support. Those having mild to moderate complications, they are put on non-invasive ventilator support, while severe Covid-19 cases such as patients of acute respiratory distress syndrome require invasive ventilator support,” said Dr Ajit Singh, additional superintendent, SMS Hospital, who is also part of group of doctors constituted for Covid-19 treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-3k-new-ventilators-for-raj-covid-patients/articleshow/77493744.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Somu Veerraju takes charge as BJP’s state president||VIJAYAWADA: BJP national general secretary V Ram Madhav made an appeal to the rank and file of the party to emerge as a strong opposition in AP. There is a vacuum in the state and the BJP should take advantage, he told cadres at the swearing-in of MLC Somu Veerraju as the party’s state unit president on Tuesday. “The TDP has failed to play the role of strong opposition in the state. The time has come for the BJP to fill the gap. However, it won’t be easy unless everyone works hard for the next four years. We must target a big win for the party in the 2024 elections in the state,” he said. Referring to the capital trifurcation issue, Ram Madhav said the central government has a limited role to play in deciding the capital of a state. “The previous government had proposed Amaravati as capital and the Centre supported it. Now, the present government has proposed three capitals. We are closely watching the situation. We raised voice against corruption and misuse of capital funds when TDP was in power. We will not spare this government too if there is corruption,” he warned. Veerraju said BJP will maintain equal distance from the TDP and the YSR Congress. “Together with Jana Sena, we will form the government in AP in 2024 as both TDP and YSRC have failed to live up to the expectations of people. There would be one voice from the BJP henceforth. It would be the voice of the party president and not others,” he said, sending the message that there’s no room for dissent in the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/veerraju-takes-charge-as-bjps-state-president/articleshow/77492297.cms||Gopi Dara
August 12, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 411 new Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths||DEHRADUN: With 411 fresh cases reported in the state, Uttarakhand’s Covid-19 tally reached 10,432 on Tuesday. Two deaths were also reported in the state on the day, taking the toll of the virus to 136. The two deaths were reported from AIIMS in Rishikesh and Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. “AIIMS-R reported one more death after the release of the health bulletin,” confirmed AIIMS-R public relations official Harish Thapliyal. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said, “The maximum of 143 cases were reported from Haridwar, followed by 82 cases from Dehradun, 49 from Nainital, 39 from Tehri Garhwal, 36 from Almora, 32 from Udham Singh Nagar, 10 from Uttarkashi, nine from Pauri Garhwal, eight from Champawat, and three from Rudraprayag.” Meanwhile, 5,000 new samples were collected for testing on Tuesday. With this, the pendency of test samples crossed the 10,000 mark in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-411-new-covid-19-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/77491216.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 12, 2020||Bareilly||UPSRTC begins selling reusable face masksat prominent bus stands to contain infection||Bareilly: With the novel coronavirus cases in the state rising consistently, the Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has initiated the selling of reusable protective face masks at its major bus stands across UP considering lack of adherence to the Covid-19 protocols by passengers while travelling in roadways buses. Speaking to TOI, UPSRTC managing director Raj Shekhar said, “The masks will be available at Covid help desks and enquiry counters at 100 prominent bus stations of the corporation. The move is aimed at ensuring that passengers travelling in roadways buses strictly adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines and wear masks for their safety as well as for the safety of co-passengers. Additionally, staff deployed in the roadways buses have been directed to sensitise passengers on the importance of face mask while in public to combat the spread of infection.” “The masks, which are made of washable quality fabric, are available at a cost of Rs 6 per piece. The roadways passengers will be informed about the newly-introduced service through announcements at the bus stations,” added the MD. According to sources with the UPSRTC headquarters, around 10,000 masks have been sold in the past 24 hours. UPSRTC regional manager, Bareilly division, SK Banerjee told TOI, “Around 500 face masks were sold at Satellite bus station within two hours. We have placed an order for more masks considering the high demand. The move is appreciated by many as the corporation is providing reusable masks at a reasonable price.” Besides face masks, according to officials, the corporation is taking various measures to combat the spread of Covid-19 such as making regular announcements at bus stations for the passengers to follow the Covid-19 guidelines, displaying ‘dos’ and ‘don’ts’ on LED TVs installed in the high-end buses, fumigation at bus stations, sprinkling of disinfectants in waiting lounges, sanitisation of buses, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/upsrtc-begins-selling-reusable-face-masksat-prominent-bus-stands-to-contain-infection/articleshow/77489954.cms||Maria Khan
August 12, 2020||Business||Axis, ICICI QIPs take pvt bank mop-up to Rs 53k cr||Mumbai: Axis Bank and HDFC raised Rs 10,000 crore each through qualified institutional placements (QIPs) and ICICI Bank is set to add Rs 15,000 crore to the mop-up by private lenders, which is set to cross Rs 70,000 crore. Of this, the mop-up by private banks is nearly Rs 53,000 crore, which is nearly half of the total market cap of nationalised banks (Rs 1.1 lakh crore). The total market cap of public sector banks (including SBI) is Rs 2.8 lakh crore as against Rs 14.7 lakh crore for private banks (which now includes IDBI Bank). Axis Bank’s QIP was subscribed over 3.5 times with investment from ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund, Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund, Harris Associates, Fidelity Investments, T Rowe Price, Bajaj Life Insurance and Max Life Insurance, among others. The bank allotted 238 million shares at a price of Rs 420 per share, which is a 5% discount to the floor price of Rs 442 set earlier, it informed the exchanges. The paid-up the equity share capital of the bank has now gone up to Rs 612 crore as compared to Rs 564 crore earlier. The bank’s total capital adequacy has moved up by nearly two percentage points to 19%. Meanwhile, HDFC raised Rs 10,000 crore by issuing shares to institutional investors like Government of Singapore at 13.37% (7.6 million shares) and Invesco Oppenheimer Developing Markets Fund 5.54 % (3.1 million shares). HDFC also raised Rs 3,693 crore through 3-year non-convertible debentures offering 5.4%.HDFC raised Rs 307 crore up front through the issue and allotment of 1.7 crore warrants at an issue price of Rs 180. The warrants entitle its holder to exchange each one for an equity share of HDFC at any time over the next three years i.e. until August 10, 2023, at a pre-agreed price of Rs 2,165. Shares of ICICI Bank rose over 1% after its Rs 15,000-crore QIP got bids for more than Rs 60,000 crore. The bank had announced a floor price of Rs 351 per share — a discount of nearly 4% to its last closing price. The bidders are understood to include Government of Singapore, Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, Fairfax, Brookfield, HDFC Life, SBI Life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-icici-qips-take-pvt-bank-mop-up-to-rs-53k-cr/articleshow/77494599.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 12, 2020||Patna||Woman kills 2 minor sons, self in Vaishali||PATNA: A woman allegedly immolated herself after strangulating her two minor sons in Vaishali district early Tuesday morning. The woman took the extreme step allegedly after a heated exchange of words with her husband over the phone. The incident took place at Bhikhanpura under Chandrapura police outpost of Desari police station at around 3am. The deceased were identified as Rekha Devi (25), Aditya Kumar (4) and Arush Kumar (2). Rekha’s husband Sunil Kumar Rai works as a daily wager in Hyderabad. Vaishali SP Gaurav Mangla said prima facie it appears to be a case of family dispute. “It is yet to be ascertained whether Rekha used to fight with her husband and in-laws frequently or took the step in a fit of anger,” he said. Bhikhanpura panchayat mukhiya Mahendra Ram told TOI over the phone that Sunil had been in Hyderabad for the last seven months. “We got to know that Rekha had a fight with Sunil over the phone after which she took the extreme step,” he said. The two had got married around five years back. He said Rekha was from Bariyarpur in neighbouring Naya Gaon (Paschim) panchayat. “Rekha’s father-in-law Vishnu Dev Rai is a home guard jawan posted at Mahnar SDPO office,” Ram said, adding both Vishnu and his wife are cool by nature. Sub-inspector Lallan Singh posted at Chandrapura police outpost said, “Prima facie it seems Rekha strangled both her sons inside the bedroom of her partially constructed house, which has not even doors yet. Afterwards, she doused herself with some inflammable liquid and immolated,” he said. He said police received the information about the incident around 4am. “The woman was rushed to Mahnar primary health centre but died on the way. She had severe burn injuries,” the SI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-kills-2-minor-sons-self-in-vaishali/articleshow/77490679.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 12, 2020||Patna||District courts in Bihar to function in virtual mode from today||PATNA: All the subordinate district courts in state will start functioning in virtual mode from Wednesday. A notification was issued by the Patna high court administration in this connection on Monday. The subordinate courts have not been functioning in physical form due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the following lockdown in state. The courts had been taking up only bail matters so far. Now, the district and sessions judges will use their discretion to run certain number of courts even physically after exploring the possibilities. The subordinate courts have been directed to conduct hearing of all types of civil and criminal cases in whatever stage they may be, though in virtual mode for three weeks. The high court has also directed the district and sessions judges to take necessary steps to avoid congregations and ensure minimum footfall on the court premises. Till now, a principal judge of family court in Patna and at least five lawyers across state, including one practising at Patna high court, have died of Covid-19. Some other judges and lawyers also got infected, but recovered. The Patna high court had declared partial vacation from July 27 to August 6. It has started functioning in virtually mode again since August 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/district-courts-to-function-in-virtual-mode-from-today/articleshow/77490484.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Nod to 3 more centres for plasma collection||PATNA: The state government has decided to start plasma collection at Paras HMRI, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Science (IGIMS) and model blood bank of Jai Prabha Hospital. Convalescent plasma therapy helps Covid patients with moderate to severely moderate symptoms to recover fast. “As the plasma collection takes 2-3 hours, many people are not coming forward. After more such facilities in the city, more people would donate their blood,” Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said on Tuesday. As of now, only AIIMS- Patna has the plasma collection facility, he said. Paras HMRI regional director (east) Dr Talat Halim said the hospital has got the licence for plasmapheresis (process in which liquid part of the blood or plasma is separated from the blood cell). “Now, the hospital has to complete certain procedural parts to start the plasma therapy. Convalescent plasma therapy is an investigational process, which has to go through all the formalities of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)-Delhi and Drug Controller General of India We expect to start the plasma therapy in the next 4-5 days,” Dr Talat said. The IGIMS-Patna and the model blood bank would get the licence for the plasma collection soon. Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad, former president of Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA), said, “Plasma therapy is still in the trial stages. Some experts say it is not much effective while some opine that it stabilizes the condition of a Covid patient. I think plasma therapy is effective but it is not absolute,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nod-to-3-more-centres-for-plasma-collection/articleshow/77490444.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 12, 2020||Business||Gold, silver prices fall sharply as dollar holds gains||CHENNAI: Gold and silver prices fell for the third day in a row, amid the dollar holding on to gains and Russia’s announcement of a Covid-19 vaccine. Spot price for 24 carat gold in India fell over 5% to Rs 52,440 per 10 gram, while the price for 22 carat was Rs 48,091. The price of silver too declined, was down 7% to fall below the Rs 70,000-level per kg on Tuesday. Kotak Securities EVP Shrikant Chouhan said: “As gold rate fell for the third day in a row, investors could have locked in profits following a record run. The current gold rally has been supported by investors, who saw the yellow metal as a safe haven amid the uncertainty caused by the pandemic. This fall could also be due to Russia’s announcement of a possible vaccine for Covid-19.” The US index rose after US President Donald Trump considered lowering taxes on capital gains. Usually, gold tends to gain when interest rates are low and political and economic uncertainties are high. Late in the evening, gold futures for September delivery on MCX were down 5% or Rs 2,716 at Rs 52,528 per 10 gram, while the price of silver futures, also for September delivery, was down 7% or Rs 5,469 at Rs 69,925 per kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-silver-prices-fall-sharply-as-dollar-holds-gains/articleshow/77494567.cms||Mamtha Asokan
August 12, 2020||Dehradun||Man blames senior cop of beating him in police chowki, probe ordered||Dehradun: A local resident on Tuesday filed a complaint against a senior police officer of Uttarakhand cadre alleging that he ‘illegally’ thrashed him inside a police chowki in Dehradun along with other police personnel. The complainant, in his twenties, submitted a complaint at police headquarters seeking action against the officer in the matter. In the complaint, the man claimed that he was called by the officer at Bindal Chowki in Dehradun on August 10 afternoon and was ‘mercilessly’ thrashed there. “I know the daughter of the officer. This made him furious and he called me at the police chowki to beat me. With the help of four police personnel, he took my clothes off and thrashed me and threatened me with dire consequences if I opened my mouth,” the complainant, who is a resident of Vijay Park locality, wrote in his complaint. Confirming the report, Ashok Kumar, Director General (law and order), told TOI, “A man has submitted a complaint and the police headquarters have directed the Senior Superintendent of Police, Dehradun to conduct a probe into the matter.” When contacted, SSP Dehradun Arun Mohan Joshi said it’s just an allegation and Superintendent of Police City Shweta Choubey has been tasked to hold a detailed investigation of the allegations levelled by the complainant. TOI has learnt that the concerned officer has given his verbal clarification before the senior police officers at police headquarters and has levelled serious charges against the man who filed a complaint against him. Later in the day, the accused cop also filed a case against the complainant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-blames-senior-cop-of-beating-him-in-police-chowki-probe-ordered/articleshow/77491213.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 12, 2020||Vadodara||Bar association website ‘hacked’||Vadodara: The website of Baroda Bar Association (BBA) was allegedly hacked on the morning of August 8. A committee member of the lawyers’ body approached Cyber Crime police station with a complaint on Tuesday. The complainant Nimisha Dhotre told police that several members of the association approached her saying that they are not able to upload data on the website and are facing problem. The association has activated a link on the website where the lawyers can submit their details as asked by the Bar Council of India. Dhotre alleged that some persons deliberately tried hacking the website so that lawyers cannot submit their data and face criticism of the Supreme Court. She told cops that the website did not face any technical problem but it was an intentional attempt to hack the webpage due to which there is also a threat of data theft or data leak. Police are yet to register an FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bar-association-website-hacked/articleshow/77490651.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Business||How ready are you for the second half of your career?||By M MuneerSuccess is not measured by where you end up in the first half of your career. What matters is where you reach in the second half. The experience you acquire in the initial years and how you use that for future is crucial. What skills must you develop to ensure success? Getting the job done is the most critical skill. You have to get it done, but that is just what everyone else is expected to do too. Several research studies have shown that a growth mindset is key to getting things done on a sustained basis, irrespective of one’s core competency. When you are in the early stage of your career, you hardly have time to acquire several new skills. The following skills can be acquired without compromising your current productivity: * Physical fitness & quality sleep: Find time to do some physical activities, ranging from yoga to cardio and strength training for at least 30 minutes a day. Scientific American research points to expanded mental capabilities with exercise. As for sleep, getting an 11pm-4am cycle is a must to remove from your brain the toxic proteins that are by-products of neural activity when you stay awake. The liver functions to purify the blood during this cycle only and this explains the poor health of most night-shift employees. If sleep is deprived, you will think less smart and no boosters can repair that. It is a skill that will take some time to master, given that the current generation mimics night owls. * Explicit optimism: It is much beyond the “stay-positive” mantra. When an adversity such as the Covid-19 pandemic hits, being optimistic is challenging. Successful people are driven by self-motivation. When the brain is taken over by hard reality, the ability to see beyond that takes some skills. Train your mind to be focused on what you intend to do for your career. Analyse the perceived threats to your ongoing activities. Experiment with options is one way to clear out assumptions of the perceived threats. Once assumptions are proven wrong, the brain will see beyond the pessimistic fog. * Take initiatives without being assigned: One of the youngest leaders in Unilever was known for taking initiatives when none was called for. As a management trainee, this budding leader went where no one ventured to and built a road in rural India when there was none. Take active interest in an area that you are passionate about and actively get involved without expecting any direct benefits. Take calculated risks in completing it well. Once harnessed, taking initiatives will come naturally to you when various challenges come up in your career path. * The art of listening: Sounds simplistic, but it is something that’s missing from most people. As the meeting progresses, everyone is thinking of what viewpoint to put up once the current speaker stops — this tunes them out totally from what is being spoken. Focus on what a person is articulating and understand instead of thinking of counterpoints. Learn how not to pass judgment without completely hearing. Unfortunately, most people think they are better than others in listening skills, but research proves otherwise. * Emotional intelligence, or emotional quotient (EQ): It is the ability to identify and manage one’s emotions and those of others. It includes three sub-skills — emotional awareness, the ability to harness emotions & apply them to tasks like problem solving, and the ability to manage emotions. According to the supporters of EQ, this is the critical factor that separates the wheat from the chaff. Among the many skills tested at workplaces, EQ was the strongest predictor of performance. Up to 90% of top performers have high EQ, while only 20% of bottom performers have it. A Talent Smart study found that for every one-point increase in EQ, you get $1,300 more annually. What’s more, it will make you happier at work, despite toxicity at workplaces. A misplaced wisdom of yore was that if you choose medicine as a career, you would have to continue learning all your life. That is so dated today. For success in any career, you can never stop learning, just as the pandemic teaches us. (The writer is the co-founder of Medici Institute Foundation for Diversity and Innovation)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/how-ready-are-you-for-the-second-half-of-your-career/articleshow/77494637.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Business||Sensex, Nifty at five-month peaks over global cues||Mumbai: A slew of positive factors — from the US stimulus to encouraging economic data from China and the unveiling of the first coronavirus vaccine by Russia — boosted investor sentiment on Dalal Street, pushing the sensex and the Nifty to five-month highs on Tuesday. Later in the day, positive global cues also took major indices on the Wall Street higher with S&P 500 near all-time high, within five months of dipping to a multi-year low recorded in late March. In India, the sensex gained for the sixth consecutive session to close at 38,407, up 225 points. Nifty, too, rallied for the sixth day in a row and closed at 11,323, up 52 points on the day. Among the sensex movers, HDFC Bank, HDFC and Reliance Industries (RIL) contributed the most, BSE data showed. However, mid cap and small cap indices showed mixed closings. According to Siddhartha Khemka of Motilal Oswal Financial Services, global cues turned buoyant over reports about the first coronavirus vaccine getting registered in Russia. “On the domestic front, a better than expected earnings season continued to cheer the market. The near-term momentum may continue…on the back of expected US stimulus measures, China’s improving economic data and further positive development over the Covid-19 vaccine,” he said. “Going ahead, investors would watch out for economic data points which are due this week along with AGR case hearing on Friday and any further announcement of stimulus.” On Tuesday evening, the government said the industrial production continues to remain slugging amid Covid-induced economic slowdown with the IIP for June down nearly 17% on the year. This could have some impact on sentiment on Wednesday while consumer and wholesale inflation data, expected this week could also influence investor sentiment, market players said. According to brokers, Asian markets gained on hopes that lawmakers in the US would be able to come to an agreement over a new coronavirus relief package. Investors were also enthused by US President Donald Trump’s indications of a cut in taxes for the middle class and lowering of capital gains tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-nifty-at-five-month-peaks-over-global-cues/articleshow/77494617.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Patna||Ready for Bihar polls, say parties as EC sets ball rolling||PATNA: Major political parties in the state said they would go to polls if the Election Commission of India (ECI) finds the situation in Bihar conducive for holding assembly elections as per schedule in October-November this year. Chief election commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora had told a news channel on Monday that the Bihar assembly elections would be held on time. “The ECI has said it would hold Bihar elections on time with all precautions in view of Covid-19 pandemic. It’s up to the ECI how to devise ways to ensure social distancing and other precautions,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. Taking a dig at RJD, Prasad said, “The RJD knows that it has not worked for the people and its defeat appears imminent. That’s why the party is resorting to all kinds of tactics to defer the elections. However, it will not succeed in its game plan.” The BJP has also welcomed the CEC’s statement. Party spokesperson Nikhil Anand said, “The BJP is ready to contest the election whenever it’s held. It’s the prerogative of the ECI to decide when and how the election will be held.”He added, “Whether to hold an election or postpone it falls under the ambit of the ECI. Political parties may only apprise the commission of their views and give suggestions on the issue.” The ECI had earlier sought opinion from the main political parties on the mode of election and campaigning by August 11, which lapsed on Tuesday. On the other hand, other political parties, including RJD and LJP, had earlier urged the poll panel to postpone the elections in the state in the wake of rising cases of Covid-19. The Left parties had also corroborated the demand of the RJD and its alliance partners. LJP chief and Jamui MP Chirag Paswan told this newspaper on Tuesday that though as a responsible political party, it urged the ECI to defer the election, it is ready to face polls. “As an ally of the NDA, we have made poll preparations on all the 243 assembly seats,” he added. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha on Tuesday wrote to ECI, urging it to defer the elections as the state is caught in a quagmire of Covid-19 pandemic and floods. Describing elections as ‘gantantra ka mahaparv’, Jha said the current situation in the state was not favourable for polls. RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said, “The JD(U) and BJP have been holding virtual rallies across the state for the last two months. They should be stopped from holding virtual public meetings as it doesn’t provide a level-playing field to other political parties with limited resources.” Tiwari added, “If the state machinery is engaged in the elections, how will the state fight the Covid-19 pandemic? I think it’s not proper to conduct polls in the state by putting the lives of lakhs of people at stake.” On Tuesday, RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav held a meeting with spokespersons of the party and discussed the strategy to attack the present dispensation in the state. Other smaller parties like HAM(S), RLSP, VIP and CPI-ML (Liberation) had earlier written to the CEC, demanding postponement of the elections. “With the CEC making it clear that the elections will be held as per schedule, we have no option but to start preparations,” a VIP functionary said. The term of the present assembly will come to an end on November 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ready-for-polls-say-parties-as-ec-sets-ball-rolling/articleshow/77490885.cms||Ramashankar
August 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Covid warriors to be felicitated on Independence Day||PATNA: Frontline Covid warriors and plasma donors will be the special guests at the Independence Day celebrations at Gandhi Maidan on August 15. The district administration has decided to create separate galleries for these people who will also be felicitated by the state government on the occasion. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting convened by Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on Tuesday to review preparations for Independence Day celebrations. Agarwal asked the officials concerned to create separate galleries for corona warriors like doctors, paramedic staff, auxiliary nursing midwifes, police, ambulance drivers, housekeeping staff of hospitals, sanitation workers, municipal staff, medicine shop owners, civil officers, plasma donors and other officers concerned. CM Nitish Kumar will hoist the national flag at Gandhi Maidan in presence of limited number of people in view of Covid pandemic. He will inspect guard of honour and parade by personnel of Army, CRPF, SSB, CISF, BMP, ITBP, NDRF, SDRF, SAP, DAP, fire brigade as well as home guards. Agarwal said after the flag hoisting ceremony, the corona warriors will be felicitated for their exemplary work. “Proper social distancing will be maintained at the venue. There will be enough gap between each seat. The ground will be sanitised before the I-Day parade,” he added. Agarwal said this year’s I-Day celebrations would be a low-key affair due to the pandemic. “The emphasis will be on urging the people to use masks and maintain social distancing. The final rehearsal of the parade will take place on August 13 and there will be no tableaux display this time,” he added. The divisional commissioner said the programme would be telecast live through multiple channels as the entry of common people will not be allowed owing to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-warriors-to-be-felicitated-on-i-day/articleshow/77490512.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Patna||Janmashtami celebrated with religious fervour||PATNA: Devotees celebrated Janmashtami with religious fervour on Tuesday. Since most of the temples remained shut to the Covid-19 pandemic, devotees celebrated the birth of Lord Krishna by observing fast, singing bhajans and offering prayers at their homes. ISKCON temple in the city, however, celebrate the festival on Wednesday. “It will be a low-key affair as the temple is not open for visitors,” said Nand Kishore at ISKCON temple, where it is celebrated as ‘Janmotsav’. A few children dressed up as Radha and Krishna gathered around Krishna temple on Thakurbadi Road to soak in the festive vibes under the guidance of their parents. “My daughter, along with other children in the neighbourhood, enacted Krishna Leela while wearing masks. This is the new normal,” said Manju Rani of Thakurbadi Road. Instead of buying from the market, Apurva Shreya of Kankarbagh prepared the dress and other accessories for Krishna’s idol. “I made them by watching DIY tutorials online. Other than stitching Krishna’s dress, I also beaded a necklace for the idol,” Apurva said. Virendra Srivastava, who had been hosting grand Janmashtami celebrations at his sprawling bungalow in Bailey Road, said his extended family from across the city used to gather to celebrate Janmashtami every year. “This time, we performed the evening aarti together on a video call. Online or offline, the purpose of festivals is to venerate the Lord and spend family time,” he said. Some city residents also came forward to donate essentials such as food, masks and sanitisers to the underprivileged, who are badly hit by the lockdown. “Krishna has always inspired me to help others. This Janmashtami, I decided to donate a portion of my income to the needy to cope with these challenging times,” said Kshitiz of Kankarbagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/janmashtami-celebrated-with-religious-fervour/articleshow/77490555.cms||Arunima Lal
August 12, 2020||Business||Fintechs, DBT data key for small loans to poor||BENGALURU: India’s leading fintech startups would play a critical role in project Kashi (cash over internet), which is being reviewed by the Prime Minister, to provide quick small-ticket loans to farmers, labourers and low-income families to tide over the liquidity crisis caused by Covid-19. The fintechs are looking to build a platform using direct-benefit-transfer (DBT) data and other available information like demographics and micro-finance institution loan history that will help assess creditworthiness and issue loans directly in bank accounts within 10 minutes. NITI Aayog, the policy think tank of the government, is also actively involved in the discussions. Leading entrepreneurs, who attended a review meeting on Friday with PM Narendra Modi, told TOI that DBT could be leveraged significantly to disburse loans, based on the monthly payments people receive and the same can be deducted over a longer period of time in instalments after the Covid-19 crisis. These loans could be for individuals or street vendors, garage owners, among others, who are facing a capital crunch triggered due to their work coming to a standstill. While contours are still being finalised, these loans could be anywhere between Rs 30,000-60,000, people present in the meetings said. “People availing of DBT facilities do not necessarily have access to bank capital easily and institutions are also wary in terms of recovery, especially now. This platform will help with access to data and very low cost of recovery — an important factor for fintechs,” one of the people present in the meeting said.Fintech companies have started integration work and it will be again reviewed in a month by Modi as he is keen to leverage technology to enable low-cost, zero-touch lending and with zero fraud risk. For the current fiscal, the total DBT (cash and kind) is over Rs 81,000 crore with over 60 crore beneficiaries so far, according to government data. “It will be an app-based platform. One would be able to sanction a loan in five minutes. Aadhaar card will be an important identifier for this. From an implementation standpoint, apart from data sources, there will be collaborations with banks, of course. Initially, we would do the lending and with better recovery and more confidence on the programme, financial institutions, starting with public sector banks would also do lending,” said Ranvir Singh, co-founder, Kissht — a lending startup. He was one of the attendants along with PhonePe co-founder Sameer Nigam, Pine Labs CEO Amrish Rau, Ashish Kashyap (former Goibibo founder — now IndWealth), and NPCI MD & CEO Dilip Asbe. Singh added that in the long term, options like adding a beneficiary (for loans) and health insurance can be explored too. To expand the reach of other financial products like insurance, the fintechs have proposed KYC Setu, which will act as a repository of existing KYCs, and this would remove the need to do KYC all over again to buy new insurance amid the pandemic. “It’s a major hassle to do KYC each and every time to buy insurance or mutual funds. KYC Setu will help with that with existing KYC data with banks. The government is being proactive here and wants to build a made-in-India platform to address the hurdles amid Covid-19,” another person attending the discussion said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fintechs-dbt-data-key-for-small-loans-to-poor/articleshow/77494593.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 12, 2020||Business||US tech companies challenge ban on new work visas||MUMBAI: Corporate America has lent its heft to lawsuits against the Donald Trump administration over the temporary ban on issue of new visas to non-immigrant workers. A proclamation by the US President on June 22, had introduced this ban on entry into America for a wide range of non-immigrant workers (including H-1B visa category), which would last at least until the end of this year. H-1B is a popular work visa for Indians, especially those in the technology sector. According to the latest statistics, 57% of the 1.4 lakh new H-1B visas (including non-cap category) issued during fiscal ended September 30, 2019, were allotted to Indians. Large US tech companies are among the top sponsors of H-1B workers. Thus, the proclamation significantly impacted Indians, as even those who succeeded in the H-1B lottery would have had to wait till the ban was lifted — typically these new visa holders enter the US from October onwards. More than 50 signatories have lent their names to the amicus brief (friend of court filing), which includes Apple, Amazon, Microsoft, Intel, Uber Technologies and even social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. FWD.US, a group of prominent American business leaders, which counts among its founders Bill Gates and Mark Zuckerberg, is also one of the signatories. The amicus brief supports two lawsuits, filed earlier against Trump’s proclamation. Banking on the economic disruptions caused by the pandemic, the stated ground for the temporary ban was that entry of non-immigrant workers is detrimental to the country’s interest. The Trump administration estimated that the proclamation would prevent over a half a million work-authorised individuals from entering the US. Experts estimate that this would also prevent roughly 20,000 employers from filling in positions up to December-end. The Amicus Brief seeks to rebut this “faulty premise”. It also points out that global competitors stand to gain and adds that it gives a shot in the arm to offshoring. “Already global competitors in Canada, China, and India, among others, are pouncing at the opportunity to attract well-trained, innovative individuals. And American businesses are scrambling to adjust, hiring needed talent to work in locations outside our nation’s borders. The proclamation did not consider these costs,” it points out. Suspending these vital immigration programs would particularly do long-term damage to the US economy by shrinking GDP, hurting middle class workers and denying American families the opportunity to reunite with their loving parents and children, the amicus brief sums up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-tech-cos-challenge-ban-on-new-work-visas/articleshow/77494546.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Delhi||SDMC asks Rs 74 crore from Centre for STP link lines||NEW DELHI: To avail the benefit of Delhi Jal Board’s project for laying peripheral lines across the capital for taking treated effluent water from Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) to parks across the city, South Delhi Municipal Corporation has approached the Centre to sanction funds. The civic body has written to the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs for allocating Rs 74 crore under the Urban Development Fund so that they aren’t required to use underground water at the thousands of parks under its jurisdiction. The initiative has been taken in the wake of NGT’s direction in September last year regarding usage of treated water at parks in a five-km radius of STPs and laying pipelines at other places or transporting the water through tankers. Agencies had been asked to shut down all illegal borewells in parks, failing which they would be slapped with a fine of Rs 5 lakh per month. The deadline for which expired in December 2019. “There are 6,000 parks in SDMC and of them 3% are watered through STPs. At 15 places located next to big drains, we’ve planned to install decentralised plants for irrigating parks. But at the rest of the places, we are still dependent on borewells. That is why we are eager to take advantage of the DJB’s scheme and have requested the Centre to allocate funds,” a senior SDMC official explained. The DJB project includes laying main lines till a point, from where the agencies can lay an underground network to parks in the vicinity. “DJB had appointed WAPCOS Ltd. (a central government undertaking) for preparing a detailed project report for laying peripheral lines from each effluent treatment plant. The report stated that lines would be laid till a tapping point, and from there underground network can be laid to parks or hydrants can be fixed to collect the water in tankers,” said an official. North Delhi Municipal Corporation has prepared a similar proposal of Rs 195 crore and shared it with the Union ministry for funds, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-asks-rs-74-crore-from-centre-for-stp-link-lines/articleshow/77493757.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||Active cases spiral, total infections close to 55k||Jaipur: Covid graph of active cases is constantly moving upwards as the state continues to create new infection records almost daily. On Tuesday, the state reported the biggest single-day jump of 1,217 new infections taking the cumulative infection count to 54,887. In past 18 days, the state has set record of biggest single-day jump 10 times, which indicate that the ailment was spreading fast and steadily. Kota has set a record of biggest single-day spike with 227 new infections as it breached the 3000 mark. Kota has reported more than 100 cases each day nine times in 11 days. Kota’s cumulative cases touched 3,072. Along with Kota, Bharatpur too breached the 3,000 mark with 3,016 cumulative cases. Now, the state has six districts which have reported more than 3,000 cumulative cases including Jaipur, Jodhpur, Alwar, Pali, Bharatpur and Kota. Despite Kota witnessing a spike in Covid cases, it is Alwar, which is currently having the highest number of active cases at 2047 followed by Jaipur (1,898), Kota (1,545) and Jodhpur (1,536). Kota has surpassed Jodhpur to book the third place in the list of districts having highest number of active cases. In the last 24 hours, 11 persons lost their lives to the virus taking the casualty count to 811. Four persons died in Kota taking its toll to 51, Rajsamand reported its 11th death, Sawai Madhopur reported its 13th death, two died in Baran taking its toll to 10, two died in Dungarpur taking its toll to six, while Jaipur reported its 220th death. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (227), Sikar (177), Jodhpur (128), Jaipur (106), Pali (64), Ajmer (60), Nagaur (52), Alwar (51), Jhalawar (48), Barmer (47), Bharatpur (39), Baran (37), Sriganganagar (35), Rajsamand (31), Sawai Madhopur (24), Tonk (18), Karauli (18), Dungarpur (16), Sirohi (13), Banswara (8), Jaisalmer (7), Chittorgarh (4), Dausa (4), Pratapgarh (2) and Hanumangarh (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-cases-spiral-total-infections-close-to-55k/articleshow/77493754.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||Bikru carnage brain hid in guise of sadhu at Chitrakoot temple, nabbed||Kanpur: The brain behind the Bikru ambush and a distant cousin of slain gangster Vikas Dubey was arrested on Tuesday by Special Task Force (STF) from Kamtanath temple in Chitrakoot district bordering Madhya Pradesh. STF personnel blew the cover of the don's aide, Bal Govind Dubey, who was hiding in the guise of a saffron-robed hermit at the pilgrimage site since July. During interrogation, Bal Govind confessed to hurling country-made bombs from rooftops and firing at the police team on the night of July 3. He also told cops that the genesis of the Bikru carnage was an FIR lodged by the main complainant, Rahul Tiwari, who had a running property feud with his son-in-law, Vineet. And it was this FIR that triggered the police raid on Bikru with he and Dubey engineering the ambush that killed eight policemen. Speaking to TOI, an STF officer said, “Bal Govind Dubey was nabbed from Kamtanath temple parikrama crossing in Karwi Kotwali area of Chitrakoot district and during questioning he confessed that he and his son-in-law were the cause of the Bikru bloodbath.” Besides a raging dispute over property, Bal Govind was at daggers drawn with Rahul after he allegedly eloped with his son-in-law’s sister in April this year. Also, he told police Rahul had illegally sold off Vineet’s buffalo and a separate case was then lodged at Chaubeypur police station. Cops had detained Rahul and taken him to Bal Govind’s house for questioning during which Vikas Dubey and his five lieutenants were present. “Vikas had then snatched the cell phone of the now jailed Chaubeypur station officer, Vinay Tiwari, and thrashed Rahul. Cops had hurriedly whisked away Rahul to the police station,” said a STF officer. “On the night of ambush, Vikas had sent his aide, Prabhat Mishra, to my house and asked me to gear up for the big fight. At least 60 armed men had gathered at the don’s residence and many were positioned on rooftops. Vikas told me that police were coming following an FIR by Rahul Tiwari,” Bal Govind told interrogators. An arms conduit, Gopal Saini, had supplied country-made bombs and Dubey told Bal Govind to bomb the police team when it enters the village, STF sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bikru-carnage-brain-hid-in-guise-of-sadhu-at-chitrakoot-temple-nabbed/articleshow/77494595.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Kids called to govt school, probe on||Karnal: Despite clear directions of the state to keep educational institutions closed amid Covid-19 outbreak, a government school at Kamalpura village in Karnal district reportedly held classes on Tuesday. Eight-10 students from Class VI to X were found studying in a classroom. However, the school headteacher claimed that the children were called to fill a form regarding mid-day meal allowance and to give books. The children were not called for classes. They were called to fill form related to midday meal as some of the students’ allowance had come back to the school’s account. Also, books had to be given to some students,” Seema, headteacher of the government high school, Kalampura village, said. Asked why the children were carrying bags, she said some came to clear doubts. Karnal district education officer R K Choudhary said an inquiry had been ordered. A two-member committee has been formed and asked to submit the report in two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kids-called-to-govt-school-probe-on/articleshow/77493753.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Shimla||78-year-old woman is 16th Covid fatality in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported its 16th Covid-19 death on Tuesday as a 78-year-old woman from Sandhol succumbed to the virus at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Nerchowk, in Mandi district. Also, 34 fresh cases of Covid were reported and 68 patients recovered. Now, the number of cases has gone up to 3,497, of which 1,180 are active, 2,273 patients have recovered, 16 have died and 26 have migrated out of state. The deceased woman had returned from Panchkula this month, after attending the marriage of her nephew. Mandi has reported maximum five deaths, while Hamirpur has reported four, Kangra three, Shimla two, and Sirmaur and Solan one each. Two deaths of Covid patients were due to other reasons. Those tested positive on Tuesday includes 14 from Chamba district, one each from Hamirpur, Kullu and Mandi districts, 6 from Kangra district, 8 from Sirmaur district and 3 from Solan districts. Positive patients who have recovered includes 9 from Bilaspur district, 6 from Chamba district, 7 from Hamirpur district, 17 from Kangra district, 2 each from Kinnaur and Kullu districts, 5 from Mandi district, 11 from Shimla district, 4 from Sirmaur district and 5 from Una district. Those who tested positive on Tuesday included 14 from Chamba district, one each from Hamirpur, Kullu and Mandi, six from Kangra, eight from Sirmaur and three from Solan. Patients who recovered include 17 from Kangra, 11 from Shimla, nine from Bilaspur, seven from Hamirpur, six from Chamba, five each from Mandi and Una, four from Sirmaur and two each from Kinnaur and Kullu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/78-year-old-woman-is-16th-covid-fatality-in-himachal/articleshow/77493758.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Dehradun||Chief secretary discusses process to avail credit facility of 2% of GSDP||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand’s chief secretary Om Prakash on Tuesday presided over a meeting of state officials on Tuesday to discuss the process of availing the credit facility of 2% of the gross state domestic product (GSDP). During the meet, officials said that the additional credit facility can be availed at 2% of the total GSDP of the state by improving the four areas prescribed by the Union ministry of finance. In the context of Uttarakhand, this facility is equivalent to about Rs 4,600 crore. Finance officers said that to avail this facility, the state has to make district-level business reforms. These reforms will have to be done by December, 2020. Only on the basis of these forms, the state will get the benefit of taking an additional loan of 2% of the GSDP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cs-discusses-process-to-avail-credit-facility-of-2-of-gsdp/articleshow/77491247.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 12, 2020||Dehradun||Gangotri highway, Yamunotri shrine trek route blocked due to landslides||UTTARKASHI: The Gangotri national highway and a few other link roads got blocked due to landslides triggered by heavy rainfall in Uttarkashi district on Monday night. Landslides also blocked the Yamunotri shrine trek route, causing inconvenience to priests and devotees. Meanwhile, the concerned departments have started work to restore routes at the earliest. According to TOI sources, vehicular movement at Gangotri highway got interrupted after heavy landslides at Thirang, Dabrani, and Rida Tok areas, cutting off nearly one dozen villages of Upla Taknor region from district headquarters. Similarly, landslides in several other places blocked Sura Sari and Bhukki Tihar link roads. Also, the Janki Chatti-Yamunotri shrine trek route (nearly 5-km-long) got blocked due to landslides in several areas. Ashutosh Uniyal, the priest of Yamunotri shrine, said, “It is the second instance in the past one week when the trek route of the shrine has got blocked. Due to this, priests and devotees are facing difficulties.” He demanded the local administration to clear the route at the earliest and to depute rescue forces in the shrine for the safety of people. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “Border Road Organisation and other concerned bodies are working to restore all the blocked routes. They will open the routes till late Tuesday evening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/gangotri-highway-yamunotri-shrine-trek-route-blocked-due-to-landslides/articleshow/77491239.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||SC asks Maharashtra if Payal Tadvi case accused can join BMC, state hospital||MUMBAI: Supreme Court on Tuesday directed the state to appraise it if three doctors accused of abetting the suicide of their junior, Dr Payal Tadvi (26), can join any BMC or state hospital. Hema Ahuja (29), Bhakti Mehare (27) and Ankita Khandelwal (28) had moved court seeking to resume post-graduate degree in gynaecology and obstetrics. “The state will also inform court if in the facts and circumstances of the case, migration of petitioners could be permitted to any hospital attached to Mumbai Municipal Corporation or state or nursing centre of the concerned hospitals,” the court said. Medical Council of India said migration was not permissible. MCI’s advocate Gaurav Sharma said in instances cited by petitioners, a Haryana college was shut so all students were accommodated in different colleges. In the second case involving ESI-PGIMSR College, Andheri, there was a fire there, leading to students being temporarily shifted to another institution. “To say that they should not even be allowed to migrate, we would not like that kind of a submission from the complainant,” the court said. Payal’s mother, Abeda, objected to their pleas to resume studies. Her counsel, senior advocate Indira Jaising, submitted that since regulations were clear that no migration would be permissible, the court ought not to pass orders on that plea. Pointing out that police had recorded statements of more than 250 witnesses, the court also directed the state to appraise it about status and stage of trial. It also directed that BYL Nair Hospital be made party to the petition through its director. The accused, studying there at the time of the incident, completed two of their three-year degree course. Tadvi had hanged herself in her hostel room on May 22, 2019. Ahuja, Mehare and Khandelwal were accused of ragging, torturing and harassing her because of her caste she belonged to the scheduled tribe Tadvi Bhil. They were arrested few days after the suicide and granted bail by Bombay HC on August 9 last year. Among the conditions, HC directed them not to enter the college. Their subsequent plea seeking relaxation of conditions and resuming studies at the same institute or another, were rejected by HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sc-asks-state-if-tadvi-case-accused-can-join-bmc-state-hosp/articleshow/77493869.cms||Rebecca Samervel
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Transfer cert not must for govt school entry||Chandigarh: Taking note of the difficulty faced by students in getting transfer certificates for admission in government schools, Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla has directed his department to remove the restriction. A spokesperson of the school education department said following the instructions of Singla, the department has issued a letter to the district education officers in this regard. The spokesperson said the restriction of transfer certificate for admission in government schools has been lifted and school heads have been asked to admit such students at their own level. At the same time, the school heads have been directed to take in written from the parents of the students who do not have the transfer certificate. According to the spokesperson, instructions have also been issued to the district authorities to send the names of the schools to headquarters which have not issued transfer certificates to students. Instructions have also been issued not to compel the students who do not have the birth certificate but want to take admission in government schools. The school heads have been directed to admit these students on a provisional basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/transfer-cert-not-must-for-govt-school-entry/articleshow/77493787.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Goa||BJP slams protest against Cabral||Margao: BJP on Tuesday protested against what they called a “misleading campaign” and false allegations leveled against power minister Nilesh Cabral by Congress, by burning effigies of leader of opposition Digambar Kamat, Congress president Girish Chodankar and Mahila Congress president Pratima Coutinho at Margao. Party functionaries condemned the burning of effigy of power minister Nilesh Cabral by Congress workers earlier in the day. They accused the Congress of propagating falsehood over the power tariff hike. Spokesperson Ashish Karmali said that the campaign launched by the Congress against Cabral was “unfounded” and “baseless”. “The power tariff is as at is. Digambar Kamat knows that the campaign is baseless,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-slams-protest-against-cabral/articleshow/77494594.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Dehradun||CM warns of strict action against those delaying files||DEHRADUN: In a clear-cut message to government officials and employees, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat during a review meeting asked them to speed up their work or be prepared to face the music. Rawat said that transferring employees was not the only solution to the problem and warned of stricter action against those delaying or holding official files. Taking a tough stand, the CM has ordered the transfer of all employees who are working in public works department, irrigation, housing, mining, excise and drinking water, and have completed their stipulated time span in the section office. All such employees have to be identified and transferred within a span of a week. The issue of delay in clearing of files came into light recently when the PWD section office did not clear a file related to adverse entry against two engineers, for a period of 14 months. Interestingly, the file had been approved by the CM, who is also holding charge of PWD, and also the chief secretary. Following which all the employees of PWD section office were transferred. In order to save time, the CM said that the departmental and directorate officials need not come to the secretariat for everything but speak to seniors through video conference. He directed officials to monitor the attendance and presence of employees, and if required, set up CCTV cameras to keep track of the situation. Rawat instructed that the documents should be submitted from the section level to the higher authorities under the prescribed procedure, but the file should be returned from higher officials directly to the section office. “This will help save time and speed up the execution of orders. A section and review officer should be entrusted with the work of the same department and the personnel department should be aware of the functioning of all departments,” the CM added. Rawat instructed that the situation should never arise in the future where after the approval of the CM and CS there is an unnecessary delay in disposal of the files at the section level. He also called for a monthly assessment of files and performance of employees. “We need a 100% compliance of all the cabinet decisions and no laxity will be tolerated,” he added. The CM has also directed to re-evaluate the secretariat manual and asked the committee responsible for it to make his recommendations available soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-warns-of-strict-action-against-those-delaying-files/articleshow/77491257.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Politico Samba Siva Raju passes away||Vizianagaram: Senior politician Penmetsa Samba Siva Raju from Vizianagaram district passed away in the early hours of Monday while undergoing treatment at a corporate hospital in Visakhapatnam. He was 87. Samba Siva Raju is survived by his wife, son and daughter. The eight-time legislator and former minister in undivided Andhra Pradesh, Raju came from Maoida Viajayarampuram in Nellimarla mandal under Vizianagaram district. He was one of those rare politicians who never faced any allegations of corruption charges from opponents of any political party and was well known for being on good terms with members of opposition parties. Raju reportedly fell down while in the bathroom four days ago and was admitted to a hospital. Over the course of his political career, he was the only MLA to have won the assembly elections for eight times in undivided Andhra Pradesh. He was a minister in the Nedurumalli Janardhana Reddy cabinet between 1989 an 1994. Raju held portfolios for the road transport and civil supplies departments and was also president of the district Congress committee twice, Pradesh Congress Committee member and All-India Congress Committee member. Raju was political mentor for Botcha Satyanarayana. His association with the Congress party lasted several years and he joined the YSRC eight years ago. Samba Siva Raju started his political career in 1958 as Nellimarla Samithi President and was elected as an MLA in 1968 as an independent candidate from Gajapatinagaram. Later, he joined the Congress party. He was elected eight times from Gajapatinagaram and later from Sativada assembly constituencies. He expected an assembly ticket from Nellimarla constituency in 2019 but did not get the YSRC ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/politico-samba-siva-raju-passes-away/articleshow/77471039.cms||Siva G
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||30 kids from Bihar rescued, 7 arrested||Jaipur: Seven persons who were transporting 30 children from Bihar to Jaipur to work as child labourers were arrested on Tuesday. They were travelling by a private bus. Rajasthan State Commission for Protection of Child Rights stated that they had received input that children were coming from Bihar to work as labourers in bangle manufacturing units in Shastri Nagar and Bhatta Basti areas. “The children are in the age group of 10-16 years,” said Vijender Singh, member, RSCPCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/30-kids-from-bihar-rescued-7-arrested/articleshow/77493771.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chennai||3,600 virus +ve cases missing from Tamil Nadu’s active patients list||CHENNAI: In Tamil Nadu, at least 3,000 people who tested positive for Covid-19 in August and who should have been under treatment are missing from the state’s active patient list. Between August 1 and 10, a TOI analysis showed, 56,986 cases were recorded. Even if it is assumed there were no active patients until August 1, all those testing positive in the past 10 days should have been on the active list. But on Monday, the list had only 53,099, meaning 3,857 patients who should be under treatment were declared “recovered”. Even if 1,106 deaths reported over the last 10 days (assuming all were among fresh cases, although there weren’t) were factored in, 2,751 patients are still unaccounted for. Experts say rolling average of several more days shows thousands may have been removed from the active patient list before recovery. “We never had zero active cases since the first case. Initially discharges were only after an exit test, but strategies changed. This made tracking numbers difficult,” said public health expert T Sunderraman, dean of School of Health System Studies at Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “We may need reconciliation for discharges as well. Else, we may not be able to estimate recovery rate correctly.” Many doctors say early exit of active cases has pushed up the recovery rate. Tamil Nadu says 2,44,675 have recovered (80%) and 5,041 (1.6%) are dead, leaving about 17% on the active list. Covid-19 control room officials say they do not add patients to the discharge list even if sent for home isolation. Patients are declared discharged after completing the isolation period prescribed by the Union health ministry and ICMR. “We have more than 400 institutions, 65,000 test results and more than 50,000 patients. In some cases, we suspect some hospitals may have misquoted hospital discharges as recovered,” said director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam. “The guidelines are clear but confusion exists as there are many stakeholders.” Those with mild or no symptoms (pre-symptomatic and usually in Covid care centres) are discharged 10 days after onset of symptoms if they have no fever for 3 days. There will be no need for testing before discharge when the patient is advised a week-long home isolation. He/she is advised to report symptoms of fever, cough or breathing difficulty during this period and considered recovered following a tele-conference or review after this (14th day). “Moderate” patients, for whom the fever settles within three days and they maintain saturation above 95% for the next 4 days (without oxygen support), are discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and advised 7 days of home isolation. Those with severe infections (including immunocompromised (HIV patients, transplant recipients, malignancy), need a RP-PCR test for exit. Epidemiologists now want discharge summaries reviewed and a registry to monitor morbidity and mortality in patients who have “recovered.” “Good quality data is most important in understanding epidemiological indicators which guide in planning control measures and also making decisions regarding releasing restrictions,” said National Institute of Epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3600-virus-ve-cases-missing-from-states-active-patients-list/articleshow/77493785.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 12, 2020||Dehradun||AIIMS Rishikesh becomes first govt hospital in India to have helipad facility||DEHRADUN: The newly-built helipad at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh was inaugurated on Tuesday by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, making it the first government hospital in the country to facilitate the landing of air ambulances. “The helipad within the precinct of AIIMS will be of immense help to the residents of Uttarakhand, especially during the monsoon, when the hill state is prone to accidents,” the CM said. Till now, critical patients airlifted from the hills would either be flown to Delhi or to Sahastradhara or Jolly Grant airport, from where it would take nearly three hours to reach AIIMS Rishikesh. In the last three years, more than 100 patients from the hills have been airlifted to the plains. Now, a patient can be taken to the trauma centre at AIIMS within nine minutes of landing at the helipad. The AIIMS Air Rescue Team also performed a mock-drill to mark the inauguration on Tuesday. “Our team of doctors and administrative staff worked on their toes for the last one year to make this dream come true. Patients who need emergency treatment can now be brought here directly,” said director of AIIMS professor Ravikant (who goes only by his first name). Appreciating efforts of authorities of the state’s biggest government hospital, the CM said that the chances of survival of critical patients from the hills will now increase. “Uttarakhand is the first state in the country where the ministry of disaster management is working to ensure help reaches everyone in need. The government had hired helicopters to airlift critical cases and now (with construction of the helipad) healthcare has become all the more accessible,” said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aiims-rishikesh-becomes-first-govt-hospital-in-india-to-have-helipad-facility/articleshow/77491255.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Janmashtami celebrations online this yr||Visakhapatnam: Sri Krishna Janmashtami celebrations will go the digital way this time due to the Covid-19 pandemic, as per the organisers Iskcon and Hare Krishna Movement (HKM). People can participate in pujas and observe the rituals from their homes. This year the Sri Krishna Janmashtami celebrations will be held at CMR Function Hall, Venkojipalem, August 11-12, on a digital platform. All rituals will be conducted by the temple authorities that the devotees and the people of Visakhapatnam can watch live through Hare Krishna Vizag Youtube channel. “We are doing the abhishekam to Sri Balagopal on August 11 at 6.30 am and maha abhisekham on August 12 at 9:30 pm. Abhishekam, all-day darshan and Sri Krishna Katha Parayanam are the highlights of the festival and every programme will be telecast through the Youtube channel,” said Yaduraja Dasa, vice president of HKM. “As per government rules, public gathering is not allowed in the venue and hence, we have initiated the ‘Krishnastami Vratam - How to celebrate Krishnastami staying at home,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/janmashtami-celebrations-online-this-yr/articleshow/77471085.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 57-year-old cop dies of Covid-19||MUMBAI: A 57-year-old constable attached to Rafi Ahmed Kidwai (RAK) Marg police became the 58th to succumbed to Covid-19 early on Tuesday morning. With Balnath Ghoderao’s death, the state toll has touched 119. Police said Ghoderao reported sick on July 27 and was admitted to Kasturba hospital following breathlessness but his condition did not improve. Ghoderao used to stay at police quarters, behind Chembur police station. His wife, who was quarantined, is fine. Ghoderao was on leave as he was above 55. After many policemen tested positive and died in April, Mumbai Police had told personnel aged 55 and above to proceed on leave. Officials said in June Mantralaya issued a GR which stated that all those exempted (above 55) should report for duty at their police stations at least once in a week or they will be marked absent, will not get salary and not be entitled to retirement and other benefits. Officials said Ghoderao could have contracted the virus while attending duty once a week. The government had issued the GR after many government employees went on leave without taking permission from their departments. The GR stated that families of government employees who have not worked for 14 days (before falling sick) will not be entitled to compensation of Rs 50 lakh in case of death due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/57-year-old-cop-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/77493447.cms||Ahmed Ali
August 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Jobless man held for rape bid on minor||Times News Network Ludhiana: The PAU police on Monday arrested a 20-year-old man for trying to rape his 10-year-old neighbour.The minor’s mother said in her police complaint, “I work as a labourer. When I left for work on August 9, my daughter and son were at home. Around 8.30pm on the day, I received a call from my brother and he asked me to come home immediately.” On reaching home, she found her daughter frightened. “When I asked her the reason, she said when she was playing in the park outside our house in the evening, the accused came to her. He took her along, saying they would pluck guavas. But he instead took her to an isolated place and tried to rape her. On hearing her screams, passersby rushed to her rescue. The accused escaped from there and my daughter returned home,” she added. Inspector Paramdeep Singh said, “On reaching home, the girl told her uncle about the incident. The family approached the police on Monday and a case was registered under sections 376 (rape), 511 (attempt to commit an offence) of the IPC and the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The accused has been arrested. He is unemployed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jobless-man-held-for-rape-bid-on-minor/articleshow/77491275.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Dehradun||CM assures support to NDMA in building shelters in disaster-hit areas||DEHRADUN: A meeting held between chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and a National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) delegation on Tuesday discussed the issue of building a relief shelter to accommodate 3,000 to 5,000 people in an identified disaster-hit area of each district of Uttarakhand. NDMA member Rajendra Singh said that these shelters are being made in various states by the NDMA Authority and if the Uttarakhand government provides land, such shelters can be made in each district of the Himalayan state as well. He pointed out that a shelter can accommodate up to 5,000 people in case of any emergency situation. On which, the Chief Minister said that such shelters will prove to be very helpful in providing relief to the disaster-affected areas and the state will provide all possible assistance for the project. Singh also pointed out that 12-to-15 days long rescue and relief training is being imparted to the volunteers under the “Aapda Mitra” scheme by the NDMA. Under this scheme, there is a plan to prepare about one lakh volunteers in about 350 districts, including Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar, of the country. CM Rawat said that in mountainous regions like Uttarakhand, natural disasters like forest fires and landslides cause more damage. He claimed that natural disasters like forest fires should also be included in the plans made under National Disaster Management. He added that providing relief to remote areas is also a challenge. The CM said that the policies and guidelines of disaster management are made while keeping in mind the plain regions but the nature and impact of natural calamities in mountainous areas is far different from that in the plains. He asked the NDMA to consider the challenges of mountainous regions while framing policies and guidelines. Supporting his point, the CM said that houses in the mountainous areas are made of mud with thatched roofs. According to the disaster guidelines, such houses are called “kachcha” houses, due to which the disaster-affected people get very little financial help. He suggested that such houses should be classified as “pucca” houses in mountainous areas. The NDMA delegation included joint secretary Ramesh Kumar and joint advisor Naval Prakash and member Rajendra Singh. On this occasion, various issues like natural disaster and relief and rescue works in Uttarakhand were also discussed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-assures-support-to-ndma-in-building-shelters-in-disaster-hit-areas/articleshow/77491272.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||Sunni Board mosque Trust holds first meeting, decides to open two bank accounts to receive donations||Ayodhya: The Indo-Islamic Cultural Foundation, the Trust constituted by Sunni Waqf Board for construction of an alternate mosque in Ayodhya in lieu of Babri Masjid, held their first official meeting via video-conferencing on Tuesday evening. “Trust members decided to open current accounts in two banks and finalised the design of a website with an inbuilt gateway to receive donations. Non-Muslims are also welcome to donate,” said Trust secretary Athar Hussain. A financial officer has also been appointed, he said. Talking to TOI, Hussain, said, “the Trust took a decision to open two separate accounts in two premier private sector banks for receiving funds. Both would be current accounts. Complying with Supreme Court’s verdict, the Trust will construct a mosque, a hospital, community kitchen and library on 5acre allotted to Sunni Waqf Board at Dhannipur village of Ayodhya district.” A website and portal of the Trust has also been designed, he added. “We are already receiving calls from those willing to donate for the mosque and other public facilities. The financial officer will audit and keep record of funds,” he said. The mosque Trust was formed with nine members, but six more members will be added soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sunni-board-mosque-trust-holds-first-meeting-decides-to-open-two-bank-accounts-to-receive-donations/articleshow/77494619.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 claims 9 lives, infects 212||Times News Network Ludhiana: Nine persons died of Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Tuesday. The day saw 244 testing positive, of which 212 were from the district. The positive patients include 23 undertrials, seven cops and six healthcare workers. Chief medical officer Rajesh Bagga said a 60-year-old man of Jassiyan died at CMCH; a 62 years old woman of Haibowal, who suffered brain hemorrhage, breathed her last at Mohandai Oswal Hospital; a 83-year-old woman of Chandigarh Road, who had blood pressure and diabetes, too, succumbed at the same hospital; a 87-year-old man of Daba Road, who had fever, died at civil hospital.A 78-year-old man of Shivala Road, who had blood pressure and heart disease; a 66-year-old man of Purana Bazaar and a 74-year-old woman of Basant Avenue, both of whom had diabetes, blood pressure and heart disease, passed away at DMCH.A 67-year-old woman of Ghaloti, who had blood cancer, died at Indus International Hospital; and a 58-year-old man of Sevakpur, who was obese, breathed his last at Deep Hospital. With this, the Ludhiana death toll has reached 187 and that of outsiders stands at 45. The health department said 179 positive reports were received from government hospital, of which 151 cases were from Ludhiana, nine from Jalandhar, three from Fatehgarh Sahib, two each from Amritsar, Ropar, Sangrur, Nawanshahr and one each from Chandigarh, Moga, Kapurthala, Haryana, Mohali, Fazilka, Gurdaspur and Uttar Pradesh. Besides, 65 positive reports were received from private hospitals and laboratories, of which 61 were from Ludhiana, and one each from Fazilka, Ferozepur, Bihar and Himachal Pradesh. Of 212 Ludhiana cases, 48 came at flu corners, 75 were contacts of positive patients, 23 were undertrials, 17 were from OPD, seven were police personnel, six healthcare workers, three domestic/international travellers, three pregnant women, two severe acute respiratory infection cases and 28 through tracing process.The case count now stands at 5,524 and that of outsiders at 647.On Tuesday, 913 samples were collected for testing. To date, 3,681 Ludhiana residents have recovered from the disease.Daughter passes away hours after ASI’s deathHours after a Payal ASI, posted at Police Lines, died of Covid-19, his 23-year-old daughter too passed away on Monday night. She had tested negative for Covid-19.Joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezhian said, “The ASI’s daughter had tested negative. But she had diabetes. She died due to kidney failure.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-claims-9-lives-infects-212/articleshow/77491269.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid ‘misreporting’: Punjab and Haryana HC no to stay on probe against laboratory||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday dismissed the plea filed by Gurgaon-based SRL Laboratory to stay the investigation of the case against them filed by the Haryana Police for alleged misreporting of samples related to Covid-19 cases. “This is an application under Section 482 CrPc, seeking modification of the order dated July 29. No ground for modification of the order is made out. Dismissed,” observed the HC in its order. Justice Manjari Nehru Kaul passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by the private lab. The company had sought directions to stay the investigation of the FIR dated July 9 registered under Section 53 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and various sections of IPC for cheating, forgery and related charges at police station Sector 17-18, Gurgaon. Earlier on July 29, the HC had restrained the police from filing chargesheet against SRL. The HC, however, had made it clear that the police investigation against the company can continue. In their fresh application filed on Tuesday, the SRL wanted to amend the July 29 orders and to stay the investigation. The sequence of events started mid-April when the company carried out 1,522 tests on persons suspected to be infected by the coronavirus. These tests were conducted using ICMR approved kits. Out of the samples tested, 44 samples tested positive for Covid-19. Thereafter, Ambala civil surgeon complained that there had been misreporting in respect to some samples, which tested positive for Covid-19, by the company. Resultantly, 15 samples were sent to PGI, Rohtak, for retesting. On being tested at PGI, Rohtak, the samples tested negative. Consequently, an inquiry was conducted followed by a show-cause notice to the company. On April 21, the memorandum of understanding (MOU) signed between the state authorities and the company was cancelled and an FIR was also registered. The company, however, has been arguing that the FIR has been registered in haste and without any application of mind. More so, when the alleged misreporting is premised upon a diagnostic result of PGI, Rohtak, which had tested the samples sent to it at a different point of time and by using kits different from the one used by the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-misreporting-hc-no-to-stay-on-probe-against-lab/articleshow/77493812.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Goa||500-bed hospital will be opened within 2 months: Goa minister||MARGAO: Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the 500-bed South Goa district hospital at Margao built at a cost of 450 crore would be inaugurated “in another month or two”. The minister was addressing a webinar after signing the e-memorandum with the National Skill Development Corporation for setting up a skill development hub in the state. He said that four other hospitals were in the pipeline to be commissioned. Rane said that everything that needs to be done for the people of Goa will be done to fight the pandemic. “We are doing our best to see that things are under control. I believe in the theory of never giving up,” he said. Rane stressed on the need for political leaders to play a larger role in the state’s battle against the pandemic. “Political leadership should also come to the forefront when there is a crisis and handle it head-on, because people feel very satisfying when they see political leadership playing a frontal role along with the bureaucracy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/500-bed-south-goa-hospital-will-be-opened-within-2-months-rane/articleshow/77494620.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Advocates in Visakhapatnam raise alarm over deaths in fraternity||VISAKHAPATNAM: City advocates have raised an alarm over the deaths of several lawyers over the last two weeks and questioned the infrastructure for Covid-19 care. Some lawyers have also written to the chief minister on the issue. The government has recently asked nodal officers (joint collectors) of 13 districts to coordinate with lawyers’ representatives appointed by Bar Associations in the districts for carrying out tests, admission to and treatment in designated government Covid-19 hospitals or Covid Care Centres and to take special care of Covid-19 affected lawyers. Senior advocate and president of Forum of Legal Professionals (FLP) Kuppili Muralidhar said, “We are scared to open our Whatsapp group these days because daily we find some advocates dying due to Covid-19. Nearly a dozen advocates of various age groups passed away this week creating fear in our minds. It is shocking that private hospitals are fleecing the common man even though the government had fixed charges for treatment. Several advocates were admitted to private hospitals for better treatment, but were disappointed. This needs to be regulated and administration should book cases against errant hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/advocates-raise-alarm-over-deaths-in-fraternity/articleshow/77471101.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 12, 2020||Vadodara||BCA member alleges Rs 34cr irregularity||Vadodara: A money transfer worth crores of rupees for the cricket stadium construction done during the lockdown in March may put the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) management in a dock. Some BCA members have accused the management of carrying out an illegal transaction of Rs 34 crores and they will soon be lodging a complaint with the charity commissioner. “The association flouted many rules while doing this transaction in March this year. Firstly, BCA office-bearers opened an escrow account in the bank without the signature of one of the secretaries. It is a rule that all the office bearers have to sign for opening an escrow account in the bank,” said Kalpesh Parmar, a BCA member. “The association then transferred Rs 34 crores in this escrow account that was jointly opened with Patel Constructions and the bank on March 31 when the country was under lockdown. No permission was taken from the apex council for conducting this huge transaction. Also, work for the stadium project was illegally given to Patel Construction without any tendering process,” Parmar alleged. Interestingly, the BCA got the entire Rs 34 crores back into its own account in July this year. “The management said that the firm couldn’t produce a counter bank guarantee so they cancelled the contract. Why did they hire such a firm in a hurry? Was it to save income tax worth crores? And now that the money is back in the BCA account, won’t it pay the taxes on it the next year. The management has to answer these questions,” Parmar told TOI. BCA treasurer, Ajit Patel, however, refuted allegations of irregularities in the transaction. "The office bearers had met online and discussed the stadium project along with transfer of money to the firm. All the office bearers had agreed for the transaction and it was also decided that permission of the apex council will be taken after the lockdown ends." "Also, we had invited two firms for the project and after considering their proposals, work was given to Patel Construction. We followed all the rules," Patel added. When asked about the tax saving allegations, he said that he has no idea about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bca-member-alleges-rs-34cr-irregularity/articleshow/77490668.cms||Tushar Tere
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||With whopping 1,412 cases and 45 deaths, Vid Covid tally crosses 25k mark||Nagpur: With highest ever single day surge of 1,412 Covid-19 cases, Vidarbha’s total case count surpassed 25,000 mark and reached 25,911 on August 11. It is exactly five months from March 11, the day Vidarbha’s first Covid-19 case was reported. It took 153 days for Nagpur to reach 25,000 cases with the last 5,000 coming in just four days.Total 45 Covid-19 deaths were reported from the region on Tuesday. Thirty eight of them were from Nagpur alone. Yavatmal once again reported three deaths followed by one each in Chandrapur, Amravati, Akola, and Gondia, which reported a death after July 11. Nagpur reported 950 new cases including 636 from Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) area, 311 from Zilla Parishad (rural Nagpur) area and three from other states. With this, Nagpur’s total cases reached 11,631. Nagpur was followed by Yavatmal (128), Amravati (102), Akola (48), Washim (42), Gondia (39), Buldhana (28), Chandrapur (26), Gadchiroli (23), Bhandara (17), and Wardha (9). Recovery rate of Vidarbha dipped to 56.33% as only 462 patients recovered on Tuesday. No patient were discharged in Bhandara and Wardha districts. With Nagpur (146), Amravati (69), Gondia (62), Washim (50), Chandrapur (37), Yavatmal (33), Gadchiroli (25), Buldhana (21), and Akola (19) total 14,598 patients have recovered till date. Vidarbha’s recovery rate, which used to be more than state and national average, has dipped way below Maharashtra’s 68% and national average of 70%.YAVATMAL: Since August 1, there have been 20 deaths in Yavatmal and on Tuesday three more were reported taking the toll to 51. One 50-year-old man from Wadgaon locality of the city, a 65-year-old man from Ward 1 of Umarkhed, and a 40-year-old man from the Mominpura area of Arni tehsil died. There were 128 new positive patients on Tuesday of whom 70 are men and 58 women. Total 142 persons are admitted in the isolation wards of GMC Yavatmal while 60 swab samples have been sent for testing. Yavatmal now has 1,888 cases, including 1,250 recoveries and 51 deaths. Total 587 patients are under treatment. Meanwhile, the district administration succumbed to the pressure tactics by local BJP turned Shiv Sena leader who opted to lay on the middle of the street in Pandharkawda of Yavatmal to demand lifting of lockdown that he said had led to people of all sections suffering. He also threatened an indefinite hunger strike from Tuesday. The administration lifted the lockdown from Tuesday.AMRAVATI: A 20-year-old youth of Morshi town today became the youngest Covid casualty of the district, posting the 90th death, even as a spike of 102 cases took the count to 3,237 on Tuesday. The number of recovered patients today reached 2,054 as 110 got discharge. This left 1,093 active cases, including 21 taking treatment in Nagpur.AKOLA: A 51-year-old man from Ganga Nagar bypass in old city area of Akola died during treatment at GMCH late August 10 night. He was admitted a day before. This was 125th Covid-19 death of Akola district. Apart from this, 48 new cases, including 14 from rapid antigen tests, were added into the tally of positive patients. Now, Akola has 3,101 cases, including 2,444 recovered and 125 deaths. At present, 532 patients are under treatment in district. GONDIA: A 62-year-old patient succumbed to Covid-19 in Tirora tehsil on Tuesday. While 39 new cases were registered and 62 patients recovered. Among new cases, 10 are from Gondia tehsil and eight each from Tirora, Amgaon and Arjuni Morgaon. CHANDRAPUR: A 70-year-old senior citizen being treated at Covid hospital here died while undergoing treatment. He was suffering from serious respiratory problem and was admitted on August 2. Death toll of Covid 19 reached five in the district. A total of 26 new patients were registered in Chandrapur and the total caseload has now climbed to 898. Meanwhile, 37 patients were discharged taking the total of cured patients to 543. This has left 350 active patients in the district. Bhandara: District witnessed a surge of 17 new patients on August 11 taking total cases to 434. Out of 17 patients detected on Tuesday, nine are from Bhandara, three from Mohadi, and two from Lakhni tehsils. Lakhandur, Tumsar and Paoni tehsils reported one patient each. With 249 patients recovered and two deaths reported earlier, Bhandara has 183 patients under treatment. Out of these, eight were referred to Nagpur for further treatment.WASHIM: Total 50 patients recovered from Washim and were given discharge on August 11 while 42 new patients were reported. Now, Washim district total is 998 cases, with 628 recovered. With 19 deaths (including one suicide), total 351 are under treatment. BULDHANA: District received 226 reports on Tuesday of which 28 were positive. Positive patients are from Deulgaon Raja (4), Dusarbid (2), Buldhana (3), Malkapur (4), and Khamgaon (8). Total 21 patients recovered in a day taking number of recovered patients to 1,190 out of total 1,999 cases. With 35 deaths till date, the district has 774 patients under treatment. WARDHA: With nine new positive cases on Tuesday the number of active patients reached 54. Among them, two are from Wardha, two from Arvi, two from Karanja, each one from Selu, Pulgaon and Deoli. In all, 286 reports are pending including 132 samples sent on Tuesday. Total 300 have tested positive in district and 237 have recovered so far. Nine have died during treatment in district so far.GADCHIROLI: Incuding 12 CRPF Jawans from Korchi tehsil, total 23 new cases wee detected in Gadchiroli district. Total cases reached 751 while 594 have recovered. Now, 156 are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/with-whopping-1412-cases-and-45-deaths-vid-covid-tally-crosses-25k-mark/articleshow/77493839.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||HC: Don’t shift patients from Sirmaur, Solan to Shimla facility||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh high court on Tuesday directed the state government not to shift Covid-19 patients from Sirmaur and Solan districts to Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hospital (DDU), Shimla, unless hospitals at these districts run out of capacity. It said priority should be given to treat them at those very places. A division bench comprising Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara passed these orders on a petition filed by one Inderjit Singh, challenging the July 16 order of the state government designating DDU as a dedicated Covid care hospital for Solan and Sirmaur also, in addition to Shimla and Kinnaur. The petitioner alleged that in a meeting held on May 15, overall analysis of equipment and staff was done and it showed shortcomings at the hospital in handling the situation as per the guidelines of Union ministry of health and family welfare. He said analysis reflected that the ICU itself was short of basic infrastructure. There is gap of 11 anaesthetist, medical specialist, 62 staff nurses and four radiographers. Besides, one remote control monitoring system is needed to be installed to decrease exposure of staff, he said. Also, 12 pulse oxymeters, one defribrillator, electric suction machines (1 for ICU and 4 for covid ward), oxygen manifold, 10 oxygen regulator, one video laryngoscope, 12 syringe infusion pumps, scrub station, portable X-ray and alpha bed mattresses are also required. The petitioner prayed that in such situation when the DDU was not fully equipped, it would be detrimental to public interest to transfer the patients all the way from Solan and Sirmaur to DD. During the course of hearing on August 7, it was pointed out by the state director health services that there are 24 ventilators and given the infrastructure, one anaesthetist can cater to six ventilators only. However, on Tuesday, it was stated that there were now two anaesthetists. Court observed that even if two anaesthetists were available, 12 ventilators still did not have anaesthetists. Hence, when the infrastructure at DDU itself was incomplete, it does not lie for the state to order shifting of patients from Sirmaur and Solan, unless those hospitals had run out of infrastructure. Court has posted the matter for August 17 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-dont-shift-patients-from-sirmaur-solan-to-shimla-facility/articleshow/77493848.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||VHR detained on way to Warangal||Warangal: The police on Tuesday detained Congress leader and former Rajya Sabha member V Hanumantha Rao, stopping him from visiting Urs Kareembad in Warangal, where unknown persons had vandalised the statue of social activist Mahatma Jyotiba Phule four days ago. The police stopped Rao’s vehicle at Pembarthi near Jangaon and sent him to Lingala Ghanpur PS. Later in the evening, he left for Hyderabad. Meanwhile, Congress leaders, including Warangal District Congress Committee (DCC) president Naini Rajender Reddy, visited Urs Kareembad. The leaders raised slogans against the government and accused it of suppressing voice of distressed sections. - Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vhr-detained-on-way-to-warangal/articleshow/77492409.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
August 12, 2020||Ludhiana||YAD office-bearer, 38, shot in Samrala village||Times News Network Ludhiana: Six car-borne miscreants rained bullets on Youth Akali Dal (YAD) Samrala rural unit president Ravinder Singh Sonu, 38, in Seh village of the area on Tuesday. An old rivalry over elections is said to be the trigger.Ravinder was shot while he was attending a tree plantation drive at a shrine in the village. Ravinder is the son of Seh village sarpanch, Ranjit Kaur of SAD. Ranjit Kaur said, “The Congress candidate for panchayat election and her accomplices are behind my son’s murder. Ravinder’s elder brother, Gurpreet Singh, was also hacked to death 17 months ago following a dispute over torn posters of a Congress group.” Eyewitnesses said around 10am, a car with six men pulled over. “Four of them alighted and walked up to Ravinder. Before anyone could understand anything, they fired at him and fled. They had shot about 10 bullets, killing Ravinder on the spot,” they added. When Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harpreet Singh and other senior police officers reached the spot, the villagers did not allow them to take the body.After former SAD MLA Jagjiwan Singh Khirniya intervened and police assured to arrest the accused, the villagers let them take the body to civil hospital for the post-mortem after 2pm.Ranjit Kaur said, “In the panchayat elections, I had trounced Congress candidate Manjit Kaur. Since then, Manjit Kaur and her family bore a grudge against us. On March 23, 2019, the accused had killed my elder son. Ravinder was a complainant in the case. Due to the police negligence, the accused had availed bail in the murder case. They had been threatening us to withdraw the case.”Samrala police station SHO inspector Sikandar Singh said, “A case of murder has been registered against Congress worker Manjit Kaur, her husband Harvinder Singh Gola, Harjinder Singh Jinder, Kulvir Singh Pappi, Jagbir Singh Jagga, Bikramjit Singh Vicky, Aman Singh, his father Binder Singh and their unidentified accomplices on the complaint of Ranjit Kaur.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/yad-office-bearer-38-shot-in-samrala-village/articleshow/77491280.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Dehradun||Badrinath, Kedarnath highways closed for 2nd consecutive day||DEHRADUN: The Badrinath and Kedarnath highways, NH-58 and NH-109, remained closed for the second consecutive day as rains continued to trigger landslides in Uttarakhand. Intermittent drizzles in the hills, coupled with tumbling debris and boulders, made it difficult for agencies to reopen the highways on Tuesday. Speaking to TOI, Piyoosh Rautela, executive director of Disaster Mitigation and Management Centre (DMMC) said, “The agencies are working round the clock to clear the debris but the boulders that keep falling from the hills make it difficult to reopen the roads.” Meanwhile, the regional meteorological centre on Tuesday predicted a rise in rainfall activity on August 13 and 14, with spells of heavy to very heavy rainfall at several places. “Due to expected heavy rainfall, the water level in rivers will rise. Hills may witness flash floods and landslides. We have issued an advisory asking people to not go out unnecessarily, especially in the hills,” said Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/badrinath-kedarnath-highways-closed-for-2nd-consecutive-day-recurring-landslides-make-it-hard-for-locals/articleshow/77491291.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Participants get 2nd dose of Covaxin as human trial enters crucial phase||Nagpur: The human trial of Covaxin, a made-in-India vaccine to tackle Covid-19, entered a crucial stage in the city on Tuesday after the first seven participants were administered the second dose at Dr Gillurkar Hospital and Research Institute – one of the 12 trial sites in the country.The Nagpur-based institute is the only trial site in Maharashtra. It has already administered the first dose of Covaxin to 55 participants, second in the country after PGI Rohtak (81).Director of the institute, Dr Chandrashekhar Gillurkar, told TOI that all the 55 participants are doing well and no one had any side-effects after the first dose. They will be administered the second dose on competition of the 14th day.“Seven participants who were given the first dose of the vaccine on July 27 and 28 were called for 14th day test on Tuesday. As none experienced any symptoms or health problems in the last 14 days, we can say that the vaccine has been safe initially,” said Dr Gillurkar. After their vital parameters were found to be absolutely healthy, the participants were administered the second dose of the vaccine. Their blood samples were taken for further tests. “Through the blood test, we will check whether the first dose of Covaxin has developed any antibodies in participants. If antibodies are found, they will confirm the effectiveness of the vaccine,” Dr Gillurkar added. Results of the blood tests are expected in the next three days. They may be kept confidential until all the participants are tested. One of the seven participants who got the second dose on Tuesday told TOI that he followed his routine in the last 14 days and had no side-effects or any health complications. According to experts, it will take at least an additional six to nine months to complete the human trials even though the initial results confirming the safety of the vaccine hold a lot of promise. Secondly, if antibodies are found in blood tests, it will confirm the effectiveness of the vaccine. Thirdly, the participants will be tested on the 28th, 42nd and 102nd day of their vaccination to check the lasting period of antibodies created by the Covaxin. COVAXIN FROM NAGPUR From August 11 onwards, 55 participants to report on their respective 14th day Participants | 42 men, 13 women 30 in 20-30 age group, 18 in 31-40 and 11 in 41-50 years Results of first phase positive. Next phase to be done on sample size of 750In second phase, participants between 15 and 65 years to be enrolledIn third phase, tens of thousands to be administered vaccine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/participants-get-2nd-dose-of-covaxin-as-human-trial-enters-crucial-phase/articleshow/77493851.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Stop illegal temples on govt land: HC to Telangana||HYDERABAD: Making it clear that it becomes difficult for the authorities to demolish a temple once its construction is allowed to be completed, the Telangana high court has directed the Medchal Malkajgiri district collector and local tahsildar along with the municipal officials to visit survey No. 45 of Nagole area where some people are illegally raising three temples of goddesses Mahankali and Pochamma on a government land. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIl filed by Vazeer Prakash Goud of Kothapet in Uppal mandal charging the authorities with inaction and also seeking intervention by the court.  “Land grabbing cannot be allowed even if it is done in the name of a temple construction,” the bench said. “If you find that the temples are being raised on a government land without any permission, stop all such constructions forthwith. Do not allow any further constructions. It becomes difficult for you to take action later,” the bench told the officials. “File a report on your visit by August 18,” the bench said and posted the case to August 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-t-stop-illegal-temples-on-govt-land/articleshow/77492431.cms||M Sagar Kumar
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana State Election Commission likely to stay headless for 2 more months||HYDERABAD: The Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) is rudderless. After being without a commissioner for the last four months with SEC V Nagi Reddy retiring in April, TSEC is now bereft of any top official helming the affairs with secretary M Ashok Kumar also retiring. With key posts of commissioner and secretary lying vacant, a joint secretary has been asked to look after the TSEC’s administrative matters for the time being. The state election body is likely to continue without a commissioner at least for two more months as the process of appointment of the new commissioner would take two months. The joint secretary in position cannot hold any elections, including bypolls in local bodies, or fill vacancies. There are 600 to 650 vacancies in the local bodies which need to be filled. “For appointment of a commissioner of SEC, a panel with three names needs to be prepared. The offers, who are retired IAS officers, should not be less than a principal secretary rank officer. The state cabinet has to propose the name and send it to the governor for appointment of the commissioner. Since the cabinet meeting was held recently, the next meeting may not be held any time soon,” a senior CMO official said. The TRS government was keenly watching developments in neighbouring AP on the controversy over removal of Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar as SEC. After AP sacked Ramesh by amending the Panchayat Raj Act, the AP high court said a SEC could be appointed only by the governor as SEC is a constitutional post. The AP government appealed to the Supreme Court against the court’s verdict and recently, Ramesh was reinstated as SEC after the SC order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsec-likely-to-stay-headless-for-2-more-mths/articleshow/77492437.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 12, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, 50, found hanging from tree, villagers suspect murder||Pilibhit: Savitri Devi (50) of Pilibhit's Dalelganj village, under Jahanabad police station, was found hanging from a tree a short distance from her house on Tuesday morning. Her son, Dori Lal, informed police about her death. While Lal has not filed any complaint of foul play, neighbours suspect she was murdered. The neighbours said the slippers of the deceased found lying beneath the tree were clean though the path to the spot from her house was slushy. Had she walked, the slippers should have been caked with mud. They also alleged that the deceased’s husband, Balak Ram, was a drunkard and ill-treated her. Harsh Vardhan Singh, SHO, said further action would be taken after her autopsy report arrived.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-50-found-hanging-from-tree-villagers-suspect-murder/articleshow/77486657.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||Woman, child drown in water tank||Jaisalmer: A woman and her five-year-old son drowned in a water tank at Jogasar village in Barmer district on Tuesday morning. The boy fell into the water tank while playing in the fields. His mother jumped into the tank as well in a bid to save him and the duo drowned. Police reached the spot. The father of the woman has lodged a report and the matter is being investigated by the sub divisional magistrate. Baytu station house officer Lalit Kishore said that Devendra (5), son of Mohan Lal, was playing near a water tank in the fields when he fell into it. His mother Rama Devi (25), jumped into the tank to save Devendra but she too drowned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-child-drown-in-water-tank/articleshow/77493870.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Capt Sathe was brilliant in everything he chose to do’||Ludhiana: City-based Colonel Sanjiv Puri (retired) remembers Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe — pilot of the Air India Express plane that crashed in Kerala last week — as a humble, soft-spoken, dynamic and brilliant person. Capt Sathe and Col Puri were coursemates (from 1977 to 1980) in the National Defence Academy. Colonel Puri, a resident of Civil Lines who fought Kargil war, said, “Deepak and I were in the same training battalion at the National Defence Academy. We were together there for three years. He was brilliant in everything he chose to do, an epitome of determination, perseverance and excellence. I remember Deepak won a six-star gold torch in NDA, which means he passed with distinction. Also, he was an excellent squash, billiards and table tennis player. He was a good horse rider too.” “After NDA, I joined the armed forces and he, Indian Air Force. But we remained in touch. Besides being a fighter pilot, he was a qualified flying instructor and a test pilot. A test pilot is the one who flies an aircraft for the first time when it is made or repaired. This gives one an idea of how brave and passionate he was,” he added.  “The Kerala plane crash is unfortunate and disheartening. The aircraft was trying to land in torrential rain when it crashed, but it did not catch fire. Deepak had emptied the fuel to ensure the plane did not catch fire, and saved the lives of others,” he said.Recalling a recent meeting with Capt Sathe, Col Puri said, “A three-day NDA reunion function was organised in Pune in October last. There, I met Deepak. He was the same Deepak I knew since his teenage – humble, polite and energetic. We talked about life and family. I did not know then that it was our last meeting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/capt-sathe-was-brilliant-in-everything-he-chose-to-do/articleshow/77491315.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 12, 2020||Goa||Sal villagers returning for Chaturthi have to produce fitness certificates||Bicholim: The Sal village panchayat has stated that all those returning to the village or visiting it during the Ganesh Chaturthi festival will have to produce a medical certificate stating that they are Covid negative, before entering the hamlet. Sarpanch Ghanashyam Raut told TOI that the panchayat took the decision after Covid positive patients were found in Sal some days ago. It may be recalled that ward no. 3 from Sal, in Bicholim taluka, was sealed on June 26 to avoid further spread of the virus. “We cannot afford to drop our guard during Ganesh Chaturthi. Hence, it is the duty of each person who has migrated elsewhere in the state on account of jobs, their children’s education, business, etc, to get themselves medically checked and then bring along the medical fitness certificates and present them before entering the village.” Villagers returning for Ganesh Chaturthi have been asked to contact their respective panch members ward 1 - Vasudev Parab (9822136755), ward 2 - Prakash Raut (9011113650), ward 3 - Varsha Salkar (8459865811), ward 4 - Bindiya Raut (7887994222), ward 5 - Vasudev Halarnakar (7030364447), ward 6 - Devdas Naik (7620886392) and ward 7 - Ghanshyam Raut (9764847878/9405671818).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sal-villagers-returning-for-chaturthi-have-to-produce-fitness-certificates/articleshow/77494644.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||Two kids drown in pond in Tonk||JAIPUR: Two children drowned in small pond under Lamba Harisingh police station area in Tonk on Tuesday morning while bathing. The cousins, aged 7 and 8, did not know how to swim and though the pond was shallow, the children could not be saved. The bodies were handed over to the families after autopsy. The deceased were identified as Ramphool Bajaria (7) and Aarti Bajaria (8). Lamba Harisingh SHO Chitar Singh said, “The two children were playing and decided to take bath in the shallow pond but could not maintain their balance and drowned in the deeper end. Due to the recent rain, the pond was also overflowing.” The incident happened around 9 am on Tuesday and before the children could be saved by the villagers, they both drowned. “It was a case of accidental drowning and we have not found anything suspicious in the deaths. It was an unfortunate accident and if someone had seen them in the pond at the right moment, then probably they could have been saved. But no one thought that the children would venture into the water without adult supervision,”added the official. The family which lost two of its children to the tragedy was in a state of shock. The official added, “We could not get much out of the family as they were inconsolable and we also did not want to probe during this time of mourning.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-kids-drown-in-pond-in-tonk/articleshow/77493918.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: New secretariat gets Rs 400 crore fund sanction||HYDERABAD: Unperturbed by the criticism from the opposition parties for focussing on construction of new secretariat complex at a time when people are dying due to coronavirus in the state, the TRS government on Tuesday gave administrative sanction of Rs 400 crore for the construction of the new complex. As per the formal procedure, the government has to issue an order for administrative sanction of the amount for any project which has been approved by the cabinet. The administrative sanction order will allow the Roads and Buildings department to invite tenders. Officials said the R&B will be inviting global tenders to take up construction of the secretariat complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-sectt-gets-rs-400cr-fund-sanction/articleshow/77492443.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ludhiana||City soon to get laboratory for testing of PPE kits||Ludhiana: In a major development for textile manufacturers of Ludhiana and Punjab, the Centre has approved a laboratory for testing of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) suits. Crucial blood penetration and other tests will be conducted in this lab. The lab is likely to be set up soon at the office of the textile committee, Ludhiana. The ministry of textile has supplied machinery for blood penetration and bursting strength tests to the committee. Once the laboratory is fully functional, manufacturers of PPE suits and other technical textiles will not need to send their samples to far off places like Coimbatore for testing. Sibin C, director, industries and commerce Punjab said, “Before the Covid-19 pandemic, all PPEs were imported from China and other countries. With a push from the state government, Ludhiana industrialists started developing PPE kits with the modified machinery they had. However, testing of PPE kits remained a major issue. It was possible only in labs like the South Indian Textile Research Institute (SITRA), Coimbatore and labs of Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) spread in different parts of the country.” He said with the help of the state and Union government, 141 units got their products tested and approved for supply but the need for PPE testing was felt strongly by both established units and new manufacturers. “The ministry of textile has supplied machinery, mainly synthetic blood penetration testing machine and bursting strength testing machine to textile committee of Ludhiana for testing of PPE. The audit and calibration of machines will be done next week by the National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL).” He also said the testing facility at textile committee, Ludhiana, will be opened for the public in a fortnight. “The cost of test will be fixed once auditing and calibration is complete and testing starts. This will help the industry, especially technical textile industry, in a big way,” he said.Welcoming the initiative, Harish Dua, executive council member of Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC), said, “Setting up of PPE testing lab in Ludhiana will prove to be a gamechanger for technical textile manufacturers, especially PPE suits and allied product manufacturers. Businessmen had to face several hurdles like waiting for several days to submit samples to labs located at long distances from Ludhiana and then the long wait for testing at these labs.” However, he said the Union government must also take steps like opening exports without restrictions and giving subsidy on purchase of costly machines by technical textile manufacturers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-soon-to-get-laboratory-for-testing-of-ppe-kits/articleshow/77491383.cms||Mohit Behl
August 12, 2020||Pune||Criminal gang booked under MCOCA||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Monday booked the kingpin of a criminal gang on police records, along with his five accomplices, including two minors, under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). The gang members, operating in Chikhli, have 18 cases registered against them. They have been identified as Vikas Jadhav, alias Pangya (22), Akash Mohol, alias Akya Bond (19), Shoab Shaikh (19), all from Chikhli, and Vishal Kharat (20) from Nigdi. While probing a case of attempt to murder registered against Jadhav, the kingpin of the gang, senior inspector of Chikhli police Satish Mane found that the suspect was running a gang involved in criminal activities in the Chikhli area. The gang members also terrorised local people, police said. Mane prepared a proposal to evoke MCOCA against the gang and sent it to Ramnath Pokale, additional commissioner of police, Pimpri Chinchwad. On Monday, Pokale issued orders for booking the gang members under the stringent MCOCA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-gang-booked-under-mcoca/articleshow/77493957.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: 76-year-old woman suffers injuries in hands in bid to thwart robbers||PUNE: A 76-year-old woman suffered injuries in her hands while making a valiant attempt to resist a robbery at her home, but two armed intruders managed to flee with Rs50,000, and gold, silver and diamond jewelleries and other valuables, worth Rs3.8 lakh, at Nigdi Pradhikaran late on Monday night. Police said the victim stayed alone in a first-floor garden flat of three-storeyed Gayatri Heritage Apartment in Nigdi Pradhikaran, while her daughter stayed in another house nearby. Her flat has access to the garden through the kitchen. After the robbers fled, the terrified woman called her daughter, who immediately came and took her to a nearby hospital. “After she was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday morning, the septuagenarian woman lodged an FIR with the Nigdi police,” senior inspector Ganesh Jawadwad said. He said, “The woman was watching television in her drawing room after dinner on Monday. Around 11pm, the two men entered her flat. They got an easy access inside through the garden-side door of the flat, which was perhaps not closed properly.” Jawadwad said the woman was shocked to see the duo. “They were carrying some sharp weapons and sticks. The victim told us that she tried to resist them, but the duo attacked her with sticks,” he said. The senior inspector said the woman suffered injuries in her hands. “The duo then snatched the gold ornaments the woman was wearing. They searched the cupboards in her two bedrooms and collected Rs50,000, gold, silver and diamond jewelleries, and cellphone and wrist watches, collectively worth Rs4.3 lakh,” Jawadwad said. He said the police were suspecting involvement of some known persons in the robbery. “The duo entered the woman’s garden scaling the compound wall. They also bent the barbed wire on the wall,” Jawadwad said. Assistant inspector Laxman Sonawane of the Nigdi police said there were no CCTV cameras and watchmen in the society. “The residents in the building, too, were not aware of the incident till Tuesday morning,” he said. Assistant commissioner of the Pimpri Chinchwad police Ram Jadhav told TOI after visiting the spot, “The elderly woman escaped with minor injuries. She is safe. Three teams of the Nigdi police have been formed for the probe. The crime branch, too, has started parallel investigations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/septuagenarian-woman-suffers-injuries-in-hand-in-bid-to-thwart-robbery/articleshow/77493927.cms||Mihir Tanksale
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Learn of high waves 3 months sooner||Chennai: Every monsoon, the IMD warns fishermen about high wave activity that also causes severe coastal erosion. But such warnings come just five days in advance, leaving very little time for marine protection plans. Soon, Indian researchers may be able to forecast high surface waves and pinpoint coastal areas under threat of erosion due to such waves up to three months in advance. A preliminary study has found a link between this wave activity and certain climate variations during the southwest monsoon. These climate variations when fed into a wave and an erosion model that is being developed could forecast three months in advance and eventually give a picture of wave activity and coastal erosion for the 2070-2100 period. A team from INCOIS, Hyderabad found high waves occur when the movement of convection (heat), or cloudbands, between the Indian Ocean and Western Pacific in the northeast direction occurs during the monsoon. This BSISO (Boreal Summer Intraseasonal Oscillation) also represents the ‘active’ and 'break' phase of the monsoon. INCOIS director incharge T M Balakrishnan Nair said an active BSISO, occurring every few days in June-September, enhances monsoon winds and transfers energy to surface waves generating continuous high waves that threaten the coast and the coastal community. BSISO is continuously monitored globally for its periodicity. “If we know when BSISO is active and feed the same into the numerical model, we can generate a seasonal forecast for high wave activity three months ahead. We can also know the areas where the activity will be severe for the concerned state and district authorities and disaster management authority to either evacuate people or put up some structure to protect the coast from the waves,” he said. This season, BSISO’s active phase is up to August 14. “The wind speed during an active BSISO will average 25m per second against 5m-10m per second pre-or post-monsoon. Southwest monsoon winds hitting the west coast directly are why we see more high waves, erosion and flash floods in Kerala and Karnataka.” Findings of the study, for which researchers took 30 years of climate and wave data, will eventually help develop an ocean wave climate services for better coastal and navigational protection plan of the ministry of earth sciences’ ‘Deep Ocean Mission’ project. “Wave activity along Bay of Bengal is not as severe as Arabian Sea. Also, wave activity in Northeast monsoon is more cyclone induced, lasting 2-3 days, whereas in southwest monsoon it lasts many days over the season,” he said. “We have been forecasting cyclone induced waves for the last 10 years accurately with an error of less than only 10%.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/learn-of-high-waves-3-months-sooner/articleshow/77492586.cms||U Tejonmayam
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad Youth Courage fraud duo duped many in past||HYDERABAD: Chandrayangutta police on Tuesday claimed to have made a breakthrough in the Hyderabad Youth Courage (HYC) NGO case. Chandrayangutta additional inspector K N Prasad Varma said that the accused, HYC president Salman Khan and organiser Syed Ayub, disclosed during interrogation that they had attempted to transfer money from the bank account of a relative of one Yasmeen Sultana, who had died due to a brain-related ailment, to theirs. “From July 18 to July 21, Rs 45 lakh was deposited in the bank account of Sultana’s relative, Asra Begum, by donors. Though Yasmeen died while undergoing treatment on July 22, a day before that, Rs 15 lakh was transferred from Asra’s bank account to Salman’s bank account and Rs 15 lakh was transferred to the bank account of Rashed, brother-in-law of Ayub. The duo convinced Asra that she will keep the remaining Rs 15 lakh in the account for herself,” he said. The accused said they got the money transferred into their accounts to safeguard the amount and to buy a house for Yasmeen’s children. “They were non-cooperative and their answers were evasive,” Varma said. The duo also said they have collected lakhs of rupees in a similar manner for the treatment of one Anwar Hussain in May and a case was registered against them at Bahadurpura.Meanwhile, six other plaints were lodged against the duo at various police stations in the city and four cases were booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyc-fraud-duo-duped-many-in-past/articleshow/77494651.cms||Mahesh Buddi
August 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh govt mulls slashing additional retail tax to relieve tipplers||Vijayawada: The state government is contemplating reducing liquor price by lowering additional retail tax (ART). In a bid to discourage liquor consumption, the state government had increased the prices on multiple occasions. However, considering the recent deaths reported due to consumption of sanitizer and increased liquor smuggling across state borders, the government is considering lowering the prices. The excise department has sent proposals to the government over reduction of ART, which was imposed on liquor after wine shops were reopened post lockdown. The state government had imposed an additional 25% ART and increased the prices by 50% taking the total price hike to 75% after lockdown norms were eased. Rajat Bhargava, special chief secretary for revenue, said in the orders that the increase in prices of liquor is in line with the state government’s policy to implement complete prohibition in a phased manner. It is also to discourage people from coming out from their homes during the pandemic. The state government’s decision, however, had some serious consequences. Addicts started consuming alcohol-based hand sanitizers, which are available at a cheaper price than liquor. While deaths were reported across the state due to consumption of hand sanitizer, the Kurichedu incident where 16 people died due to consumption sanitisers highlighted the enormity of the problem. On the other hand, liquor smuggling rose across all districts, which shared borders with other states. Curbing liquor smuggling has become a Herculean task for the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the police. Besides, officials also identified that the state was losing revenue to other states. Considering all the aspects, the state government is contemplating reviewing the prices of liquor. Sources said there are chances that the ART may be reduced to pre-lockdown levels and the price difference in liquor procurement cost for wine shops and bars may also be reduced, although bars are yet to be opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-mulls-slashing-art-to-relieve-tipplers/articleshow/77496139.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Varanasi||Raj Guv launches ERT online||Varanasi: Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra launched the Emergency Response Teams (ERT) of Mahamana Malviya Mission (Rural Unit) Varanasi through virtual platform on Monday. The ERT is responsible for carrying out work in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. According to general secretary, Mahamana Malviya Mission (rural, Varanasi) and coordinator, Malviya Centre for Innovation, Incubation and Entrepreneurship (MCIIE) at IIT-BHU Prof PK Mishra, the ERT is an initiative of IIT-BHU alumni as it was first started at Kota to combat Covid-19 pandemic. The students of Kota Technical University were trained in the first phase and created a data base for Kota city. The governor complimented the team of Mahamana Malviya Mission (Rural) Varanasi and suggested to create even bigger network of institutions, students and alumni to combat against any emergent situation. He also hailed the efforts of MCIIE in creation of entrepreneurship in the region and directed to work for Atma Nirbhar Bharat through creation of small skill and entrepreneurship centers at village level. President of Mahamana Malviya Mission (rural) Varanasi Prof SN Upadhyay welcomed the governor, while the national general secretary Harishankar Singh briefed about the activities of the Mission at the national level. Dr Munish Bindal conducted the programme at Kota studio. Tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/raj-guv-launches-ert-online/articleshow/77490140.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh govt mulls slashing additional retail tax to relieve tipplers||Vijayawada: The state government is contemplating reducing liquor price by lowering additional retail tax (ART). In a bid to discourage liquor consumption, the state government had increased the prices on multiple occasions. However, considering the recent deaths reported due to consumption of sanitizer and increased liquor smuggling across state borders, the government is considering lowering the prices. The excise department has sent proposals to the government over reduction of ART, which was imposed on liquor after wine shops were reopened post lockdown. The state government had imposed an additional 25% ART and increased the prices by 50% taking the total price hike to 75% after lockdown norms were eased. Rajat Bhargava, special chief secretary for revenue, said in the orders that the increase in prices of liquor is in line with the state government’s policy to implement complete prohibition in a phased manner. It is also to discourage people from coming out from their homes during the pandemic. The state government’s decision, however, had some serious consequences. Addicts started consuming alcohol-based hand sanitizers, which are available at a cheaper price than liquor. While deaths were reported across the state due to consumption of hand sanitizer, the Kurichedu incident where 16 people died due to consumption sanitisers highlighted the enormity of the problem. On the other hand, liquor smuggling rose across all districts, which shared borders with other states. Curbing liquor smuggling has become a Herculean task for the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the police. Besides, officials also identified that the state was losing revenue to other states. Considering all the aspects, the state government is contemplating reviewing the prices of liquor. Sources said there are chances that the ART may be reduced to pre-lockdown levels and the price difference in liquor procurement cost for wine shops and bars may also be reduced, although bars are yet to be opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-mulls-slashing-art-to-relieve-tipplers/articleshow/77496142.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt mulls slashing additional retail tax to relieve tipplers||Vijayawada: The state government is contemplating reducing liquor price by lowering additional retail tax (ART). In a bid to discourage liquor consumption, the state government had increased the prices on multiple occasions. However, considering the recent deaths reported due to consumption of sanitizer and increased liquor smuggling across state borders, the government is considering lowering the prices. The excise department has sent proposals to the government over reduction of ART, which was imposed on liquor after wine shops were reopened post lockdown. The state government had imposed an additional 25% ART and increased the prices by 50% taking the total price hike to 75% after lockdown norms were eased. Rajat Bhargava, special chief secretary for revenue, said in the orders that the increase in prices of liquor is in line with the state government’s policy to implement complete prohibition in a phased manner. It is also to discourage people from coming out from their homes during the pandemic. The state government’s decision, however, had some serious consequences. Addicts started consuming alcohol-based hand sanitizers, which are available at a cheaper price than liquor. While deaths were reported across the state due to consumption of hand sanitizer, the Kurichedu incident where 16 people died due to consumption sanitisers highlighted the enormity of the problem. On the other hand, liquor smuggling rose across all districts, which shared borders with other states. Curbing liquor smuggling has become a Herculean task for the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) and the police. Besides, officials also identified that the state was losing revenue to other states. Considering all the aspects, the state government is contemplating reviewing the prices of liquor. Sources said there are chances that the ART may be reduced to pre-lockdown levels and the price difference in liquor procurement cost for wine shops and bars may also be reduced, although bars are yet to be opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-mulls-slashing-art-to-relieve-tipplers/articleshow/77491404.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Online education fine, but where’s year plan and syllabus: Teachers||HYDERABAD: The state government had announced that online teaching for classes 6 to 10 and Intermediate will begin from August 20 and 17, respectively, but parents and teachers say that the state should first release academic calendar and revised syllabus. They said that without giving any clarity on schedule and syllabus, it doesn’t make any sense to announce dates for digital classes. “The officials should release their entire plan and tell us exactly how the digital classes are going to work. Likewise, if the academic calendar is released, all stakeholders will get an idea about the number of working days and would help them plan better,” said Venkata Sainath, joint secretary of Hyderabad Schools Parents Association (HSPA). Parents said that at least now the state should think of identifying and providing devices to students from economically backward families. “The state should have ideally conducted a survey and have all details ready by now about the number of students not having devices to attend digital or online classes. At least now they should conduct a school-wide survey in the next one week and ensure that students are provided with tabs and an internet connection,” said N Narayana, president, Telangana Parents Association (TPA).  He said that at this stage it is also not clear whether teachers are provided with any sort of training. Teachers, meanwhile, said that they are expecting the state to release their action plan before digital classes commence. “The state is said to be planning on providing worksheets to students to see if they can understand digital classes that will be telecast through TSAT or DD Yadagiri. We are expecting them to release all datat by August 17,” said M Ravinder of Telangana Progressive Teachers Federation. They said that in the current situation, digital classes are the only option to continue learning.  “Except for government school/college students, classes have started for all including residential students studying in government institutes. So, it good that digital classes will begin as they are better than nothing,” said Chava Ravi, general secretary, United Teachers Federation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/online-edu-fine-but-wheres-yr-plan-syllabus-teachers/articleshow/77494649.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||50,000 tests a day from today in Gujarat: Nitin Patel||GANDHINAGAR: The state government announced on Tuesday that it will increase the daily number of Covid-19 tests in the state to 50,000 from Wednesday. This comes in the wake of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remark on Gujarat’s lower testing rate during his video conference with state CMs. Nitin Patel, deputy CM and state government spokesperson said, “According to the PM’s directions, from tomorrow itself (Wednesday), we are increasing the number of Covid tests from 40,000 per day to 50,000 per day.” Patel added, “The 40,000 includes RTPCR (lab test) and antigen tests (on-the-spot rapid tests).’’ Officials of the state health and family welfare department said that only about 8,000 of the 40,000 tests are RTPCR, while the rest are antigen tests. Patel said, “We will increase both types of tests according to requirements in the coming days to control the spread of corona.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/50k-tests-a-day-from-today-nitin-patel/articleshow/77493981.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: NDMC Mayor orders probe, AAP blames him for mishap||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash on Tuesday said that an inquiry would be carried out in the collapse of a portion of a building at Bara Hindu Rao where a policeman died and another got injured. He also visited the site late in the evening. However, there was no clarity on whether the building had been declared dangerous. The mayor said, “Illegal construction was being done in the 40-year-old building located near a railway line. The owner was trying to add a third floor. Construction material was stocked on the terrace, which probably led to the collapse. I have asked the commissioner to investigate the matter and take action against the guilty.” The collapse later became a political issue with AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak holding Prakash, who is also the area councillor, responsible for the incident. “The collapse is the result of corruption in the BJP-led corporation. Mayor Jai Prakash is directly responsible for the death of ASI Zakir Hussain. Police must immediately lodge an FIR and arrest him,” he claimed. Replying to Pathak’s allegations, Prakash tweeted: “It is AAP and its leaders’ history to put false allegations on people and once their agenda is fulfilled they take a U-turn. People have witnessed it! However, I will fight with you legally on this and you will get the legal notice ASAP for running this false made up story.” North corporation officials said the building was being used for commercial purposes. Locals claimed that a biscuit factory used to run there earlier and later household industries had been opened in the building. “According to municipal norms, no additions or alterations in buildings are allowed in the Walled City. If changes are needed, special permission is required and new building norms need to be followed. This is not possible in case of old structures. For now, we cannot say that the building was declared dangerous or the owner had applied for permission for construction or repairs,” said an official. Since the building was an old structure, additional construction done without strengthening the base might have led to the collapse, the official added. In its survey of dangerous buildings this year, north corporation had visited 3.7 lakh of the 7.5 lakh structures under its jurisdiction. Of them, 116 buildings were issued notices for immediate repair, while two were asked to demolish dangerous portions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mayor-orders-probe-aap-blames-him-for-mishap/articleshow/77512950.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 12, 2020||Vijayawada||State to set up energy conservation cells in govt depts||Vijayawada: In a bid to promote energy conservation and efficiency, the state government is planning to set up Energy Conservation Cells (ECC) in all its departments to promote efficient use of energy at all levels and achieve energy security along with economic, environmental and social benefits. According to an estimate by Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) and the Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM), 25% of the energy consumption can be reduced by adopting energy- efficient technologies. Chief secretary Nilam Sawhney has directed all heads of departments (HoD) and district collectors to create ECCs in all 87 HoD offices, district level offices, corporations and various society offices in the state. The ECC will act as a nodal agency to coordinate with APSECM for effective implementation of energy conservation and energy efficiency measures in their respective department and organisation.Although a decision has been taken to create ECCs, orders are yet to be given by the government. The officials have to constitute the ECCs in their respective departments within a month after orders are issued. The secretary for energy Srikant Nagulapalli said in a statement on Tuesday that Andhra Pradesh is keen on bringing in the latest technologies to enhance energy efficiency in key sectors. It has been approaching international agencies for their support to bring innovative global technologies in the area of energy efficiency and energy conservation. “We are seeking technological development, technology transfer for the enhancement of energy efficiency in the areas of municipal, agricultural, industrial sector and other key sectors that will enhance energy security, promote industrial and economic development apart from environmental benefits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-to-set-up-energy-conservation-cells-in-govt-depts/articleshow/77491423.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Pune||2 main suspects in Khed double murder held||Pune: The Chikhali police on Tuesday arrested two main suspects of the double murder at Shiroli village in Khed taluka on August 7. A police team, led by senior inspector Satish Mane, arrested Suraj Randive (20) and Kiran Belamagi (21) from Chinchwadgaon. The duo, along with their accomplices, allegedly hacked Niranjan Gurav and Bajrang Jadhav to death. The Chikhali police had earlier arrested three persons for allegedly helping the assailants in the crime. “The police probe revealed that Suraj’s brother, Aniket Randive, a criminal on police records, was murdered in Chikhali on May 29 and it was suspected that Gurav and Jadhav helped Aniket’s killers. Suraj hatched the plot of the latter’s murder to avenge Aniket’s death,” said an officer from the Chikhali police. The officer said the duo has been handed over to the Khed police for further probe. The bodies of Gurav and Jadhav were found on a hillock on Saturday morning. The breakthrough came the same day when the Khed police arrested one Manoj Lokhande for an offence under the Indian Arms Act. “When we showed him the photographs of the bodies, Lokhande identified the deceased duo as Gurav and Jadhav,” assistant inspector Rahul Lad of the Khed police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-main-suspects-in-khed-double-murder-held/articleshow/77493975.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Vadodara||108 more infected in in Vadodara||Vadodara: With 108 new cases of Covid-19 coming to light in the Vadodara city and district since Monday evening, the total number of cases reported so far went up to 5,794. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirmed two more deaths taking the total number of deceased due to Covid-19 to 113. The west zone of VMC remained the worst affected area with 30 cases being reported from this area. This was followed by the north zone where 21 cases were reported and the east zone where 16 cases were reported. The south zone added 12 cases, the lowest amongst all zones in the city. Areas of Vadodara district outside VMC limits reported 29 new Covid-19 cases. These were detected in Umarva, Jaspur, Padra, Koyli, Undera, Ranoli, Kelanpur, Sherkhi, Savli, Timbarva, Valan, Karjan and Dabhoi. With 79 new patients discharged from hospitals or home isolation, the total number of discharged patients stood at 4,458 including those who died due to comorbidities being the primary cause of death after testing positive for Covid-19. This leaves 1,223 under hospitalisation including 68 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 156 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/108-more-infected-in-in-vadodara/articleshow/77490677.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Locals stop slum board project on Pammal lake bed||CHENNAI: Construction of tenements by Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) on a lake in Pammal was put on hold by revenue officials after locals raised concern. The water body, called Moongil Eri, was originally spread across more than 50 acres and served as a drinking water source for residents in and around Pammal. It has now shrunk to less than half the size and was filled with filth and weeds. In 2018, Pammal municipality proposed to construct a wet waste plant on the lake. Opposing this, David Manohar, a civic activist with NGO Arappor Iyakkam, approached the Madras high court. On hearing his plea, Justices M Sathyanarayanan and R Rajamanickam directed the municipality to stop the construction and directed the government to initiate the restoration process immediately and take necessary action to remove garbage and weeds. The government in response agreed to shift the proposal to a different location, but till date has not taken any steps to restore the lake. Meanwhile, the TNSCB had awarded a tender to a local contractor to construct tenements at Rs 40 crore in the lake area. Nearly two acres of land was to be utilised for this purpose. This week, the contractor had begun construction activities after a ‘bhoomi pooja’. This attracted the attention of locals. “This was a clear violation of the Madras HC direction. So I immediately filed a complaint with the Chengalpattu Collectorate,” said Manohar. A team of revenue department officials led by a Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) inspected the site. “We instructed them to stop all construction activities and have sought more clarity from TNSCB,” said the RDO Ravichandran. The TNSCB said funds for the project, approved nearly a deacde ago, had been sanctioned very recently. Officials were optimistic that they would get a green signal from the revenue department once they submit the necessary government order copies. The lake, located on the west side of GST Road, plays a key role in storing excess water during the rainy season. With all drains choked with waste, there was very little chance for rain water and surface run-off water to reach the lake, said residents. They said this was also a reason for frequent water-logging on the Thiruneermalai side as Pallavaram lake has become the only destination point for excess rainwater storage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/locals-stop-slum-board-project-on-pammal-lake-bed/articleshow/77492625.cms||Ram Sundaram
August 12, 2020||Pune||Polls to elect new bodies at Pune, two other cantonments unlikely for next six months||PUNE: Polls to elect new bodies at Pune, Khadki and Dehu Road cantonments are unlikely to be held in the next six months owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Directorate General of Defence Estates (DGDE) has extended the terms of the existing bodies at these cantonments, besides 53 other cantonments in the country, by another six months in view of the prevailing situation. Elections to these cantonments were expected to be held before the term of the existing bodies lapses in February. The DGDE then extended the term by six months, till August 10, to facilitate delimitation of wards, electoral roll revision, and other works. With the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown declared on March 24, the DGDE issued a fresh order on August 5, extending the term of the elected bodies by another six months. “Holding elections is not possible in the prevailing situation as we won’t be able to spare manpower and most cantonments have not completed their voters’ list. Delimitation of cantonment wards is still pending. The extension has been granted considering all these factors.” Section 14 (1) of the Cantonment Act 2006 empowers the DGDE to extend the term of elected board members by six months twice. He said, “As per the rules, each ward should have more or less equal population density. Based on the same, its limits are fixed. We have to take all stakeholders into confidence before finalising the area. Same is the case with the voters’ list. As per the Supreme court guidelines, no name of encroachers on defence land should figure in the cantonment’s voters list. The cantonments have to conduct public hearing before deletion of names. Holding such hearing is not feasible due to social distancing norms.” Pune cantonment board’s chief executive officer Amit Kumar said, “We had completed electoral roll revision exercise and sent the voters’ list to the DGDE within the stipulated period. But with the new directive, we will have to prepare the list again and resend it to the DGDE as per the instructions.” A section of elected board members had taken objection to the delimitation exercise in Dehu road cantonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/polls-to-elect-new-bodies-at-pune-2-other-cantonments-unlikely-for-next-six-months/articleshow/77493980.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Hospital bills over Rs 1.5 lakh under government scanner||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Tuesday said pre-audit teams, headed by deputy collectors, would check hospital bills amounting over Rs 1.5 lakh following complaints of over-charging by some health hubs treating coronavirus patients. Rao told TOI that the bills of nearly 20 main hospitals in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and 10 in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits would be checked and cleared before the patients, or their relatives, have to pay the amount. “Flying squads will also be formed for the entire district to keep an eye on any anomaly and the hospital bills will be pre-assessed before the patient/patient’s kin get it,” he said. Many citizens have been turning to the social media for expressing their anger over inflated bills amounting to Rs15-20 lakh produced by quite a few hospitals for treating a coronavirus patient. Some of them have even approached deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar with their grievances. A citizen had tagged Pawar on a post to draw his attention towards a hospital producing a bill of Rs8.2 lakh as the cost for a week’s treatment of his Covid-positive relative, though Rs6.7 lakh was already paid before. Another Covid-19 patient from a slum said the hospital bill for a week’s treatment had exceeded Rs1.5 lakh and that he could not afford to pay such a hefty amount. Health minister Rajesh Tope had last week told TOI that the administration has to carry out checks wherever huge complaints of inflated bills were registered, though the government schemes were in place at the hospitals treating Covid-19 cases. Tope said the government had issued three notifications on May 21, May 23 and June 30, which basically covered the 80:20 ratio of requisitioning beds in private hospitals, capping of charges of these beds and also the charges to be taken for ambulance services. He has now directed collectors and commissioners from every district to submit weekly reports on the action taken regarding inflated hospital bills by the flying squads appointed in each district and also start dedicated helplines to receive related complaints. Notices issued to 83 health hubs for treatment overcharge Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Tuesday told TOI that the administration had issued notices to 83 hospitals in the district on the basis of complaints related to overcharging while treating coronavirus patients. He said 11 of these hospitals have replied to these notices. Following formation of flying squads to keep an eye on the bills produced by the hospitals to the Covid-19 patients, or their relatives, the district administration received 1,438 complaints related to overcharging in the past week. The administration has received 32 complaints from patients who have been charged above Rs20 lakh each, while 202 patients were charged above Rs10 lakh for treatment. Moreover, there are over 500 complaints of people being charged above Rs4-5 lakh, Rao said. “We have directed scrutiny of the bills. The bills have to be pre-audited by our appointed auditors with the help of the medical fraternity in the hospitals to avoid any overcharging,” he said. Rao said auditors would verify the bills fist, before they are handed to the patients’ relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hospital-bills-over-rs-1-5l-under-govt-scanner/articleshow/77493958.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt seeks forest land to set up skill centres||HYDERABAD: In what could raise the hackles of green activists, Telangana government has sought diversion of forest land to set up skill development centres in rural and tribal areas. After diverting land for garbage dumping yards and crematoria, the government is now seeking clearance of the Union ministry of environment and forest (MoEF) to convert forest land in districts for the use of skill centres. On August 7 and 8, 23 applications were filed with MoEF. All the applications came from Nirmal district. Interestingly, state forest minister A Indrakaran Reddy hails from Nirmal district. In the application, the government said: “Chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao has announced a 30-day rural development plan called ‘Palle Pragathi’. The government hopes to transform all villages into model villages. Sanitation, greenery and power are the key components of Palle Pragathi. In areas where the revenue land is not available, diversion of forest land is necessary for holistic development of the villages.” Skill development sheds and waste management demo plants will be set up after clearing the reserve forest. In each village, proposals are sent to divert 0.2 to 0.4 hectares of land. Environmentalists, meanwhile, have opposed diversion of forest land in the name of development of villages. Environmentalist M Devidas said: “In the name of forest dwellers’ rights, a huge chunk of forest land is already gone. Now for the village utilities, reserve forest is being diverted. As the villages grow and population increases, more forest will be cut. Villagers can be brought to nearest town and given training in skill development.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-govt-seeks-forest-land-to-set-up-skill-centres/articleshow/77494652.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Digital classes a ‘struggle’ for poor||Hyderabad: Criticising the state government for neglecting the education of children from economically backward families by starting digital classes through internet and television, members of Progressive Democratic Students Union Vijrumbhana (PDSU-V) on Tuesday said that the state should first conduct a survey and find out how many students are in a position to attend online classes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/digital-classes-a-struggle-for-poor/articleshow/77494653.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Engineering students can take exams near home||HYDERABAD: Final year engineering and pharmacy students of Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH)-affiliated and constituent colleges in the state, who have left for their hometowns, will now get a chance to appear for the examinations at a nearby centre. JNTUH is exploring the feasibility of conducting final year exams of BTech/BPharm students at centres which are near to their respective hometowns/villages. In a letter issued to all the affiliated and constituent colleges on August 10, JNTUH asked principals to compile data of all final year students. Principals have been asked to take three options (in order of preference) from each student for writing their final semester exams. “The places which the students are opting for must have at least one JNTUH affiliated engineering/pharmacy college. The students who desire to write the exam at their parent college (where the student is studying), need not give their options,” said V Kamakshi Prasad, director of evaluation, JNTUH, in the letter issued to all the colleges. Principals have been asked to submit students’ preferences by August 25 to the university. If any student does not submit his/her options, the university shall assume that his/her parent college is his/her exam centre preference. “Further, if the seating capacity exceeds at all three preferences, parent college shall be the exam centre for such students. The city/town of the parent college need not be included as a preference (by default his parent institute is his/her exam centre),” reads the letter. While the move has brought relief to students, many are worried over the examination schedule. “University has collected exam fee and is making all arrangements to conduct the final year exams, but when will the exam be conducted? This is something that continues to be a mystery. It’s time we get some clarity on our exam schedule,” said Alluri Sarath Reddy, a BTech student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/engg-students-can-take-exams-near-home/articleshow/77494654.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 12, 2020||Madurai||Accused gets default bail citing delay in filing final report||Madurai: The Madras high court has granted default bail to a man arrested in a murder case, under Section 167(2) of the CrPC, on the ground that a final report was not filed by the police within 90 days. The court also observed that the Supreme Court in a number of its pronouncements had held that the section was a beneficial provision for curing the mischief of prosecution prolonging the investigation indefinitely, since it would ultimately affect the liberty of a citizen.The court was hearing the bail plea of the petitioner, V Madan, who was arrested by the Uthamapalayam police in Theni district on March 9.The petitioner’s counsel submitted that Madan had completed 90 days of his arrest on June 7. When he filed an application seeking default bail under Section 167(2) of CrPC, the same was dismissed by the jurisdictional magistrate. The magistrate court had erroneously dismissed the petition since the petitioner filed the application after expiry of 90 days and before the final report was filed by the police.However, the government advocate submitted that since the final report was filed before the concerned court on June 18, the petitioner was not entitled to statutory bail.Justice V Bharathidasan observed that right for bail under section 167(2) of CrPC is an indefeasible right and it cannot be frustrated by the prosecution. The judge observed that recently the Supreme Court after considering the various other judgments, has held that an accused cannot be detained by the police beyond the maximum period prescribed under section 167(2) of Cr.PC. Since the final report in the case on hand was filed after a lapse of 90 days, the judge observed that the petitioner is entitled for statutory bail and granted bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/accused-gets-default-bail-citing-delay-in-filing-final-report/articleshow/77494656.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 12, 2020||Kochi||Covid spread rampant in clusters in Kerala||KOCHI: There is a worrying trend emerging from Covid clusters in Kerala. Despite lockdown measures and containment strategies, in majority of clusters Covid cases are active with 23% clusters showing an increase in number of cases. In only about 19% clusters, the cases could be contained. Health experts said that the main reason for this is lower testing and timely quarantine, besides quarantine violations and ineffective contact tracing. The health department analysed the trend in 174 clusters across the state as on July 31 and came out with Covid -19 state report on clusters that would help the district administrations, police and health department to plan effectively on controlling the disease spread. Clusters in each district – community and institutional –were studied. While 43% clusters were limited clusters, about 16% were large clusters, indicating that there are either more than 50 locally transmitted cases in an identified geographical area or more than 10% of the wards or divisions are infected. About 12% are institutional clusters. Almost 77% of Covid deaths reported in the state are also from the clusters. The expert health committee headed by Dr B Eqbal has informed the government that it is time to change the strategy. They have said that the health department and police need to go beyond contact tracing in the clusters and start testing even at places adjacent to the clusters to ensure that there are no superspreading events, besides declaring test results on time. Containment and lockdown will only postpone and not control the spread of infection, the committee said. Average tests conducted per day in majority of the clusters is less than 100, with tests not conducted daily in many clusters. “Increase in cases in clusters despite containment efforts shows that we are not doing enough. We are not investing more in the testing kits or increasing testing in the clusters and adjoining areas. Rather than comparing with other countries and states, we need to have our own strategy,” said public health expert Dr S S Lal. “The problem with contact tracing is that in some places people resist to give information or give wrong information. With police now tracking contacts using the positive case’s cell phone location and movement tracking, things may improve,” said Dr A Sukumaran, former state epidemiologist, who has come out of retirement to work at Covid control room, Wayanad. Health department’s report says that cases have been increasing in the clusters in Thiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, Thrissur, Kozhikode and Alappuzha districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-spread-rampant-in-clusters/articleshow/77491457.cms||Preetu Nair
August 12, 2020||Kochi||Kochi projects come to a halt as focus shifts to local body polls||KOCHI: With elections to local bodies just two months away, administration of Kochi corporation has come to a standstill. Most projects have been stalled as political leadership has already shifted focus to upcoming polls. Contractors who had undertaken Kochi corporation’s projects, have halted work as the local body owes them more than Rs.100 crore. Many projects, including renovation of roads and drains, have been affected due to contractors’ strike. “We have asked officials to disburse the bills of contractors when funds are available. At least Rs.5 crore per month is required to pay the contractors,” said mayor Soumini Jain. “Four months ago, we had submitted a proposal to the state government seeking permission to go for a bank loan for clearing contractors’ arears. Our plan is to avail of a bank loan of Rs10 crore. But, the government hasn’t given its nod yet. Despite repeated reminders, government hasn’t responded,” Jain said. Implementation of spill over projects from 2019-20 and projects designed for 2020-21 fiscals has been hit by the protest. Meanwhile, many projects which repeatedly figured in corporation’s annual budget also remain non-starter or incomplete. The work on the main office building of the local body at Marine Drive near high court, which was started three decades back, still remains incomplete. “We had decided to avail of a bank loan of Rs.25 crore for completing the work. But the opposition is against it,” Jain said, adding that once the loan is availed, we will be able to complete the work. However, the opposition is of the view that corporation authorities have failed to implement projects even though they had five years for the purpose. “Vision on the part of the authorities and financial discipline could have led to proper project implementation. Unfortunately, those in power lack it,” said V P Chandran, secretary, LDF parliamentary party, Kochi corporation. “Kochi corporation’s electricity bills would come to around Rs.2 crore a year. A proposal for replacing existing streetlights with LED bulbs is gathering dust for several years. If we had introduced LED lights, our electricity bills would have been reduced by half. If we don’t have money for implementing projects, authorities could have secured a loan for the same. The EMI of the bank loan can be paid using a portion of savings on electricity bills,” Chandran said. LDF-led opposition, which heads three standing committees namely health, town planning and education, also failed in their respective areas. Projects like solid waste treatment facility, enforcement of plastic ban and proper mosquito eradication work which are to be done by the health standing committee has not been done. “The term of the current council is going to end. Many councillors pay little attention to such issues. Authorities and officials also are in slumber,” an opposition councillor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-projects-come-to-a-halt-as-focus-shifts-to-local-body-polls/articleshow/77491442.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy launches YSR Cheyutha scheme||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Wednesday launched the YSR Cheyutha scheme to empower socio-economically deprived women, by ushering them into entrepreneurship and helping them build strong, rewarding businesses. Financial assistance of Rs 18,750 has been transferred into the accounts of 23 lakh beneficiaries. Hon'ble CM @ysjagan has launched #YSRCheyutha to empower socio-economically deprived women, by ushering them into e… https://t.co/Wifi5op0Cg— CMO Andhra Pradesh (@AndhraPradeshCM) 1597214086000The scheme will benefit about 23 lakh women belonging to SC, ST, BC and minority communities in the age group of 45-60 years. Commissioner of information and public relations and ex-officio secretary, Thumma Vijay Kumar Reddy, said each eligible beneficiary will be paid Rs 75,000 in four years at the rate of Rs 18,750 per annum. He said that unlike other schemes, YSR Cheyutha is unique in the sense that it gives freedom to eligible women to use the amount deposited in their unencumbered accounts for any purpose of their choice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-launches-ysr-cheyutha-scheme/articleshow/77491438.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||NMC still undecided on idol immersion in Telangkhedi||Nagpur: With just 11 days left for Ganesh festival to start, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is still undecided on whether or not to allow immersion of idols at Telangkhedi Lake. Like every year, the NMC will, however, not allow immersion of idols in other city lakes and instead continue to install artificial tanks at zone-levels. The NMC has already restricted the height of Ganesh idols to be installed by the mandals to 4ft. “As the retaining wall of the lake has been damaged at many places and the development works along the lake ongoing, it is not yet decided whether to allow idol immersion in the lake or not,” said a senior official from NMC’s health department who was posted at Dharampeth zone under which this water body comes. The official, however, admitted that the decision to cap the height of idols at Ganesh pandals will definitely help NMC prevent immersion of idols in the lake. This year, the NMC will not be using artificial tanks made from rubber and instead use only tin or ply tanks, though the places and the number of tanks to be installed is not finalized yet, said the official. “Last year, the civic body had installed 273 artificial tanks across 10 zones. The move received good response from the devotees as 2,92,702 idols were immersed in these tanks,” revealed NMC’s solid waste management department data. The NMC has also decided not to allow Ganesh mandals to erect huge pandals. In view of the Covid pandemic and to restrict crowding, the mandals will be allowed to erect 10ft x 10ft pandals only. The NMC has also suggested the mandals not to perform puja at public places including roads and playgrounds. The civic body has also appealed to all households to immerse idols in their homes only. Similarly, Ganesh mandals have been urged to ensure no more than 50 devotees gather at pandals at any given time. They should also ensure that all safety norms like Covid distancing, wearing masks and use of sanitizers are followed. Moreover, devotees should use social media to stream aarti live instead of gathering at the pandals, the civic body has urged. Festival Under Covid Shadow NMC not to allow immersion of idols in other city lakes Artificial tanks made from tin or ply to be used Mandals to be allowed to erect 10ft x 10ft pandals only Households urged to immerse idols in homes only Use social media to stream aarti live instead of gathering at pandals Ensure not more than 50 devotees gather at pandals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-still-undecided-on-idol-immersion-in-telangkhedi/articleshow/77493988.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 12, 2020||Business||Medtronic to invest Rs 1,200 cr to expand Hyd R&D centre||Hyderabad: In a move that’s sure to boost Telangana’s ambitions to emerge as a global medical devices hub, the $30.6 billion Irish medtech giant Medtronic Plc is investing Rs 1,200 crore over the next five years in expanding its existing R&D centre in Hyderabad into its largest global R&D centre outside the US housing over 1,000 engineers. The Medtronic Engineering & Innovation Centre (MEIC) at Hyderabad will conduct advanced engineering R&D and product development in the areas of design, analysis, advanced hardware and software development and testing, Madan Krishnan, VP-Indian Subcontinent and Minimally Invasive Therapies Group-APAC, Medtronic, said in a statement. The existing Medtronic R&D centre, spread over 90,000 sq ft at Gachibowli, has been operational since 2011 and currently houses over 350 engineers. The centre, which was acquired by Medtronic following its acquisition of Covidien in 2014, has already filed over 140 patents and made over 400 IP disclosures. Medtronic is looking to ramp up its operations to over 1,000 engineers and has leased about 1.5 lakh space at the DSR Infratech in Financial District, Shakthi Nagappan, director, Telangana Lifesciences, told TOI on Tuesday after a virtual meeting held by Telangana industries & IT minister KT Rama Rao with the Medtronic top brass. The investment, which has been announced at a time when the global and Indian economies have been struggling in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak, is expected to give Telangana’s medical devices innovation and manufacturing ecosystem a major leg up. Pointing out that innovation is crucial to Medtronic’s growth strategy, Omar Ishrak, executive chairman and chairman of the board, Medtronic, said, “The expansion of MEIC will help us serve the Medtronic mission to use medical technology to alleviate pain, restore health and extend life for patients around the world, which is also aligned with the government’s vision to improve access to healthcare for patients in India.” Telangana’s industries minister KTR said Hyderabad hosting Medtronic's largest R&D base outside the US is testimony to the city’s growing prowess in the medical devices sector. “The Telangana government is committed to the growth of medtech in the state and we see this partnership with Medtronic as a pivotal one. We will work with them to ensure this center will continue to contribute to their remarkable efforts to improve healthcare globally,” KTR added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/medtronic-to-invest-rs-1200-cr-to-expand-hyd-rd-centre/articleshow/77492633.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Degree admissions likely from Aug 20||Hyderabad: Degree admissions in the state are likely to commence from August 20 as the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) is finalising the admission schedule for the academic year 2020-21. “Once the notification is issued, online registrations seeking admission to various degree colleges will commence in a day or two. We are hoping that by September, pace of admissions shall pick up,” said R Limbadri, vice-chairman, TSCHE. The degree admission notification will be finalised once the government gets nod from the high court on the common entrance test (CET) schedule proposed by TSCHE. “We will follow UGC guidelines as per which classes for degree courses can commence from October 1. By then, we hope that even the CETs will be conducted and that all admissions shall conclude,” said Limbadri. The government is planning to adopt blended learning (online + offline) for degree courses once classes resume. Officials are also contemplating on reduction of syllabus for the ensuing academic year. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/degree-admissions-likely-from-aug-20/articleshow/77494657.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Janmashtami festivities to go virtual||AHMEDABAD: The celebration of the birth of Lord Krishna on occasion of Janmashtami is going to be a virtual event in Gujarat this year with most temples banning the entry of visitors due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Dwarkadhish temple in Dev Bhoomi Dwarka district where lakhs of devotees visit on the occasion of Janmashtami is closed this year from August 10 to August 13. The authorities will give a virtual tour to devotees on the temple’s official website starting from 6am on Wednesday. The aarti to celebrate Lord Krishna’s birthday will be telecast live at 12 midnight. Celebrations at Krishna temples in Gujarat will be a low-key affair and there will be no dance and cultural performances or the famous ‘Matki Fod’ and ‘makhan distribution’ events as the government and temple authorities have decided to keep the temples closed this year. “The Dakor temple had opened last month after remaining closed for about four months due to lockdown restrictions. However, we had to close it for visitors after a number of Covid-19 positive cases were reported in the vicinity of the temple,” said an official working with the Dakor temple management. While a decision on when to re-open the temple hasn’t been taken, the temple authorities have hired a private agency to ensure that devotees get to virtually watch the celebrations taking place at the temple, he added. Hare Krishna Mandir, Bhadaj, has also announced organizing the celebration online for devotees. “Sri Krishna Janmashtami is a very important festival for all the devotees around the world, but due to the uncertain situations we are telecasting the festival online for everyone to witness,” said Swamiji Jaganmohan Krishna Das, president, Hare Krishna Movement. The temple will telecast all the events throughout the day on various online platforms. The online darshan will open at around 8am and close at 1am after Maha Mangala Arati & Krishna Janam celebration. Shyamcharan Das, Bhadaj temple spokesperson, said that officials visited the temple today to ensure that the temple was closed. Preparations are at full swing at other temples as well. They include the Sola Bhagwat Vidyapith, Jagannath temple and Iskcon temple in Ahmedabad as well as the famous Shamalaji temple in Aravalli district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/janmashtami-festivities-to-go-virtual/articleshow/77493999.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: NCC girl cadet stitches 3,000 face masks||PUNE: A National Cadet Corps (NCC) girl cadet from the 2nd Maharashtra Girls Battalion of NCC Group Headquarter, Pune, recently stitched and distributed 3,000 face masks among the NCC cadets, officers and staffers attached to the headquarters. Snehal Harkare, a final year BCom student from the HSCP College in Pune, said, “I took this as an opportunity to contribute to the society,” Snehal told TOI over the phone on Monday. “I learnt stitching from my mother during the lockdown period. When I got to know about the requirement of masks, I opted voluntarily. Getting adequate cloth material was a challenge. I got the materials from the shopkeepers near my house. All the cadets and staffers liked the masks,” she added. The NCC Directorate of Maharashtra had launched a fortnight-long ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’ awareness drive on August 1, 2020. “Hundreds of NCC cadets from across the state had been promoting self-reliance through the interactive use of social media platforms, posters, pamphlets, etc,” Colonel VV Chavan of the Group HQ said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ncc-girl-cadet-stitches-3k-face-masks/articleshow/77493986.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: BJP staging drama of rivalry||Hyderabad: The Congress on Tuesday said BJP must stop playing the drama of political rivalry with TRS. “If BJP national president JP Nadda is sincere in his criticism over graft in the Kaleshwaram project and the failure of the CM in handling the Covid-19 situation, then he should write to the Centre for a CBI probe,” state Congress working president Ponnam Prabhakar said. “Is BJP trying to fool the people that there is a rivalry between TRS and BJP,” he questioned. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-bjp-staging-drama-of-rivalry/articleshow/77494659.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana plans 10,000 public toilets||HYDERABAD: In one of the biggest drives to construct public toilets in the state, the municipal administration department has asked the district collectors to take up construction of public toilets, including SHE toilets, under public-private partnership (PPP) mode in all municipalities. Once new toilets are constructed, the state will have over 10,000 public toilets. Municipal administration department principal secretary Arvind Kumar issued a GO (No. 231) on Tuesday delegating powers to the collectors to empanel agencies at the district level, who would take up construction. The design of the toilets will be finalised by the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-plans-10000-public-toilets/articleshow/77494666.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: On day one, 484 cough up Rs 1,000 for not wearing masks||AHMEDABAD: The heftier Rs 1,000 fine still did not ensure compliance, as 484 people in Ahmedabad were fined the amount for not wearing masks. AMC officials also sealed some 120 mobile shops in Murtimant Complex near Gheekanta. The market was crowded and most people were not wearing masks. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary, forests and environment, who has been put in charge of managing the Covid-19 situation in Ahmedabad, said that civic workers, as part of an ant-Covid drive had waste department team as a part of the covid-19 drive sealed five units including the Osia Hypermart and Baby Care. These units were sealed for violation of mask and social distancing rules, while Café Selfie and McDonald’s were sealed for excessive crowds and violation of social distancing rules. The AMC has taken up a drive against malls and business establishments violating social distancing rules. Since August 3, the Ahmedabad One and Central malls have been sealed. On Tuesday, civic teams noticed crowding at Murtimant Complex and found people not wearing masks. The teams immediately made the 120 mobile shops close and sealed the complex. Officials said AMC teams are going all out to fine people not wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/on-day-one-484-cough-up-rs-1000-for-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/77494011.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Madurai||Probe on into Madurai visit of don’s aide||Madurai: Amani Dhanji, who had stayed with Sri Lankan underworld kingpin Angoda Lokka in Coimbatore, had visited Madurai a few months ago and met lawyer Sivagami Sundari. The purpose of the visit and the people she met during the visit are under inquiry, said a source in CB-CID. Dhanji, Sundari and her friend Dhayaneswaran have been arrested by CB-CID on various charges. When Dhanji came to Madurai, Sundari picked her up. The CB-CID was collecting material evidences in connection with her visit, the source said. The team reviewed CCTV footages available at Madurai airport and conducted inquiry with immigration officials. A CB-CID team from Coimbatore led by DSP P Muthusamy stayed in Madurai for five days from August 6 to investigate the connection between Sundari and Lokka. She has been accused of securing Aadhaar card for Lokka on a Madurai address to create a local identity in the name of Pradeep Singh. The CB-CID team wound up its first phase of inquiry and left the city on Monday night after its Madurai DSP, Muralidaran, tested Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/probe-on-into-madurai-visit-of-dons-aide/articleshow/77494660.cms||V Devanathan
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC teams visit religious places||Ahmedabad: Teams of the solid waste department of the AMC on Wednesday visited 332 temples and informed the temple office-bearers about the latest standard operating procedure. They were told to keep the Janmashtami celebrations a low key affair. Harshad Solanki, director of the department, said that the priests agreed to close the temple for darshan. They put notices stating that the celebration will not be open for public. He said that the temple management removed the temple bells and assured the teams that they would not use them till things become normal. He said that 18 big temples in the city agreed not to hold Janmashtami celebrations. The teams visited 19 masjids and asked them to ensure no overcrowding during namaaz. The teams also went to 28 Jain derasar, nine churches, seven gurudwaras and two ashrams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-teams-visit-religious-places/articleshow/77493996.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kochi||Covid-19: West Kochi residents in ‘severe stress’||KOCHI: With stringent restrictions in place, residents in the containment zones of West Kochi, who have been confined to their homes due to curfew imposed over fear of infection spread, have started showing signs of severe stress and anxiety. Councillor Shyamala S Prabhu of Cheralai division said residents are under severe stress. “When an elderly person dies, the deceased person’s kin have to wait for long to get the body as it requires a lot of time to get the results of Covid-19 test. The long wait coupled with the pain of losing a family member puts people under severe stress,” she said. She also said as banks are not working, people are also finding it difficult to withdraw money. Loss of livelihood is also being cited as one of the major reasons behind their stress and anxiety. Councillor K K Kunjachan of Thoppumpady said when events like weddings get postponed or cancelled, they are unable to come to terms with the reality. “Once of the main concerns people raise is that they cannot go for work as all the main bridges connecting the main land Ernakulam, where most of them are employed, have been closed,” he said adding that all these factors trigger anxiety level. “I listen to their issues but I don’t have a solution. All I can do is to reassure them,” added Kunjachan. Valsala S of Karuvelippady division said there is an element of fear among people. “Residents’ associations, health workers, police and other organisations have come together to provide food, kits and other essentials to the needy. However, there’s an underlining current of gloom. There are people who feel alienated. We are trying to provide them as much support as possible. At the same time, we cannot compromise on restrictions,” she said. Meanwhile, councillors said there is no shortage in supply of essential items in containment zones. Asha workers, social activities and government employees are working together with citizens to address the issues of the needy. But, mental and emotional trauma of being confined to a place is difficult, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/w-kochi-residents-in-severe-stress/articleshow/77491465.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
August 12, 2020||Goa||Rejig in junior bureaucracy, 15 babus transferred||Panaji: The state government reshuffled 15 junior scale bureaucrats of the Goa civil services cadre on Monday, with some officers being given additional charges. The department of personnel also designated departments to some officers who were awaiting posting. Deputy director of higher education Premraj Shirodkar has been posted as undersecretary (expenditure) in the finance department, while Pranab Bhat, who served as undersecretary (expenditure), has been appointed as undersecretary (revenue control), with additional charge of budget and debt management. Deputy collector, Quepem, Rohit Kadam, has been appointed assistant commissioner of commercial taxes, while Pritidas Upasso Gaonkar, who served in that position, has been appointed under secretary (home). Incumbent undersecretary (home), Nilesh Dhaigodkar, will take over as deputy collector Quepem. Meanwhile, Rohan Kaskar, who served as chief officer, Bicholim municipal council, with additional charge as officer on special duty (OSD), Goa investment promotion and facilitation board, has been relieved as chief officer, and has been appointed as deputy director at the directorate of industries, trade and commerce. He will continue as OSD at Goa IPB. Uday Prabhudesai, who is presently assistant commissioner of commercial taxes, has been appointed as deputy collector (revenue) for South Goa. Deputy registrar of Goa engineering college, Neha Panvelkar, has been posted as assistant commissioner of commercial taxes. Also, Aleixo Vaz, who is assistant commissioner of commercial taxes, will replace Panvelkar at Goa engineering college and Rajiv Kala Mandir, Ponda. Assistant commissioner of commercial taxes Tushar Halarnkar will move to the directorate of higher education as deputy director. Deputy collector, South Goa, Tipanna S Maddimani, who held additional charge as administrative officer, Hospicio hospital, has been relieved as deputy collector. Deputy collector for North Goa, Chandresh C Kunkalkar, has been transferred to the commercial taxes department as assistant commissioner. Sohan Uskaikar and Gouresh Pilgaonkar, who were awaiting posting, have been appointed as deputy director at the directorate of food & drugs administration and assistant commissioner of commercial taxes respectively. Uskaikar will also hold additional charge as general manager, Goa Industrial Development Corporation. Deputy collector (DRO) for North Goa, Sagar Babuli Gaude, has been given additional charge as deputy collector for revenue. Deputy collector and SDM Bicholim and member secretary, Ravindra Bhavan, Sankhali Deepak Vaingankar, shall hold additional charge as chief officer, Bicholim municipal council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rejig-in-junior-bureaucracy-15-babus-transferred/articleshow/77494001.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Surat||In 36 days, Surat tops Gujarat in plasma donation||SURAT: When the first plasma donation was done in Surat on July 5, doctors were not too optimistic that more recovered patients would come forward, as the Covid-19 pandemic had spread viciously after lockdown relaxations in June-July. But within just 36 days, Surat is topping the Gujarat cities with recovered patients from various walks of life - jobless migrant workers, businessmen and doctors - all trooping into Surat Municipal Corporation-run (SMC) SMIMER Hospital and government-run New Civil Hospital (NCH) to donate their plasma. As on Monday, Surat has recorded 455 plasma donations as compared to 232 in Ahmedabad which got the permission for convalescent plasma therapy in April third week. As per the ICMR guidelines, a Covid-19 patient can donate plasma after 28 days of recovery. While SMIMER and NCH got permission to collect plasma in the first week of July, two other blood banks - Lok Samarpan Raktdan Kendra and Surat Raktadan Kendra - got the nod on July 28. “Within just 10 days of getting nod, around 70 patients donated their plasma at our bank,” Hari Kathiria of Lok Samarpan Raktdan Kendra, told TOI. Dr Kishore Dudhat, who has donated plasma twice and encouraged 15 other patients, added, “Blood banks, NGOs and other private institutions have played an important role in creating awareness about plasma donation.” “Surtis have lived up to their reputation of coming forward to save lives, be it by donating stem cells, eyes or cadavers,” said Nilesh Mandlewala, founder of Donate Life, which works for cadaver donations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/in-36-days-surat-tops-state-in-plasma-donation/articleshow/77491499.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Villagers refuse man’s body pass by homes||Hyderabad: A family in Nagaram village of Palvancha in Bhadradri Kothagudem district had a bitter experience when villagers refused to allow the body of a man from the family carried in front of their houses for the last rites. As a result, the body of Malladi Venkatayya was lying in the house of the family the day he died and also the next day. The incident spoke volumes about the stigma that is being attached to Covid-19 deaths and social discrimination against the families in the event of a Covid death. Venkatayya suffered a heart attack and died on being taken to the government hospital at Palvancha. The villagers, however, believed he had died of Covid-19 despite being told that the person had suffered a cardiac arrest. No villager came forward to assist the family in taking the body for the last rites. Eventually, a farmer, Ranjith, brought his tractor, attached a trolley to it and helped transport the body to the village outskirts for performing the final rites. “Despite the gram panchayats being given money by the government, they are not coming to the aid of the families to dispose of the bodies,” Ranjith said. Palvancha tahsildar B Bhagwan Reddy told TOI that a local leader helped the family in arranging PPE kits for four persons in the family to shift the body in the tractor. He said the family had taken Venkatayya to the hospital on August 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/villagers-refuse-mans-body-pass-by-homes/articleshow/77492617.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 12, 2020||Varanasi||Khanna asks youth to be cautious against corona||Varanasi: UP cabinet minister minister Suresh Khanna appealed to the youths to take extra precaution as among total number of Covid-19 cases in the state, many belong to the 20-45 age group. Khanna was here on Tuesday to review the arrangements for treating Covid cases. He also asked the officials to immediately begin treatment after testing of people as positive in order to bring down the graph of mortality. He said that 32 lakh tests have been conducted in the state and over 80,000 people have become cured so far. Asking the officials to increase number of beds in Covid facilities in view of increasing number of cases, Khanna said that BHU should run 400-bed level-3 facility. He appealed to the doctors to behave sympathetically with patients as it will help in boosting their morale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/khanna-asks-youth-to-be-cautious-against-corona/articleshow/77490178.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Goa||Central library partially reopens again||Panaji: After shutting its doors to the general public for the second time due to rising Covid cases, the Goa state central library started letting in readers on Monday. Researchers are permitted to browse books while students are allowed to enter the study room. “Only a few sections have been opened up keeping in mind the social distancing norms,” curator of the library, Carlos Fernandes said. However, the lending section is not yet open for browsing. Readers will have to inform the librarian about the book of choice and the same will be fetched. “Other members will have to place their request in advance for books from the lending section. Only the reference section is open for researchers to access texts for research work,” Fernandes said. Prior to its reopening, the library staff had informed members who regularly visited about its reopening. After the study rooms opened, the library has received only a couple of visitors. About 20 books borrowed earlier have been returned to the library, thus far. The library had first sealed its door to visitors days prior to the nationwide lockdown in March. After it opened in May, the lending section of the library was opened for borrowing or returning books. In the first week of June, the library opened to visitors by implementing social distancing measures and sanitation practices. In July, however, it was forced to discourage visits due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state. The national Librarian’s Day which is celebrated on August 12 will be observed only on a virtual level due to the pandemic. An e-exhibition is being held wherein books on library science that are available in the library will be showcased online. The annual report of the library and the index comprising contents of the library will also be released on this occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/central-library-partially-reopens-again/articleshow/77494658.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Stranded Indians in Pak will be able to travel with kin||Nagpur: The Indian high commission in Pakistan has initiated the process of contacting persons who have come to the country on a no-obligation return to India (NORI) visa and have children or elderly who are Indian citizens to ensure that they are not separated whenever the next repatriation happens. Phone calls are being made to such persons seeking details as assurances were made that their families would be allowed to reach India together. Last week, a list of 118 Indian nationals was released who were supposed to cross the border on Monday. However, the list included names of children aged two to five years but not their parents. The same was with some elderly persons who could not be left alone. The list only had names of Indian citizens. There are families in which either of the parents are Pakistani citizens and who were living in India on long term visa. They were on a visit to Pakistan on a NORI visa available to LTV holders and got stuck due to the lockdown. The children or elderly whose names were in the list could not be sent to India alone. TOI had reported the matter on August 10. Due to the technical hassle, only 70 to 80 people in the list crossed the border on August 10, said sources. An official in the embassy contacted by TOI confirmed that the process has begun and it will be ensured the families will be not separated due to such technicalities. Whenever the list of NORI visa holders will be out, they will be allowed to take Indian citizens in the family too. The list of NORI holders has been given to Pakistan’s ministry of foreign affairs for approval, the source said. Reeta Goindhani, who holds a Pakistani passport but whose two year old daughter is Indian, said she got a call from the embassy and was told they will be able to travel together. The case of newly wed couples where the husband is on a NORI visa and the wife has applied for a fresh visit visa for India will be taken up later, the source said. There are cases of persons on NORI visa who got married to Pakistani citizens during visit and could not return due to the lockdown. Now, as the list of NORI visa holders will be released, their spouses who have got a visit visa issued may not be able to accompany them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stranded-indians-in-pak-will-be-able-to-travel-with-kin/articleshow/77494007.cms||Shishir Arya
August 12, 2020||Madurai||Chamber seeks tax waiver formalls, lodges||Madurai: Tamilnadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has appealed to chief minister Palaniswami to waive property tax as well as other taxes of commercial establishments such as shopping malls, lodges, theatres and marriage halls for the first half of the current fiscal year. Chamber president N Jegatheesan said they have been pushed to a point of no return as the curbs imposed due to the lockdown have throttled their functioning without any activities. “With great difficulties and restraints the owners of these units have been disbursing wages of employees, remitting electricity dues, interest of bank loan and other dues,” he said. Hence, they appealed to waive property tax, professional tax, drainage tax, water tax and other periodical taxes and fees payable by them and also allow them to function from September 1. This will help them tide over the impending permanent closure and very heavy investment loss. The chamber also pointed out that the said commercial establishments are high tension (HT) electricity consumers using more than 112 KVA power and paying Fixed Demand Charges (FDC). Based on a petition, TNERC ordered that they could pay 20% of FDC during the lockdown. But Tangedco appealed against the order and obtained a stay from the electricity tribunal in Delhi, Jagadeesan said. He added that this has forced those in the industry to pay the full FDC every month to avert power disconnections by obtaining loans, thereby pushing them into severe financial strain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/chamber-seeks-tax-waiver-formalls-lodges/articleshow/77494665.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Timely call from alert woman helps cops nab burglars in Chennai||CHENNAI: At 2am on Tuesday, the police control room received a call from a woman from Neelankarai speaking in a hushed voice. A patrol team rushed to the spot and nabbed two burglars including a juvenile who were trying to flee with 25 sovereigns of the woman’s gold jewellery worth nearly Rs 10 lakh.  Kannan, 52, and his wife of Vettuvankanni near Neelankarai were asleep in one of the rooms on the ground floor of their house when they woke up to an unusal noise on the first floor. They heard someone breaking open an almirah. Suspecting they could be burglars, the couple peeped through the door and found two men. Immediately, Kannan’s wife made a call to the police control room. To ensure that her voice did not alert the burglars, she covered her mouth with a cloth and also spoke in a hushed voice and conveyed the matter to the person at the other end. The staff at the control room received the particulars from her and alerted the patrol vehicle of the Neelankarai police station. The message went out and a team of head constables Kamesh, Ilavarasu and Kumaravel and constables Inbaraj, Nagoor and Kathir rushed to the spot within three minutes and apprehended the burglars. One of them was identified as Arjun, 20, of Royapettah, while his accomplice was a 17-year-old boy. A stolen iPhone and the two-wheeler they used were seized. Arjun was remanded in judicial custody and the minor was sent to an observation home. While deputy commissioner of police V Vikraman took to Twitter to appreciate the personnel concerned for the timely action, police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal tweeted “It’s only in movies that police reaches after the criminals have escaped, but here the patrol team are the real heroes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/timely-call-from-alert-woman-helps-cops-nab-burglars/articleshow/77492646.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Two held in Rs 33 crore fake input tax credit racket||CHENNAI: The Central GST commissionerate in Chennai has arrested two persons, considered to be the kingpin in a racket involving claim of fake input tax credit, running into Rs 33 crore. Since the lockdown came into effect in March-end, the GST and Income Tax departments have not conducted any searches in the state. The racket came to light in the first search in the state by the GST commissionerate during the ongoing lockdown. A former vice-president of a private bank, A Diwakar and his accomplice John Livingston are the key players. They used their contacts in the banking sector and trading community to carry out the fraud, said CGST joint commissioner Leo John Ilango. Probe against them revealed that 20 firms were created by the two and fake GST invoices to the tune of Rs 182 crore were generated for 315 existing and fake firms. “The fake input tax credit generated in this manner is Rs 33 crore. It has caused huge loss to the government. The overall GST evasion is likely to be higher as more investigation is going on,” said Ilango. The involvement of more people, if any, was being probed, said another official. Despite the Covid pandemic, searches were held in several locations. “We came to know about the gang when we stared monitoring the trend and pattern in GST invoices and e-way bills issued during the lockdown,” said Ilango. During sustained interrogation of the duo, it emerged that they had established an elaborate network of fake firms with a view to creating and supplying fake invoices, without actually trading any goods. “They obtained fake and dormant GSTINS registered in the names of various people and got GST registration for many proprietor entities using PAN cards of many people,” said Ilango. New accounts were opened in various banks. “We did a door-to-door verification, during which, we found that many firms created using such partnership deeds do not exist at the given addresses,” said Ilango. Fake invoices were created and transacted through the newly created accounts. The fake credit so generated was sold to actual users or layered further with other fake firms in an elaborate chain to evade detection. “Upon scrutiny of the documents recovered, it was found that most outward invoices did not have corresponding inward or purchase invoices and were found to be issued by fake firms. Fake e-way bills were also generated for the invoices so as to create a fictitious trail of movement of goods though there was no sale of product in reality,” said the joint commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-held-in-rs-33-crore-fake-input-tax-credit-racket/articleshow/77494002.cms||B Sivakumar
August 12, 2020||Vijayawada||CBI books Guntur cops for illegal detention of 3||Hyderabad: CBI Delhi unit on Tuesday filed a case of criminal conspiracy and wrongful confinement against Guntur Central Crime Station (CCS) sleuths for illegally detaining three men to extract a confession in a cricket betting case. Guntur CCS inspector N Venkat Rao, head constable Sambasiva Rao, constable Veeranjaneyulu and other police officials were named as accused in the case by CBI. CBI conducted a preliminary enquiry on March 5 this year following the high court orders. A writ was filed by three women — N Sunita, R Naga Lakshmi and T Vijaya Lakshmi — alleging that their husbands were illegally detained from October 14 to 31. On October 29, they sent petitions to Guntur urban SP regarding the illegal detention of N Adinarayana, R Srinivasa Rao and T Srinivasa Rao. A preliminary probe by the CBI had revealed that the police officials illegally detained three persons in the cricket betting case in order to extract a confession. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cbi-books-guntur-cops-for-illegal-detention-of-3/articleshow/77492596.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Positivity rate stabilises, but no let-up in testing for now||PUNE: The Covid-19 positivity rate has stabilised after dropping from 39% to 22% over the past 10 days, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said on Tuesday. He, however, told an online news conference that there would be no let-up in the aggressive testing strategy for the next 10 days to ensure early tracing and treatment of Covid-19 patients for further reduction in the positivity rate and also the case fatality rate (CFR). “We are yet to reach a plateau despite getting some relief and good signs over the last 10 days. The district’s positivity rate has stabilised, CFR has dropped slightly, the number of people getting discharged increased and the recovery rate improved,” he said. “The current positivity rate is still far from the target of less than 10% and a CFR of less than 1% as prescribed by the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR),” he added. It is a bit higher than Mumbai’s 21%, but lower than Thane’s 31%. The CFR in the PMC limits is 2.4%, in the PCMC area 1.8% and in rural Pune around 3%, he said. The case doubling rate in the PMC area has crossed 35 days, while the same in the PImpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) area is 22 days and 19.5 days in rural Pune. “It’s a good sign,” Rao said. The district health authorities have projected 62,268 active Covid-19 cases in Pune district by August 31 with the PMC limits accounting for 36,000-38,000 of these cases, he said. As of now, the district has around 27,000 active cases and 16,000 of these are in the PMC limts. Rao said, “Pune district is continuing to do the highest testing among all districts in Maharashtra. We are testing at 866 per million people as against Mumbai’s 546 per million and the state’s 540 per million rate.” He said, “Over the past one week, Pune tested 9,941 people per day as against 7,066 in Mumbai. However, Mumbai’s positivity rate was 16% during the same time as against Pune’s 22%. Around 70,000 tests were conducted in Pune in the past one week and 16,428 of these turned positive for the virus.” Pune district’s recovery rate has gone up from 58.8% on July 1 to 74.8% on August 10 and the CFR has come down from 3.2% on July 1 to 2.30% on August 10, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/positivity-rate-stabilises-but-no-let-up-in-testing-for-now/articleshow/77493974.cms||Vishwas Kothari
August 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra BJP chief advises rethink on jumbo units||PUNE: State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Tuesday asked the civic administration to think again about investing public funds into jumbo Covid-19 facilities as the number of active cases had been on the decline since the beginning of the month. “The construction of these facilities should be done looking at the necessity. If the number of positive patients is decreasing and the need of jumbo facility does not arise, the administration should rethink on investing on it,” Patil said, while holding a meeting with the civic administration to review infrastructure augmentation for controlling Covid-19 spread. With the positivity rate at 21% in Pune district, the administration plans to increase another 850 beds at private hospitals in the coming fortnight. Besides, 1,600 beds will come up at two jumbo makeshift facilities at College of Engineering Pune grounds and the Annasaheb Magar stadium. On top of that, Bhosari facility will add 425 beds and auto cluster at Chinchwad is expected to add 202 beds, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said on Tuesday. He said the decision on setting up the third facility at SSPMS will be taken after a meeting with the guardian minister on Friday. “Since July 31, we have been able to add 825 beds at various private hospitals and we will be adding another 850 beds at private hospitals, besides the two jumbo facilities,’‘ Rao said, adding that the work on the two giant Covid care facilities should be complete by August 19. (With inputs from Prasad Kulkarni)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-bjp-chief-advises-rethink-on-jumbo-units/articleshow/77493976.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Irrigation dept to have 19 circles||Hyderabad: As part of revamping the irrigation sector, the government has increased territorial jurisdiction (irrigation circles) of chief engineers from 13 to 19. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, who held a review meeting with irrigation officials on Tuesday, said it was decided to revamp the irrigation department as there was a vast difference in the situation that existed before the formation of the state and now. The irrigation department would now work under one umbrella and it would be called the water resources department, the CM said. During the meeting, it was decided to make Adilabad, Mancherial, Jagtial, Karimnagar, Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Ramagundam, Warangal, Mulugu, Khammam, Kothagudem, Gajwel, Sangareddy, Nalgonda, Suryapet, Mahbubnagar, Wanaparthy, Nagarkurnool and Hyderabad as territorial jurisdictions headed by CEs. The CM has also rechristened Ghanpur anicut in Medak districts as Vana Durga project. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/irrigation-dept-to-have-19-circles/articleshow/77494664.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Pune||Results from first study on Aug 15||Pune: Findings from Pune’s first sero-survey is expected to be out on August 15, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said on Tuesday. The survey was conducted by the PMC with assistance from Savitribai Phule Pune University’s Interdisciplinary school of health sciences and the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER). The sero-survey studied residents of five out of a total 11 high-risk wards within PMC limits. Sixty-one locations were marked for the study from where 25 people, above the age of 18, were picked at random as participants. Rao said the researchers are carrying out the final round of calculations. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/results-from-first-study-on-aug-15/articleshow/77493991.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||HC: No violation of RTE if admission denied in preferred school||Nagpur: Rejecting parents’ plea to admit their wards into Modern School, Koradi, in Std V, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court ruled that denial of admission under RTE to a particular school can’t be a violation of rights, if other options are available. The ruling came on a petition filed by 23 aggrieved parents, mostly from the lower strata of society, after Modern School management refused entry to their children under Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009, at its Koradi branch. All these students had completed education at Modern School’s Civil Lines branch, which was handed over to a new owner by the school management from the 2020-21 session. “We’ve no hesitation to hold that the school branches at Civil Lines and Koradi are two separate units. Therefore, on passing out from the fourth standard from former and seeking admission to latter in fifth amounts to transfer to another school as envisaged under Section 5 of RTE Act, though both are under the same management. The Koradi branch being unaided, not entitled for reimbursement u\s 12 (2) of the Act, the petitioners wards wouldn’t get any reimbursements,” a division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and Anil Kilor said. Stressing that the petitioners had wide choice and numerous options for admission in Std V for their wards, the bench rejected their contention that denying them the opportunity to complete education from the Koradi branch amounts to denying them their rights under the RTE Act. After a request made by petitioners’ counsel Girish Kunte, the judges directed the education officer to accommodate the children in a school within 3km radius of their homes within two weeks, if vacancies are available. The officer had already provided a list of 25 schools, including English medium ones, where vacancies are available to the court. “It’s clear that transfer to another school is a right and permissible in eventuality if there is no provision of completing elementary education in existing one or for any reason whatsoever. However, it comes with a rider that the school where transfer is sought, shall be other than a one belonging to a specific category or unaided school not receiving any grant to meet expenses from appropriate government or local authority. Else reimbursement under Section 12(2) of the Act 2009, is not permissible,” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-no-violation-of-rte-if-admission-denied-in-preferred-school/articleshow/77494031.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 12, 2020||Madurai||Madurai rural cops ramp up vehicle checks to curb crime||Madurai: Madurai rural police have intensified vehicle checking in order to keep a tab on robberies, thefts and chain-snatchings. A crime team has been formed in police sub-division to crack the string of incidents that took place in the past few weeks.Madurai district superintendent of police Sujit Kumar told TOI that checking is carried out at nights also because some crime incidents took place at night.“Most of the accused in the recent robbery incidents are youngsters in their early 20’s. They often involve in criminal activities to purchase liquor and narcotic substances,” he added.Crime incidents targeting valuables has increased in Madurai district in the past few weeks following the relaxation of lockdown restrictions. Such crimes came down to near nil during complete lockdown period as roads were deserted and police checking was intensified. Police sources said that at least 15 burglaries, 17 robberies, 10 bike thefts and four cattle thefts have been reported under rural police limits in the past three weeks. While suspects have been arrested in a few cases and valuables has been recovered, many cases are yet to be solved.“A sub-inspector led police team is working in each of the seven police sub-divisions in Madurai district. The teams are swung into action immediately after a crime incident is reported. Of late a decent number of CCTV cameras are available in rural areas too, although numbers cannot be compared to Madurai city,” said a police officer. He added that the first and foremost measure in crime prevention is the registration of cases. Hence all incidents, whether big or small are being brought to book. Non-registration of cases might encourage criminals to involve in more incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-rural-cops-ramp-up-vehicle-checks-to-curb-crime/articleshow/77494702.cms||V Devanathan
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Debris chokes lake channels, locals fear monsoon flooding||HYDERABAD: Residents are raising their voice against dumping debris in the channels connecting Timmidikunta in Madhapur. With the monsoon in full swing, many feel debris dumping will increase the chances of flooding their neighbourhood. “We seem to be trapped by the land filling taking place. The channel to Timmidikunta which passes through our neighbourhood has been encroached upon. The flow is blocked,” said Ragini Ravikiran K, secretary, Jain Auroville Residency in Madhapur. She said the fear of flooding has upset many around the lake. “Two years ago, nearly 80 to 100 cars parked in our cellar were destroyed. I have been trying to reach out to GHMC for help,” she added. Sandeep Reddy V, another resident, said, “The state is unable to work at half the speed at which people are dumping debris in the lake and nala.” The high land value in the area has meant constant development and encroachment of the lake and its surroundings. Activist Bhaskar Reddy, who has filed cases related to the lake, said, “The lake and its surroundings have been encroached upon by several players. In spite of me fighting this case for years, the situation is only worsening.” Irrigation department sources said as far as the lake was concerned, no new encroachments have taken place, but agree that dumping in the surroundings can cause flooding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/debris-chokes-lake-channels-locals-fear-monsoon-flooding/articleshow/77494695.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai treated to surprise showers, more in offing in 24 hours||CHENNAI: After some spells of rain on Sunday, many parts of the city experienced surprise showers in the evening on Tuesday. Weathermen have forecast light to moderate rain in some areas in the city over the next 24 hours. The regional meteorological centre, Chennai, has forecast that the sky condition is likely to be partly cloudy. “Light to moderate rain or thundershowers likely to occur in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 35°C and 26 °C in the city for the next 24 hours.” On Tuesday evening, several localities like Kodungaiyur, Perumbur, Choolaimedu, Aminjikarai, Anna Nagar, Ambattur, Avadi, Nungambakkam, Vadapalani, Saligramam, Ashok Nagar and KK Nagar received widespread rainfall. The rain, which started around 8pm, lasted for 20 to 30 minutes in some of these areas, while a few other localities saw a second round of spells at around 10pm which lasted for less than 10 minutes. According to experts, the rain was due to an upper air cyclonic circulation, a swirling motion of winds caused by a low pressure area, closer to the coast. IMD’s regional weather inference said cyclonic circulation, which was observed on Monday over southwest Bay of Bengal off Tamil Nadu coast at 7.6km above mean sea level has merged with an east-west shear zone that runs across central India between 5.8km and 7.6km above mean sea level tilting southwards with height. Experts said an east-west shear zone, which is a change of wind direction from easterly to westerly, is a precursor to a low pressure and getting the monsoon rains active again. The agency also said a low pressure area is likely to form over northwest Bay of Bengal and neigbourhoods around August 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-treated-to-surprise-showers-more-in-offing-in-24-hours/articleshow/77492740.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR offers to look into MGM issues||Hyderabad: A week after a patient’s family raised concerns regarding the lack of facilities at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital in Warangal, MAUD minister KT Rama Rao called the patient’s family and assured that he would look into the matter. Harshith Beera lost his father to Covid-19 late last month. Taking to Twitter, he had spoken out against the lack of facilities at the hospital. He alleged that the day his father passed away, he was made to source a mask for the ventilator. “I spent close to an hour finding the mask that day,” he had said. Beera added that the doctors did not know how to connect his father to the new ventilators and that the latter passed away a few minutes after they were finally able to place it. Speaking to TOI on Tuesday, Beera said he had received a call from KTR. “The minister assured me that he would look into the issue personally. He also said that would ask the health minister Eatala Rajender to ensure improvements are made. He specifically said that training will be given to nurse and medical staff so that cases such as my father’s will not repeat again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-offers-to-look-into-mgm-issues/articleshow/77492641.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Madurai||Containment streets dip to 7 in Madurai city||Madurai:Containment streets in Madurai city came down to just seven on Tuesday as against 12 at the end of last week, something the city corporation termed as encouraging. According to the norm, a street is brought under containment when three or more cases are reported from three different households in it. Madhakovil Street in Bethaniyapuram (zone 1), Nellai Street and VOC Street (zone 2), Velupillai Street near Villapuram (zone 3) and Ponmari Nagar, Vasudara Agrini Apartment in Andalpuram and Rajbhavan Street (zone 4) are the streets under containment in the city at present. A higher official in Madurai corporation said it is encouraging to see Covid-19 infection coming down consistently in the city although 2,500-2,700 tests are done by the corporation alone daily. Lockdown has helped in a big way to contain the spread of the infection. Only 42 positive cases were reported in city limits on Monday with zone 1 having the highest number and zone 4 the lowest. Only four positive cases were reported in zone 4 consisting 25 wards. Eight cases were reported in zone 2, ten in zone 3 and 20 cases in zone 1. There were 637 active cases in the city as on Sunday. A health official of the city corporation said there has not been any cluster in the recent past and only sporadic cases are reported from different parts. With the number of cases coming down, the focus has shifted to corporation employees. Last week, all the employees of working in head office (Anna Maaligai) were tested for Covid-19 and all of them showed negative. A three-day camp to screen all sanitary workers started on Tuesday. All the 6,000 sanitary employees will be covered during the screening. Not many sanitary employees have been infected with the virus so far, he said. “Hundred pulse oximeters have been purchased and distributed one each to the 100 wards in the city. All the sanitary workers will be checked for blood oxygen level before they start work to ensure their safety,” the health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/containment-streets-dip-to-7-in-madurai-city/articleshow/77494668.cms||V Devanathan
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Single permit issue: Truckers pay heavy price||Hyderabad: The delay on part of Telangana and AP governments to resolve the issue of single permit is resulting in operators of lakhs of trucks and lorries having to pay a huge sum of money for obtaining temporary permits. While it should cost them Rs 8,000 per annum per vehicle to move within any of the two states if a single permit is issued as per the GO, lorry and truck operators are paying about Rs 60,000 per year on average towards obtaining temporary permits. Principal secretary of transport Sunil Sharma said, “There were some rounds of negotiations between both the states. The current situation of the pandemic is the reason for implementation of single permit. We can certainly expect the issue to be resolved post this current situation.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/single-permit-issue-truckers-pay-heavy-price/articleshow/77494704.cms||Moulika.KV
August 12, 2020||Delhi||Day 2: Delhi University exams again fail to score much||NEW DELHI: Delhi University’s open book exams for final year undergraduate and postgraduate students continued to face problems on the second day on Tuesday, with students complaining of the exam portal crashing around 3pm and impeding the process of uploading answer sheets. DU characterised it not as a crash, but a “spike in traffic”. “After hearing others saying the exam portal was not accepting answer sheets, I check it myself to find an ‘error’ response,” said history student Jaishree Kumar of Ramjas College. “After 20 minutes of fiddling with the website, I sent my answers to the email address provided by DU.” A Hindu College political science honours student was both happy and unhappy on Tuesday. He received his question paper link at 10.50am, much before the scheduled time of 11.30am, so was able to complete his test by 2:30 pm. “However, submission of the answer sheet was a problem,” he said. “With our college HoD’s help, we mailed the answer sheets to DU. But there was no confirmation of receipt for many of us.” Vinay Gupta, dean of exams, claimed to TOI, “We received no reports of a crash.” The computer centre head, Sanjeev Singh, similarly maintained there was “only a spike in traffic for 4-5 minutes and this was resolved quickly”. But a student, who answered his paper from Jalore in Rajasthan, grumbled, “When the university had three months to prepare for OBE, shouldn’t it have developed a portal capable of managing high traffic?” Kumar Ashutosh, nodal officer at College of Vocational Studies, started receiving hundreds of answer sheets on email after 3pm. He said the portal glitch was possibly due to “the high traffic with core exams in courses like BCom, economics and history slated on the day”. Around 32,000 students participated in the exam on Tuesday. Other nodal officers also reported receiving answer scripts mailed by the examinees. One of them said, “This goes against the ethos of examination and is a violation of exam secrecy. Today, more students sent mails to the nodal officers than yesterday. When they didn’t get a confirmation from the university official email account for answer sheets, they panicked and began mailing them to us.” While a DU official conceded that high traffic delayed the automatic confirmation mails, members of DUTA and Indian National Teachers Congress apprised the institutional authorities about the anxiety of the students. Pankaj Garg, mathematic professor and INTEC member, said, “The students sent the answers multiple times to college mail IDs to make sure they were received by the university. This increases chances of duplicity. Students should get a quick response on the receipt of their answer sheets.” There was also alarm at DU asking for names of students alongside their roll number on the answer scripts. DUTA treasurer Abha Dev Habib claimed this was “the first time in DU’s history that students are being asked to inscribe their names and they are fearing victimisation”. A DU official assured students that “secrecy will be maintained” and the names were required “only to verify the answer sheet’s authenticity”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/day-2-du-exams-again-fail-to-score-much/articleshow/77493028.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
August 12, 2020||Goa||‘Airbnb guests spent Rs 1,100cr in Goa during 2015-19’||Panaji: Goa accounted for 25% of Airbnb’s guest spending between 2015 and 2019, emerging as the biggest market for the online home-stay aggregator, according to Oxford Economics’ The Economic Impact of Airbnb in India report, which was released on Tuesday. According to the report, in the past five years, Airbnb guests spent $1.5 crore (Rs 1,100 crore) in Goa, of which $642 lakh was spent in 2019 alone. According to the report, Airbnb contributed more than $3.2 crore (Rs 2,200 crore) to India’s economy in 2019 while between 2015-2019, Airbnb guests spent $6.1 crore (Rs 4,500 crore) in the country. According to the report, Airbnb also supported close to 50,000 jobs in India. “Goa is a highly sought-after tourism locations, and is one of the most popular destinations in India,” said Amanpreet Bajaj, general manager - Airbnb India, Southeast Asia, Hong Kong and Taiwan. “We are conscious, as close partners to Goan communities, that tourism in the state must be high-quality and sustainable. This report reaffirms how local families, local businesses and local communities in Goa benefit most from Airbnb guests and their spending.” In 2017, Airbnb had revealed that Goa is its biggest market in the country, with over 4,000 homestays listed on the online platform. “The tourism industry is the mainstay of Goa’s economy and creates micro entrepreneurship opportunities for locals in the state, while employing thousands of locals in tourism related businesses,” said Bajaj. In 2019, the Airbnb community contributed $610 lakh (Rs 400 crore) to Goa’s economy and supported more than 7,500 local jobs in Goa, the Oxford Economics report said, but did not shed light on how this data was derived. The report aims to explore the economic impact of Airbnb in India between 2015 and 2019. “Airbnb is well-placed to play an important role in bringing tourists, and their spending, back to destination economies, and in supporting the earlier recovery of domestic travel by helping households, particularly those who seek to substitute an international trip with a domestic one, discover new areas in their own country to visit,” said Oxford Economics’ director of economic consulting in Asia, James Lambert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/airbnb-guests-spent-rs-1100cr-in-goa-during-2015-19/articleshow/77494032.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Goa||Global skill development hub on cards at Mapusa: Vishwajit Rane||MARGAO: The state government’s Directorate of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (DSDE) on Tuesday e-signed a memorandum of understanding with the National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC) for setting up an international skill hub in Goa under the government’s Skill India Mission. The skill hub, proposed to be set up at the old Asilo Hospital building, Mapusa, aims to empower local youth with international standards of skilling in sectors such as healthcare, tourism and hospitality. Training for marginalized groups will be imparted under Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY), besides introducing market led fee-based schemes. The announcement was made through a webcast which was attended by Union minister for skill development and entrepreneurship Mahendra Nath Pandey and Goa’s skill development and entrepreneurship minister Vishwajit Rane, among others. Speaking on the occasion, Rane said that the state government’s vision was “to create a robust ecosystem for skill development by bringing together all players, stakeholders, trainees, and training partners, and to move forward with that vision in a focused manner.” He added that the setting up the skill hub will provide a new impetus to the state’s skilling ecosystem by training youth according to evolving technologies and market trends. Rane also spoke about the government’s plans of using the PPP model to partner with private players in various sectors with a view to “creating a workforce for not only Goa, but one which would be globally employable.” Pointing out to the return of many emigrants to Goa, Rane said skilling, upskilling and then placing them was a challenge before the state. Pandey, said that as Goa had “immense possibilities” to skill Goan youth and make them employable, the skill hub could be developed into a centre of excellence of global stanards. The institute will provide training in advanced skills in highly specialized areas across sectors like Healthcare, Tourism and Hospitality and other emerging business domains to meet the requisite industry demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/global-skill-devpt-hub-on-cards-at-mapusa-rane/articleshow/77494027.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kochi||Local bodies struggling to raise fund to pay fine||KOCHI: Hit by fund crunch and struggling for finances to battle the pandemic, local bodies in Ernakulam - five municipalities and a corporation - would have to raise money to pay environmental compensation fixed by the Kerala state pollution control board (KSPCB) for their failure to comply with provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. While the KSPCB has not served notices to the local bodies yet, board officials said that they were moving ahead with steps to prosecute Kochi corporation based on a directive by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The board had earlier served show cause notices to all the municipalities after assessing their compensation in October 2019. The new amounts for environmental compensation has been fixed after a fresh assessment as the earlier assessment period had ended in October last year. According to PCB officials, the report has been filed before the NGT and the next hearing is likely to happen in September. The highest compensation amount fixed is for the Kochi corporation - Rs 13.31 crore. Among the five municipalities, Thrikkakara municipality will have to pay the highest compensation of Rs 2.92 crore.  Compensation amounts for other municipalities are as follows - Tripunithura (Rs 2.72 crore), Aluva (Rs 1.72 crore), Angamaly (Rs 1.96 crore) and Aluva (Rs 1.72 crore). “We haven’t even paid our salaries since March because of the pandemic. How are we going to pay such a huge fine?,” said Aluva municipality chairperson Lissy Abraham. According to her, many of the directives could not be implemented because of opposition from people.  “We have been trying to set up a material recovery facility in land but could not do so because of the opposition from residents,” she said. Angamaly municipal chairperson M A Gracy said the board does not seem to have taken into account the work done by them in recent months. “We are providing bio bins to all residents in the municipality to ensure that the waste is treated at source. I am not aware of a new compensation being assessed,” she said. Kalamassery municipality chairperson Rukhiya Jamal said they had complied with many of the directives by the KSPCB. “There are a lot of differences between earlier situations and the current status. I am not sure if this has been reflected in the new assessment,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/local-bodies-struggling-to-raise-fund-to-pay-fine/articleshow/77491488.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Can vaccine for dog bite victims be ensured: HC to Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has directed the state government and the medical and health department to inform it by next week whether they can reach out to the 26 dog bite victims at Kanekal village in Madugulapalli mandal of Nalgonda district with anti-rabies vaccine in an ambulance. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a PIL filed by Upender Reddy of the village who wanted the stray dogs to be either sterilised or exterminated in a humane manner and also medical help be extended to the villagers on a priority basis. J Venudhar Reddy, counsel for the petitioner, told the court that the stray dogs have become a menace in the village as they bit as many as 26 people till now. “There is no hospital within a 10km radius of the village. The mandal headquarters where a PHC is located is far away from the village. It is difficult for the villagers to reach that hospital during the ongoing pandemic because there is no public transport. We have a veterinary hospital in the village along with staff and facilities to administer vaccines. Our people are ready to go there if the state sends in anti-rabies vaccines to that hospital,” the counsel said. The bench, however, discouraged this idea. “We cannot ask people to go to animal clinics to get treatment for human beings,” it said. The counsel said the village has a homeo hospital also and if the authorities could send an ambulance with staff and vaccine, then the vaccine can be administered at the homeo hospital, he said. The bench said it wants the state government to respond as to how it will reach out to the people. “Is it possible for the state to send staff and vaccine in an ambulance. The DMHO will have to answer this,” the bench said before posting the case to next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/can-vaccine-for-dog-bite-victims-be-ensured-hc-to-t/articleshow/77494667.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 12, 2020||Pune||Coronavirus still prevalent, don’t drop defences, doctors warn||PUNE: Doctors have urged Pune citizens not to lower their guard as the coronavirus continues to be an active threat in the region. Specialists warned that unlocks had caused defences such as use of masks and social distancing to “erode”. If these safeguards slip further, experts said, Pune could again see spikes in Covid-19 cases and deaths. “After a prolonged lockdown, people are eager to get back to work, shopping and parties. But the threat posed by this virus is still very much active,” said surgeon Dhananjay Kelkar, the medical director of the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital. A WhatsApp post on Monday from Kelkar, urging Puneites to unite against the Covid-19 pandemic, was circulated among scores of citizens. “I felt like making the appeal because we are not safe yet. The Covid-19 fear is being replaced by carelessness,” Kelkar said. He added that the tall peak Puneites started to see recently was probably in the making from the last week of July. “But minor peaks in cases are still being seen. So precaution is key,” he added. Healthcare staff across all hospitals in the city have been reporting fresh challenges every day. Kelkar said, “Hospitals have had infections among their workforce, which is also reporting fatigue. Some nursing staff have said they want to be home for the Ganesh festival and a shortage among these key frontline workers is imminent. So it’s extremely demoralising to see the population throwing caution to the wind.” Public health expert Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical officer of health (AMoH) of the PMC said citizens should be careful, particularly during this season. “Temperatures have dropped. The virus spreads in conducive weather. Cases may or may not have peaked. But if we drop our guard, we will continue to have deaths as SARS-CoV-2 virus is still active in Pune,” Wavare said. Health activist Abhijit More said, “Civic bodies have not been proactive in the use of mass media tools. We need to reach out to residents of densely populated neighbourhoods so that they stay vigilant. Officials should provide people with sanitisers and masks irrespective of the ‘containment’ and ‘non-containment’ tags.” The World Health Organisation, in repeated briefings, has said that communities should not abandon precautions, besides masks, such as physical distancing. The global body has stated that people in affected countries should maintain at least six-feet distance between another person. This advisory on distancing was upgraded to include emerging research that said Covid-19 can spread via extremely tiny respiratory droplets that can stay on in the air for some time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/virus-still-prevalent-dont-drop-defences-docs-warn/articleshow/77493998.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 12, 2020||Chennai||TN political parties welcome SC order on equal rights for daughters in property||Chennai: The Supreme Court’s order on Tuesday ensuring equal rights for daughters in joint Hindu family property, has been welcomed by political parties in Tamil Nadu, including the ruling AIADMK and the opposition DMK as well as PMK and MDMK. Chief Minister and AIADMK joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami expressed happiness over the SC order, granting equal rights for women on a par with men. “This order will safeguard social justice and has to be welcomed,” CM Palaniswami tweeted. The Supreme Court order marked a victory for the DMK, which when in power in 1989 had passed a law in Tamil Nadu granting equal rights to daughters on parental properties. “Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) introduced the law granting equal rights over ancestral properties to daughters on a par with sons way back in 1989. This is a victory for DMK. Vested with rights, this order will set the base for the upliftment of womanhood,” tweeted DMK president M K Stalin. DMK MP and party women’s wing secretary Kanimozhi too joined in appreciating the apex court order. “Kalaignar’s order, 30 years ago, showed the way for whole of India and Supreme Court has now affirmed it. This is Dravidianism. It uplifts and does not destroy,” Kanimozhi said. Welcoming the SC order as the one that has cleared the last hurdle in paving the way for equal rights for women, PMK founder S Ramadoss said no one can henceforth deny the rightful share in property to women. “PMK has been in the forefront in the fight for equal rights for women and advised party cadres to have mother’s name as their first initial 25 years ago. This later became a law,” Ramadoss said. MDMK general secretary Vaiko, while welcoming the Supreme Court order, gave the credit for women getting equal rights over family properties to Dravidian leader E V R Periyar and former chief minister M Karunanidhi. In the first provincial meeting of the Self Respect Movement, held at Chengalpet on February 17 and 18, 1929, Periyar passed a resolution offering equal rights for women in properties. In 1989, Karunanidhi showed the way for the entire nation by enacting it. “If the Supreme Court order is a big victory for Periyar’s ideology, it ensures the rightful place for Kalaignar, who passed it as a law,” Vaiko said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-political-parties-welcome-sc-order-on-equal-rights-for-daughters-in-property/articleshow/77494037.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Goa||Supreme Court adjourns hearing of Cong’s disqualification petition by two weeks||Panaji: The Supreme Court on Tuesday adjourned by two weeks a hearing of the petition filed by Congress against the speaker of the Goa assembly and 10 former Congress MLAs who joined BJP. The petitioner had sought that the court’s decision on its disqualification plea be expedited by two weeks. “In view of the letter circulated by Anannya Ghose, advocate on record for speaker Rajesh Patnekar, seeking adjournment filing the additional affidavit, put up after two weeks,” the Supreme Court stated. Patnekar, in an application filed before the apex court, had requested that the hearing be adjourned for two weeks as he is in the process of filling an additional affidavit to bring on record further information and documents that would have a bearing on the present dispute, and which could not be completed earlier on account of the Covid-19 situation in Goa. Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar had, however, filed an application to object to the move for adjournment. The MLAs have sought a four-week adjournment in the matter. On July 24, the Supreme Court had adjourned a hearing by two weeks in the petition filed by Congress seeking an expeditious decision on the disqualification petition filed against the legislators before the state’s speaker. In August 2019, Congress filed a disqualification petition before the speaker against the 10 rebel MLAs who quit and joined BJP a month before. On July 10, 2019, rebel Congress MLAs led by Kavlekar had joined BJP claiming that the Congress Legislature Party had split. The remaining nine MLAs were Isidore Fernandes, Nilkanth Halarnkar, Jennifer Monserrate, Antonio Fernandes, Francisco Silveira, Wilfred D’Sa, Clafasio Dias, Filipe Neri Rodrigues and Atanasio Monserrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/supreme-court-adjourns-hearing-of-congs-disqualification-petition-by-two-weeks/articleshow/77494036.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Goa||In first round, 19 students chosen for theatre college||Panaji: After the first rounds of admissions, 19 students have been accepted into Kala Academy’s theatre college’s first year course. Of these, two are from other states — Bihar and Delhi — and five are from the reserved category. A second round of admissions will fill up the remainder of the seats. There are about 30 seats for the first-year course, of which 16 are for the reserved category. The institute received a total of 39 applications, of which 14 from the general category got selected and five from the reserved category. There are six are on the waiting list, who are from the general category. The remaining 11 seats fall under the reserved category and are yet to be filled. “We have to go by the guidelines. There may be students who belong to the reserved categories in the second round as well. If not, the seat will go to applicants belonging to the general category,” principal of the college, Ramrao Wagh said. The college is anticipating more applicants in the second round of admissions. TOI had earlier reported that the students were scheduled to appear for an online written test followed by a virtual viva exam. Following this, the college was supposed to select students for its course and enrol them. “The selected students were found to be very serious and some of them already have experience in theatre, tiatr and other performing arts,” Wagh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-first-round-19-students-chosen-for-theatre-college/articleshow/77494041.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Pune||Pune’s active tally declines further, 48 more succumb||PUNE: The trend of higher recoveries than new Covid-19 cases continued in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday as well, with 2,213 patients being discharged in the last 24 hours as against 2,044 fresh cases. Overall, the PMR caseload has increased to 1,12,131, while 84,645 people have bet discharged so far. The total deaths in the region increased to 2,550 with 48 deaths in the last 24 hours, the press statemtnt issued by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated. With this, the active cases in PMR has come down to 24,981 as against 27,105 on Monday. Of these, as many as 9,456 are in home quarantine, while 15,525 are in hospital isolation. Just like Tuesday, a total of 1,806 new cases were recorded as against 2,835 recoveries on Monday. The situation was the same on Sunday when 3,171 people were discharged as against 2,758 new cases. Out of the fresh cases, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas added 924, while the Pimpri Chinchwad areas recorded 783 fresh cases. The rural parts added 196 cases, while Cantonments recorded 69 and other areas reported 72 cases in the last 24 hours. Among the fatalities, the PMC areas witnessed a maximum of 24 deaths, followed by 12 in the rural parts and 11 in the PCMC limits. Most of these patients suffered from comorbid conditions like high blood pressure and diabetes. PMC’s daily report stated that 735 critical patients were admitted in hospitals across municipal areas, of whom 443 were on ventilator support, while 2,480 were on oxygen support. Over 5.1 lakh people have been tested in PMR, including 3.3 lakh in PMC limits. Heath officials have urged people to not let their guard donw and adhere to mask and social distancing norms to keep the infection from spreading further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-active-tally-declines-further-48-more-succumb/articleshow/77494009.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Medical officer’s son says SVP refused to admit him||AHMEDABAD: The son of an AMC medical officer, Harshad Sarkar, has claimed that the SVP hospital management refused to admit him even though he tested positive for Covid-19. However, SVP authorities issued a statement stating that Sarkar was not admitted to the hospital as he was not infected with the coronavirus. In a video message that was doing the rounds on social media and on AMC groups, Sarkar said he got himself tested, with an RTPCR test, and on Tuesday morning was told that he had tested positive. He claimed that he had severe chest pain and had gone for a CT scan where he was told he could have the virus. “I went for an RTPCR test after which the AMC officials said that I was positive. I went to SVP where I was told to get admitted to a private hospital. I demanded that I be admitted to SVP but was denied admission.” Meanwhile the SVP management issued a statement and said that Harshad was Covid negative and did not need admission. He had come to the fever OPD where he was checked and his reports were also verified and it was found that he did not have Covid and hence he was not admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/medical-officers-son-says-svp-refused-to-admit-him/articleshow/77494122.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Madurai||Sub-committee inspects Mullaperiyar dam as water level crosses 136ft||Madurai: A five-member sub-committee, led by M S Saravanakumar from the Central Water Commission (CWC), inspected the Mullaperiyar dam as the water level in the reservoir crossed 136 feet on Tuesday.The other members of the committee are two PWD officials from Tamil Nadu -- T Kumar and Sam Irwin -- and two officials from Kerala -- S N Praseeth Binu Baby.They went up to the earthen portion of the dam and studied the pore pressure. The inspected the seepage and the operation of the shutters by operating three shutters, including RI and V4. They also visited the gallery of the dam.The same team inspected the dam on June 24 when the water level was just 112 feet.The inflow into the reservoir was 3,521 cusecs while 2,130 cusecs of water was being released from it. PWD sources said water might be released for irrigation on August 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sub-committee-inspects-mullaperiyar-dam-as-water-level-crosses-136ft/articleshow/77494713.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chennai||With 118 more deaths, Tamil Nadu’s Covid toll at 5,159||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu continued to record Covid-19 deaths in three figures with Tuesday’s toll at 118 and fresh cases at 5,834. The overall Covid death toll is 5,159 and active cases 52,810. Chennai had the highest toll, 23, while Kanyakumari touched double figures for the first time with 13 deaths. Health department officials there attributed it to reconciliation of backlog. Fresh cases in Chennai stayed below 1,000 for nearly a week now with Tuesday’s count at 986. Neighbouring Chengalpet, Thiruvallur and Kancheepuram registered 1,080 cases. Kancheepuramhad no deaths but the other two reported 12 deaths. Coimbatore once again topped the western region in terms of new cases with 324 getting infected on Tuesday. Salem also recorded more than 200 cases, mostly in the city. The western region also saw 17 deaths, off which Coimbatore accounted for eight. However, many of the other rural districts including Salem, Tirupur, Krishnagiri and even Namakkal recorded one to four deaths each. The only two districts to record new cases in single digits in the entire state — Nilgiris (five) and Dharmapuri (eight) — are in the western region. The 10 southern district together reported 1,382 cases and 35 new deaths on Tuesday. Theni has the highest number of active cases (3,002) in the region. According to the Theni district collector, Pallavi M Baldev, they had been conducting over 2000 tests a day since August 4. Madurai’s fresh cases stood at 90, which took the total number of active cases in the district to 870. Central TN had a total of 567 cases -- a slight increase compared to Monday -- and 16 deaths. Thanjavur once again recorded maximum cases (125). As far as testing was concerned, there was a slight dip in the number of people tested. From average 68,000 last week, it was 65,490 on Tuesday. The state has so far tested 32.4 lakh people at 131 labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/with-118-more-deaths-tns-covid-toll-at-5159/articleshow/77494043.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt must take over 50% beds in private hospitals: Congress||HYDERABAD: The Congress on Tuesday demanded that the state government declare a health emergency in the state and take over 50% beds in private hospital to provide treatment at affordable prices to the Covid-19 patients from the poor and middle-class sections of the society. Lashing out at the government for leaving the people to their fate, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka said CM K Chandrasekhar Rao is more interested in finalising the designs of the new secretariat complex. It is the responsibility of the government to ensure that proper treatment is offered to every citizen suffering from Covid-19. He added that the state government should take over 50% accommodation in hotels and lodges to provide quarantine facilities to the people as the poor and middle-class people cannot afford to pay the money being charged by private hospitals.“Appoint 17 senior IAS officers in each of the 17 parliamentary constituencies to monitor the treatment for Covid-19 patients. Set up quarantine facilities in villages too. Fix affordable rates for Covid-19 treatment in private hospitals,” Bhatti demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-must-take-over-50-beds-in-pvt-hosps-cong/articleshow/77494712.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Pune||Region’s largest sero-survey of 5,000 citizens set to start in PCMC limits||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), in association with the DY Patil Medical College and Hospital, is set to start a Covid-19 sero-survey next week that will include nearly 5,000 participants from the region. It’s expected to be the biggest such study so far in the Pune Metropolitan Region. Participants will include residents from all quarters: locations within and outside containment zones. Antibody testing — a key component of sero-surveys — will help assess the spread of the pandemic. Serosurveys can also determine levels of herd immunity against Covid-19, which is achieved when nearly 60% of a population has been exposed to the infection, experts said. “The DY Patil Medical College and Hospital submitted its proposal to conduct a sero-survey last week. The methodology, including the areas that will be covered, are being worked out,” Shravan Hardikar, PCMC commissioner, said. Survey teams will collect blood samples from asymptomatic individuals after seeking consent. Their sera (blood) will then be tested for the virus-specific antibodies using an antibody test kit. “This sero-survey for antibodies is crucial at this stage for the PCMC because it has seen pockets of high transmission,” said senior epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee, who is the head of the community medicine department at DY Patil Medical College and Hospital. The presence of specific antibodies indicates people have had an encounter with SARS-CoV-2. Banerjee said, “These antibodies, particularly the IgG variant, persist for some months and then may become undetectable. But memory cells in the immune system of a person who has been exposed, can retain some ability to produce these antibodies at very short notice if there’s a fresh encounter. “They could protect from serious illness in the future, he added.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/regions-largest-sero-survey-of-5000-citizens-set-to-start-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/77493984.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||VCs with engg background fail to complete term in NU||Nagpur: Even as the appointment of Nagpur University’s vice chancellor Subhash Chaudhari is under the scanner following allegations of “merit being ignored”, academics recalled that former VCs with an engineering background like the incumbent had failed to complete their five-year term. If VCs in the last two decades or so were to be considered then two of them faced the ignominy of being asked by the then chancellors to resign midway in the wake of controversies. The first one was Bhalchandra Chopane, who was asked to resign by the then chancellor PC Alexander following the exposure of bogus degrees, mark-sheets and revaluation scam popularly known as the “Kohchade scam” named after the then assistant registrar Yadav Kohchade in 1998-99. Chopane, who was former director of technical education, along with the then pro-VC Yoganand Kale, tendered their resignations on July 19, 1999. The then divisional commissioner JS Saharia was told to take over as officiating VC till incumbent Arun Satputaley was appointed in 2000. History repeated itself on March 30, 2014 when VC Vilas Sapkal was told to put in his papers by the then chancellor K Sankaranarayanan following his failure to pass the budget in the Senate. Along with Sapkal, the then pro-VC Mahesh Yenkie also tendered his papers. While both had a background in chemical engineering, Sapkal was an alumnus of NU’s Laxminarayan Institute of Technology (LIT) and a student of Yenkie, who was a professor there. The budget couldn’t be passed as Senate members refused to cooperate with the duo following their tough decision to ban colleges operating without a single teacher or infrastructure. It was perhaps for the first time that such highly qualified heads were appointed at the helm of NU’s affairs. After their exit, former divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar took over the reins and cleared the budget, but he too was told to leave following HC’s verdict and Vinayak Deshpande was appointed as the officiating VC. According to academics, though the new VC has an impressive profile from an engineering point of view, his lack of administrative experience in university matters would make things very challenging for him. To add to his woes, politics, for which NU is infamous, would also prove to be a bane for the new VC, they feel. Additionally, those from general courses dominate all statutory bodies, like management and academic councils align with the Senate. There’s hardly any representation for those from professional courses like engineering, law and pharmacy. # VCS TOLD TO RESIGN IN LAST TWO DECADES * July 19, 1999 — Bhalchandra Chopne, former director of technical education in Maharashtra, resigned following the Kohchade scam along with then pro-VC Yoganand Kale * March 30, 2014 — Vilas Sapkal, a chemical engineer from LIT, tendered his resignation after he failed to clear a budget following revolt by Senate members. The then pro-VC Mahesh Yenkie also resigned||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vcs-with-engg-background-fail-to-complete-term-in-nu/articleshow/77494054.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 12, 2020||Madurai||He was chef on US luxury liner, now sells cane juice||Madurai: For close to ten years, he was a chef at a luxury cruise ship in America, but the Covid-19 pandemic has changed all that. Today, S Saravanan dons a new role- that of a sugarcane juice seller, to make a living.The 42-year-old hotel management graduate from Madurai had been working in the luxury liner of Disney World in the USA since 2010. He came home in January this year on vacation and was scheduled to fly back to work by the end of March. But the Covid-19 induced lockdown on March 24 and the subsequent stalling of international flights put an end to his plans.Saravanan’s wife Nishanthi, who worked as a front office manager at leading star hotel in the city also lost her job at the same time. Saravanan says that he found his savings dwindling by the day, with the couple losing their jobs overnight.On coming to know of his plight, a friend in Trichy, who runs a mobile sugarcane juice unit there, suggested that Saravanan start a similar one in Madurai. He liked the idea and set up a mobile cane juice unit. He stations his unit near Raja Muthiah mandram and now two months down the lane, has a handful of regular customers. “I sell about 60 to 100 cups a day, which is good,” he said.The new entrepreneur couple have been finding it tough to avail a bank loan, as no bank is ready to take up their application. “There are reports in the media about the government giving loans to people who lost their jobs and came back to their native places, but in reality, many are struggling to get these loans,’’ said Saravanan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/he-was-chef-on-us-luxury-liner-now-sells-cane-juice/articleshow/77494715.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kanpur||Deputy SP’s kin demand probe in police role||Kanpur:Going by the audio clip in which SO Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari could be heard insisting CO Devendra Mishra to lead the raid at gangster Vikas Dubey’s house in Bikru village on July 2 night, Dy SP’s brother-in-law Kamalkant demanded a fresh probe in this regard. “The way SO Tiwari is insisting Dy SP Devendra Mishra to lead the raid, it appears prima facie that his intentions were not in good faith. Therefore, our demand from investigating agencies is to probe the role of SO Chaubeypur Vinay Tiwari with regard to Bikru ambush that claimed lives of eight policemen including Dy SP on July 2 & 3 night,” said Kamalkant while talking to reporters. To recall, the slain deputy SP Devendra Mishra had even written a letter to the then SSP Anant Deo, exposing SHO Vinay Tiwari’s nexus with gangster Vikas Dubey and that went viral later. In the letter, Mishra had sought action against SHO of Chaubeypur police station, Kanpur, Vinay Tiwari. The letter was originally recovered from officer’s suitcase during scrutiny of documents after his death allegedly by his elder daughter Vaishnavi. Also to recall, soon after the ambush, 68 police constables were shunted to Police Lines from Chaubeypur police station, and subsequently suspended Chaubeypur station house officer (SHO) Vinay Tiwari and a sub-inspector were arrested on charges of fleeing the encounter site in Bikru village wherein eight policemen were trapped and killed by the gangster and his 60 aides. The action came in the wake of evidences emerging that many of the policemen were hand-in-glove with the gangster. Later, DIG STF Anant Deo Tewari was also transferred after a controversial letter of the slain Dy SP surfaced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/deputy-sps-kin-demand-probe-in-police-role/articleshow/77494047.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Fair price shop dealers force ration card holders to buy groceries||HYDERABAD: Several fair price shop (FPS) dealers in the state, particularly Greater Hyderabad, are reportedly harassing white ration card holders to purchase groceries from them or else the free rice through public distribution will not be given to them. The groceries include non-public distribution commodities like pulses, sugar, edible oil, soaps, chilli and turmeric powder and salt to name a few. Poor people whose income sources have already been affected due to coronavirus are pleading that the government stop this harassment. “An FPS dealer insisted that unless I purchase Rs 130-worth non-PDS commodities, he would not give me PDS rice. We cannot fight with the dealer. He would start harassing us stating that the bio-metric machine is not working and ask us to come for rice another day. They would say rice stocks are not available or say the bio-metric machine is failing to read our fingerprint and send us back,” Smitha S (name changed), a card holder, said. Presently, the state government is supplying 10-kg rice free of cost to every member of the family whose name is on the ration card. The 10-kg includes the five kg quota of rice being given by the Central government to support the poor during the pandemic. Sources said all is not well in the Civil Supplies Corporation. Corporation commissioner P Satyanarayana Reddy had returned to office after nearly two-month leave and has again gone on leave. Differences between officers is said to be the reason. Though there is no ban on selling non-PDS commodities through fair price shops, civil supplies officials said it was illegal on the part of FPS dealers to hold the white ration card holders to ransom. “The PDS rice should be given to the card holders unconditionally,” an official said. Telangana State Fair Price Shop Dealers’ Association president Nayikoti Raju too said it was not fair on the part of the dealers to force the card holders to buy non-PDS items. “The state government is responsible for it. The Telangana government is paying a commission of only Rs 70 per quintal of rice to the dealers, whereas it is Rs 200 per quintal in Delhi, Rs 160 in Maharashtra and Rs 250 in Kashmir.” “I am not supporting the dealers, but the reason (they are forcing the card holders to buy non-PDS commodities) is they are struggling to pay even rents of their shops. In Greater Hyderabad, a dealer has to pay Rs 15,000 rent for his shop, another Rs 10,000 to the worker, Rs 1,000 electricity bill and hamali charges every month for downloading rice bags. Even if he distributes 500 quintals of rice, he is earning Rs 35,000. How will he manage his family? He is trying to earn by selling non-PDS commodities. The government should increase the commission,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fps-dealers-force-ration-card-holders-to-buy-groceries/articleshow/77492735.cms||Roushan Ali
August 12, 2020||Goa||With no salaries, Mormugao civic body staff strike||VASCO: Over 270 administrative and field staff of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC) have been on strike since Monday over non-payment of salaries. Despite the MMC trying to persuade them to return citing lack of funds, the staff refused to join duty on Tuesday. On August 7, staff had served a notice to MMC chairperson Nandadeep Raut stating that if their salaries are not paid by Monday they will strike work. Since they did not receive a satisfactory reply from municipal authorities, they began the strike on Monday. “Usually we get our salaries by the 15 of the month, then it dragged to July 20 and after that we were told we would be paid by month-end. We had informed the council that at least this month pay our salaries on time as we are preparing for Ganesh Chaturthi,” a staff member told TOI. Raut said, “Since the last six months we have been facing financial problems due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. People are not paying their rents on time and recovery of taxes, etc is slow.” He requested the workers to rejoin duties on Wednesday morning, with the assurance that their salaries would be deposited by afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-salaries-mormugao-civic-body-staff-strike/articleshow/77494723.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 12, 2020||Pune||Caterer’s contract revoked over food quality||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The PCMC’s store department cancelled the contract of a private caterer associated with the Employee’s State Insurance Corporation Hospital in Mohannagar for serving poor-quality food repeatedly to Covid patients there. Store department assistant commissioner Mangesh Chitale said they had been getting consistent complaints about the food quality at facility, which is a designated Covid care centre of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) . “After a preliminary inspection, we found the complaints to be true, following which, we revoked the contract,” he said. The caterer had already been issued notices on various occasions, but the food quality did not improve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/caterers-contract-revoked-over-food-quality/articleshow/77494015.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Varanasi||We will defeat corona like encephalitis: Yogi Adityanath||GORAKHPUR:c assured people that coronavirus will be defeated like encephalitis but all have to follow social distancing and other precautions for it. The state government is committed to provide relief to flood and corona victims, he added. Speaking after distributing relief packets to flood victims in Gorakhpur on Tuesday, the CM said, “The death rate of encephalitis has decreased by 90%, similarly coronavirus will also be defeated.” “I have come here to be with you at the time of corona pandemic and floods. Fortune and misfortune are intertwined aspects of life. On one hand, we are facing the challenge of coronavirus and floods, and on the other hand we are celebrating Krishna Janmashtami. The life of Sri Krishna inspires us to follow the path of Dharma (morality), Satya (truth) and Nyay (justice),” Yogi said. “The world is struggling against the challenge of coronavirus. We have been able to deal with it better due to timely decisions of PM Narendra Modi. We are now conducting corona tests on a massive scale,” he said. He said the elderly, children below 10 years, pregnant women and people suffering from ailments like blood pressure, diabetes should avoid going out unnecessarily. Due to heavy rainfall in 15 days of early monsoon, floods are affecting the area, but the state government is committed to providing relief to all victims and is working with dedication for it, Yogi added. CM distributed relief packets of 10kg rice, 10 kg wheat, 10 kg potato, 10 kg roasted gram, rice, oil, salt and kerosene. He said grocery items are being distributed to card holders and needy twice a month. The government will give Rs 4 lakh financial aid for deaths due to calamity and snake bite. CM Yogi held a meeting with officials at Circuit House and reviewed preparations for battling coronavirus, floods and construction of child hospital at BRD medical college. CM Yogi said death rate due to encephalitis and other vector borne diseases in Purvanchal has come down by 90% compared to data before year 2017. We will continue our efforts and will bring it further down this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/we-will-defeat-corona-like-encephalitis-yogi/articleshow/77490236.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara jail inmate on hunger strike, demands transfer back to Porbandar||Vadodara: Tales of freedom fighters going on hunger strike in jail for better facilities are quite popular even today. But an inmate of Vadodara Central Jail has been on hunger strike for the last 20 days with an unusual demand. Prafulgiri Ramdatti (Goswami), an undertrial in a rape case of Porbandar, started his hunger strike on July 23 with a demand that he be transferred back to Porbandar special jail. Prafulgiri was brought to Vadodara Central Jail on July 21 due to disciplinary and security reasons. Jail officials said that ever since he came, he has been demanding that he be sent back. On July 23, he declared that he would start a hunger strike and will not eat anything until he is transferred back to Porbandar special jail. Prafulgiri was arrested by Kamlabaug police of Porbandar for raping and threatening a minor girl in September 2018. “He would have got into a brawl with a fellow inmate or would have done something for which he would have been sent here as a disciplinary measure,” said a jail official. However, his behaviour with inmates in Vadodara jail has been cordial and he talks and mingles with everyone. For the last 20 days, Prafulgiri has been just having fluids and surviving. “We offered him fruits or milk if he did not want to eat jail food, but he refused that as well. He is just consuming oral rehydration solution and surviving,” said B K Rathwa, a jailer. Rathwa lodged an offence against Prafulgiri at Raopura police station on Monday for his hunger strike. As per Section 52 of the Prisons Act, an inmate may face punishment if he is found guilty of any offence against prison discipline. Rathwa said that Prafulgiri has made an application to Porbandar sessions jail so that he can be transferred back, but no decision has been taken by court yet. For the last two days, the jail staff has been taking him to SSG Hospital for a regular check-up. “He has not complained that he is feeling weak, but the staff takes him so that doctors can take care of him,” said another jail official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-jail-inmate-on-hunger-strike-demands-transfer-back-to-porbandar/articleshow/77490710.cms||Jay Pachchigar
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Govt plans to hold hospitals to account for fire safety||Ahmedabad: It is no secret that a majority of the hospital fires that have occurred are electrical. Following the Shrey hospital fire in Navrangpura, where eight lives were lost because of a short circuit, the state government is mulling over ways to make hospitals accountable for such incidents. After a report of the existing condition of electrical wiring of more than 360 hospitals was submitted by the chief electrical inspector (CEI) to the state government, the usual culprits were clearly visible in these hospitals.Overloaded electricity points, improper uninterrupted power supply load, false ceilings lined with thermocol, faulty electric wirings, were some of the usual issues which officials claim could lead to overheating or burning of wires. Most of these issues were found in critical areas like ICUs which have life-support systems, x-ray rooms, neonatology units, children's ward, pediatric ICU, dialysis room, pathology lab and operation theatres.Officials in the urban development department claim that recommendations for escape chutes for rapid and safe shifting of bedridden patients will be proposed. Apart from this an effective fire safety program will be put in place which addresses and monitors four important parameters: means of access through approach roads and open spaces and means of escape such as external staircases and firefighting equipment. Also in ICUs, high content of oxygen because of the life support systems and sanitisers were also pointed out as reasons.Recommendations included making it mandatory for hospitals to estimate proper load and keeping some buffer before operationalizing their equipment. Also the hospitals will not make many changes to the electrical circuiting, and, if any alternation is done, capacity of the wire used should be kept in mind. Regular training of all the staff and mock drills for rapid safe evacuation is being proposed. “An alarm system with a public address system must be in place and should be also powered by a battery system in case the powers go off,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-plans-to-hold-hospitals-to-account-for-fire-safety/articleshow/77494079.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||28% of employers say too many candidates for few jobs: Study||MUMBAI: Fresh research of over 1,000 employers that recruit management graduates, finds that recruiters are ‘overwhelmingly positive’ about the value of an MBA from a reputable B-school when hiring senior managers, but that there is lack of confidence in the future of both global and local economies, with most survey participants taking a conservative, and in some cases, pessimistic view on upcoming recruitment plans. More than a quarter of employers (28%) believe there are too many candidates for too few jobs. When asked, ‘Do you envisage your organisation hiring more, less, or about the same number of management leaders in 2020 compared to 2019?’ most recruiters talked about moving to a strategy of conservatism, cost-cutting, and recruitment freeze. While more than a third of survey participants (35%) think they will be recruiting ‘a lot fewer’ management leaders than they did in 2019, 14% think they will be recruiting more than last year, 16% believe their recruitment will be the same as 2019 but 11% do not know which way they will go. “Among those planning to cut back on recruitment of management leaders this year, reasons included: the pandemic and associated economic uncertainty, a dominant reason across the board, fears over economic slowdown, global oil and energy stagnation, focus on core business survival rather than growth, disinclination to hire and train ‘expensive’ talent, moving from globalisation to localization,” said the report titled ‘International MBA Survey 2020’. Under that, the Association of MBAs and Business Graduates Association surveyed 1,047 employers that have specific responsibility of placing MBAs in their businesses. This was the largest sample of MBA employers and recruiters surveyed in AMBA and BGA’s 53-year history, and looks at a variety of trends and issues including MBA skills gaps, recruitment in volatile times, perceptions of business education and its effectiveness in preparing MBA graduates for work. With the mode of education changing and many management schools adopting the blended mode of teaching, the survey asked respondents to consider the longer-term strategy for recruitment of MBAs, with particular reference to the importance placed in a range of aspects relating to how and where they acquired the qualification. The most important factor among survey participants is ‘accreditation of the MBA’ – 46% of participants said this is ‘very important’, and 41% cited it as ‘fairly important’. This was followed by ‘internationalisation of the MBA’, which was classified by 35% as ‘very important’. The sample was divided on the importance of an MBA programme’s format – in terms of classroom, online or blended delivery. Although 36% classified this as being ‘very important’, 33% said this aspect is either ‘not very important’ to them, or ‘not important at all’. Factors of lesser importance to participants, in terms of what responding employers will look for in MBA recruits, include the country in which the MBA was completed and the type of MBA completed (ie full-time, part-time or executive) which were cited as being either ‘not very important’, or ‘not important at all’ by 31% in each case. In terms of challenges in the recruitment ahead, ‘lack of skills’ was the most commonly cited hurdle to recruiters – 53% stated that this is a major issue for them. ‘Lack of creativity’ was cited by 47%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/28-of-employers-say-there-are-too-many-candidates-for-too-few-jobs/articleshow/77494728.cms||Hemali Chhapia
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Saibaba moves HC for parole to attend mother’s last rites||Nagpur: Naxal ideologue GN Saibaba has once again moved Nagpur bench of Bombay high court seeking parole, this time for attending last rites of his mother, who expired on August 1. Gokarakonda Suryavathi was suffering from cancer and other ailments and breathed her last at the residence of Saibaba’s brother in Hyderabad. A division bench of Justices Atul Chandurkar and Amit Borkar on Tuesday adjourned hearing on wheelchair bound Saibaba’s plea till August 18, after special public prosecutor (SPP) Prashant Sathianathan sought time to file reply. The former Delhi University (DU) professor had earlier applied for parole for meeting his ailing mother at Hyderabad but it was rejected on May 22. He later moved a bail application for the same reason while apprehending threat of getting Covid-19 that had already affected hundreds of inmates and jail officers. Saibaba, who claims to be 90% disabled, also cited his deteriorating health inside the Anda Cell and existing comorbidities that make him vulnerable to the virus. However, that too was rejected by the same HC bench on July 28, four days before his mother expired. When he had applied for bail, his mother Suryavathi, wife AS Vasantha Kumari and his other family members wrote a long letter to central and state governments on his plight, stating the spread of coronavirus inside jail was likely to be a “death sentence” for him. The Naxal kingpin, as referred to by the prosecution, has been behind bars since many years after being convicted by the Gadchiroli sessions court on March 17, 2017, for his links with Maoists and alleged anti-national activities along with his accomplices. Prashant Rahi pleads for bail Saibaba’s accomplice Prashant Rahi, who was convicted with him for the same offences, filed a bail application and suspension of sentence in HC. Earlier, his application with same prayers was rejected by HC on May 30. On Tuesday, HC adjourned hearing on his plea by two weeks. A resident of Chandraskhekar Nagar in Dehradun, Rahi was facing charges for aiding and abetting Naxal activities and waging a war against the nation. Both Saibaba and Rahi were awarded life imprisonment along with Hem Mishra, Pandu Narote and Vijay Tirki.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/saibaba-moves-hc-for-parole-to-attend-mothers-last-rites/articleshow/77494061.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 12, 2020||Madurai||35 deaths, 13K active cases in south TN; 16 die in central dists||Madurai/ Trichy: With 1,382 new Covid-19 cases, the southern districts tally touched 68,460 on Tuesday, which include 13,376 active cases. The region also recorded 35 new deaths taking the toll to 1,077. Meanwhile, with 567 fresh Covid-19 cases, the tally of the central region has climbed to 19,415, which included 5,066 active cases. The 16 deaths reported on Tuesday pushed the total toll in the central districts to 240. In south, Theni has the highest number of active cases at 3,002. For the 3rd day in succession Theni recorded more than 3,000 active cases. All the other districts in the region have less than 2,000 active cases, of which four have less than 1,000 active cases. Theni reported 297 new cases, on Tuesday, and two deaths. According to Theni collector Pallavi M Baldev, they had conducted 2,307 sample tests on Tuesday. The district has been doing more than 2,000 tests per day since August 4. Next to Theni, six other districts reported more than hundred new cases. This included Dindigul (148), Kanyakumari (192), Tenkasi and Tirunelveli (136 each), and Tuticorin (107). The other districts reported less than hundred cases are Ramanathapuram (36) and Sivaganga (55). Madurai reported only 90 new cases, which took the total number of active cases in the district to 870. Of the 35 deaths in the region on Tuesday, 13 are in Kanyakumari. Kanyakumari district has added 20 deaths in the last two days taking the toll to 93. Health officials in Kanyakumari said that the high number of deaths was due to reporting of backlog. Director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam stated last week the reconciliation of Covid-19 deaths was being done on a weekly basis by the death audit committee constituted by the state, as per ICMR guidelines. This would reflect in the daily reports. “Even if a deceased person tests positive for Covid-19, upon incidental finding, it is considered a Covid-19 death,” they said. Deaths were also reported in Tirunelveli (8), Madurai (4), Dindigul, Sivaganga and Theni (2 each). With 86 new cases, the tally in Trichy district has climbed to 5,250. As per the bulletin, the district recorded four deaths on Tuesday. Thanjavur recorded 125 fresh cases, and six deaths on Tuesday. Deaths were also recorded in Pudukottai (1), and Nagapattinam (2). Covid-19 cases were also reported in Tiruvarur (88), Pudukottai (64), Nagapattinam (53), Karur (30), Ariyalur (86), and Perambalur (35).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/35-deaths-13k-active-cases-in-south-tn-16-die-in-central-dists/articleshow/77494724.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Madurai||Uncertainty over Neet, JEE forces many to apply for back-up courses||Madurai: Though the Neet and JEE common entrance exams for medical and engineering admissions are slated to be held in September, uncertainty prevails over its conduct amid the Covid-19 pandemic. At the same times, admissions are almost over at many of the arts and science colleges, which opened their applications after Class XII exam results were declared. With the continuing uncertainty, anxious Neet and JEE aspirants have started to look for science, computer science and paramedical courses as a back-up plan. “I got admission for BSc Zoology at an arts and science college in the city. I really wanted to try medical seat and registered for Neet exam. But, considering the circumstances and continuous postponement of the exam, I didn’t want to take any risk of losing one year of college in case I don’t get through,” said T Rajesh Kumar, who scored 92% in the Class XII state board exams. Another Neet aspirant, R Roshan, said that his parents did not want him to waste his time anymore and made him get admission in an arts and science college. JEE exam aspirants are also facing a similar situation, with many opting for BSc courses as a back-up option. “Students are disappointed at the continuous postponement of exams without any clarity. Some are also expecting it to be cancelled. They have to look for back-up options as no one can guarantee they will clear the exams. Usually, this happens with only a few students who are average in their studies and don’t mind going for a BSc course. Now, all students are anxious, and hardly only a few students have prepared enough to even sacrifice one year, study hard and somehow get a medical seat,” said C Meenakshisundaram, a Class XII biology teacher and NEET tutor. He said that school Class XII teachers were also trying to guide students. Meanwhile, local arts and science colleges in the city in general had received a higher number of applications compared to last year. “One of the reasons could be that students are choosing arts and science courses over medical and engineering. We also found that this year, for all courses in our college, especially science courses, the cut-off for the first round of counselling were above 90%. We had high demand and high cut-off this year. Even some of the relatively lesser-preferred courses like BSc Microbiology saw surprising demand,” said Dr Davamani M Christober, principal, The American College. However, college principals said that the rise in demand was also likely because many prefer to stay within the district and not travel outside due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/uncertainty-over-neet-jee-forces-many-to-apply-for-back-up-courses/articleshow/77494727.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fall Likely In E Godavari, Kurnool From End August||Visakhapatnam: The state health department officials estimate that the number of new Covid-19 cases may witness a gradual drop in East Godavari and Kurnool districts, the top two hotspots in the state, starting from the fourth week of August. Officials are of the opinion that these districts have already entered the peak stage of novel coronavirus infections. Anantapur, Nellore, Prakasam, Krishna and Guntur districts may also see a drop in cases in September after reaching their peak. Andhra Pradesh has tied up with a USA-based research varsity for devising Covid-19 containment strategies and planning for testing and treatment facilities. The projections were arrived at through a model on which the researchers based their data. Speaking to TOI, Dr C Prabhakara Reddy, special officer, state Covid Control Centre, said these factors would lead to a significant drop in the number of new cases each day over the next couple of months. “Andhra Pradesh currently has about 0.9% mortality rate, which is much lower than the national average and this may further improve in the coming months. Almost all districts will witness the drop in the volume of the cases by October after reaching their individual peaks,” said Prabhakara Reddy. Dr Prabhakara Reddy added that the state had projected the present case numbers three months ago. “That is how the state was well prepared in its fight against the pandemic by adding the needed oxygen lines to the beds, procuring CPAP machines and augmenting medical infrastructure and facilities for the then impending surge in cases. A lot of scientific planning has gone into preparations for the pandemic,” said Reddy. Dr Reddy said the state has already launched a community-based sero survey to monitor the transmission of infection among the general population. “This will also help understand the extent of the spread of the disease in the common public. At this juncture, I request the public to not start self-treatment for Covid-19. This will lead to other medical complications. Once the patient is diagnosed with Covid-19, he/she should start treatment only under the supervision of a medical practitioner,” said Dr Reddy. Andhra Pradesh witnessed a steep hike in numbers in July with an almost 1,000% increase in cases. The state is currently reporting about 10,000 cases a day and between 70 to 80 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fall-likely-in-e-godavari-kurnool-from-end-august/articleshow/77491548.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Worker booked for trespass||Hyderabad: A 40-year-old labourer was arrested by cops for trespassing into a government land in Kapra and removing the government signboard. The accused, Ganjayi Krishna, from Gandhi Nagar, Kapra, also wrote warning on the wall, which was erected inside the land stating that the land belongs to his family. After a complaint was registered on August 7, Krishna was nabbed on Tuesday and booked under sections of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and criminal trespass and Mischief causing damage under IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worker-booked-for-trespass/articleshow/77492850.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kanpur||Bikru carnage brain hid in guise of sadhu at Chitrakoot temple, nabbed||Kanpur: The brain behind the Bikru ambush and a distant cousin of slain gangster Vikas Dubey was arrested on Tuesday by Special Task Force (STF) from Kamtanath temple in Chitrakoot district bordering Madhya Pradesh. STF personnel blew the cover of the don's aide, Bal Govind Dubey, who was hiding in the guise of a saffron-robed hermit at the pilgrimage site since July. During interrogation, Bal Govind confessed to hurling country-made bombs from rooftops and firing at the police team on the night of July 3. He also told cops that the genesis of the Bikru carnage was an FIR lodged by the main complainant, Rahul Tiwari, who had a running property feud with his son-in-law, Vineet. And it was this FIR that triggered the police raid on Bikru with he and Dubey engineering the ambush that killed eight policemen. Speaking to TOI, an STF officer said, “Bal Govind Dubey was nabbed from Kamtanath temple parikrama crossing in Karwi Kotwali area of Chitrakoot district and during questioning he confessed that he and his son-in-law were the cause of the Bikru bloodbath.” Besides a raging dispute over property, Bal Govind was at daggers drawn with Rahul after he allegedly eloped with his son-in-law’s sister in April this year. Also, he told police Rahul had illegally sold off Vineet’s buffalo and a separate case was then lodged at Chaubeypur police station. Cops had detained Rahul and taken him to Bal Govind’s house for questioning during which Vikas Dubey and his five lieutenants were present. “Vikas had then snatched the cell phone of the now jailed Chaubeypur station officer, Vinay Tiwari, and thrashed Rahul. Cops had hurriedly whisked away Rahul to the police station,” said a STF officer. “On the night of ambush, Vikas had sent his aide, Prabhat Mishra, to my house and asked me to gear up for the big fight. At least 60 armed men had gathered at the don’s residence and many were positioned on rooftops. Vikas told me that police were coming following an FIR by Rahul Tiwari,” Bal Govind told interrogators. An arms conduit, Gopal Saini, had supplied country-made bombs and Dubey told Bal Govind to bomb the police team when it enters the village, STF sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bikru-carnage-brain-hid-in-guise-of-sadhu-at-chitrakoot-temple-nabbed/articleshow/77494078.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||PM’s farm infra fund will benefit biz, not farmers: Activists||Nagpur: Benefits of Rs 1 lakh crore fund to finance agriculture infrastructure including farm start-ups, announced by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, may not reach the peasants, say activists and farmers. On the other hand, those from the corporate sector have welcomed the step. Reacting to the announcement made a couple of days ago, farm activists said the government was shifting its focus from the core issues. The stress has to be on increasing farmers’ income while the funding facility announced will benefit businesses or the moneyed class in rural areas, they said. “The government appears to be changing the goal post. The objective should be to ensure a 50% margin of profit on the cost of production. If market prices of farm produce cannot assure it, the government must come up with a bridge funding subsidy,” said Vijay Jawandhia, a Shetkari Sangathana veteran. Under the present conditions, there is a little chance that the farmers can hope of a rise in their fortune. The rates of cotton, the major crop of Vidarbha are at a low. Funding infrastructure may not have any direct impact on the earnings through sale of harvest, he said. Kishore TIwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VSSM), said such measures have been taken by the earlier governments also but had not helped in mitigating the farm crisis. “This year the banks have been rather slow on crop loan disbursal, which is the means of basic finance for the farmers,” said Tiwari. “The loans are expected to be taken by the traders. There will be loans for warehouses. Most farmers, however, store the produce only in makeshift godowns at home, rather than use separate structures,” said Amitabh Pawde, an activist having a holding at Narkhed. As against a minimum support price (MSP) of over 3,000 recommended for paddy by the state government, the Centre has kept the rates at about Rs 1700. Better prices can provide direct benefit for the farmer, he said. R Ramakrishna of Axxyno Capital, an international investment banking firm, said the agri-start-ups can indeed find this as an opportunity to tide over funding shortage caused due to the Covid pandemic. Although the number of agri-startups is not much there are some tech-based ventures providing innovative services in Nagpur as well, he said. Kalyan Goswani, the director general of Agrochem Federation, an association of pesticide manufacturers said the biggest challenge due to Covid was falling rural income. The migrant workers that have returned to the villages need jobs. The financial package can go a long way in boosting the rural economy, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pms-farm-infra-fund-will-benefit-biz-not-farmers-activists/articleshow/77494085.cms||Shishir Arya
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Top court junks plea against shooter’s NGO||Hyderabad: The SC on Monday dismissed a public interest petition filed by a wildlife activist against ace shooter Nawab Shafath Ali Khan’s NGO Wildlife Tranqui Force, accused of wildlife offences. Justice DY Chandrachud and Justice KM Joseph delivered the order dismissing the PIL.  Activist Sangeeta Dogra, in her PIL, requested the apex court to form a committee to investigate offences under the Wildlife Protection Act. She also asked the court to issue a direction to centralise all weapon licence holders’ data to avoid illegal use of weapons and ammunition. The court asked the petitioner Sangeetha whether it was a petition filed in public interest or to seek relief in respect of a particular individual. The judges observed, “We clarify that we have not adjudicated upon any issue which may arise in an appropriate case. We leave it open to the petitioner to pursue three appropriate remedies in accordance with law.” “I follow all rules and regulations. I have been helping government solve man-animal conflict. Trophies I have are from my ancestors, who were nawabs in the Nizam’s dominion,” Shafath Ali Khan told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/top-court-junks-plea-against-shooters-ngo/articleshow/77492847.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 12, 2020||Madurai||Pending test results push Dindigul’s Covid-19 tally up||Madurai: As the number of Covid-19 tests has more than doubled since mid-July in Dindigul, the district has started witnessing a spike in local cases, with around 1,000 fresh cases reported in the last one week. However, district officials said that some pending test results last week have pushed the numbers up and that test positivity rate remains less than 10%. The number of active cases in the district continues to be less than 1,000 as well.Speaking to TOI, Dindigul district collector M Vijayalakshmi said that tat present, here was no reason for an alarm in the district. “Last week, we had some Covid-19 test results pending, which did not return within a day leading to a spike in the numbers. However, the test positivity rate has remained less than 10%,” she said. A senior health official said that the district had increased Covid-19 testing from around 500 samples per day on average in mid-July to around 1,000-1,500 samples per day. “Through ample testing, fever camps and door-to-door surveillance, we are able to identify more cases and engage measures such as isolation and containment,” he said. At present, there are no tests results pending and that efforts are being taken to speed up the process, the official said.Health officials in Dindigul said that the district is witnessing a rise in local Covid-19 cases due to the movement of people from neighbouring districts such as Madurai and Theni, which have high number of Covid-19 cases. As far as the treatment of Covid-19 patients is concerned, the district has five Covid-19 care centres, including an exclusive siddha Covid care centre at Gandhigram, and three government hospitals.The death rate in the district is 1.83%, which is above the state average, with most deaths being in hospitals in Madurai. “Patients with severe issues are referred to a tertiary care centre such as Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai since we have only a district headquarters government hospital. We conducted a death audit as well and most of the deaths are of Covid-19 patients who are above 70 or with co-morbid conditions,” said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pending-test-results-push-dindiguls-covid-19-tally-up/articleshow/77494729.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shrey hospital fire: Justice K A Puj to head probe panel||GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Tuesday appointed a retired Gujarat high court judge, Justice K A Puj, to head the judicial inquiry commission that will probe the Shrey hospital fire case. “The commission is expected to submit its findings in the next three months,” said Pradipsinh Jadeja, the minister of state for home. “The commission has been appointed under the Judicial Inquiry Commission Act, 1952.” Jadeja said that earlier the government had carried out a preliminary investigation through a committee of two senior IAS officers. “The government will ensure justice in the matter,” Jadeja added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/justice-k-a-puj-to-head-probe-panel/articleshow/77494118.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Woman with fever kills self||Hyderabad: A 45-year-old woman from Jeedimetla suffering from fever for the past four days ended her life on Tuesday fearing she contracted Covid-19 . The victim, a resident of Shapur Nagar, underwent a blood test at a clinic and was diagnosed with malaria. The family claimed she was afraid that she might have contracted Covid-19. On Monday night, when the family was asleep and her husband was on duty, she hanged herself. A case of suspicious death was registered. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-with-fever-kills-self/articleshow/77492895.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Delhi||Gymkhana Club serves notice to former chief for liquor in locker||New Delhi: A fresh controversy hit the capital’s elite Gymkhana Club barely just before the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) takes up the case of appeal of corporate affairs ministry on appointment of an administrator. A former president of the club has been served a notice for storing seven bottles of whiskey in a locker in the Aqua Spa in the club. According to a letter issued by club president, Lt Gen (retd) R D Soni to ex-president Prashant Sukul, the latter had approached the club office on August 5 to take out the liquor, which he had kept in his locker in the Aqua Spa. After obtaining permission, he had opened the locker in the presence of the employees. Seven bottles of whiskey were found and these were handed over. “You are hereby requested to please explain the circumstances that led to and reasons for your storing the liquor in the locker since January 2020, in contravention of the existing orders on the subject,” said the notice. Though sources said the club administration discussed the next course of action till late Tuesday night, Soni did not respond to repeated queries and calls from TOI. The former president was asked to respond by Monday afternoon. Sukul said he took permission from the club to bring his belongings and he has not violated any law. The corporate affairs ministry in its plea before the NCLAT has accused the club’s general committee of treating it as their “riyaasat” while converting it from “vyayamshaala to a madhusala”. The hearing is scheduled for Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gymkhana-club-serves-notice-to-former-chief-for-liquor-in-locker/articleshow/77513007.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 31 ONGC staff test +ve for coronavirus, being treated at Raheja hospital||MUMBAI: Thirty-one ONGC staff, mainly engineers working at Neelam Complex offshore station, have tested Covid-19 positive. BMC officials said they were being treated at Raheja Hospital, Mahim. There is no clarity on how the staff contacted the virus and ONGC’s PRO refused to comment. Civic officials said ONGC got 90 of its staff at the complex tested after some of them were found to be symptomatic, and 31 of them tested positive. As the offshore station is 45km south-west and the staff got tested at Raheja at Mahim, they are being counted under cases in BMC’s G-North administrative ward, which includes Dharavi, Mahim and Dadar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/31-ongc-staff-test-ve-for-coronavirus/articleshow/77493442.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Hotel got go-ahead sans team inspection||Vijayawada: In the aftermath of the August 9 fire accident that claimed 10 lives at the Covid Care Centre run by Ramesh Hospitals at the Swarna Palace Hotel, fingers are being pointed at the officials who accorded permission to Dr P Ramesh Babu to run a category A Covid Care Centre at the hotel. Following guidelines laid down by the government to establish a Covid Care Centre, the hospital management tied up with the management of Swarna Palace Hotel. However, it is alleged that a thorough verification of the centre and its facilities was not carried out before according permission for the hotel to function as a Covid Care Centre. A physical verification by a team of professionals is mandatory for a proposed Covid Care Centre before permission to commence operations is granted. No such team of professionals visited Swarna Palace Hotel and it is alleged that only a senior officer from the district medical and health office visited the hotel and ‘was satisfied’ before recommending the application for clearance. Meanwhile, Government Order (GO) (Ms No. 77) issued on July 8 had fixed the rates for Covid-19 treatment at government and private hospitals under the Aarogyasri scheme. The highest price per day per Covid-19 patient was fixed at Rs 10,380. However, allegations of Ramesh Hospital overcharging patients went uninvestigated. “The government and the hospital management are to be equally blamed for the mishap. There is no inspection of these hospitals despite the government fixing the price for treatment. Even for issuing permission, no team of experts is inspecting the proposed Covid Care Centres,” said Ch Baburao, a senior leader from the Communist Party of India (Marxist).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hotel-got-go-ahead-sans-team-inspection/articleshow/77491580.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC judge recuses from hospital fire PIL||AHMEDABAD: Justice R M Chhaya of the Gujarat high court recused himself on Tuesday from hearing a PIL demanding action in the Shrey Hospital fire case. The PIL requests that compensation for the victims be recovered from the officers responsible. The PIL was filed by advocate Amit Panchal. When it came up for hearing, the division bench said that it should not be listed before a bench of which Justice Chhaya is a member. This is because before he became a judge Justice Chhaya was representing the AMC as its lawyer in a PIL seeking the proper implementation of fire safety norms. The PIL had also demanded adequate infrastructure for fire prevention in the city. He had defended the civic body in the PIL filed in 2009. Panchal filed the PIL after eight Covid-19 patients died last week in Shrey Hospital in Navrangpura in a fire accident. He has demanded the implementation of all directions issued earlier by the HC in various litigations. The PIL has specifically urged the court to direct the government not to grant compensation to victims from taxpayers’ money, but to fix liability on officials concerned and to make them pay from their pockets. The PIL has also urged the HC to direct the civic body to fill all vacant posts in the Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services so that such a tragedy can be prevented in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-judge-recuses-from-hospital-fire-pil/articleshow/77494134.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Delhi||Open book exams: More harrowing time for Delhi University students||NEW DELHI: Hundreds of Delhi University students were in for a rude surprise on Wednesday morning when they received mails informing them that they had missed sending one or more answer sheets for the final year open book examinations they sat for on the two previous days. Anxious students, many of whom had complained of not receiving acknowledgement of receipt on Monday and Tuesday, enquired of their college principals and nodal officers whether their answer sheets had been rejected. Later in the day, DU clarified that the mail had only been the exam portal’s automated response. Having seen the exam portal crash around 3pm on Tuesday, the students were in a panic after receiving an email around 1am on Wednesday that stated: “It appears your submission could not be completed.” An undergraduate history student at Ramjas College was one of the affected students. He said, “After uploading two answer sheets on Tuesday, I faced problems transmitting the third script within the time limit. In panic, I sent it to the DU email ID and received a confirmation mail. But the email I got on Wednesday caused me worry and confusion.” The tension was greater for a St Stephen’s College student since she hadn’t received the confirmation mail and presumed her answer sheet didn’t reach the university. The mail prompted the students to contact the nodal officers of their colleges. “Students were distressed because many of them hadn’t been able to upload all their answer sheets through the system in the given four hours and had emailed them to the university,” said K K Koul, Hindu College nodal officer. It was only in the afternoon that students and nodal officers received another mail from DU explaining what had happened. “The students did not see the second part of the automated mail, which clearly said their responses had been automatically submitted,” said DU computer centre head Sanjeev Singh. Singh explained that many students, after uploading the sheets, had failed to press the submit button or had submitted some of their answer sheets on the portal and the remaining through email. “That is why they got the automated mail informing them about incomplete submission,” he said. “But we assure the students that their answer sheets have been accepted and they needn’t worry.” DU Teachers’ Association member Abha Dev expressed worry about the multiple submission of answers by the students. “The Exam Branch is going to have nightmares in compiling and stacking answer scripts because students are transmitting them numerous times,” Dev said. “Sometimes, when the portal crashes midway through the uploading process, the students email the scripts to the university. How will DU decide which sheet among the multiple submissions should be taken for final evaluation?” To this, Singh replied, “We have a technological setup to manage all these. We are asking students to submit answer sheets with their roll number, date of birth, college and course title. This helps the computer system to identify and locate all the answer sheets however they have been submitted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/open-book-exams-more-harrowing-time-for-students/articleshow/77513059.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kanpur||Pvt tutor held for showing obscene video to student||Kanpur:A private tutor was arrested in the Barra area fon Tuesday or allegedly showing objectionable video clips from his mobile to a student. According to police, parents of a 10-year-old boy lodged a complaint at Barra police station against his tuition teacher Sunil that the latter was showing him obscene videos from his mobile during tuition classes since the past few days. The irate parents approached Barra police and lodged a complaint in this regard. The cell phone has been recovered from the accused and mobile data along with objectionable material loaded in the phone will be examined, police said. Inspector Barra Harmeet Singh said, “The accused teacher has been arrested and a case registered against him under relevant sections of IPC besides POCSO Act, following a complaint from the parents. Further investigations are continuing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pvt-tutor-held-for-showing-obscene-video-to-student/articleshow/77494142.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Private hospitals inflate bills, ignore cap on treatment cost||TIRUPATI/VISAKHAPATNAM/VIJAYAWADA: The August 9 fire accident at a Covid Care Centre in Vijayawada has brought into the forefront questions of overcharging of patients by private hospitals, deviating from government-set guidelines. Allegations have emerged that some private hospitals have tied up with luxury hotels and are charging exorbitant rates for services under various packages. In Tirupati, the business of Covid-19 treatment has emerged as a means for private hospitals to make money. While the state government had announced that Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals would be covered under the YSR Aarogyasri scheme, TOI found that private hospitals had segregated cases into three categories — mild, moderate and critical — and were charging between Rs 15,000 to Rs 40,000 per day for mild cases, Rs 25,000-Rs 50,000 for moderate cases and Rs 40,000-Rs 70,000 for critical cases. Chittoor district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta who inspected the private hospitals in Tirupati amid rising complaints, said nodal officers were appointed to monitor the activities and Covid-19 treatment protocols at private hospitals. The district collector added the state government would not tolerate unfair practices by private hospitals. “Tough action will be taken against any private hospitals if they overcharge patients for providing Covid-19 treatment,” he said. Meanwhile, in Vizag city, senior advocate Lanka Jaganadham has written to the chief minister, pointing out that, “pharmacists, private Covid-19 testing centres and private and corporate hospitals are exploiting the situation and charging five to ten times more than they are expected to charge.” The advocate said, “For instance, for rapid antigen tests, some private testing centres are charging Rs 3,000 instead of Rs 850. Private hospitals are charging per day an amount ranging from Rs 25,000 to Rs 1 lakh per patient, which is impossible for a common man to bear for 10-14 days of treatment.” TOI also learnt that a corporate hospital near Hanumanthwaka Junction charged Rs 2 lakh for admitting a Covid-19 patient, in addition to per day charges. A similar situation prevails in Vijayawada where private hospitals are overcharging patients under the guise of special packages for Covid-19 treatment. Some hospitals have also deployed the services of rural medical practitioners and quacks for admitting patients to Covid Care Centres operated by them in rural areas. Responding to complaints, Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said the administration is initiating action against private hospitals found collecting exorbitant fees. “We came to know that a few corporate hospitals are collecting fees higher than those fixed by the state government. We will not tolerate this and stringent action will be initiated,” Imtiaz said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/pvt-hosps-inflate-bills-ignore-cap-on-treatment-cost/articleshow/77495979.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Private hospitals inflate bills, ignore cap on treatment cost||TIRUPATI/VISAKHAPATNAM/VIJAYAWADA: The August 9 fire accident at a Covid Care Centre in Vijayawada has brought into the forefront questions of overcharging of patients by private hospitals, deviating from government-set guidelines. Allegations have emerged that some private hospitals have tied up with luxury hotels and are charging exorbitant rates for services under various packages. In Tirupati, the business of Covid-19 treatment has emerged as a means for private hospitals to make money. While the state government had announced that Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals would be covered under the YSR Aarogyasri scheme, TOI found that private hospitals had segregated cases into three categories — mild, moderate and critical — and were charging between Rs 15,000 to Rs 40,000 per day for mild cases, Rs 25,000-Rs 50,000 for moderate cases and Rs 40,000-Rs 70,000 for critical cases. Chittoor district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta who inspected the private hospitals in Tirupati amid rising complaints, said nodal officers were appointed to monitor the activities and Covid-19 treatment protocols at private hospitals. The district collector added the state government would not tolerate unfair practices by private hospitals. “Tough action will be taken against any private hospitals if they overcharge patients for providing Covid-19 treatment,” he said. Meanwhile, in Vizag city, senior advocate Lanka Jaganadham has written to the chief minister, pointing out that, “pharmacists, private Covid-19 testing centres and private and corporate hospitals are exploiting the situation and charging five to ten times more than they are expected to charge.” The advocate said, “For instance, for rapid antigen tests, some private testing centres are charging Rs 3,000 instead of Rs 850. Private hospitals are charging per day an amount ranging from Rs 25,000 to Rs 1 lakh per patient, which is impossible for a common man to bear for 10-14 days of treatment.” TOI also learnt that a corporate hospital near Hanumanthwaka Junction charged Rs 2 lakh for admitting a Covid-19 patient, in addition to per day charges. A similar situation prevails in Vijayawada where private hospitals are overcharging patients under the guise of special packages for Covid-19 treatment. Some hospitals have also deployed the services of rural medical practitioners and quacks for admitting patients to Covid Care Centres operated by them in rural areas. Responding to complaints, Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said the administration is initiating action against private hospitals found collecting exorbitant fees. “We came to know that a few corporate hospitals are collecting fees higher than those fixed by the state government. We will not tolerate this and stringent action will be initiated,” Imtiaz said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pvt-hosps-inflate-bills-ignore-cap-on-treatment-cost/articleshow/77491595.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Private hospitals inflate bills, ignore cap on treatment cost||TIRUPATI/VISAKHAPATNAM/VIJAYAWADA: The August 9 fire accident at a Covid Care Centre in Vijayawada has brought into the forefront questions of overcharging of patients by private hospitals, deviating from government-set guidelines. Allegations have emerged that some private hospitals have tied up with luxury hotels and are charging exorbitant rates for services under various packages. In Tirupati, the business of Covid-19 treatment has emerged as a means for private hospitals to make money. While the state government had announced that Covid-19 treatment at private hospitals would be covered under the YSR Aarogyasri scheme, TOI found that private hospitals had segregated cases into three categories — mild, moderate and critical — and were charging between Rs 15,000 to Rs 40,000 per day for mild cases, Rs 25,000-Rs 50,000 for moderate cases and Rs 40,000-Rs 70,000 for critical cases. Chittoor district collector Dr Narayana Bharat Gupta who inspected the private hospitals in Tirupati amid rising complaints, said nodal officers were appointed to monitor the activities and Covid-19 treatment protocols at private hospitals. The district collector added the state government would not tolerate unfair practices by private hospitals. “Tough action will be taken against any private hospitals if they overcharge patients for providing Covid-19 treatment,” he said. Meanwhile, in Vizag city, senior advocate Lanka Jaganadham has written to the chief minister, pointing out that, “pharmacists, private Covid-19 testing centres and private and corporate hospitals are exploiting the situation and charging five to ten times more than they are expected to charge.” The advocate said, “For instance, for rapid antigen tests, some private testing centres are charging Rs 3,000 instead of Rs 850. Private hospitals are charging per day an amount ranging from Rs 25,000 to Rs 1 lakh per patient, which is impossible for a common man to bear for 10-14 days of treatment.” TOI also learnt that a corporate hospital near Hanumanthwaka Junction charged Rs 2 lakh for admitting a Covid-19 patient, in addition to per day charges. A similar situation prevails in Vijayawada where private hospitals are overcharging patients under the guise of special packages for Covid-19 treatment. Some hospitals have also deployed the services of rural medical practitioners and quacks for admitting patients to Covid Care Centres operated by them in rural areas. Responding to complaints, Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz said the administration is initiating action against private hospitals found collecting exorbitant fees. “We came to know that a few corporate hospitals are collecting fees higher than those fixed by the state government. We will not tolerate this and stringent action will be initiated,” Imtiaz said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/pvt-hosps-inflate-bills-ignore-cap-on-treatment-cost/articleshow/77495978.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||13 Cantt roads shut for 3 days||Secunderabad: As many as 13 civilian roads in the Secunderabad Cantonment will be closed by the Local Military Authority (LMA) for three days, from August 14 to 16, between 4am and 6pm. “In view of security concerns on Independence Day, the LMA will shut Residency Road, Hislop, Amherst, Gurbaksh Marg, Rajendra Singhji, Lake Line Ranges Road, Barr, Yapral, Gough, Wellington, AOC, Mornington, and Entrenchment roads,” defence authorities said in an official statement on Tuesday. “Ambulances, school buses, police vehicles, government officials on duty, state/district administration officials on duty, medical cases being transported in private vehicles for medical help, funeral processions for burial/cremation within cantonment & essential service vehicles will be permitted after carrying out due security checks and establishing identity,” the LMA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/13-cantt-roads-shut-for-3-days/articleshow/77492994.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 12, 2020||Vadodara||Leopard killed by speeding train||Vadodara: A leopard was killed in the Devgadh Baria taluka in Dahod district when it was run over by a speeding train. It is believed that the big cat was crossing the railway tracks sometime early on Tuesday when the incident took place. According to the sources, the leopard was an adult male and may have reached the stretch of the railway line between Sant Road and Piplod through a pipe on the stretch. An official said that the leopard was dragged for about 50 metres along with the train and its body was cut into three pieces in the accident. An autopsy was performed on the animal and the body was disposed of as per guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/leopard-killed-by-speeding-train/articleshow/77490725.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||Extend Borivli sailor’s passport to 10 years: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: Observing that passport authorities could not have issued a merchant navy sailor a passport of a year under Passport Rules, 1980, Bombay high court directed Regional Passport Officer, Bandra (E), to extend it to 10 years from date of issue. A bench of Justices Suresh Gupte and Abhay Ahuja passed the order on August 7 on a petition by Borivli resident Roshan Menezes (28), who has a rash driving case pending. In December 2019, the magistrate permitted him to apply to renew his passport and directed RPO to consider it according to Passport Rules, 1980. But RPO on January 30 renewed it for a year. He moved HC, stating that his each sailing contract is for nine months and most countries require long-term validity passports as a pre-condition for granting visa. The passport authorities relied on an August 25, 1993, circular, which lays conditions for issue of passport to persons having pending criminal cases and allowed to travel abroad by court. It requires a passport to be issue for a period specified in the court order. If no period is prescribed, the passport can be issued for a year. RPO’s advocate Y S Bhate said no period was prescribed by the magistrate in Roshan’s case and Union government could issue a passport for a year. The judges agreed with Roshan’s advocate Neeta Karnik, who relied on two Bombay HC judgements which make it clear that under rule 12, a passport, other than for a child aged less than 15, should be issued/renewed for minimum 10 years. The judges said HC held that while allowing renewal as per rules, the criminal court, in effect, allows renewal of passport for 10 years. Also, where the magistrate, directs passport to be issued or renewed as per 1993 notification, in default, it is likely to be renewed for a year. “This being the law declared by our court, respondents in the present case could not have renewed the petitioner’s passport for any period less than 10 years... the passport office is bound to renew the petitioner’s passport for 10 years,” they concluded. Passport office has four weeks to make the endorsement on Roshan’s passport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/extend-borivli-sailors-passport-to-10-yrs-hc/articleshow/77493444.cms||Rosy Sequeira
August 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Woman gives birth on roadside in Tiruvuru||Vijayawada: A woman delivered a baby boy on the road while waiting for a 108 ambulance at Tiruvuru town in Krishna district on Tuesday. According to official sources, the woman was in her ninth month and had gone into labour on Tuesday. Her family members dialed 108 for an ambulance, however before the vehicle could arrive, the woman gave birth on the side of the road. Learning about her situation, local anganwadi and Asha workers rushed to their aid and cut the umblical cord. Later, both the newborn and the mother were taken to a local government hospital, where they are said to be safe now. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/woman-gives-birth-on-roadside-in-tiruvuru/articleshow/77491622.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid patient ends life in hosp||Hyderabad: A 60-year-old Covid-19 patient committed suicide by hanging in the bathroom of a private hospital at Malakpet in the wee hours of Tuesday. A nurse noticed his body around 2am and alerted security. Ravinder Raju, a retired private employee from Karimnagar district was admitted to a private hospital in Malakpet, on August 6 after his Covid-19 test came positive. “As he had fever, he was kept in ICU. After his condition became stable, he was shifted to a room two days ago,” the hospital spokesperson said. “The fear of Covid gripped him. No suicide note was found,” DCP, East Zone, M Ramesh told TOI. A nurse went for putting on a drip at about 1.10am, however, Raju was not on the bed. Thinking he went to the washroom, she waited before alerting security.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-patient-ends-life-in-hosp/articleshow/77493025.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Rs 3 lakh deposit demand plaint by victim’s kin||KOLKATA: In the first police complaint of high deposit demand after the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission allowed hospitals to charge an advance of no more than Rs 50,000 or 20% of the estimated treatment cost (whichever was lower) at the time of admission, the family of a Covid victim from Tamluk on Tuesday alleged that she died in an ambulance while a private hospital off EM Bypass — now a corona unit — kept asking for a deposit of Rs 3 lakh. The complaint lodged with Anandapur police has been forwarded to health department for inquiry. According to the family, the woman in her late 60s had earlier been admitted to a nursing home at Park Circus where she tested positive. She lost her husband three days ago to the infection. The family was asked to take the elderly woman to a Covid facility. Her son hired an ambulance and brought her to Desun Hospital on Monday night. The family alleged that the hospital had demanded Rs 3 lakh in advance. The family reportedly paid Rs 80,000 as a first instalment but said the hospital stuck to its demand. The family faced some technical issues before they could pay up Rs 2 lakh more. But, the hospital said another Rs 20,000 had to be paid. The patient, the family alleged, was in ambulance all along and later she died inside it. Anandapur police reached the spot, pacified the kin and received the complaint. TimesViewSeveral important questions regarding hospital treatment and its cost have come up over the last few days. The state government has taken cognisance of the issues and effected important changes in admission, treatment and billing protocols. What is now needed is ground-level monitoring and quick dissemination of justice. All processes must be followed in letter and spirit. People queuing up for treatment must get succour and should not be saddled with newer problems.“We have received the complaint and forwarded it to state health department. We are treating it as a general complaint. Based on the findings of their expert panel, we will ascertain legal action,” said DC (East) Gourab Lal. The hospital refuted the charges saying the family was given an estimate for treatment. It admitted taking Rs 80,000 as advance deposit citing that staffers in the billing section were not aware about the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission’s advisory. “The patient was brought in a very serious condition. Out doctors tried CPR in ambulance itself but could not revive her,” said Tapas Mukherjee, deputy MD at Desun Hospital. Private hospitals said efforts are being made to make billing as much transparent as possible. While updates on bills are being communicated to patient party regularly, hospitals said it would not be possible to communicate with patient’s family on some tests that need repetition. But, for costly investigations like MRI, CT scan and costly medications, hospitals make it a point to take the consent of the family. “We are seeing a good number of patients whose condition remains unchanged in the ICU for days. Even if doctors feel that the prognosis could be bad, they cannot stop treatment. With prolonged stay in ICU, the bill will get fatter,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO Peerless Hospital. As patients’ kin are discouraged from visiting facilities, hospitals said apprising them of every little detail on phone/mail is difficult.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rs-3l-deposit-demand-plaint-by-victims-kin/articleshow/77492956.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Eateries get nod for late deliveries||AHMEDABAD: In a major relief for restaurateurs, they have finally received approval from the government to continue with food delivery late into the night. An in-principle nod has been received during a meeting held between CM Vijay Rupani and representatives of the Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA), Gujarat, on Monday. “The number of people eating out has fallen drastically after the lockdown and only recently footfalls have improved marginally, that too over weekends. We made a representation on the issue, asking the government to allow deliveries past 10pm so revenues can remain intact. The chief minister has given us an affirmative response that restaurants can operate their takeaway business after 10pm,” said Narendra Somani, president, HRA, Gujarat. A well-placed source in the state government said, “There is no guideline that bars restaurants from providing takeaways after 10pm. If restaurants want, they may keep their premises open after midnight for takeaways.” The move will benefit restaurateurs, whose business has taken a hit after the lockdown. “Several youngsters order food late in the night. Several IT professionals who work late also tend to order food late. While footfalls have taken a hit, takeaways are saving the restaurant business and it is great if the government has supported restaurants with such a provision,” said Dilip Thakkar, a partner in a city restaurant. Estimates by restaurateurs show footfalls for dine-ins have fallen by at least 60% and takeaways being allowed will be a silver lining that will help save restaurant business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/eateries-get-nod-for-late-deliveries/articleshow/77494242.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Surat||Another doctor donates plasma||Surat: City-based paediatric neurologist Dr Ritesh Shah, a regular blood donor, gave his plasma at SMIMER Hospital on Tuesday. “I had developed Covid-19 like symptoms with fever and weakness in the first week of July and tested positive on July 6. I was in isolation for 14 days and recovered. During home isolation, I had decided to donate my plasma,” he said.  Dr Shah has donated blood over 40 times. “This is the best donation we can do to others to save lives and we are not losing anything by giving plasma,” Dr Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/another-doctor-donates-plasma/articleshow/77491650.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||ACB: No proof to pursue case against MLAs||Jaipur: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) claimed that they are unlikely to pursue any case against three independent legislators against whom a preliminary inquiry had been initiated in horse-trading case.According to officials, they do not have enough “evidence” to lodge a case.The ACB had launched a preliminary inquiry around a month back against three independent MLAs for alleged involvement in offering money to few of their counterparts for toppling the ruling government.“It was just a preliminary inquiry and no case was registered. At present, we do not have any evidence about their involvement, but in case some proof is revealed in the future, then we will deal with it accordingly,” said an official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-no-proof-to-pursue-case-against-mlas/articleshow/77494186.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Hefty hospital fee costs man his life in Tirupati||TIRUPATI: A 43-year-old man suffering from Covid-19 died in Tirupati on Tuesday. Family members of the deceased have alleged that the man was denied treatment at private hospitals in the city resulting in his death. The 43-year-old from STV Nagar tested positive for Covid-19 on August 3 and was being treated at home. However, his oxygen levels dipped on Tuesday. He was immediately rushed to SVRR Government Hospital in a 108 ambulance. But as there was no bed with ventilator support available at the hospital, he was taken to various private hospitals in the city. Family members alleged that almost every private hospital in the city demanded a hefty sum to admit the patient. Unable to afford the fee, family members brought the patient back to SVRR Government Hospital. By the time he could be provided ventilator support, the patient passed away. Recently, the state government launched a QR-based information system on bed availability at 138 hospitals across the state. But the system came to no use of this 43-year-old and his family during the emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hefty-hospital-fee-costs-man-his-life/articleshow/77491638.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 12, 2020||Delhi||61% parents in Delhi-NCR don’t want schools to reopen from September 1, reveals survey||NEW DELHI: Close to 61% of parents in Delhi-NCR do not want schools to reopen by September 1, a survey has highlighted. At the national level, 58% are against the idea. The Centre is mulling reopening of schools and other educational institutions in a phase-wise manner between September 1 and November 14, said sources. In a survey conducted by LocalCircles, a community social media platform, the decisions of the parents were guided by several factors. In Delhi, 16% of the parents shared that they cannot afford to take chances with children given the high risk and uncertainties of Covid-19. Around 2% were worried about elderly family members in case the child gets infected. Another 8% said that it would not be possible to maintain social distancing in schools and there were fears among 7% parents that opening schools might increase the spread of Covid-19. Many felt that online education was a good substitute given the situation. A total of 47% shared their decisions were guided taking into view all of these factors. Over 3,000 parents had participated in the survey from the national capital. The schools have been closed since March and as per the latest circular of the MHA, they will remain shut till August 31. Earlier, the Ministry of Education had sought suggestions from parents on schools’ reopening. “Ever since it was reported that the government is considering opening schools from September 1 for senior classes and middle school, parents from Delhi and NCR have been discussing this issue in our communities quite passionately,” said Sachin Taparia, founder, LocalCircles. Many parents have opined that schools can’t be started this year. “They are of the view that the government efforts need to focus on enabling online education in more schools,” Taparia added. Over the past few days, Delhi has seen a rise in the number of fresh coronavirus cases. On Monday, there were 707 new cases and 20 deaths. In other countries where schools are being reopened, students and school staff have been found positive. America is one of them. “In early May, Israel became the first country to restart schools and within a few days, hundreds of students and teachers got infected. Kenya has decided to cancel the entire school year to protect kids from the infection,” said Taparia. Apart from Delhi, parents in Gujarat (69%) and Madhya Pradesh (67%) too felt that reopening of schools from September was not a good idea. While in Uttar Pradesh, 60% parents were opposed to it, close to 55% parents did not favour it in Tamil Nadu. LocalCircles had received 25,000+ responses for the survey from across 252 districts of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/61-parents-dont-want-schools-to-reopen-from-sept-1-reveals-survey/articleshow/77493046.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Irregularities in test kit distribution||Kakinada: East Godavari district collector D Muralidhar Reddy suspended a medical officer of Kakinada Municipal Corporation and transferred another medical officer on Tuesday after taking note of irregularities in distribution of Covid-19 testing kits in the medical and health department. A comprehensive inquiry has been ordered. Speaking to TOI, district medical and health officer Bandaru Subrahmunyeswari said irregularities have taken place in distribution of testing kits due to the negligence and lack of organisation. — Samson Raj||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/irregularities-in-test-kit-distribution/articleshow/77491653.cms||Samson Raj
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: FIR for Shrey hospital blaze accuses Bharat Mahant of negligence||AHMEDABAD: On Monday, four days after eight Covid-19 patients were killed in the fire at Shrey Hospital in Navrangpura, city police filed an FIR in the case, accusing the main hospital administrator Bharat Mahant of negligence causing death. However, the police remained silent on the callousness of civic agencies such as the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES), which did not conduct surveys at Shrey or any other hospitals in city to ensure fire safety rules were not violated. ACP, B division, L B Jhala, who is investigating the case, states in the FIR that Mahant, 57, a resident of Gandhinagar who owns an 86% share in Shrey Hospital, showed negligence which cost eight lives including those of three women in the wee hours of August 6. DCP Zone 1, Ravindra Patel, said, “We have found that the hospital was being run without a fire no-objection certificate (NOC), there were no proper arrangements to deal with a fire and their staff were not trained on dealing with a fire.” Patel said the hospital staff or doctors did not even call fire brigade or police when the fire broke out. “Patients had to make desperate calls to the fire brigade and police,” he added. There was no fire or smoke alarm in the ICU, where the fire broke out, due to which the firefighting was delayed and fatalities occurred, said Patel. Of Mahant’s staff, neither doctors nor paramedical workers were trained on dealing with a fire. Had they been trained, the tragedy could have been averted, states the FIR. On the AMC and fire brigade shortcomings, Jhala defended them. “As the AMC and fire brigade have a staff crunch, they cannot go to each and every place to check. The negligence was on the part of Mahant only.” Patel said the FIR was registered after the preliminary inquiry and reports from the FSL and electricity inspector. “If negligence is found against any one else during the inquiry, they will also be booked,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fir-for-shrey-blaze-accuses-mahant-of-negligence/articleshow/77494221.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata airport activates new mobile control room to handle emergency||KOLKATA: The accident at Kozhilode airport has prompted Kolkata airport to put into use a mobile command post (MCP) that had reached the city during the lockdown. The MCP is critical for a quick and efficient response to emergency situations, like the one in Kozikhode, in which a plane overshot the runway and fell into the valley. “Kolkata airport now has a customized, fully-equipped robust mobile office outfitted with specialized equipment to serve as an on-scene command, coordination and communication centre for airport emergencies, where heads or representatives of coordinating agencies will assemble to receive and disseminate information and make decisions pertinent to emergency operations,” Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee said on Tuesday. The MCP costs Rs 45 lakh. While an air crash is rare (in May 1953, a BOAC flight from Kolkata to Delhi had crashed after take-off, leaving 43 dead; in June 1968, a Pan-Am flight had struck a tree while landing and had caught fire, killing six people), technical and medical emergencies as well as bird-hits are frequent. A SpiceJet flight from Chennai to Guwahati made a technical halt at Kolkata airport around 10am on Tuesday. “The MCP will swing into action whenever there is a declared emergency landing or an emergency situation develops after a plane lands. The Airport Rescue and Fire Services (ARFS) department is the nodal agency responsible for the deployment of the command post within 90m of the aircraft accident. The head of ARFS, along with the official in-charge of airside operations, will be present. The airport director may also be present if the situation warrants,” Bhattacharjee said. Anti-sabotage operations, including anti-hijack, have a separate SOP and a different command centre with NSG and CISF as key members of the team. The facility will be crucial in handling major emergencies, like fire in an aircraft or a crash, when it will serve as a point, where liaison officers of various cooperating agencies assemble to plan and coordinate rescue operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-airport-activates-new-mobile-control-room-to-handle-emergency/articleshow/77493026.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Man gets bail to ready defence||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court has granted bail to a riot accused allegedly involved in northeast Delhi violence in February this year. Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani granted relief to Mohd Anwar on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with two sureties of the like amount from blood-relatives and ordered him not to leave the National Capital Region without permission of the trial court. The court rejected the stand of the prosecution opposing bail to Anwar and noted that what “deserves attention is the effect that pre-trial detention has on an accused, especially on his right to brief and consult his lawyers and to prepare his defence, in order to afford to the accused a real and not merely chimerical right to fair trial, as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution.” The court laid down stringent conditions while granting bail, saying that till the time cognisance is taken on the chargesheet and the accused is summoned by the trial court, Anwar will present himself on every alternate Saturday, before the investigating officer of the case. It also directed that he will not contact or visit or offer any inducement, threat or promise to the first informant or complainant or any of the prosecution witnesses and will not tamper with evidence or indulge in any act that will prejudice the proceedings in the pending matter. According to the prosecution Anwar was taken into custody on April 3, in connection with another FIR lodged at Dayalpur police station in northeast Delhi for alleged offences of rioting and mischief by fire or explosive substance with an intent to destroy a house. Subsequently, he was arrested in this case. Besides this case, he is also accused in four other FIRs lodged by the Dayalpur police in relation to the February riots. He was granted bail in two of the four cases. The complainant said, the incident took place on February 14, when a mob was engaged in rioting and destruction of property in certain areas of northeast Delhi. In its order the court noted that the investigation in the FIR before it is complete and the chargesheet has already been filed on July 1, while co-accused Firoz Khan has already been granted bail by the high court on May 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-delhi-riots-man-gets-bail-to-ready-defence/articleshow/77493102.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Surat||For second day, Surat sees more discharges than new cases||Surat: Surat is witnessing a dip in the number of active cases with more discharges than fresh positive cases of Covid-19. For the second consecutive day, the city reported more recoveries of Covid-19 patients. Going by the medical bulletin shared by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), 183 patients were discharged from various hospitals in the city on Tuesday. Against this, the city reported 177 new cases in 24 hours from Monday evening. With 177 fresh cases, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases during the pandemic has crossed 13,000 mark in the city. The total number of Covid-19 recovered patients are inching closer at 9,781. Of the 177 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, highest number of cases – 40 - were reported in Athwa zone followed by 34 in Rander, 25 in Katargam, 19 in Limbayat, 18 in Varachha (A), 17 each in central zone and Varachha (B) and seven cases in Udhna zone. Surat rural on the other hand reported 59 fresh cases on Tuesday taking the total number of Covid-19 positive cases in rural areas of the district to 3,215. As five more patients succumbed to the virus on Tuesday, the death toll in the district now stands at 151.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/for-second-day-surat-sees-more-discharges-than-new-cases/articleshow/77491691.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Vijayawada||19 Kadapa prison inmates test +ve||Tirupati: 19 inmates of Kadapa central jail tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. A 100 inmates of the prison were tested for Covid-19 last week. Meanwhile, jail authorities have converted a separate building into a quarantine centre. All Covid-19 patients, including asymptomatic cases, are being shifted to the building. Jail authorities said that the prisoners are being provided nutritious meals as per the Covid-19 protocol including milk and dry fruits.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/19-kadapa-prison-inmates-test-ve/articleshow/77491680.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rohingya man held for forging ID card||HYDERABAD: A 37-year-old Myanmar national was arrested by South Zone Task Force and Bahadurpura Police for securing counterfeit documents including a driver’s licence and aadhaar card to feign Indian citizenship. Mohammed Qadeer, who resides at Kishanbagh and belongs to Mandu Zilla, Buthidaung, Myanmar migrated to India in 2008. In 2012, the Rohingya man married an Indian woman and moved to Kishanbagh, Bahadurpura. According to police, he obtained an Indian voter card by submitting an electricity bill with the help of locals and was arrested by Rajendranagar Police for procuring the ID card in 2012. After being released from jail, he obtained an aadhaar card and driver’s licence with his wife’s help. He also started a bank account. Qadeer is an electrician and has been claiming welfare scheme benefits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rohingya-man-held-for-forging-id-card/articleshow/77494211.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Vadodara||Another child killed by leopard in Dhanpur, one big cat caged||Vadodara: Yet another child fell prey to an attack by a leopard in the Dhanpur taluka of Dahod district taking the toll due to attacks in the taluka to four. Even as the scare continued, the forest department caged a female leopard near the site of the attack hoping that it was the one involved in the series of attacks since last month. Villages in the Dhanpur taluka had been witnessing leopard attacks since July. As many as sixteen attacks had take place in villages dotting the taluka killing four persons including the girl killed on Monday night. All the victims were children. On Monday night, seven-year-old Shilpa Ninama was killed in the Shangasar village of the taluka when she stepped out of her house to relieve herself. The leopard dragged her and took her into the jungle. Forest officials were informed regarding the incident by the villagers and rushed to the village. Despite a major search in the night, the girl could not be found. When officials and personnel returned on Tuesday morning, they found the body of the girl, parts of which had been eaten. At a cage that had been put up less than a kilometer away from the site of the present attack, a leopard was also trapped. While officials believe that the leopard caged in the early hours on Tuesday may be amongst the two that were believed to be attacking people, they want to ascertain this. One of these two leopards was rescued earlier on July 15, but that attacks had continued. “The leopard that was captured on Tuesday is a female and an adult. She is very ferocious too. We suspect that she may be involved in the attacks in the area, but would like to confirm this,” said deputy conservator of forests R M Parmar. Parmar said that the area has around 50 leopards in merely 10 square kilometers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/another-child-killed-by-leopard-in-dhanpur-one-big-cat-caged/articleshow/77490773.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Delhi||Get your tenant, help verified or face ire of Delhi Police||NEW DELHI: Thousands of house owners across the capital have been booked for failing to get their tenants verified or submit their details to police. A crackdown has been launched by Delhi Police on people who haven’t verified their tenants and domestic workers, guesthouses and even cyber cafes in the run up to the Independence Day celebrations. The maximum number of violations were reported from Dwarka, followed by Southeast and West districts. In all, 26 cyber cafe owners were booked for operating without valid clearances. Data provided by Delhi Police showed that 3,440 cases were registered against house owners for not getting their tenants verified. DCP (Southeast) RP Meena said, “The process of tenant verification is even available online. We organised tenant verification camps at various places and even posted about them on social media to create awareness.” “After this, a door-to-door drive was carried out during which violators were booked under IPC Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by a public servant). Similarly, cyber cafe owners found running without proper documentation were also booked,” added Meena. After the lockdown restrictions were eased, many people had employed new domestic workers as their previous ones had left for their hometown or were unable to return to work. While verification drives are carried out regularly by Delhi Police, stringent monitoring is done during festivals and in the run up to Independence Day owing to security concerns. A total of 266 cases were registered against employers who did not verify their domestic workers. “Keeping in mind security issues and the release of criminals from jails due to the pandemic, drives are being carried out to check for anti-social elements. An eye is alsobeing kept on people who have recently taken houses on rent or checked into guesthouses,” said a senior police officer. New Delhi district, which also comprises Lutyens’ Delhi, was the only area where no violations of verification of tenants and domestic workers was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/get-your-tenant-help-verified-or-face-ire-of-police/articleshow/77493147.cms||Sakshi Chand
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Joka-Esplanade to be India’s first Metro to run on indigenous rails||KOLKATA: Joka-Esplanade Metro will be India’s first Metro to run on indigenously manufactured rail. The first lot of the rails reached Joka depot on Monday. Hitherto, all the Metros in India have been running on imported rails as Indian steel companies did not produce these head hardened (HH) rails, which are used for high speed trains (>250 kmph), heavy traffic of varying axle loads for freights and Metro rail. The 1080 grade HH rails are manufactured using an additional heat treatment. So far, these rails were used to be imported from Japan and Europe. Besides, supply issues from the foreign shores under the current situation, the manufacturing of HH rails is a move towards self reliance. Now 20% of total procurement needs to be sourced indigenously, said a railway official. According to a senior Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) official, the executing agency of Joka-Esplanade Metro, following the Railway Board’s policy of indigenization and economy in purchase and procurement, RVNL became the first company to place order with Jindal Steel & Power Ltd (JSPL), which was selected through a rigorous bidding process. “This is a great leap. These will not only save our foreign exchange resources, but generate jobs and encourage other steel manufacturers to come forward to produce world class rails. In the long run, our Make-In-India initiative will facilitate the reduction of production cost to make them competitive,” said the RVNL official. “Yes, the first order for domestic Metro rail, precisely for the Joka-Esplanade corridor, came from RVNL. I appreciate RVNL’s effort to repose faith on JSPL, the only Indian producer. This certainly gives a big boost to the self-reliant India drive,” said Vijay Kumar Chama, president, sales and marketing, JSPL. The firm is supplying 3,000 tonnes of HH rails worth Rs 17.3 crore to RVNL. The HH rail procured from JSPL will be enough for laying tracks from Joka to Mominpore — the elevated stretch of the Metro corridor. “It is not possible to procure such rails entirely from indigenous production units,” said an official. But, this was not an easy process to have this shift. The entire process was inspected, examined and vetted by different railway organizations, including Research Design and Standard Organization (RDSO) and Rail India Technical and Economic Service (RITES).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/joka-esplanade-to-be-indias-first-metro-to-run-on-indigenous-rails/articleshow/77493124.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat lags behind other states on Covid-19 testing front||AHMEDABAD: On Tuesday, Gujarat carried out 41,647 Covid-19 tests, both antigen (Ag) and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, a new high. Incidentally, on Tuesday, PM Narendra Modi chaired a Covid-19 review meeting and mentioned Gujarat along with states such as Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and West Bengal that needed to ramp up Covid-19 testing. According to the official release, Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani said Gujarat has carried out over 10 lakh tests and 456 tests are carried out per million people per day. The CM also said that the state now has 59 government and private labs for testing. In the past one month, the state has also introduced Ag tests to ramp up testing, government officials said. Analysis of Covid-19 testing figures reveals that among the 10 Indian states with the most Covid-19 cases – where Gujarat currently stands 10th with 73,238 cases – Gujarat stands seventh with 15,586 tests per million people. A ramping up of testing has also been seen in the state in the past 22 days, from July 1 to 15, Gujarat was carrying out an average of 7,603 daily tests, which rose to 17,317 in the latter half of the month. In the first 11 days of August, Gujarat has been carrying out an average of 26,138 daily tests. Time and again, Gujarat’s testing policy has come under the lens, especially over the restrictions on testing in the initial months, when government permission was necessary for testing in private labs. Top health department officials had defended the move, citing the ICMR guidelines in the Gujarat high court. Several medical bodies had made representations to the state government to ramp up testing and make it freely available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-lags-behind-other-states-on-testing-front/articleshow/77494240.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Delhi||For every positive case, govt to test 20 others||New Delhi: The government has directed each district to daily test 20 times more people than the number of current positive cases there. The focus will be on high-risk groups and areas from where multiple cases have been reported recently. The fight against the novel coronavirus infection has entered a crucial stage with Delhi managing to bring down the number of daily infections from above 3,500 in the last week of June to 1,000-1,200 now. However, after recording less than 1,000 fresh cases daily for a few days, the capital has mostly crossed the mark since July-end. At 90%, the recovery rate has seen a significant improvement. “The directive came recently, and we have already increased the number of tests. Field teams carrying antigen tests have been told to focus on high-risk groups like underprivileged people, those with comorbidities and senior citizens,” said a district official. On Saturday, 24,592 tests — 19,092 rapid antigen and 5,500 RT-PCR — were conducted, one of the highest testing numbers in recent days. The same day 1,404 people were found to be Covid-19 positive, among the highest counts in the past 20 days. On Sunday, all districts conducted 24,687 tests — 18,985 rapid antigen and 5,702 RT-PCR. According to the official data of the 127 rapid antigen samples sent on Monday to the laboratory at University College of Medical Sciences and GTB Hospital, 18.9% samples tested positive. Among 78 RT-PCR samples, 16.7% were positive. At a south Delhi lab, 21.6% of the 148 raid antigen samples were found positive. The district authorities have heightened surveillance in the containment zones where more and more tests are being conducted after screening. On Monday, 7,028 rapid antigen tests were conducted in these areas, out of which 284 people — 4% — were positive. The RT-PCR test was conducted on 41 people, and eight — 19.5% — were found positive. All symptomatic persons testing negative on rapid antigen tests are being checked through RT-PCR, said a source. The districts have also been asked to ensure that the number of daily rapid antigen tests is three times more than that of the RT-PCR tests. Rapid antigen tests are being conducted at government dispensaries and through mobile vans sent to different areas. “The areas are decided on the assessment of the high-risk groups and places from where more cases have emerged recently,” said an official. More tests have been planned to ensure early detection of the infection and adoption of necessary steps to reduce the number of deaths and prevent the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-every-positive-case-govt-to-test-20-others/articleshow/77513140.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Ramesh Chennithala urges Rahul Gandhi to take over the reins of AICC||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Following Shashi Tharoor MP, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala also urged Rahul Gandhi to take over president’s post of all India Congress committee.“Rahul needs to take up the mantle of the Congress president to build a credible alternative to the totalitarian BJP government led by Narendra Modi. The country is passing through a turbulent phase and serious challenges are being raised to India’s democracy, secularism, economic security and federalism. At this juncture, the country needs the visionary leadership of Gandhi to tide over the crisis,” said Chennithala in an open letter to Rahul Gandhi, who is also the MP representing Wayanad. Quoting words from the epic work of Jawaharlal Nehru to describe the present-day India, Chennithala said, “Without passion and urge, there is a gradual oozing out of hope and vitality, a settling down on lower levels of existence, a slow merging into non-existence. We have become prisoners of the past and some part of its immobility sticks to us.” “It's sad that we are living in times, when the spirit of Indianness, which was carefully crafted by the makers of our constitution led by your grandfather, is being systematically undermined and undone by the present rulers of this nation. As Panditji wrote, there is a gradual oozing out of hope and vitality,” he added. In the letter, Chennithala noted that the hallmark of Prime Minister Modi's rule is his premeditated attempts to undermine the country's constitution, parliamentary democracy, federalism and the time-tested economic structures. “I am sorry to say that a sense of hopelessness and despair is descending on all secular, liberal and peace-loving citizens of this country. This should not be allowed at any cost,” he added. Driven by money power and the blatant misuse of power, the Modi-Amit Shah combine had subverted the basic principles of democracy. This has led to falling of Congress governments in Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh. “An attempt at Rajasthan government was prevented by your swift action,” said Chennithala. This is also leading to large number of elected representatives and party workers leaving the organisation, which needs to be arrested at the earliest, he added. After citing the health issues of interim president Sonia Gandhi, Chennithala said the party needed Rahul to defeat the crookedness and robustness of BJP. Two days ago, Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor also appealed Rahul to take over the responsibility as Gandhi had the “mettle, capability and aptitude to once again lead the party”. Tharoor said electing a full-time president was important to arrest perception of the party being rudderless and adrift.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/chennithala-urges-rahul-gandhi-to-take-over-the-reins-of-aicc/articleshow/77491733.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Demand for antigen tests on 9,000 New Market traders, staff||KOLKATA: Traders of New Market want rapid antigen tests to be conducted on all stall owners and their employees as several of them got infected with Covid-19 in the past one month. Sources in SS Hogg Market Traders’ Association said that at a time when business is slowly picking up for New Market traders, the virus is spreading panic among a section of them after many traders tested positive in the last one month. “We are really anxious to keep our business going in the wake of repeated Covid attack on either stall owners or their workers. At least eight persons have tested positive for the virus recently. This has necessitated to conduct rapid antigen tests that will be beneficial for us as the result will be known immediately. Based on the results, we will be taking the next course of action,” said Ashok Gupta, president of SS Hogg Market Traders’ Association. Gupta added the association would take up the matter with Firhad Hakim, chairman for Board of Administrators (BOA) governing the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC). A trader in the New Market said the civic body would have to arrange rapid antigen tests for 3,000 traders and 6,000 employees. “We have 3,000 traders and 9,000 employees. But now, we are running with 9,000 workforce, including traders. If rapid tests can be done for the workforce, we can do business without any anxiety. The shoppers will also feel safe to visit the market,” said Uday Sahoo, joint secretary of the traders’ association. A trader, however, reasoned that it was more important for them to get their employees tested as they hardly have the financial capacity to get the tests done from private diagnostic laboratories. “We are spending on sanitization of the entire market complex. We have also arranged for thermal scanners for the shoppers. But we need some relief as the business is far from normal,” said the trader. A KMC health department official said rapid antigen tests for the New Market traders and workers could be done in phases. “We need some time to conduct the tests as the number of beneficiaries is huge. We can do so in phases, if we are given a dedicated space by the traders,” added the official. According to a KMC market department official, the civic body had kept a vigil on some of the segments in New Market, where traders or employees had tested positive for Covid. Some of these segments include confectionery, flower, cosmetics and garments among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/demand-for-antigen-tests-on-9k-new-mkt-traders-staff/articleshow/77493135.cms||Saikat Ray
August 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar records highest one-day Covid-19 cases of 4,071||PATNA: Bihar recorded its highest number of 4,071 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 86,812 on Tuesday. The state health department also reported 15 Covid deaths, which took the toll to 465. Earlier, the maximum 3,992 Covid positive cases were reported in a day on Saturday. The department claimed to have tested the maximum number of 83,314 samples in the last 24 hours. A total of 57,309 patients have recovered from the virus infection, including 2,900 people on Tuesday itself. There were 29,306 active cases in the state, which has the recovery rate of 65.70%. Altogether 11,80,566 samples have been tested for Covid-19 in Bihar so far. On Tuesday, Patna again remained on top among other districts with 552 people testing positive for the virus, taking the total cases to 14,446. Altogether 90 Covid patients of the district have died. However, 10,311 people have recovered, leaving 4,045 active cases of Covid-19 in the district. Other districts with large number of Covid positive cases on Tuesday were Begusarai (225), East Champaran (208), Bhagalpur (195), Gaya (172), Buxar (162), Katihar (164), Madhubani (143), Muzaffarpur (124), Araria (123), Rohtas (121), Samastipur (117), West Champaran (112) and Vaishali (103). Health department reported three deaths from Vaishali, taking the toll to 17 in the district, followed by two deaths each from Bhagalpur, Patna, and Samastipur. Bhojpur, Munger, Muzaffarpur, Rohtas and Saran reported one death each. AIIMS-Patna nodal in charge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said three Covid patients died in his hospital, including a 62-year-olds man from Ganga Vihar Colony and a 55-year-old woman of Hulas Vihar at Anisabad in Patna. At NMCH, one 52-year-old man is suspected to have died of coronavirus, but his test report was awaited. NMCH epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, said a 70-year-old man of Bakhri Bazar in Begusarai and another 70-year-old Covid patient from Ara died at the hospital due to cardiac arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-records-highest-one-day-ve-cases-of-4071/articleshow/77491737.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 12, 2020||Pune||Pune’s listed IT companies lose 60 clients, shed 974 jobs in first quarter||PUNE: The four Pune-listed technology firms lost 60 clients in the first quarter ended June 2020. But it is not as if all was lost. Firms won some business too, which mostly came from those with deep pockets. BSE filings revealed most of these client losses came in the sub-$1 million billing segment, indicating the cut-backs at the smaller businesses globally. Consequently, 974 jobs were lost cumulatively at the IT firms in Q1, the data showed, adding that only Persistent managed to add jobs, while Zensar, KPIT and Birlasoft shed positions. Of the 32 clients Zensar lost in the quarter, 29 were in the sub $1 million revenue category. Birlasoft lost 22 clients in the sub $1 million revenue category. Persistent regrouped its medium and large clients, but data shows that even it lost all the four clients it lost in the sub $1 million revenue category. Client revenue split for KPIT is not available. According to IT executives, the next two quarters will be of renegotiations. “We will continue to ensure the well-being of our employees, uphold all our client commitments and remain liquid to get through the difficult spell,” said Sachin Tikekar, president and whole-time director, KPIT. The executives told their investors that the key was to remain engaged with clients even as remote working continues. “Our focus will remain to work closely with our customers and partners and aid them in their initiatives to accelerate their success in the post-pandemic world,” said Dharmender Kapoor, MD and CEO, Birlasoft. Persistent said its growth in revenue came from just one segment — Banking, Financial Services and Insurance. “Our strong year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter growth in Q1 was led by BFSI as it continues to be a standout, as the sector recognizes need for new ways of reaching customers digitally,” said Sandeep Kalra, executive director, Persistent Systems. It was also the quarter when attrition levels fell at all the firms. All companies said that they maintain a “healthy” pipeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/punes-listed-it-companies-lose-60-clients-shed-974-jobs-in-first-quarter/articleshow/77493127.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Get wings of power & responsibility. Bring change in society||Civil services offer an attractive and challenging career to the ambitious, aspiring and talented. It is a dream of many students to become IAS, IPS, and IFS officers. Here, government officials are engaged in civil occupations that are neither political nor judicial. Various fields like engineering, medical, defence, security, law and order, education, healthcare, physical infrastructure, transport, telecommunications etc are a part of civil services. Shaunak Khandare, an aspirant, says, “This system literally governs a nation. Ministers are the policy and strategy makers but in order to implement these plans, a strong administrative system is required. Civil servants have the power and authority accompanied by responsibility to do constructive work for building up the nation.” “Civil servants are generally regarded as experts in public affairs and administration. They are often utilized as neutral advisors by those responsible to make policies. In the corporate world, you work for a company and its chairperson to earn profit. But in public, sector you will work for every individual and profit making will not be the goal,” he adds. A civil servant serves every class of society. This career path gives an opportunity to do social work in every field and bring change in society. It assures you good salary, job security, medical facilities, and status in society. The education qualification to appear for civil services exams is graduation in any field. The preparation for this exam can be started from Std XII onwards, parallel to your graduation. Important skills one should possess are to be analytical, cool minded, and mentally and physically sound. Civil servants are recruited through open competitive examinations. The Civil Services Examination (CSE) is a nationwide competitive examination in India conducted by the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) for recruitment to various civil services of the government of India. In states, the exams are conducted by their respective public service commissions. To start with, one needs basic knowledge from Std V to Std X. Main reference books and daily newspaper reading are also must. Why you need to do to prepare Intense practise and preparation Extreme focus Knowledge of all current issues Deep understanding of concepts Concentration power Professionals speak Preparing for civil services exams is really challenging, but it’s also worth it. Though our job is tough, it is safe and comfortable as well. Most importantly, we get life security as well as work satisfaction Shruti Fundkar Working in civil services gives us integrity and confidence. We have to work really hard. We are responsible for important decisions we need to take for citizens. We are in a position of trust. It’s best for those who want to serve public Sanjay Rathod I work in the railway department. After clearing the exam and getting the job, life has been much better. We not only get job security for life, but also facilities that are amazing. Working with government and helping citizens is very satisfying Timon Anthony If one wants to get into civil services, s/he should start preparing from an early stage. Many of our students get full access to all the aptitude tests, general knowledge and current affairs. Students need to have deep knowledge of all that is happening around us Tushar Lande Expert view Vijay Dhoke, director, New Vision IAS Academy Patience the key to wonderful future results A person should enter this field with positivity and patience, because the future holds wonderful results. Students who prepare for UPSC exam should not entirely focus on it, but prepare for other exams simultaneously. Exams like state service, RBI etc can be pursued along with UPSC. This will act as a backup for students and avoid the feeling of being lost if they fail to clear UPSC. A person should always keep options open. Preparations should be started right after Std XII. Mostly, students prefer to venture into arts field and prepare for UPSC side by side. The subjects are somewhat similar which does not create any kind of burden of extra studies. Students should develop general knowledge and stay updated with the recent happenings around them. For this, I would suggest to develop a reading habit. Books, newspapers, internet etc are the sources where a person can find any information required. Another important aspect that students should keep in mind is that proper guidance is a must. With proper guidance and practise, a person can excel in this arena. Lastly, I would like to mention that in these tough times, students must create a study-friendly environment at home and keep preparing for the exams. (Compiled by Janhavi Dave & Rushabh Rathod)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/get-wings-of-power-responsibility-bring-change-in-society/articleshow/77494280.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Agra||22 test Covid +ve at ISKCON, Vrindavan temple sealed, Janmashtami cancelled||Agra: Vrindavan’s ISKCON temple was sealed on Tuesday, on the eve of Janmashtami, after 22 of its members tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday evening. Afterwards, the planned Janmashtami celebrations at the temple were cancelled. Confirming this, ISKCON spokesperson in Vrindavan, Saurabh Das, said three heads of different departments were among the 22 who tested Covid positive, hence the temple management had decided not to celebrate Janmashtami this year. ISKCON officials said samples of 420 people were taken for testing, and of these, 22 were found positive. Out of them, 12 are brahamacharis who stay in ISKCON’s Vani ashram, while the others are congregation members who stay outside the premises. All of them have been isolated in different premises of ISKCON, said Das, adding that a team of doctors is monitoring their health. He said another test will be conducted on them after 10 days to check their status. According to sources, many ISKCON members had gone to West Bengal to attend the cremation of Bhakticharu Maharaj. Two of them had tested positive for Covid-19 after their return 15 days ago, after which the health department took samples of all members, nearly two dozen of which were found positive on Monday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/22-test-covid-ve-at-iskcon-vrindavan-temple-sealed-janmashtami-cancelled/articleshow/77490496.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 12, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 positive inmate escapes from makeshift jail in Agra||AGRA: A Covid-19 positive prisoner escaped from a temporary jail located in front of Hariparwat police station in Agra on Monday. The 24-year-old was sent behind the bars in case of a mobile phone theft. He escaped by scaling the boundary wall of the temporary jail set up at Queen Victoria Girls Inter College. Till Tuesday evening, the prisoner was at large while a manhunt was on. Deputy jailor KP Singh said, “The prisoner tested Covid-19 positive on August 4. He was isolated. On Monday morning, he came out of his room on the pretext of using the washroom. He managed to escape from the jail by climbing the wall. We had forwarded a formal complaint to the police”. Station house officer (Hariparwat) Ajay Kaushal said, “We are searching for the absconder. His relatives are being contacted. CCTV cameras in the vicinity of the jail are being checked. He will be arrested very soon. On basis of the complaint received from the jail authorities, an FIR has been registered against him under IPC’s sections 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public servant) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension)”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-inmate-escapes-from-makeshift-jail-in-agra/articleshow/77490500.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Head constable rescues youth||Rajahmundry: A police constable rescued a youth who fell from the old bridge on Godavari at Jonnada in East Godavari district on Tuesday. G Prabhakara Rao, who is the head constable at Alamuru police station, was on his way to Ravula Palem when he saw Yerra Ramesh of falling from the old bridge into the river. He immediately swung into action and stopped a truck carrying ropes on the bridge. He dropped the rope to the youth and with the help of other people, the head constable pulled the youth back to safety. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/head-constable-rescues-youth/articleshow/77491749.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS, BJP in slanging match over projects||Hyderabad: After the tug of war over mishandling of Covid-19 cases in Telangana, TRS and BJP are now caught in a war of words over irrigation projects being stalled by the Centre. TRS leaders believe BJP leaders, including Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy, are trying to influence the Centre on various matters concerning Telangana and stalling its development. “State-level BJP leaders are writing letters to the Centre secretly and openly on various projects. We have seen this in the case of Covid- 19 management,” a TRS leader said. TRS insiders said the state BJP was making systematic efforts to create trouble by involving the central government in every issue. “The role of the central government is to resolve contentiois issues and not go by which party is in power. It is unfortunate that BJP is looking to consolidate its presence at the expense of Telangana’s growth. People are not fools to fall for its game plans,” TRS MLC Bhanu Prasad said. The TRS leaders also lambasted the BJP-led central government for giving a short shrift to Telangana and not supporting it financially. However, the state BJP unit denies these charges and said the Centre has always extended financial aid to Telangana. “When the central government praises the state on some of its schemes, TRS jumps at it. But, the party is not ready for a course correction if the Centre makes suggestions. The Union government is only trying to help Telangana as far as resolving disputes with AP is concerned,” BJP spokesperson Rakesh Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-in-slanging-match-over-projects/articleshow/77485863.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 12, 2020||Agra||Girl, 12, raped by her friend's uncle in Aligarh||Agra: A 12-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her friend's uncle in Aligarh district on Monday evening. The suspect has been arrested by the police. According to police, the girl had gone to her friend’s house when the man allegedly raped her. People gathered after hearing the girl’s cries and informed her father who immediately called the police. The suspect was booked under IPC section 376 (rape) and under POCSO Act at Bannadevi police station. The girl was sent for a medical examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/girl-12-raped-by-her-friends-uncle-in-aligarh/articleshow/77490511.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Speeding costs 23-year-old his life||HYDERABAD: A 23-year-oldwas killed in a road accident at Nallakunta early on Monday morning. Edric Andrew Hutton, of Vijayapuri Colony, fell on the road after his bike skidded due to over speeding. He died on the spot. “The man was over speeding and it’s suspected that he was driving under the influence of alcohol. A beer bottle fell out from his pocket during the accident,” said Nallakunta inspector K Muralidhar. Edric was travelling towards Fever Hospital stretch on his Yamaha FZ bike when the vehicle crashed into a pole after hitting a aroad median around 5 am on Monday. Traffic police released CCTV footage of the accident On Tuesday to warn people about the perils of over-speeding. His family, in a complaint, said the victim left with his bike without intimating anyone at home around 1 am on Monday. When Edric called his father asking him to send some cash, the family asked him to come back home. “The CCTV footage shows the victim was over speeding and lost control of the vehicle. He then crashed into a road divider. He was not wearing a helmet and died on the spot after sustaining multiple injuries, including a severe injury to his head,” said a police officer from Nallakunta police station. Following the incident, a case was registered under section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/speeding-costs-23-year-old-his-life/articleshow/77494264.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Agra||Janmashtami celebrations from Krishna’s Janamsthan goes live||Agra: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, devotees will have an opportunity to watch lord Krishna’s birth celebrations live from Sri Krishna Janamsthan (Lord Krishna’s birthplace) temple on Wednesday night. All preparations have been made by the temple authorities for the live telecast of the event, as the entry of public in the temple is not allowed while devotees from outside are not allowed entering the district due to the fear of Covid-19 spread. Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust chief Mahant Nritya Gopal Das would also be offering prayers to Lord Krishna, said Sri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan secretary Kapil Sharma. Sharma said the live telecast would start from 11pm on Wednesday and continue till 1am. Devotees could watch all programmes live on Doordarshan and other channels, as the entry of public in temples on Janmashtami is banned due to Covid-19, he said.Sharma added that the entry of public in the temple had been banned since 12pm on Monday and the temple doors would reopen for the public at 3pm on August 13. Last year, however, the temple doors were kept open for the public from 5:30am to 1:30am on Janmashtami.Addressing mediapersons, district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Misra said, “Though the entry of public is banned in Krishna’s town for Janmashtami celebrations, all major crossings in Mathura and Vrindavan will be decorated with lights, and all rituals and traditions will be followed in the temple.”However, other popular temples, including Banke Bihari in Vrindavan and Prem Mandir, will remain shut for the public till September 30 and August 31, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/janmashtami-celebrations-from-krishnas-janamsthan-goes-live/articleshow/77490518.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown calendar keeps vegetable prices in check||Kolkata: With complete lockdown dates being announced in advance, the supply line is slowly becoming normal, causing a dip in prices of vegetables and other essentials. The prices of vegetables are supposed to dip significantly, with farmers witnessing bumper crop on the third cycle of production after the devastation by Cyclone Amphan. The sharp plunge in prices of vegetables in the wholesale markets, however, does not get reflected in the retail prices across the city markets. “A cartel of retailers refused to allow the plunge the way prices have fallen in the wholesale markets to perpetuate the high profit level,” said a wholesaler. However, the prices are going down slowly and a further dip is on the cards in coming days, said an agri-marketing department official. “Many south Bengal farmers managed to make a turnaround in the third cycle of vegetable production post Amphan. Nature somehow has compensated the loss suffered by farmers in the wake of the cyclone. The fertile topsoil this time is conducive to massive vegetable production. But the lockdown in some areas like Kharagpur, Kalyani and Bongaon remains sore point in the supply,” said Kamal Dey, president West Bengal Vendors’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-calendar-keeps-vegetable-prices-in-check/articleshow/77493145.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
August 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Crime Branch gets M R Bijulal’s custody||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The prime accused in the Vanchiyoor treasury scam, M R Bijulal, has been handed over to police custody for four days. The district crime branch team probing the scam will take him to various places, including his workplace and various banks, as part of gathering evidence. They will also travel to Kottayam and Wayanad treasuries where he had worked earlier. In addition, the investigating team is planning to interrogate Bijulal further so as to ascertain the role of his wife, Simi D Ambi, if any, in the scam. The police FIR says that Bijulal siphoned off Rs 2.73 crore from the treasury. In the initial investigation, Rs 73 lakh was found missing from the treasury, while the remaining amount was recovered from the treasury savings bank accounts of Bijulal and his wife. It also found serious lapses on the part of treasury officials in initiating action against Bijulal despite information that clearly incriminated him in the fraud three months ago. Under these circumstances, the team is of the view that the probe be expanded to include these officials under provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/crime-branch-getsbijulals-custody/articleshow/77491765.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada cops form 8 teams to hunt down Ramesh Hospital owner||VIJAYAWADA: The city police on Tuesday formed eight teams to arrest the absconding owner of Ramesh Hospitals in connection with the fire that killed 10 people and injured 18 others on Sunday. Police commissioner B Srinivasulu said the hospital group’s chairman Pothineni Ramesh Babu has been absconding right after the blaze at the Swarna Palace hotel, which was taken on lease by Ramesh Hospitals and converted into a Covid-19 care centre. Cops have already arrested three of his employees, including chief operating officer Dr Kodali Rajagopala Rao. It is also pertinent to note that after Ramesh Babu absconded, he even left a recorded video message on his official YouTube channel expressing his condolences and explaining that he had set up the Covid-19 care centres at the insistence of the district administration. Swarna Palace hotel owner Mutthavarapu Srinivas Rao too is absconding, police said, as despite the investigation officers’ pleas, he is yet to record his statement. A manhunt has been launched for Dr Ramesh across Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. Cops suspect that he might have taken shelter at the residence of one of his relatives. Governorpet police said notices have been issued to them to appear before the investigation officers. Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association’s AP chapter has written a letter to DGP Gautam Sawang, urging him not to take action against doctors as “it is not in line with natural justice”. The association said initiating action would hurt the “morale and integrity” of the medical fraternity. In fact, the IMA went on to put the onus on the department of health for according permission to Ramesh Hospitals “without going into suitability of the premises”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vij-cops-form-8-teams-to-hunt-down-ramesh-hospital-owner/articleshow/77493201.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong leaders pay tributes to Nandi Yellaiah||Hyderabad: Several senior Congress leaders on Monday paid rich tributes to former MP Nandi Yellaiah who passed away on August 8 due to Covid-19. Participating in the virtual condolence meeting, Telangana Congress president and MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy and AICC general secretary in charge RC Khuntia recalled the services of Nandi Yellaiah for the nation and the Congress party. “Nandi Yellaiah began his political career as a corporator of Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and went on to become a Member of Parliament eight times. Nandi Yellaiah was polite, humble and quite affectionate towards me,” he recalled. However, some of the veteran Congress leaders including M Kodanda Reddy, Marri Shashidhar Reddy, V Hanumnanth Rao, Ponnala Lakshmaiah did not attend the meeting. Though these leaders gave technical and other personal reasons for not being able to attend the condolence meeting, sources said they wanted to subtly register their protest against the party leadership for denying ticket to Nandi Yellaiah from Nagarkurnool Lok Sabha constituency in 2019 polls. Though Nandi Yellaiah was a sitting MP from Nagarkurnool, he was not given the ticket. AICC Incharge of Telangana Affairs R C Khuntia, CLP leader Bhatti Vikarmarka, working presidents A Revanth Reddy and Ponnam Prabhakar, MLA D Sridhar Babu, AICC secretaries Bose Raju, Sampath Kumar, Vamshichand Reddy, Srinivasan Krishnan, former ministers J Geetha Reddy , DCC Presidents and other senior leaders participated in the condolence meeting. Meanwhile, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka said: “Nandi Yellaiah may have survived if the TRS government had taken measures to effectively stop the spread of coronavirus in the State,” Bhatti said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-leaders-pay-tributes-to-nandi-yellaiah/articleshow/77485881.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Fresh rainfall rings alarm bells, 75 lakh hit by floods||PATNA: Fresh rainfall in parts of the state, which are already reeling from floods for over a month, rang alarm bells on Tuesday even as the population affected by the deluge crossed the 75-lakh mark. According to the bulletin issued by the Patna Meteorological Centre on Tuesday evening, light to moderate rainfall occurred at many places across the past 24 hours. A few places in north Bihar received heavy rainfall, including Forbesganj (70mm) and Araria (30mm). Patna also received 50.3mm rainfall on Tuesday. The all-India weather bulletin issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast widespread rainfall in Bihar on Wednesday and Thursday. “The monsoon trough line is passing through Dehri in Bihar, Dhanbad in Jharkhand, Kolkata in West Bengal and then south eastwards towards Bay of Bengal. The trough line along with moisture incursion from Bay of Bengal is likely to lead to light to moderate rainfall in Bihar along with heavy rainfall at one or two places in north- east and south- eastern parts of the state over the next three to four days,” an official at the Patna met centre said. The official added that a few districts in north Bihar, including Gopalganj, West Champaran and East Champaran, which are already severely affected by floods, are also expected to receive showers in the coming days. Though the weathermen have predicted more showers in the coming days, there is some respite in terms of falling or static trend in water level in major rivers in north Bihar, which have led to floods in low- lying areas in as many as 126 blocks spread over 16 districts. As per the daily flood bulletin issued by the water resources department (WRD) on Tuesday evening, the swollen Bagmati had come down below danger level at four out of five flood gauges in Sitamarhi district. It, however, continued to flow above the danger level at one flood gauge each in Sitamarhi, Muzaffarpur and Darbhanga districts. Nevertheless, the river showed a falling trend at three places and static trend at the remaining four places in the three districts. The turbulent Burhi Gandak also showed a falling trend at all four flood gauges in Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Khagaria districts; though it was flowing above the danger level at all four places. Kamla Balan, however, came below the danger level at one flood gauge in Madhubani but remained above at another place in the district. Khiroi, one of the rivers of Adhwara group, which wreaked havoc in Darbhanga, is showing a falling trend at two flood gauges for almost a week now but it continues to flow above the danger mark at both places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fresh-rainfall-rings-alarm-bells-75l-hit-by-floods/articleshow/77491763.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Vijayawada cops form 8 teams to hunt down Ramesh Hospital owner||VIJAYAWADA: The city police on Tuesday formed eight teams to arrest the absconding owner of Ramesh Hospitals in connection with the fire that killed 10 people and injured 18 others on Sunday. Police commissioner B Srinivasulu said the hospital group’s chairman Pothineni Ramesh Babu has been absconding right after the blaze at the Swarna Palace hotel, which was taken on lease by Ramesh Hospitals and converted into a Covid-19 care centre. Cops have already arrested three of his employees, including chief operating officer Dr Kodali Rajagopala Rao. It is also pertinent to note that after Ramesh Babu absconded, he even left a recorded video message on his official YouTube channel expressing his condolences and explaining that he had set up the Covid-19 care centres at the insistence of the district administration. Swarna Palace hotel owner Mutthavarapu Srinivas Rao too is absconding, police said, as despite the investigation officers’ pleas, he is yet to record his statement. A manhunt has been launched for Dr Ramesh across Chennai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. Cops suspect that he might have taken shelter at the residence of one of his relatives. Governorpet police said notices have been issued to them to appear before the investigation officers. Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association’s AP chapter has written a letter to DGP Gautam Sawang, urging him not to take action against doctors as “it is not in line with natural justice”. The association said initiating action would hurt the “morale and integrity” of the medical fraternity. In fact, the IMA went on to put the onus on the department of health for according permission to Ramesh Hospitals “without going into suitability of the premises”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vij-cops-form-8-teams-to-hunt-down-ramesh-hospital-owner/articleshow/77493201.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 12, 2020||Agra||Visitors won’t be allowed to witness Janmashtami celebrations in Agra jail this year||AGRA: Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, visitors from outside will not be allowed to witness Janmashtami celebrations at Agra Central jail this year. However, the annual tradition of offering midnight prayers at the shrine inside the jail premises will take place as usual on Wednesday, said jail authorities. “Janmashtami celebrations are a must in all prisons across Uttar Pradesh. Agra jail has been observing Krishna Janmashtami with elaborate celebrations for decades. In wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, gates of the jail will not be opened to outsiders but staffers and inmates will celebrate while maintaining social distancing. The temple inside the jail premises has already been decked up by the inmates,” said deputy inspector general (prisons) Love Kumar. The preparations start a week in advance. The inmates make all the decorations from scratch, including tableaux and art installations. According to data available with the Agra Central Jail, around 1,900 inmates are presently lodged there. An internal estimate of the jail says nearly 1,500 devotees from different parts of the city, mostly local residents living in the vicinity, visit the jail to partake in Janmashtami celebrations every year. However, the jail was not opened to visitors last year either, as prisoners from Kashmir had been lodged there after abrogation of Article 370 in the valley. “Prisoners are very excited for the celebrations. The fact that outsiders will not be allowed to witness their creations has dampened the spirits a little. However, the kirtan (devotional chants) will be organized as usual on Wednesday. Prisoners will sing bhajans (devotional songs) dedicated to Lord Krishna,” said VK Singh, senior superintendent of Agra central jail. Apart from the decorations, the inmates also enact the story of Krishna to mark the occasion, donning colourful costumes. According to mythology, Krishna was born to Devaki and Vasudeva in a prison cell in Mathura. Krishna was prophesied to kill Kansa, the ruler of Mathura and brother of Devaki. “We also have a special menu planned for the prisoners,” said Singh. “Apart from the usual ‘dal and roti’, we will be serving the festive ‘halwa puri’,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/visitors-wont-be-allowed-to-witness-janmashtami-celebrations-in-agra-jail-this-year/articleshow/77490525.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Courage the key to beating coronavirus: OGH superintendent||Having lived through the coronavirus experience, both as a doctor and a patient, I realised one thing: Keeping our mental resolve is the biggest factor in winning the battle against the virus. It was a very different experience when compared to anything I had been through earlier. There was no sense of smell or taste, lot of weakness, being in an intensive care unit (ICU), not knowing what is going on in the body, having breathlessness, and seeing varying readings on the pulse oximeter, all created panic. At times the oximeter reading showed 92, then 89 and sometimes 94. This fluctuation of oxygen levels creates some panic. Every time it happened to me, my pulse started increasing. As I was already breathless, panic sent blood pressure shooting high which in turn increased the oxygen consumption and the breathlessness became more severe. Moreover, there were patients around me who were very critical, mostly doctors. I saw four patients succumb in two days when I was at the ICU at NIMS. It deeply upset me and shook my confidence. Each time I saw a patient near me become critical or succumb, it triggered panic in me. Whether it is a doctor or any other patient, the impact on the human mind of such an episode when it comes to our own self, is always the same. The one thing which helped me stay mentally strong was that my wife was also with me in the hospital. My wife, B Himabindu, had also tested positive along with me on July 2. While I had a sore throat and cold initially when we quarantined ourselves, she was asymptomatic. I had sent away my son to my brother’s house, while the other son is in Karimnagar. I took all possible precautions yet I got infected. While I was at Gandhi hospital, the breathlessness continued throughout. I was put on antivirals and oxygen support. Tocilizumab was not available at that time, so I was shifted to NIMS where I remained up to July 23. At NIMS, I was in the ICU for four days. It was there that I saw four patients die in two days. While I am currently maintaining a high protein diet with eggs, chicken, taking vitamin-C and Zincovit apart from doing breathing and got the best of treatment possible in a set up where everyone was known to me, the virus can still leave a huge impact. You need courage to face this virus. After being discharged on July 23, Dr Nagender was on rest till July 30. He rejoined official duty on July 31. He hopes his personal experience will help in better treatment of other patients. (As told to Amrita Didyala)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/courage-the-key-to-beating-virus-ogh-superintendent/articleshow/77493034.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Fish dying in Gandhisagar: NMC to seek Neeri help||Nagpur: Alarmed by complaints of residents and shop owners along Gandhisagar about stench in the area because of hundreds of dead fish floating in the lake, Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s lake conservation department has decided to seek National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) help. “Neeri will be asked to check water quality and conduct autopsy of the dead fish,” said NMC’s superintending engineer (water works department) Shweta Banerjee. Preliminary investigation, however, has ruled out possibility of fish dying due to environmental reasons. “There is very bleak chance of any toxic material being the reason. To find out the exact cause, we will rope in scientists from the Neeri,” she said. Professional diver Jagdish Khare, who stays at the lake, said every year there is a similar phenomena wherein a large number of fish die during monsoon. This year, the number of dead fish is alarming, he said. Environment expert Kaustav Chatterjee said, “Sudden fish deaths occur when there is no artificial water aeration in lakes. Weather conditions, especially during heavy rains and cloudy days, cause fish deaths. Rains increase growth of planktons (a diverse collection of organisms that live in large water bodies and provide crucial source of food to many small and large aquatic organisms) and phytoplankton (microscopic algae). During cloudy days, phytoplankton remove oxygen from water for respiration. During daylight hours, these produce more oxygen than they consume, thus providing oxygen for the fish in the lake.” Cloudy weather combined with night-time conditions deplete oxygen level which leave fish with reduced oxygen to persist. This mainly affects big fish which need more oxygen to survive, he explained. Other reasons for fish deaths could be overcrowding, wherein species fight for food among themselves, said Chatterjee. Temperature difference at various depth levels of lake and turnover of oxygen-deprived bottom water during heavy rainfall also leads to fish kills. Sudden spike in pollution level can also result in the death of fishes. It is highly recommended to have artificial aeration in lakes in order to maintain dissolved oxygen level and lake ecosystems, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fish-dying-in-gandhisagar-nmc-to-seek-neeri-help/articleshow/77493154.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||BDL to set up warhead production unit||Hyderabad: Union defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday laid down the foundation for a warhead production facility (WPC) which will come up at Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL). Through a virtual function organised in New Delhi, the defence minister also laid the foundation for a seeker facility centre (SFC) as part of the week-long ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ celebrations at BDL. BDL is establishing the SFC for manufacturing and testing of indigenously developed seekers for missiles. “Present day surface-to-air missiles are equipped with RF seekers for guidance in the terminal phase to improve missile accuracy. SFC has been designed to be modular so as to suit other seekers with an incremental change...The facility will also meet the requirements of refurbishment of existing seekers of missiles available with the armed forces,” defence officials said. Meanwhile, BDL is also establishing WPC to manufacture and test indigenously developed warheads. According to officials, this facility is designed to adapt to all future developments in warhead technology and missiles. “Establishing SFC and WPC will contribute towards realisation of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ in defence sector and will also result in substantial saving of foreign exchange for the country,” officials said. Present at the virtual function in New Delhi were Union secretary for defence, secretary and additional secretary for defence production along with senior officials of the defence ministry. They were joined by BDL CMD Commodore (retd) Siddharth Mishra along with other directors and senior officials from Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bdl-to-set-up-warhead-production-unit/articleshow/77485898.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Negligence cry: Min visits hosp||Howrah: Minister Lakshmi Ratan Shukla on Tuesday personally probed allegations by a woman Covid patient at TL Jaiswal Hospital that created a stir on social media. The video posted by the woman, Moumita Ghosh of North Howrah, went viral on Facebook. In the video, she alleged that none had attended to her, despite her complaining about breathing trouble repeatedly to doctors and nurses. She also alleged that food served to patients was stale. Shukla visited the hospital and arranged for an oxygen cylinder for Ghosh. Hospital superintendent Sukhendu Biswas said, “The allegations against us are untrue.” The CMOH Howrah Bhabani Das could not be contacted for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/negligence-cry-min-visits-hosp/articleshow/77493188.cms||Rupak Banerjee
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Teen daughters kill abusive father in Jagadgirigutta||HYDERABAD: A 45-year-old flour mill owner was strangled to death by his daughters at their house in Jagadgirigutta on Monday night. The deceased, A Raju, ran a flour mill at Phisalbasti in Maqdoom Nagar, Jagadgirigutta. Raju’s wife died of ill health eight months ago. “Raju was addicted to liquor and used to harass his daughters. He would verbally and physically assault them when inebriated. Fed up with his behaviour, the teenage daughters strangled him when he was asleep in a drunken condition,” Jagadgirigutta inspector A Ganga Reddy said. The elder of the two girls, 17, is doing her Intermediate and the 16-year-old is a school dropout, the inspector said. A relative of the accused who lives nearby alerted police on seeing Raju’s body at their home on Tuesday. The police registered a murder case and took the juveniles into custody. They will be produced before Juvenile Justice Board on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teen-daughters-kill-abusive-father/articleshow/77493128.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||BJP ready for ‘action-packed’ House session on I-Day eve||JAIPUR: Following a truce between the Congress and Sachin Pilot, the BJP changed its strategy from fortifying their MLAs in a five-star hotel to focussing on the ‘action-packed’ assembly session. The senior party leaders are planning a multi-fold attack in the assembly — Covid mismanagement, disrespecting Maharana Pratap in textbooks, demanding relief in power and water bills, initiatives taken to counter locust attacks and unemployment allowance — on the ruling Congress in the assembly session beginning August 14. BJP state president Satish Poonia said they will seek responses on all issues the state was facing besides seeking an explanation on taking the state for ransom for 30 days by staging a political crisis. “Each and every legislator of our party will raise issues by slapping questions on all issues. As a responsible opposition, we will prove in the assembly and before the public that how their drama has caused an irreparable impact on citizens of the state in the midst of the pandemic,” said Poonia. BJP leaders will decide their final strategy in the meeting of their lawmakers on August 13. Deputy leader of the opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore minced no words in calling the assembly session ‘full of action.’ “They (Congress) have been playing hide and seek with each other for the last one month. Now, they have to face the opposition and people of the state. They will be exposed on all fronts for making a mockery of the mandate given by the people,” said Rathore, giving a clear indication of his party’s intention. Sources said the party had already asked the lawmakers to submit their questions to the assembly secretary. Also, they are preparing a list of the speakers who will gherao the ruling party in the assembly. Former education minister Vasudev Devnani has forwarded 30 questions to assembly secretary on all major issues including the revision in the textbooks. “They have been evading the issues since the beginning of the lockdown. Now they can’t escape from the issues and have to reply. My questions will expose them on how they mishandle coronavirus and flouted norms to revise textbooks as part of their appeasement policy,” said Devnani. The meeting will be attended by Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, national joint secretary (organization) V Satish, national general secretary Murlidhar Rao and BJP state incharge Avinash Rai Khanna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-ready-for-action-packed-house-session-on-i-day-eve/articleshow/77494290.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Districts a worry for officials as Telangana sees nearly 1,900 new Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Tuesday registered a further 1,896 Covid-19 cases and eight deaths. Worried health authorities said the virus was now spreading quickly in the districts. Of the cases recorded on Tuesday, 82% or 1,558 cases were reported from outside Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation areas as per officials. The total number of cases in the state now stands at 82,647 while the death toll has risen to 645. So far, 59,374 patients have recovered from Covid-19 with the state now having 22,628 active cases. While districts’ share of new cases stood at 60% till mid-June, the numbers have seen a constant rise. Meanwhile, case numbers continued to dip in the GHMC area with only 338 being recorded on Tuesday. Among other districts, Rangareddy saw 147 new cases followed by Karimnagar (121), Medchal-Malkajgiri (119) while Warangal (urban) had 95 new cases. Other districts such as Jangaon, Gadwal, Peddapalli, Jagtial, Kamareddy, Nalgonda, Siddipet and Mahabubnagar also saw a significant rise. As many as 18,035 tests were conducted on Tuesday, taking the total number of samples tested so far in the state to 6.42 lakh. Four government facilities in districts recorded zero bed availablilty for the fourth consecutive day. These include the district hospital in Kothagudem, community health centre in Narayankhed, Government General Hospital in Suryapet and Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) Hospital in Warangal. The community health centre in Alair, Government General Hospital in Nalgonda and Nagarkurnool district hospital are also nearing full capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/districts-a-worry-for-officials-as-state-sees-nearly-1-9k-new-cases/articleshow/77493109.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Nizamabad govt hospitals tops charts for ICU recoveries||HYDERABAD: As many as 109 patients in intensive care unit (ICU) at the Government General Hospital in Nizamabad have recovered in the last two months. At least 50 such patients who were on ventilator won the battle against Covid-19 even after being on ventilator for over ten days. The recovery rate of patients admitted in ICU is around 90% According to the hospital’s data, recovery rate of Covid-19 patients there stands at 40% which is nearly double of other hospitals. “Before the government sent us costly medication like Remdisivir (injection) and Favipiravir (tablets) which cost Rs 30,000 and Rs 12,000 respectively for each patient, we had bought them from the district collector’s fund,” said hospital’s ICU in-charge, Dr M Kiran. While the hospital does not have super speciality units, it ensured that only those with severe co-morbidities were sent to Gandhi Hospital. None of the recovered patients have complained of health problems since discharge. “Confidence among patients and doctors is key for recovery of critical cases,” said hospital superintendent Dr Pratima Raj. Among the standout cases was that of 48-year-old Devi Singh from Bodhan, a central government employee who battled his way to recovery while being on ventilator support for ten days. This is one of the very rare cases in the country. Singh has been advised one month’s rest and light meals with immunity boosting capacities like fruits. “I have been discharged today (Tuesday). I was told that my lungs were completely not in a position to breathe. However, with the help of doctors and a strong hope that I will survive, I continued my battle and survived,” Singh told TOI over the phone. Doctors said Singh’s case was unique as his family had a history of low immunity and some had passed away at a very young age. “Some tests were done in private hospitals as the patients could afford them. He was given the right treatment with expensive injections,” one of the doctors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nizamabad-govt-hosp-tops-charts-for-icu-recoveries/articleshow/77493081.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Old City daily wagers bounce back after battling Covid-19||HYDERABAD: Scores of daily wagers, who tested positive for Covid-19 in the Old City, have now returned to work after recovery. As many as 300 poor patients whose daily earnings were hit because of Covid-19, have recovered while taking treatment under home quarantine. Post recovery, their general complaints are weight loss and weakness. About 70% of men, who are bread-earners, were able to bounce back quickly and resume work after full recovery while 22% of the daily wagers reported loss of income as their work was impacted due to the lockdown. About 8% said they are yet to resume work due to general weakness. A survey by an NGO on poor Covid-19 patients in the Old City vis-à-vis the impact of the pandemic on their daily earning reveals that all the patients with typical Covid-19 symptoms had complained about breathlessness (moderate to severe). They opted for home isolation care with low oxygen saturations and they were given oxygen therapy. “We assessed the post Covid-19 health and socio-economic status of the daily wage earners in the Old City by tracking over 300 patients, who received round-the-clock medical support, including oxygen, and medicines free of cost. Of them, 51 patients are still under treatment. The overall recovery rate under home isolation care has been 80%,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari of Helping Hand Foundation. He said a significant number of patients i.e. 60% were in the age group of 30-50 and 36% patients in the age group of 50-80 years, while 14% patients were below 30 years. Gender-wise, 58% of the patients were men and 42% were women. Mujtaba said 5% patients reported weight loss and 8% reported weakness in the post recovery phase. About 3% said they have negative thoughts about the disease and experience and depression like symptoms, 2% patients required oxygen supplementation even after recovery and testing negative for Covid-19. “No other significant health abnormality was noted post Covid-19 recovery in the rest of the cases,” he added. The survey also revealed that 85% patients received support from their families during home isolation care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/old-city-daily-wagers-bounce-back-after-battling-covid-19/articleshow/77493174.cms||Syed Akbar
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Time to shore up medical infrastructure: CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to PM Modi||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to focus on augmenting medical facilities, saying that Covid-19 has taught a lesson to the country on the need to strengthen infrastructure in hospitals. Stating that India had never faced a pandemic like this, he said the Centre and states should jointly work towards creating top-class health facilities. Taking part in a video-conference with Modi on Tuesday on the Covid-19 situation, KCR said the recovery rate in Telangana was 71% and mortality rate 0.7%. Claiming that no one has a clue on how many days the pandemic would last, the CM said there was an urgent need to step up medical facilities in the country. “There should be a strategic planning to create comprehensive medical facilities. Both Centre and states should jointly implement this strategy.” KCR said that India should also focus on how to deal with such a situation in future and offer better medicare to people. “We have to initiate measures now so that whenever an emergency arises, we will be able to face it effectively. We have seen emergence of several viruses in the past. There is every possibility that another Covid-like virus may emerge in future,” the chief minister said. KCR said the Centre should also consult institutions like the Indian Medical Association, take their advice and plan measures on a war-footing. Explaining the measures taken up by his government to combat the virus, the CM said testing had been increased manifold. “We are providing better treatment to positive patients. Adequate number of beds, medicines, staff and equipment are being made available,” he said. The government is following the ICMR and central guidelines and medical and health staff, police personnel and other key departments are working round-the-clock to fight the virus, he added. Health minister Eatala Rajender, chief advisor to the government Rajiv Sharma, chief secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP Mahendar Reddy and senior officials were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-to-pm-time-to-shore-up-med-infra/articleshow/77492983.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Deposited Rs 30 lakh in jawan’s widow’s account, says Telangana govt||HYDERABAD: The state government on Tuesday informed the Telangana high court that it had deposited Rs 30 lakh in the bank account of widow of lance naik Mohammed Feroz Khan, who was martyred in 2013 while fighting Pakistani troops in Balakot of Poonch district in Jammu and Kashmir. The bench of Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy converted into PIL a letter written by Pavan Kasturi of Saidabad Colony, narrating the plight of Nasreen Khan, widow of the martyr. The petitioner also enclosed a news item published by TOI (dated June 23, 2020) that described her plight. The report had said that she had not got an ex gratia of Rs 30 lakh even though her husband had received a gallantry award posthumously, and the family was eligible to receive the cash award. Though the state government moved the file, it got rejected at the pay and accounts office last year on account of lack of budgetary support. After the high court sought replies, the state took 10 days in the previous hearing to clear the dues. When the hearing in the case resumed on Tuesday, state’s special counsel A Santhosh Kumar informed the bench that they deposited Rs 29.76 lakh in Nasreen’s account. “We have already paid her Rs 24,000 in the past,” he said. The bench, however, was sceptical and sought a proof for the claim. “Show us the evidence that the money has been credited in her bank account,” the bench said and posted the case to August 19. Her father Shaik Moinuddin was knocking the doors of the officials requesting them to give her and her three children their due. The file got rejected at the pay and accounts office last year||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/deposited-rs-30-lakh-in-jawans-widows-account-says-govt/articleshow/77493143.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 12, 2020||Vadodara||MSU exec wing shut; VC, registrar self-quarantine||Vadodara: M S University has landed in a strange situation just when it is struggling to conduct online exams for thousands of students after its first attempt of conducting mock test met with a fiasco. Both MSU vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas and registrar K M Chudasama have opted for self-quarantine for three days after dean of Faculty of Education and Psychology tested positive of Covid-19. The university has shut executive wing located on the ground floor of the university head office following the development. Officials said that the executive wing has been closed as the dean, who is also convenor of the Covid-19 special exam committee, had visited the wing in the last couple of days before he tested positive. Ironically, the exam section which is located on the floor above remained functional a day after the professor tested positive. “The decision to close the executive wing and undergo self-quarantine has been taken as a precautionary measure. We were thoroughly observing all social distancing measures. But for some important discussions, the professor who is convenor of the special exam committee had to visit us,” said Chudasama. He, however, claimed that the professor did not come in close contact with other officials of the exam section including the deputy registrar (exam) who remained on duty on Tuesday. “Most of the time the meetings were done online. Deputy registrar (exam) and convenor of the committee also had conducted their meetings online. We have sanitized the wing and freeze movement as part of precautionary measure,” said Chudasama. Sources said that the dean and his family members who have tested positive are healthy and asymptomatic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-exec-wing-shut-vc-registrar-self-quarantine/articleshow/77490893.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Face-off attempt foiled, 6 held||Vijayawada: The Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) arrested six persons for allegedly planning a riot at Kedareswaripet area in the city on Tuesday. The accused were identified as Nagul Meera, Kandhi Sai Kumar, N Sai Pavan, M Jeevan Rahul, Pedda Jeevan and Sai Kiran. According to cops, Rahul and Sai Kiran had a drunken dispute on July 30 at Kedareswaripet area. Following which both the parties were plotting revenge against each other. They had planned a face off at AS Nagar and SN Puram police station limits. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/face-off-attempt-foiled-6-held/articleshow/77491773.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Spurious sanitiser that killed 16 in Andhra Pradesh made in Hyderabad; 10 held||VIJAYAWADA: A special investigation team (SIT) of AP police on Tuesday arrested 10 persons for running a fake sanitiser racket that killed 16 liquor addicts who drank it in Kurichedu village of Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh recently. The spurious sanitiser was manufactured in Hyderabad. The arrested include Sale Srinivas, a class 6 dropout and main accused, his brother Sale Siva Kumar, Kesav Agarwal, Mohammed Dawood and Mohammed Hazi Sab, all from Hyderabad. Srinivas, who used to sell paint removers, took to sanitiser manufacturing to make quick money during the pandemic. The other five arrested were medical shop owners in AP. Addressing a press conference, Prakasam SP Siddharth Kaushal said the SIT collected 69 sanitiser bottles of eight brands from scenes of crime in the village and began tracing addresses of manufacturers. One of the brands, Perfect Gold, had no batch number. When officials went to the addresses found on the labels (Bengaluru and Hyderabad) they did not find the manufacturing units. Instead, another company called Vandana Forma was found to be operating there. SIT tracks spurious sanitiser unit in HyderabadAn online search helped SIT locate Perfect Gold brand sanitiser unit at Prashasannagar in Hyderabad where large stocks were found. “Main accused Srinivas worked at a local petrol bunk selling paint removers. He has no knowledge about chemicals or sanitisers. He is a class 6 dropout,” Kaushal said, adding that he took the help of two persons who advised him to make a sanitiser using methanol, which is cheaper than ethanol, for higher profits. They found that Vimal Agarwal sold 200 bottles to Yasmin Delawala, a seller of masks at Basheerbagh in Hyderabad, who in turn sold the stock to Kuvvarapu Vikram Dharma of Darsi in Prakasam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/spurious-sanitiser-that-killed-16-in-ap-made-in-hyd-10-held/articleshow/77494798.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
August 12, 2020||Delhi||‘Outsiders’ account for 33% of Delhi’s Covid cases, says health minister Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: Health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday reiterated that about 33% of Covid cases being reported in Delhi of late come from outside. For the past 10 to 15 days, the health minister said, more than 100 patients from outside are visiting different hospitals in Delhi because of better healthcare services and plasma therapy facilities available here. Asked about the increase in the number of patients in Covid hospitals, the health minister told reporters: “Around one third of people visiting Delhi’s hospitals are from outside the city. Around 15 days ago, everyday the number was decreasing by 100. Now, more than 100 patients are coming from outside, which has led to an increase in the number of cases.” Jain said that the capital’s recovery rate was still above 90%. “On Tuesday, more than 100 cases reported were from outside Delhi, while around 200 patients belonged to the city. The number of patients belonging to Delhi is only 2,100 to 2,200. Since Delhi has facilities for plasma therapy and the healthcare services are better here, people from outside are coming for treatment,” added Jain. In the last 10 days, daily Covid-19 positive cases have been fluctuating and touched 1,404 on August 8, which is the highest in over past two weeks. On Wednesday, the capital reported 1,113 Covid positive cases. The number of active Covid-19 cases in Delhi has gone up to 10,946 from 10,596 on August 1. There were 10,868 active cases on August 11. The number of patients admitted in Covid hospitals has also increased. From 2,979 on August 1, it increased to 3,212 on August 11 and further to 3,351 on August 12. A total of 139 persons were admitted to hospitals between Monday and Tuesday. About the recently concluded serological survey, the health minister said that the samples are being tested in labs. “The results of the sero-survey will be out within a week. The previous serological survey revealed that 45 to 46 lakh infected people had recovered,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/outsiders-account-for-33-of-delhis-covid-cases-says-jain/articleshow/77513240.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||11 child labourers from UP rescued||Hyderabad: Rachakonda police along with district child protection unit officials on Tuesday conducted searches on two plaster companies and rescued 11 children — aged between eight and 18 — who were trafficked from Uttar Pradesh for labour. Three persons — Ramlal, owner of Mahesh Zypsam Plaster Company; Pankaj Kumar and Eetukala Jagan Mohan Reddy, supervisor and owner of Sri Pavan Putra Plaster Company — were arrested. According to police, the children were kept confined in sheds located within the premises of the companies. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/11-child-labourers-from-up-rescued/articleshow/77493155.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||Set up a Court of Inquiry into Calicut crash, say air safety experts||MUMBAI: Even as the Aircraft Accident Investigation Board (AAIB) has begun working on the Air India Express Calicut crash, air safety experts have called for the setting up of a Court of Inquiry (CoI). “The same AAIB had carried out the investigation of the Ghatkopar accident and the probable cause of the accident has been attributed to the flight crew. But the report contradicts itself in many areas and key evidence is misrepresented,’’ alleged Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert. “In case of Calicut crash, if the government says we have taken all steps and if still accidents are happening then the scope increases to what was the role of the regulator. The AAIB cannot do that, only a CoI will cover these aspects,’’ he said. S Mangala, Airports Authority of India (AAI) western region, deputy general manager (aviation safety) said: “There is a terrible conflict of interest and non-transparency in the idea of an investigation by the AAIB, an organisation that is fully controlled by an interested party, the ministry of civil aviation, which controls AAI and Directorate General of Civil Aviation. It is imperative that, in the interest of public safety, an open Court of Inquiry is constituted with free access to it for everyone, with every hearing livestreamed/recorded, and the video and audio recordings of those hearings be made available to the general public for free.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/set-up-a-court-of-inquiry-into-calicut-crash-say-air-safety-experts/articleshow/77494807.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Case filed against panchayat officials||THRISSUR: Ollur Police registered a case against Puthur panchayat president and seven others in connection with the suicide attempt of village officer, Simy CN, during a protest against her on Monday. Women’s commission has registered a suo moto case and asked the commissioner to submit a report. Meanwhile, the condition of Simy, who is undergoing treatment at Jubilee Mission Hospital, is improving. Simy said she underwent a surgery on Tuesday and was in pain. She had cut the veins on her hand alleging that the panchayat president and others had insulted and harassed her during their protests as well as on other occasions. Police said they registered cases against panchayat president Mini Unnikrishnan, standing committee chairperson Shaji PG, and six others for obstructing official duties of the village officer and insulting her. DCC vice-president Joseph Tajet criticized the police for not slapping suicide abetment charges against the president and other LDF activists who ‘intimidated the village officer for not succumbing to their pressure to connive with corrupt actions’. Simy is a leader of a pro-Congress NGO association while the panchayat is ruled by CPM-led front. She had alleged that LDF leadership in the panchayat was lobbying to get her transferred. An order transferring her to Eranellur panchayat in Kunnamkulam was issued and she was to be relieved from Puthur in the next couple of days. Women’s commission member Advocate Shiji Sivaji said she sought a report from the tahsildar on the incident. Congress, NGO Association and BJP organized protests demanding action against panchayat office-bearers.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/case-filed-against-panchayat-officials/articleshow/77491802.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Scholar’s protest takes political colour||Visakhapatnam: The fast unto death protest launched on Monday by research scholar Aareti Umamaheswara Rao against alleged caste discrimination by AU authorities took a political colour on Tuesday. While a group of AU professors from the same caste as Rao held a press conference against the protestor, TDP national general secretary Nara Lokesh tweeted in his support. According to Rao, a research scholar at the department of politics and public administration at AU, his PhD thesis has not been approved for the last two months due to caste-based discrimination. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/scholars-protest-takes-political-colour/articleshow/77491788.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha Rajya Andolan Samiti submits complaint in suicide case||Nagpur: Wife and family members of Leeladhar Gaidhane, who committed suicide over an electricity bill amounting to Rs40,000, were accompanied by a delegation of Vidarbha Rajya Andolan Samiti (VRAS), who lodged a complaint against energy and guardian minister Nitin Raut at Yashodharanagar police station on Tuesday. The delegation, led by Ram Neole, has demanded action against around eight persons in their complaint of abetment to commit suicide. Apart from minister Raut, the delegation also demanded action against the secretary in the energy ministry and officials of Maharashtra state electricity distribution corporation limited (MSEDCL) holding them responsible for the death of Gaidhane who had set himself on fire to end life at his residence at Pahune layout on Saturday. Neole, who submitted the complaint with the senior inspector Dipak Sakhre of Yashodharanagar police station, reasoned that Gaidhane was earning Rs6,000 per month and so, how was he expected to pay a Rs40,000 bill. “The government should foot the bill and not someone whose life and existence is already in the doldrums due to the pandemic,” he said. Senior PI Sakhre of Yashodharanagar police station said the complaint would be forwarded to the district collector for action. “We will complete the investigation of the accidental death case that has been already registered,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbha-rajya-andolan-samiti-submits-complaint-in-suicide-case/articleshow/77493249.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 12, 2020||Surat||Oxygen cylinders explode at Surat refilling unit, one killed||Surat: One person was killed and three others injured after a cylinder exploded at the oxygen refilling unit in the city’s Udhana area on Tuesday. The unit refills oxygen cylinder used by industrial units and hospitals. The explosion occurred due to heavy pressure generated during refilling of cylinders. Sources in the fire and emergency department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said the explosion in the oxygen cylinder took place at 12.49 pm at the Ashok Jyoti Oxygen Private Limited situated at Paris Plaza in Udhana. About six fire tenders were rushed to the spot for the rescue operation. The fire fighters rescued about 13 persons from the unit including the owners of the unit Ajay Shah and Ashish Chauhan, who were injured in the blast. One Manoj Yadav, 35, who was working at refilling unit died on the spot due to the heavy explosion. Besides Shah and Chauhan, one Raj Raval was also injured. All three have been rushed to a private hospital for treatment. A fire officer said, “About two or three cylinders exploded during the refilling process. There were about 13 persons present inside the unit when the explosion occurred.” He added, “We have rescued all who were trapped under the debris. The explosion damaged the concrete structure of the unit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/oxygen-cylinders-explode-at-surat-refilling-unit-one-killed/articleshow/77490583.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||MLAs express displeasure in CLP at return of ‘rebels’||Jaisalmer/Jaipur: The return of sacked deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his band of 18 legislators on Tuesday evoked strong protest in the Rajasthan Congress with the legislators who had stayed loyal to the party all this while expressing displeasure at the "rebels" being taken back. At a Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting held at the Suryagarh hotel in Jaisalmer late in the night, the legislators opposed giving any post in the government or the organisation to the dissidents accused of attempting to topple the party government, said sources. The party legislators said the dissidents not only caused nationwide embarrassment to the Congress but also forced the elected representatives to stay away from their constituencies, giving the opposition an opportunity to attack the party government in the state, said sources. Eyewitnesses said as the tempers flied high, senior leaders had to intervene to make the MLAs remain calm. Chief minister Gehlot attempted to pacify legislators saying one had to have a strong heart to take "unpleasant’ decisions to "save democracy". The Congress MLAs in Jaisalmer would be brought back to Jaipur in charter planes on Wednesday, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mlas-express-displeasure-in-clp-at-return-of-rebels/articleshow/77494293.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Notification a blow for adivasis: Seethakka||Hyderabad: Congress legislator Danasari Anasuya, more popularly known as Seethakka, has said that she would speak to like-minded MLAs, irrespective of party affiliation, to oppose the draft EIA notification of the Centre. Anasuya, who represents the Scheduled Tribes (ST) reserved constituency Mulugu in the state, said it is important that adivasis be protected in the country. She has already begun her campaign on Twitter against the new notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/notification-a-blow-for-adivasis-seethakka/articleshow/77485915.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar farmers asked not to use ‘mystery’ packed seeds||PATNA: The state agriculture department has asked farmers not to use packed seeds received mysteriously through parcel and other means. There are around 1.61 crore farmers in Bihar as per a survey conducted by a state government agency in 2010-11. Of them, around 1.53 crore are registered with the official website of the state agriculture department. State agriculture minister Prem Kumar said the department on Monday asked all district magistrates, district agriculture officers and other officials concerned to create awareness among farmers about mysterious parcel of seeds sent to them by anonymous people. “The farmers have been cautioned against the use of packaged seeds sent to them by anonymous people on their addresses. The farmers have also been told either to destroy those packaged seeds on their own or inform the agriculture department officials of the area,” Kumar said. In addition, the farmers have been suggested to pass on the relevant information about the receipt of such parcels from countries like Canada, USA, UK, New Zealand and some other European countries to the toll free number 18001801551 issued by the government. The minister said the warning was issued to the state’s farmers in the wake of directive of the deputy commissioner (quality control) of department of agriculture, cooperative and farmers’ welfare, government of India, on August 6. “The copies of the directive of the union government have also been sent to the state’s agriculture universities and colleges, state seed and organic certification agencies and other seed agencies in the state,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-asked-not-to-use-mystery-packed-seeds/articleshow/77490576.cms||Ramashankar
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||HC makes Congress party to BSP plea on merger issue||JAIPUR: After Supreme Court adjourned the hearing on SLP by Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP) and BJP seeking stay on speaker’s order on merger of six BSP MLAs into the Indian National Congress to August 13 by directing the single bench of the high court to continue hearing on the original petition on Tuesday, the single bench of Justice Mahendra Goyal began hearing the case. But the arguments could not be completed and the case has been adjourned for Thursday. The court accepted the application of the Indian National Congress and Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi to implead it in the case as it is an affected party in the case. BSP opposed Congress party’s application for implead to the petition. Satish Misra, counsel for BSP, argued that Congress is adopting delay tactics by trying to become a party to the petition which was opposed by counsel for Congress party Vivek Tankha and Speaker Prateek Kasliwal. They argued that the former BSP MLAs are now part of the Congress legislative party and the petition pertains to their merger with the Congress and the court accepted it. Misra argued that the Speaker’s order on merger of BSP MLAs with Congress on September 18, 2019, was patently illegal as the Speaker had not given any opportunity for a hearing to the BSP before issuing the order. He argued that not just two-third of MLAs of a party were required for merger but party office bearers as well under the 10th Schedule of the Constitution. He demanded a stay on the Speaker’s order. Satyapal Jain appearing for BJP MLA Madan Dilawar argued that Speaker Dr C P Joshi dismissed his complaint on the merger merely on the ground of delay on April 22 this year which is illegal. The Speaker should have given an opportunity to the petitioner to make amends to his complaint and heard the matter. The Congress counsel had just started the argument when the court time got over. He will continue his argument on August 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-makes-cong-party-to-bsp-plea-on-merger-issue/articleshow/77494296.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Bhopal||Tributes pour in for Rahat Indori||People like him never die: Ghulam AliShocked to hear the news of Rahat Indori’s demise, legendary Ghazal singer Ghulam Ali said, “Rahat Itne bade shayar thei jinhe bade-bade gulukaron ne badi khushi se gaya. Yeh miraz hai unki..aaj bahut bada naam Urdu ka nahin raha. Jana toh sab ne hai, par Rahat jaise log mar kar bhi zinda rehte hein. (Rahat was a wellknown singer whose poetry was sung by many celebrated singers. This is his journey to heaven. Today, Urdu has lost a big name. Everybody has to eventually leave the mortal world, but people like Rahat remain alive even after their passing).” As a poet, Indori was rooted: Shabana AzmiRahat Indori was known for his hard-hitting socio-political poetic comments, which narrated the tales of changing eras. Due to this exceptional creativity, he had earned many fans, cutting across boundaries. Actor-activist Shabana Azmi, an ardent admirer of Rahat’s genius, said, “Poet, by definition, is a social commentator. Rahat Indori was one of those whose poetry was steeped in the soil, yet he had wings which took him to unimaginable heights. His scale was poised perfectly to gauge the social scenario around him. People react to poetry because it is able to use very few words to convey the depth of emotions. As a poet, he was rooted, and his creative brilliance never failed to impress you with its astuteness.” Rahat would call a spade a spade: Javed AkhtarShayar-lyricist Javed Akhtar, who has known Rahat closely, said, “I have shared the dais with Rahat several times in so many mushairas. He was an extremely popular poet. He was appreciated in all those areas where people understand Hindi and Urdu. One of the main reasons for his popularity was that he would call a spade, a spade. And he had a no holds-barred attitude when it came to his poems. Woh danke ki chot par baat karte thei,” said Javed Akhtar. Rahat’s works will always be remembered because he had a great ability to balance technique with a refined thought process, said Akhtar and added, “He had control over the meter, the language along with a special gift of expression.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rahat-would-call-a-spade-a-spade-javed-akhtar/articleshow/77493253.cms||Vinita Chaturvedi
August 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Welfare pensions before Onam: Kerala minister||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Government is planning to disburse welfare pension for July and August to beneficiaries before Onam. Finance minister TM Thomas Isaac said bonus and festival allowance for government employees will also be distributed before Onam, despite Kerala reeling under severe financial crisis. Welfare pensions for May and June are being distributed now. "Around 70 lakh people would receive a minimum Rs 2,600 each in their hands during Onam. Employees and workers will continue to receive the bonus, festival allowance and advance they used to get earlier. MGNREGA workers, who completed 100 working days, are usually given Rs 1,000. Efforts are on to ensure all such assistances during Covid times," Isaac said on Tuesday. He said the government was distributing food kits in coastal areas and a financial assistance of Rs 3,000 is given during lean months. "Government had given Rs 1000 each to 14 lakh poor families during lockdown. We will be providing food kits to all homes during Onam. LSGIs can use their plan fund for providing food to people. Financial strains won’t desist the government from providing much-needed assistance to people during Onam," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/welfare-pensions-before-onamfm/articleshow/77491815.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Environmentalists demand withdrawal of EIA||Hyderabad: The tags #WithdrawEIA2020 and #IndiaNotForSale were trending across the country on Sunday as many residents and environmentalists raised their voice against the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification 2020. Speaking to TOI, environmentalist Kaajal Maheshwari said: “The Environment Protection Act says that the government is expected to amend the policy to strengthen the existing environment law. The EIA2020 is doing just the opposite for no apparent reason. So, it is absurd that anybody will accept it. That’s exactly what’s happening: lawyers, activists, youth and every sane person who understands the current climate crisis is fighting.” City resident Ali Abbas tweeted: “When da last tree is cut, when da last river is Poisoned @PrakashJavdekar will realize, we can’t eat money (sic). #IndiaNotForSale #WithdrawEIA2020.” B Phani Madhav, another resident, tweeted: “55 elephants were killed between 2009-10 and 2016-17, which is 1 in every 4 days. Killer roads & railways contribute to these deaths apart from human-animal conflict issues (sic).” The last day for feedback to the draft EIA notification is Tuesday. Some provisions of the latest draft has raised concerns such as provision of post-facto approvals for projects and 40 industries being left out of the public consultation and EIA process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/environmentalists-demand-withdrawal-of-eia/articleshow/77485927.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Call to reopen parks grows louder||Coimbatore: While the state government has allowed reopening of gyms, morning walkers and joggers have demanded the government to reopen parks and walking tracks as well. They say corporation parks, playgrounds and walking tracks are open spaces, which are safer than most gyms run in closed spaces. “Everyday thousands of people, including senior citizens, walk and jog around the Race Course walking track. But even after lockdown was relaxed on June 8, the district administration has banned walking on Race Course from June 9. It has been two months,” says Saranya Jaychander, a regular walker. Vamsi Chandrasekhar, a resident of Saibaba Colony who has borderline diabetes, used to jog and practice yoga on Bharathi Park. “Now I do whatever possible on my terrace, but it hardly feels the same,” she says. “Being in a park with so much greenery, it gives you a different vibe along with pure oxygen filled air, which helps when you sprint or meditate,” she adds. Her husband who is 56-years-old and has both diabetes and hypertension now walks on the roads near Bharathi Park area. Doctors say physical activity and a good diet are crucial for people with co-morbidities to keep Covid-19 at bay. “People should keep watching their blood pressure and sugar levels. Maintaining an ideal body weight by maintaining a nutrient rich, low calorie, low fat diet and being physically active contributes to keeping blood glucose levels under optimal control,” said chief diabetologist, Kovai Diabetes Specialty Centre & Hospital, Dr R Balamurugan. “Not being overweight or obese also reduces the pressure on your heart,” he added. However, many people over the age of 50, who are not used to working out in gyms, but are regular walkers and joggers wonder why gyms were allowed to reopen while walking tracks and parks are not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/call-to-reopen-parks-grows-louder/articleshow/77493277.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Now, work from home a deciding factor for one out of two flat-buyers in Kolkata||KOLKATA: One out of two home buyers sees the possibility of partly or wholly working from home in future, making it a key consideration while buying a property. Also, nine out of 10 now believe living in housing complexes improves quality of life and is willing to pay a little more and travel a little further to stay in one. A survey of home buyers by N K Realtors, largest real estate consultant operating in Kolkata, has revealed the impact of the novel coronavirus pandemic on customer psyche. Though many among those who were confined to homes during the lockdown are now going to work, a sizeable section still believes work from home will be the norm, either because there may be more such virus-related disruptions in future or because the novel coronavirus has inextricably changed the way companies operate, encouraging people to work from home and doing away with leasing expensive office space. The survey, with a sample size of around 350 buyers in Kolkata, was held in July. Three out of 10 respondents said their requirement of the number of rooms had increased. Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) chairman (Bengal) Sushil Mohta said customers were looking for a study or a corner, where a workstation could be set up, as they believed work- and study-from-home were either here to stay or will happen again. N K Realtors vice-president Biplab Kumar said the demand for complexes had increased following the pandemic. “Complexes with their open spaces, facilities and infrastructure are more equipped and safer to live in,” he said. Mohta, too, felt people had realised the advantages of a gated living during the lockdown. “Since entry into a complex is regulated, there is peace of mind. Walks in the complex also allowed residents a limited scope of socialising,” he said. In the survey, 47% respondents said they wanted to stay in a project that had over 500 units. Two out of three persons view real estate as the most desirable investment than gold, equity and mutual funds. Credai Bengal chairman Nandu Belani felt people have realized the value of home and were convinced it was a secure investment. “In the pandemic, a home has emerged as not just a comforting shelter but also a security for future,” he said. That is perhaps why three of five buyers want to make the purchase in six months. Nine of 10 buyers are seeking properties below Rs 75 lakh, with nearly two out of three keen on a flat in the Rs 45-lakh bracket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/now-work-from-home-a-deciding-factor-for-one-out-of-two-flat-buyers/articleshow/77493264.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Rajkot||Bhuj mamlatdar issues revised order after faux pass||Rajkot: A Bhuj mamlatdar’s (executive magistrate) order rejecting a temple’s request to use loudspeakers, citing bizarre reason that it could spread Covid-19 infection, was revised within 24 hours on Tuesday with top officials saying that he had ‘misinterpreted’ the state government guidelines.On Monday, mamlatdar U A Sumra had denied permission to trustees of Drudhameshar Mahadev temple to use loudspeakers during the holy month of Shravan on the grounds that the sound emanating from them can spread Covid-19 virus.The management had sought permission to use loudspeakers from July 20 to August 20 from 8 am to 1 pm and 8 pm to 10pm.“The number of Covid-19 cases in Bhuj are on the rise. Government has come out with several guidelines and directions (to control the spread). Along with the sound emanating from the mike, Covid-19 virus too can spread. Hence, the permission cannot be granted,” the order signed by Sumra had stated.On Tuesday, the officer issued a revised order granting permission to the temple.“In view of the threat of spread infection, as far as feasible, recorded devotional music/ songs may be played and choir or singing groups should not be allowed. Large gatherings/congregations continue to remain prohibited,” the revised order stated.When contacted, Manish Gurwani, assistant collector, Kutch told TOI: “It was an error of human interpretation on the part of Bhuj mamlatdar. He has issued a revised order through which use of loudspeaker has been permitted while the temple administration has been asked to follow standard operating procedure.” Monday’s order had created quite a stir on the social media platforms.The state government had recently circulated a Gujarati version of a guideline issued by the Centre in English.The Gujarati version stated that to contain spread of virus, only recorded music is allowed and no performance in group will be allowed as it increases the possibility of virus spread. “The mamlatdar misinterpreted this guideline. He misinterpreted it as “playing group music has the possibility of spreading virus,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bhuj-mamlatdar-issues-revised-order-after-faux-pass/articleshow/77490635.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rs 819 crore for seven new med colleges||Jaipur: The state government on Tuesday has decided to accelerate the process of construction of new medical colleges in seven districts and release additional funds for admission to 50 additional seats in five medical colleges.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has approved the proposal for an additional amount of Rs 819.49 crore to bridge the gap between the total estimated cost of Rs 2441.89 crore for these colleges and Rs 1,623 crore approved by the Centre.According to the proposal, new medical colleges will be operated under the Rajasthan Medical Society in Bhilwara, Bharatpur, Pali, Churu, Sikar, Barmer and Dungarpur districts. In the first phase, a cost of Rs 189 crore per college was sanctioned for admission to 100 seats in these colleges in which the central and state government’s share is 60:40. The Central government has also approved an increase of Rs 60 crore per college for admission to 50 additional seats in five of these medical colleges. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rs-819-crore-for-seven-new-med-colleges/articleshow/77494304.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kochi||151-year-old church collapses in bund breach in Kerala's Alappuzha||ALAPPUZHA: Though rain subsided, outer bunds in paddy fields breached, creating trouble in Alappuzha, Kuttanad and surrounding areas. As per details given by agriculture department, till Tuesday over 35 outer bunds burst in incessant rain and 1,760 ha of paddy cultivation were inundated. Also, over 48 outer bunds overflowed, submerging 2,455 ha of paddy cultivation. On Tuesday, a 151-year-old church at Pallathuruthy was destroyed after outer bund of Chungam Karuveli paddy field burst. St. Paul’s CSI Church was destroyed by the force of rushing waters. The church was built by Rev WJ Richardson in 1869 and 30 families used to visit the church. Collector A Alexander said though downpour has lessened, water level in waterbodies of Kuttanad did not recede much and a change can be expected from Wednesday. A 25-member National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team has been deployed to Kuttanad. The collector said that water level in rivers of Chengannur is decreasing. At present, 7,691 persons from 2,378 families are staying in 115 relief camps in the district. In Chengannur taluk, 2,454 people from 718 families are staying in 51 relief camps. Over 3,491 persons from 1,129 families are staying in 26 relief camps in Karthikapally taluk, while 10 camps in Mavelikkara taluk are accommodating 316 people from 121 families. Also, 235 persons from 69 families were shifted to seven relief camps in Ambalappuzha taluk. Over 39 people from 14 families are staying in two relief camps in Cherthala taluk. In order to serve food, 324 non-residential camps are functioning in the district for 97,006 people from 22,920 families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/151-yr-old-church-collapses-in-bund-breach-in-alappuzha/articleshow/77491840.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Chimney protesters’ state worsens||Chandrapur: The condition of the seven project affected persons (PAPs) staging ‘Virugiri’ at the tallest chimney of Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station further deteriorated as their agitation entered the seventh day on Tuesday. Food and water supply to the protesters is scarce and the condition of one of the female protesters is said to be worsening.  Talks between Mahagenco and the protesters have failed. Mahagenco and the power minister are firm on not holding any further talks till the protesters come down from the chimney. The protesters on the other hand have said that they will end their protest only after they get a written assurance from the authorities, including the government, regarding their jobs. Local leaders of MNS, Bahujan Vanchit Aghadi and Ulgulan Sanghatna have already extended their support to the agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chimney-protesters-state-worsens/articleshow/77493261.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 12, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: MLAs in relaxed mood as crisis ends||JAISALMER: After the Congress high command held talks with Sachin Pilot and ensured the Pilot group’s return to the the Congress, more than 100 Gehlot-camp MLAs stuck in a Jaisalmer hotel will finally get the freedom to return to Jaipur and take part in the assembly session that begins on August 14. All ministers and MLAs will be taken back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer by chief minister Ashok Gehlot in four chartered flights from where the legislators will go back to their homes. For the first time after almost a month, the elected representatives are looking relaxed. On Tuesday, a large number of them went to markets for shopping while others visited Tanot Mata temple to offer prayers. Another group visited tourist spots in Jaisalmer. Chief minister Gehlot reached Jaisalmer around 1pm on Tuesday in a special chartered flight. He was accompanied by minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, Shanti Dhariwal, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra, MLA Sanyam Lodha and Mahendra Choudhary. Gehjlot directly reached Suryagarh hotel where he had informal talks with the ministers and MLAs and informed them about the developments. MLAs who went to Tanot Mata temple included Ashok Chandna, Parsadi Lal Meena, Udai Lal Anjana, MLA Prashant Bairwa, Vijaypal Singh, Danish Abrar, Sundar Darshan, Chetan Dudi, Gurmeet Singh Kunnar, Mahendra Vishnoi, Paan Chand and Rohit Bohra. They said the Gehlot government had the blessings of Tanot Mata and development projects would soon start in full swing. MLAs Krishna Punia, Reeta Chouhary, Zahida Begum and others went for shopping at khadi centre. Former municipal council chairman Ashok Tanwar and Panchayat Samiti Pradhan Amardeen felicitated these women MLAs with shawl and presented them memento. Some of the legislators visited tourist spots. Cabinet minister BD Kalla and other MLAs boarded a bus and went to Kuldhara, Khaba and other places including Amarsagar, Badabagh etc. while many went to Sam sand dunes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/mlas-in-relaxed-mood-as-crisis-ends/articleshow/77496447.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Man held for cheating unemployed youth||HYDERABAD: Mohammed Abdul Asif Ali Khan, a 46-year-old electrician, was arrested for cheating an unemployed youth. He took Rs 5 lakh from the victim after promising to secure employment for him in Nuclear Fuel Complex. On August 7, Malkajgiri police received a complaint from Mohammed Yaseen of RTC Colony, Moula Ali, stating that Khan, who introduced himself as an employee of NFC, said that there were job vacancies in his organisation. The accused collected photo copies of Yaseen’s certificates and took Rs 5 lakh cash from him between January 2019 and March 2019 by promising to secure him a job in the NFC. Subsequently, Yaseen kept asking Khan about the job but the latter started giving various excuses. Fed up with the delay, Yaseen demanded his money back but Khan refused to do so. When Yaseen tried to pressurize Khan by taking his relatives along for support, Khan threatened to get him killed, Malkajgiri police said. Recently Yaseen realized that Khan vacated his house without informing anyone about his whereabouts. He lodged a complaint and police arrested Khan on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-cheating-unemployed-youth/articleshow/77494306.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Surat||Man falls off scooter, crushed by truck in Pandesara||Surat: A 50-year-old man died after getting crushed by a truck carrying waste near Kailash crossroad in Pandesara area on Tuesday. The victim, Balvant Naik, lost control of his scooter and slipped under the truck. The deceased, a resident of Rupali Canal, was going to a weaving unit where he was employed. He fell on his right side and came under the left wheel of the truck. “It is suspected that the deceased came under the truck’s wheel after his scooter slipped. It will get clear after a detailed investigation,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-falls-off-scooter-crushed-by-truck-in-pandesara/articleshow/77491823.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: MLAs in relaxed mood as crisis ends||JAISALMER: After the Congress high command held talks with Sachin Pilot and ensured the Pilot group’s return to the the Congress, more than 100 Gehlot-camp MLAs stuck in a Jaisalmer hotel will finally get the freedom to return to Jaipur and take part in the assembly session that begins on August 14. All ministers and MLAs will be taken back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer by chief minister Ashok Gehlot in four chartered flights from where the legislators will go back to their homes. For the first time after almost a month, the elected representatives are looking relaxed. On Tuesday, a large number of them went to markets for shopping while others visited Tanot Mata temple to offer prayers. Another group visited tourist spots in Jaisalmer. Chief minister Gehlot reached Jaisalmer around 1pm on Tuesday in a special chartered flight. He was accompanied by minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, Shanti Dhariwal, PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra, MLA Sanyam Lodha and Mahendra Choudhary. Gehjlot directly reached Suryagarh hotel where he had informal talks with the ministers and MLAs and informed them about the developments. MLAs who went to Tanot Mata temple included Ashok Chandna, Parsadi Lal Meena, Udai Lal Anjana, MLA Prashant Bairwa, Vijaypal Singh, Danish Abrar, Sundar Darshan, Chetan Dudi, Gurmeet Singh Kunnar, Mahendra Vishnoi, Paan Chand and Rohit Bohra. They said the Gehlot government had the blessings of Tanot Mata and development projects would soon start in full swing. MLAs Krishna Punia, Reeta Chouhary, Zahida Begum and others went for shopping at khadi centre. Former municipal council chairman Ashok Tanwar and Panchayat Samiti Pradhan Amardeen felicitated these women MLAs with shawl and presented them memento. Some of the legislators visited tourist spots. Cabinet minister BD Kalla and other MLAs boarded a bus and went to Kuldhara, Khaba and other places including Amarsagar, Badabagh etc. while many went to Sam sand dunes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mlas-in-relaxed-mood-as-crisis-ends/articleshow/77494301.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Indore||Indore: Rahat Indori laid to rest, family does last rites in PPE||INDORE: As the world mourned, poet Rahat Indori was buried at Indore’s Choti Khajrani graveyard late Tuesday night. Despite restrictions due to Covid, several grief-stricken admirers turned up to pay their last respects but they all stood a safe distance apart. About two dozen police personnel were deployed but they kept a discreet presence. After getting information on his Twitter account that the poet would be buried at 9:30pm, his fans started flocking to the graveyard from 9pm. In spite of their grief — many of them were weeping — the mourners were scattered across the area, in keeping with Covid norms. Some women stood in the BRTS lane to pay their respects. The poet’s body was brought in at 10:30pm in a hospital ambulance. Community members chanted ‘Allah-hu-Akbar’ a couple of times and the burial took around 30 minutes. Only 15 family members participated in the burial, clad in PPE kits. Among his immediate family, only his younger son, Satlaj Indori, was present at the graveyard. Many fans had gone to his residence in Shri Nagar, which is now a containment area because the poet had tested positive for Covid. So, police asked them to turn back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/rahat-laid-to-rest-family-does-last-rites-in-ppe/articleshow/77493298.cms||Laveena Francis
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Pandemic pushes back RBU, art college admissions||KOLKATA: Rabindra Bharati University and the Government College of Art and Craft have been forced to push back admissions to their sought-after undergraduate and integrated programmes in performing arts and visual arts till the situation makes it possible to hold live skill tests. While RBU vice-chancellor Sabyasachi Basu Ray Chaudhury confirmed admissions in the relevant courses could not be finalized till the tests were held, Government College of Art and Craft principal Chhatrapati Dutta said the process would start following a decision this week. With arts, fine arts and visual arts faculties, RBU is ready to begin admissions in arts courses now. “But without practical presentation or illustration, it is not possible to select a student for performing arts and visual arts departments. The plus-II marks are not the sole criterion as many with excellent academic records may not have the aptitude. In such a case, if we select students based solely on plus-II scores, candidate may not continue with the course. Even with lower marks, many students have excellent arts and aesthetics skills,” said Basu Ray Chaudhury. He pointed out it was not possible to select performing arts candidates by holding demonstration tests online as internet access could be a problem. “Many candidates from villages secure entry to these departments and subsequently, turn out to be outstanding artists. Such youngsters with potential won’t be able to join unless we wait for the pandemic to improve and call them for entrance tests,” he said. The university is looking to complete the arts admissions in time. “But if this pandemic continues longer, it will not be possible to begin a new session for performing and visual arts subjects even in online or offline mode. That will create an asymmetrical situation,” Basu Ray Chaudhury said. The university follows the choice-based credit system, under which cross-faculty courses are part of the curriculum. “Visual arts and performing arts students also study other humanities subjects or social science papers. If their programme dates are delayed, we will have to hold additional classes for them, as and when they join, which will be a daunting task,” the VC said. Admission process at the Government College of Art and Craft has been announced. “Online preparations have started and we will decide on a date to upload forms on the website. We have not yet decided on the admission process. Live skills demonstration is a requirement . We do not consider plus-II marks as a yardstick for selecting students but hold entrance tests in two practical papers, after which shortlisted candidates are called for a viva voce. We look at the plus-II scores during the final intake. We are yet to decide on how to hold the entrance tests,” said principal Dutta. The institute offer four-year integrated programmes in seven courses. “We usually receive around 2,500 applications for 100 seats,” Dutta added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pandemic-pushes-back-rbu-art-college-admissions/articleshow/77493320.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||Tiger cub’s samples sent to IVRI for virus testing||JAIPUR: The tiger cub, which was rescued after the death of tigress MT-2, could have been carrying the deadly and highly contagious canine distemper virus (CDV) - usually found in dogs. The blood samples for presence of the virus have been sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI). A senior National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) official said, “During a recent visit of our team member to Mukundra, it was observed that cub rescued after the mother’s death is suspected to have (CDV). The IVRI report is awaited. The investigation will be based on the report,” he said. Even after a week, the condition of the five-month-old cub is not stable. A forest staff member on condition of anonymity said, “We are feeding the cub forcefully. Till the time it eats on its own, condition can’t be called stable. There is no much improvement,” he said. The forest administration at MHTR claims the death of big cats which occurred within the span of 10 days was not cause of canine distemper. “The autopsy report of male tiger MT-3 revealed that it died due to multiple organ failure. Lumps of fat in its lungs and other body parts had caused its death. While tigress MT-2 died in a territorial fight,” said an official As canine distemper, is a highly contagious viral disease and does not have a proper treatment. Moreover, the infection causes multiple diseases in affected animals. Expert claimed forest department should regularly monitor two big cats (MT-1 and MT-4) surviving in the tiger reserve. A veterinary doctor said, “No treatment is advisable for a tiger, which is living in a wild, even if there is virus in the reserve. However, vaccination of stray and pet dogs should be done on priority basis in nearby villages, if cub is found infected in the report,” he said. There are around 14 villages inside the core area of the MHTR where 1,600 families stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tiger-cubs-samples-sent-to-ivri-for-virus-testing/articleshow/77494310.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||3 held for smuggling of arms in Bundi dist||Kota: In a special drive against illegal arms and drug smuggling, Bundi Rural police on Tuesday arrested three persons from NH-52 near Badanayagaun under Hindoli police station area of Bundi. They seized four country-made pistols (315-bore single shot), one 12-bore double barrel gun, one 12-bore cartridge, seven 315-bore cartridges and two motorbikes from the accused. “A team from Hindoli police station, led by sub-inspector Mukesh Meena, was checking the vehicles near Badanayagaun on NH-52 around 10.50am on Tuesday when they stopped three persons on two motorbikes identified as Gurpreet Singh alias Gopi (21), resident of Barkheda village, Satnam Singh (20), resident of Badanayagaun and Neemlal Gurjar (37) of Basi village of Bundi district. On search, four country-made pistols (315-bore single shot), one 12-bore double barrel gun, one 12-bore cartridge, seven 315-bore cartridges, all possessed and transported illegally, were recovered from the three accused. The two motorbikes they were riding on were also seized,” Bundi SP Shivraj Meena told mediapersons.Police have lodged a case under sections of Arms Act against the accused and initiated investigation into the matter, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-held-for-smuggling-of-arms-in-bundi-dist/articleshow/77494322.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||Probe sought into death of 11 members of Pakistani Hindu family in Jodhpur||JODHPUR/JAIPUR: Persecution in Pakistan that prompted the family of 11 Pak refugees to land in India in anticipation of a secure life, trailed them even in India. The system and their own people pushed them to the brink of what now clearly appears to be a suicide in the light of the statements of the only survivor Kewal Ram, a written note and an audio piece of a deceased. These 11 members of a family from Sindh province of Pakistan had been found dead under mysterious conditions in their shack on an agriculture farm where they worked at Lodta village in Dechu tehsil, some 125km from Jodhpur, on Sunday morning. The note recovered by police in the shack, which they did not disclose initially and a recorded video audio clip of one of the deceased Laxmi clearly pointed that they were constantly under threat by the family members of wives of Kewal Ram and Ravi alias Revo. These evidences addressed to two neighbouring farm owners clearly mentioned that they had also approached Mandore and Dechu police for help. But they were not only pushed away but also threatened to be sent back to Pakistan by a police officer of the rank of DSP. “Had the police acted positively and sympathetically with these hapless people, the family would have been alive,” said the president of Seemant Lok Sangthan, Hindu Singh Sodha. He demanded an inquiry into police negligence also. “That is why we have demanded a high level inquiry into the matter as we have lost trust in police,” Singh said, adding that these refugees have constantly been suffering from economic and social exploitation as well as exploitation by police, intelligence and home departments. Almost denying any conspiracy, SP (Rural) Rahul Barhat said that it was a case of suicide and the pesticide had been purchased from a shop in Chomu ahead of the incident. Referring to the video clip and written note, Barhat said that they are verifying the claims made in them. Police have also collected the mobiles of all the deceased and were scanning them. No arrest, however, has been made in the case. Police have started interrogating the persons named in the FIR and others related to the in-laws’ families. “It is confirmed that there was a family dispute and a number of complaints had been given in this regard in Mandore police station. We have started a detailed investigation into the matter with all aspects under count,” said an official. Kewal Ram had termed it to be a suicide holding some persons responsible for abetment. “We all had dinner together on Saturday night and at 11pm, they all went inside and I left for the field to guard the crop and slept there. I did not see any person coming nor any other person was present there,” he said in his statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/probe-sought-into-death-of-11-members-of-pakistani-hindu-family-in-jodhpur/articleshow/77494314.cms||Ajay Parmar
August 12, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly sees 148 fresh Covid-19 positive cases||BAREILLY, AGRA, MEERUT: Bareilly continued to report more than 100 fresh Covid-19 cases a day, one of the highest in western UP. On Tuesday,148 people tested positive for Covid-19 virus in the district. Two people succumbed to the virus, said additional chief medical officer, Dr Ashok Kumar. Bareilly district's tally crossed the 4,000-mark as the total number of cases rose to 4,078 with 87 deaths. In Agra, a senior officer of the Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) tax department, a deputy commissioner-rank officer of the commercial tax department, a driver of Agra Development Authority (ADA) and a clerk of Jal Sansthan tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. Work was affected in all these departments throughout the day. So far, six staffers of AMC and two of Jal Sansthan have tested positive. On Monday, an executive engineer of ADA’s building and maps section had tested positive. A 64-year-old Covid-19 positive patient hailing from Agra's Malpura locality succumbed to the infection on Tuesday. He was undergoing treatment at SN Medical College for intestinal perforation and abdominal trauma. Health department officials said he died due to co-morbid condition. So far, 102 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. As many as 41 new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Tuesday evening, taking the district tally to 2,177. At the same time, 22 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. At least 40 people, including five prisoners, tested positive for Covid-19 in Meerut on Tuesday, taking the tally to 2,572 in the district, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer. Over the past 24 hours, more than 5,000 fresh Covid-19 cases surfaced across UP. With this, the total number of cases in the state breached the 1.30 lakh mark. Kanpur and Lucknow were among the worst-affected cities, constantly registering a high number of Covid-19 cases everyday. Besides, Bareilly district, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Gorakhpur and Bahraich accounted for the high number of Covid cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-sees-148-fresh-covid-ve-cases/articleshow/77490650.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Pune||Burglary at house of Covid-19 patients in Pimpri Chinchwad||PUNE: Taking advantage of the absence of an elderly couple, who are in hospital for Covid-19 treatment, burglars struck at their empty home at Nigdi Ota Scheme in Pimpri Chinchwad and made off with booty worth Rs70,000. The theft came to light on Sunday when their neighbour noticed a window of the house open and alerted their son who lodged a first information report (FIR) with the Nigdi police. P R Lokhande, sub-inspector, Nigdi police, said the 44-year-old complainant stayed at Wanowrie, while his elderly parents stayed at Nigdi Ota Scheme. “On July 30, the elderly couple tested positive for Covid-19, and were admitted to a hospital,” he said. Lokhande said on Sunday their neighbour saw a window of their house open. When he peeked inside, he saw the couple’s belongings scattered on the floor. He immediately alerted their son. “The couple’s son checked the house and found that a gold necklace, valued at Rs 60,000, and Rs 10,000 were missing,” Lokhande said. Police have obtained footage from CCTV cameras in the area. “We are scanning the footage from July 31 to August 9,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/burglars-steal-booty-worth-rs-70k-from-house-of-elderly-hospitalised-covid-patients/articleshow/77493308.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Collector’s transfer sparks protest||Chandrapur: The transfer of district collector Kunal Khemnar has come as a shocker to people of Chandrapur. Strongly objecting to the move, politicians and social organizations have termed the move politically motivated and demanded for immediate revocation of the transfer. In a letter to CM Uddhav Thackeray, senior Congress leader and Ex-MP Naresh Puglia flayed the decision claiming that Khemnar has excellently kept the spread of Covid-19 in check. He claimed that the collector is an able administrator and had a good coordination between the district administration, zilla Parishad , police department, health department, municipal corporation and municipal councils. Chandrapur has a good record of recovery of patients and negligible number of people have died so far due to pandemic. Meanwhile the new district collector, AA Gulhane took the charge from outgoing collector Khemnar on Tuesday. Ghulhane is an IAS officer of 2010 batch. He was the director of the Jalswaraj project. He had earlier worked as district collector of Yavatmal for one year during the period of Loksabha and state assembly elections last year. Khemnar’s transfer has also evoked an angry response from social organization Jan Vikas Sena. Activists led by president Pradeep alias Pappu Deshmukh staged an agitation before district collectorate demanding immediate cancellation of the transfer. JVS activists covered their eyes with black ribbons terming the transfer as ‘Andha Kanun’. Deshmukh claimed that Khemnar has done absolutely good work and none of the political parties, social organizations or commoners had any complaint against him. He has also warned that sudden transfer of collector during pandemic will also hamper the smooth functioning of measures being undertaken to handle covid-19 prices. Khemnar had joined as collector on July 13, 2018 and had just completed his tenure of two years when his transfer orders came on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/collectors-transfer-sparks-protest/articleshow/77493312.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant deaths turn a jumbo nut to crack||At least 253 wild elephants have died in the state in the past three years. Many of them are suspected to have died of poisoning by farmers in their bid to protect the standing crops from wild elephant raid. An activist from the Nilgiris, who conducted a study on elephants in the western region of the state, says the animals had to pass through several private plantations during migration. Fearing crop raiding, he says, some farmers keep jackfruits laced with poison to tackle the elephant menace. He, however, says the poison that the farmers use won’t cause a sudden death. On the contrary, it starts affecting the elephants over a couple of days. According to him, this method is widely practiced by the people who have encroached upon forest and revenue lands to cultivate plantains and jackfruits. Such plantations are found in Anaikatti in Coimbatore to Bhavanisagar in Erode district and areas such as Velliyangadu, Karamadai, Mettupalayam, Sirumugai and Lingapuram that fall on the stretch. These areas are under the jurisdiction of various forest divisions and officials there report that elephants have died of natural reasons, says the activist. “These deaths should be probed to bring out the truth. Also, these areas should be declared an elephant sanctuary to protect their habitats and migratory corridors, and brought under the control of single forest division for better management,” he says. Wildlife veterinarian N Kalaivanan, meanwhile, disputed the activist’s claims and said all elephant deaths in the state were not caused by poisoning. “In some cases, when they don’t get nutritious feed, they start eating invasive species such as prosopis (seemai karuvelan). It will weaken the animal, which would subsequently die.” Some elephants, he says, die of foot and mouth disease or anthrax. When contacted, a wildlife official said the state had already constituted a committee to investigate the elephant deaths. “Once the probe is over, we will have a clear picture on the factors that lead to elephant deaths.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-deaths-turn-a-jumbo-nut-to-crack/articleshow/77493313.cms||P Oppili
August 12, 2020||Rajkot||Rising raw material prices hit Rajkot’s small engg units hard||Rajkot: Around 2,000-odd small units engaged in manufacturing of small machine parts will be forced to shut down during Janmashtami festival, while other larger units will continue operations, owing to the increase in prices of raw material over the past 10 days. These small units form 40% of the Rajkot’s engineering industry and provide livelihood to nearly 30,000 people. The players of the engineering sector of Rajkot had earlier decided not to observe the customary week-long vacation during Janmashtami as manufacturing was affected for nearly two months during lockdown. Also, since the government has prohibited any kind of public celebrations during the festival, the unit owners and workers had decided to observe only one day holiday on Wednesday. According to industry players the price of raw materials like pig iron, copper, iron ore, steel and scrap metal has gone up by 8-10% in the last ten days. While the larger units have enough stock to continue the work, the small units have limited stock and are not in a position to buy more raw material due to high prices. Brijesh Dudhagara vice president of Rajkot Engineering Association said “We are not getting advance payment due to cash crunch. Also, the buyers are not ready to revise the order prices. A 10% price rise is big for a small unit.” The engineering association has already made representation to the government for a special package for MSMEs. The small have halted production to revise prices, however, the exporters do not have this option as they have to complete the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rising-raw-material-prices-hit-rajkots-small-engg-units-hard/articleshow/77490656.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
August 12, 2020||Trichy||1.8kg opium seized, five arrested||Trichy: Organised Crime Intelligence Unit (OCIU) and Narcotics Intelligence Bureau (NIB) seized Rs 4.5 lakh worth opium weighing 1.8 kg and arrested five people in Trichy on Monday. Acting on a tip-off on Monday, the teams rounded up a car near Mannarpuram and found opium in two bottles. The two accused in the car identified as Adaikkalaraj, 40 from Perambalur and Athadaiyan, 40 from Mannachanallur in Trichy were held. On further enquiry, the police chased down their accomplices Arumugam, Jayaprakash and Balasubramani of Perambalur. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), NIB, Trichy E Kamaraj said that all the five were arrested. “We got information that they were heading to Madurai. The team is investigating the source and receiver of the substance,” he said on Tuesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/1-8kg-opium-seized-five-arrested/articleshow/77494327.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Surat||No free rapid antigen tests for diamond workers at health centres, SGCCI objects||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Tuesday put up notices at all the health centres in the diamond hubs of Varachha, Katargam and Ved Road stating the antigen tests of the persons employed in the diamond units will not be done at these facilities. Taking objection to the move, the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has urged the SMC to remove such notices saying they discriminate among the common people and the diamond workers. Dinesh Navadiya, president of SGCCI told TOI, “It is a clear discrimination policy by the civic body. The notices put up at the health centres are offensive to the trade and industry. The diamond workers are paying professional tax to the government exchequer, paying property tax and other taxes. They have the right to get themselves tested at the health centres” Meanwhile, junior health minister Kumar Kanani has also written a letter to the civic body and mayor requesting free antigen testing facilities for diamond workers. stating that they are going through tough times. According to the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the SMC, the diamond unit owners have been asked to perform the rapid antigen testing of their employees if they want to allow two workers on the emery wheels. A senior officer said, “It was observed over the last couple of days that the diamond workers were thronging the health centres for the rapid antigen testing. The SOP clearly states that the diamond unit owners will have to bear the expense for the antigen test of their workers, if they want two artisans to work on an emery wheel.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/no-free-rapid-antigen-tests-for-diamond-workers-at-health-centres-sgcci-objects/articleshow/77490672.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||PWD engr booked for sodomy in Kota||Kota: A 55-year-old engineer of Public Works Department (PWD) was booked on charges of sodomy in Dadabari police station of the city, following a report by a 28-year-old youth, who worked as a supervisor under the accused engineer. The survivor has accused the PWD engineer of sexually exploiting and sodomizing him several times in the last six years, with the last time being in April this year during the lockdown. Police have begun investigation into the matter but no arrest has been made as yet. On the report by the Kota-based youth, police booked R K Sharma, who served as an engineer for PWD, UIT in Kota in 2014- 2015, under section of IPC for sodomy and investigation into the matter is underway, circle inspector at Dadabari police station, Tarachand said. The survivor has alleged in the report that Sharma, while he was serving as an engineer for PWD in Kota, sexually exploited and sodomized him at his house in April 2015, he said. The accused allegedly first sent him vulgar messages and videos on WhatsApp. The survivor also alleged that he worked as a supervisor at a site, which Sharma would visit for inspection. Sharma threatened him to get him pulled out of the job if he resisted the act or disclosed it to anyone else outside, the survivor alleged, adding that Sharma sexually exploited and sodomized him last time in April this year during the lockdown, the CI said. Since the matter is six years old and the accused in the matter is posted in Jaipur, police are collecting evidences and examining the allegations with all angles, CI Tarachand said, adding that the youth lodged the case on August 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pwd-engr-booked-for-sodomy-in-kota/articleshow/77494329.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kochi||Idukki: ‘Hachikos of Pettimudy’ wait to reunite with ‘missing’ masters||IDUKKI: When tragedy strikes, the pain endured by people is so overwhelming that the struggles of pets often go ignored -- until their grief catches someone's attention. Such is the heart-rending tale of two pet dogs at the site of the landslide in Pettimudy, Idukki that first caught the attention of a police officer and has since become the epitome of devotion and love. Ranjit Sankarlal was on duty when the canines, dispirited and lonely, caught his eye. "I noticed them roaming the landslide site. They would sit in the clearings for hours, in anticipation, as if waiting for someone. They wouldn’t even accept food offered by volunteers," Sankarlal told TOI. The cop with the Idukki crime branch was determined to dig deeper and found that the dogs belonged to two families in the layams that were destroyed in the landslide that struck in the early hours of August 7. "The dogs are unmoved even when it rains. Maybe they are looking for their masters," Sankarlal said. Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan also noticed them. Even while coordinating various units on the site, he couldn't help but wonder what might be going through the minds of the animals. "I'm told they are there all the time. Both look forlorn and seem to be waiting on and perhaps hoping to reunite with their masters," Premkrishnan told TOI. Sankarlal posted an image of one of the dogs on his Facebook page and it went viral. The Pettimudy dogs, it seemed, reminded people of Hachiko, a Japanese dog that lived in the 1920-30s and is remembered for its exceptional loyalty. Unaware of his master's death, Hachiko would reach a railway station every day for almost ten years awaiting his return. Hachiko has been immortalized in popular culture with books, films and even statues dedicated in his honour. "Tragedy brings all of humanity together in grief. I wish we could share the sorrow of these animals as well," Premkrishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hachikos-of-pettimudy-wait-to-reunite-with-missing-masters/articleshow/77491878.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||Class IX boy from MP hangs self||Kota: A 16-year-old boy hanged himself from a ceiling fan in his house under Nayapura police station area here on Monday evening. Police handed over the body to family members after postmortem on Tuesday and lodged a case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC for further investigation. The boy was identified as Kishan Panchal, a resident of Mandawar under Geerapura police station of Rajgarh district in Madhya Pradesh. He was living with his family in a rented house near Ramdev temple in Nayapura area.The class 9 student hanged himself from the ceiling fan in his house on Monday evening while other family members were away, circle inspector (CI) at Nayapura police station Bhawani Singh said. When family members returned, they found him hanging.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/class-ix-boy-from-mp-hangs-self/articleshow/77494324.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||DGCA suspends AirAsia’s 2 senior executives over safety violations||MUMBAI: Two AirAsiaIndia officials, Capt Manish Uppal, head of operations and Capt Mukesh Nema, head of air safety have been suspended for a period of three months by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) for alleged safety violations. Director General of Civil Aviation, Arun Kumar confirmed the development. Under the regulator’s norms, appointments to crucial posts like airline-head of airs afety, head of operations are cleared by the DGCA. In June, the DGCA had initiated a probe against AirAsiaIndia after one of its pilots, Captain Gaurav Taneja, uploaded a video on social media, alleging that pilots who availed sick leave had to forgo the subsequent weekly leave and the policy could have fatigued pilots at the flight controls. The second issue was airline’s alleged push for “flap 3’’ mode landings, which resulted in fuel savings. But on runways like Imphal, a flap 3 landing in tailwind condition is unsafe, he said adding that he was suspended by the airline for flagging such issues. The DGCA began a probe and on June 29, issued a show cause notice to Capt Uppal, Capt Nema and the CEO of the airline. Prior to that, on June 26, Capt Taneja was terminated by the airline. AirAsiaIndia in a statement said that it “has complied with the directions of the regulator and appointed interim post holders in accordance with the regulator’s directions.As an airline that prioritizes safety above all, we continue to engage with the authorities and exercise the option to appeal for redressal.” Advocate Yeshwant Shenoy, one of Capt Taneja’s lawyers said: “Pilots are always afraid to raise issues, especially in these times of job insecurities due to the pandemic’s impact on the airline industry. Had pilots stood up for safety issues, Calicut crash could certainly have been avoided.” Capt Taneja’s spokesperson said: “It’s a clear win for a whistleblower against a a big organisation.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dgca-suspends-airasias-2-senior-executives-over-safety-violations/articleshow/77494832.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Decomposed and semi-burnt body of a murdered man found||Nagpur: A decomposed and half-burned body of a murdered man was found on the roadside between Kalmeshwar and Kondhali on Tuesday. Rural police are yet to identify the victim.Police said the unidentified man was killed with a sharp weapon and then an attempt had been made to set his body on fire. The assailants wanted to ensure that the victim was not identified so that the murder remained a mystery, said police. The assailants had laid the body on wooden planks and dry branches before setting it on fire but the flames were doused due to the rain. Cops found a chillum or ganja pot from the victim’s pocket along with a tobacco container. Rs30 was also found in his pocket. Police said the material found in his possession suggested that he could be a labourer. According to a senior official, missing reports of city and rural police are being scanned. An offence of murder has been registered at Kondhali police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/decomposed-and-semi-burnt-body-of-a-murdered-man-found/articleshow/77493323.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar seeks PM’s help to raise testing to 1 lakh a day||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar requested the Centre on Tuesday to provide more equipment to enable Bihar to achieve the target of testing 1 lakh people per day along with increasing the number of tests through the RT- PCR method. The CM, at a videoconference, briefed PM Narendra Modi on steps being taken by the state government for Covid management. The virtual meeting was attended by the CMs of 10 states, including Bihar. The PM later tweeted the names of five states — Bihar, Gujarat, UP, West Bengal and Telangana— where the “testing rate is low” and “the positivity rate is high”. Citing the meeting with the CMs, the tweet posted by the PMO handle stated, “It has been decided that these states need to stress on increasing the number of tests”. At the meeting, Nitish further said the state government was increasing its Covid-19 testing capacity with each passing day and has set a target of testing over one lakh people per day. “We request the central government to provide two Cobas-8000 machines, which could increase the daily tests by another 7,200. Thus, we will be able to test 20,600 samples per day through RT-PCR,” he said. The CM also demanded from the Centre 5,000 oxygen concentrators of 10 litre and above capacity to increase the number of beds with oxygen in hospitals. He also demanded 3,000 high-flow nasal cannulas to provide oxygen to highly symptomatic patients. Giving details of the testing being done in Bihar, the CM said 75,000 samples are being tested in the state every day, but only 6,100 samples were being tested through RT-PCR, which is the most accurate method of testing. Giving the break-up of various methods of testing, Nitish said, “While 65,000 samples are tested through the rapid antigen kit, 6,100 samples being tested through RT-PCR, including 4,900 tested in government health establishments and remaining 1,200 tests in private labs. Another 4,400 samples are being tested through TrueNat,” the CM said. He added, “Efforts to increase testing through RT- PCR is on and this facility will begin in five more government medical colleges. This will increase the RT- PCR testing capacity by 2,300 per day. Also 10 more RT-PCR machines and RNA extractors are being procured, which will increase the testing capacity by another 5,000.” He said 100% testing was being done in containment zones and such facilities have been set up in relief camps and community kitchens in flood-affected areas as well in north Bihar. The CM further said the state has a three-tier treatment system, which includes 310 Covid Care Centres, 150 Dedicated Covid Health Centres and 10 dedicated Covid hospitals in 10 medical Colleges. “At present, we have 32,124 beds and we are trying to increase it to70,000. Of the total beds, 10,482 have oxygen facilities of which 2,482 beds are supplied oxygen through pipeline and 8,000 through cylinders,” Nitish said. He appreciated the help being provided by the Centre in the state’s fight against the Covid-19 virus assuring that Bihar was following all guidelines set by the Centre. Nitish also thanked the Centre for setting up two Covid hospitals of 500 beds each at Bihta and Muzaffarpur from the PM Care fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-seeks-pms-help-to-raise-testing-to-1-lakh-a-day/articleshow/77491873.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Elephant deaths: Probe begins to identify causes||The committee that is constituted by the state government to probe the wild elephant death has already begun its work. Committee head Shekhar Kumar Niraj, who is also additional principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), said they have discussed various issues/aspects to be covered to ascertain the facts and reasons for the death of pachyderms in the state. The committee has experts from various walks of life - Ajay Desai from Bengaluru, Sivaganesan from Chennai, C Arivazhagan, managing trustee of Indo-American Wildlife society in Chennai, and veterinarians N Kalaivanan, A Pradeep and D Boominathan from World Wide Fund for Nature-India, Coimbatore. They would look into habitat condition, annual death rate of elephants for the past 15 years, population trends, migration pattern and cause of death of each elephant, and compile data. The committee had requested forest officials in Coimbatore to send certain information and the forest division had also responded to the same. “We are, however, awaiting more details from the division, based on which we will start analysing the details and preparing a report,” the official said. Niraj said the movement of committee members was restricted because of the lockdown. “Once it is relaxed, they can travel and gather more information. The deadline for submitting the report is this December. However, owing to prevailing conditions, gathering details itself will take longer time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-deaths-probe-begins-to-identify-causes/articleshow/77493332.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Report awaited in Pollock St fire||Kolkata: The state fire department on Tuesday indicated it would wait for a forensic report before it acts on the fire incident at a commercial building on Pollock Street last evening. Twenty fire tenders and a team of firemen and disaster management squad of the Kolkata Police battled the flames for two hours before it could be controlled. Police and fire brigade officials said they were yet to ascertain the cause of fire. The Fire brigade will also check whether the building had adequate fire safety measures. Local businessmen expressed concern over frequent fire incidents in the commercial hub. In the past two years, there have been more than seven big fire incidents in central Kolkata apart from smaller blazes. “A section of businessmen are not as careful as they should be about fire safety. In the past several decades, there have been very big fire incidents but not much has changed on the ground,” said Amit Saraf, a local businessman. Many also attributed fire incidents to old structures where it was almost impossible to create additional exit points and big reservoirs. “We will try to ascertain if the building has the mandatory fire-fighting preparedness,” said Jagmohan, director general of the West Bengal fire services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/report-awaited-in-pollock-st-fire/articleshow/77493329.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Pune||More than 27,000 apply for 5,569 seats in Pune University||PUNE: Courses in science and technology are the most sought after for the upcoming academic year in Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) as 12 students will vie for each of the 1,342 seats in the entrance examinations. The university has announced admissions for under- and postgraduate courses for the academic year 2020-21 in which 27,787 applications have been confirmed against an intake of 5,569 available seats across the streams and levels. “The number of applications is big this time, especially in the courses which come under the science and technology section. Last year, we had around 25,000 applications,” Uttam Chavan, deputy registrar, told TOI. Registrar Prafulla Pawar said the admissions to courses under science and technology have always been competitive. “There has always been a huge response to MSc courses. Last year, we started the centralised admission process and since it was our first year, there was a bit of a delay. This year we started in time and that has attracted students. Students have realised that this year, most courses would be in a blended mode and they trust SPPU in delivering the modules without glitches. Hence, the numbers have increased,” Pawar said. Another university official said there are many who do not want to send their children abroad or to other cities and this may have increased the applications. There are 53 departments and the admissions are in an online centralised mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-than-27k-apply-for-5569-seats-in-pune-varsity/articleshow/77493327.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 12, 2020||Rajkot||Scolded by mother for venturing out, teen ends life in Kutch||RAJKOT: A 13-year-old boy living in Madhapar in Kutch ended his life by hanging himself from ceiling fan following his mother’s scolding on Monday night. Veer Gupta, who studied in Class VIII, had gone out to play with his friends on Monday afternoon. As he returned late, he received a dressing down from his mother. Police said that Veer felt insulted due to the scolding and he went to his bedroom without eating dinner. Later in the night, when one of the family members went to check in his room as he had not eaten anything, the teenager was found hanging. “We have taken the family members’ statements and have registered an accidental death case. The boy was eldest of his three siblings,” said sub-inspector V R Olva, the investigating officer. Veer’s father had settled in Madhapar many years ago and works as wholesale fruit trader and his mother is a homemaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/scolded-by-mother-for-venturing-out-teen-ends-life/articleshow/77490678.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: NGO chief held on charge of raping HIV positive minor||PUNE: The president of an NGO has been arrested after a 15-year-old HIV positive girl accused him of raping her since March this year. Police said the 45-year-old man helps HIV positive patients in the Budhwar Peth red light area. Nine people, including the girl, were admitted to his facility for treatment, police said. “The girl’s mother died of HIV in the red light area. She was rescued and lodged at the NGO facility after the lockdown was announced in March. She cannot read and write. The suspect (allegedly) raped her on numerous occasions; she kept quiet out of fear,” assistant inspector Kiran Madane of the Bibvewadi police said. The incident came to light when the girl confided in another woman being treated at the facility. The woman informed an activist, who approached the police. “We have admitted the girl in a government hospital for a medical examination. The report is awaited,” Madane said. The police initially detained the suspect and formally arrested him after his Covid-19 test came back negative. “We will produce him before a special court on Wednesday and refer him to the government hospital for a medical examination,” she added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ngo-chief-held-on-charge-of-raping-hiv-ve-minor/articleshow/77493330.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Surat||Surat: Doctor on oxygen support risks life to save patient||SURAT: Even while on oxygen support, fighting the coronavirus infection, this doctor did not lose a second to rescue a critically-ill elderly Covid-19 patient. Dr Sanket Mehta, an anaesthetist, saved the life of 71-year-old Dinesh Purani who required urgent intubation for ventilator support. According to doctors, intubation of a collapsed patient has to be done within three minutes or else it could damage the brain permanently. The incident took place on the night of August 9 at BAPS Hospital in Adajan where 37-year-old Dr Mehta, who has tested positive of Covid-19, was admitted in the ICU due to breathlessness and low oxygen level. Talking with TOI, Dr Parshottam Koradia, CEO of BAPS Hospital, said, “Intubating critically ill patient is the job of an anaesthetist. The elderly patient (Purani) was rushed into the ICU with an urgent requirement of intubation. Since the doctors have to follow the Covid-19 protocol, our own anaesthetist could have taken 15-20 minutes to reach the ICU after wearing the PPE kit. In the meantime, Dr Mehta removed his high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) —oxygen supportand intubated the patient.” Dr Mehta still on oxygen support, stableIt was a surprise to the doctors and health staff in the ICU to see Dr Mehta, who was just two beds away from Purani, removing his oxygen support, gathering strength and walk towards the patient’s bed and intubating in no time, he added. “The elderly patient is still on the ventilator in the ICU and his condition is stable. Dr Mehta is in the hospital for the last 10 days battling Covid-19. He is unable to talk much due to weakness and breathing difficulty. He himself requires about six-litre per minute oxygen, but intubated Purani,” said Koradia. Dr Mehta was working with the BAPS Hospital a few years ago and then he started his own private practice as visiting anaesthetist in private hospitals. Dr Hiral Shah, vice-president of Surat Anaesthetic Association (SAA) told TOI, “Though Dr Mehta could not walk properly, he went to the patient without HFNC and intubated him. It could have cost him his life, but he he saved the life of the patient.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/doc-on-oxygen-support-risks-own-life-to-save-critical-patient/articleshow/77492779.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kochi||Idukki landslide: Cold hampers operation, yet preserves bodies||IDUKKI: The death toll in the Pettimudy- Rajamala landslide rose to 52 with the recovery of six more bodies, even as heavy fog and rainfall combined with near sub-0°C conditions to hamper rescue and recovery operations at the site. Ironically, these very conditions are proving to be a factor in ensuring that the bodies don’t decay. "There is no stink of dead bodies in the area. Normally after three days they start to rot. But due to the cold weather, we noticed that the bodies were mostly intact," Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan told TOI. "Fog shrouded the whole area in addition to heavy rain, which continued from morning to evening. We need to find five more persons from layams 3 and 4. We estimate that 13 people are missing from layams 1 and 2. More bodies of residents of layams 1 and 2 were recovered from the river. We are looking for more," he said. "The sniffer dogs had been very helpful in tracing bodies over the past days. But as the climate turns chilly they are prone to fall sick. We can't employ them in these conditions," Premkrishnan said. The bodies of Chelladurai, 55; Rekha, 7; and Rathayya, 55, were among those recovered today. He said that out of the 18 missing, nine are children. Meanwhile, the district administration shifted 65 families, including one that survived the incident, to a safe place. The NDRF (National Disaster Response Force) team, with the support of police, fire force, forest guards and other agencies continued the search for missing persons on Tuesday. They were assisted by earthmovers. Some of the bodies were recovered from under 15 ft of slushy debris. State human rights commission member, P Mohanadas, has directed the state chief secretary and revenue principal secretary to provide eligible compensation to the families of those killed in the landslide. Discrimination in compensation is a violation of human rights, he added. Palakkad fire & rescue team for relief workA special 15-strong Palakkad district fire & rescue services and civil defence team has been dispatched to Pettimudy. The team is specially equipped for rescue operations, said Arun Bhaskar, district fire & rescue services officer. The team was drawn from the fire & rescue services units of Palakkad, Chittur, Mannarkkad, Kanjikode, Shoranur and Vadakkumchery, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cold-hampers-op-yet-preserves-bodies/articleshow/77491905.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 12, 2020||Ghaziabad||Steeper fines in Ghaziabad as new MV Act comes into effect||GHAZIABAD: Traffic police in the district started issuing challans under the new Motor Vehicles Act with new penalty rates on Tuesday. The move comes after a UP government order dated July 30. SP (traffic) Ramanand Kushwaha said they got the order from higher authorities to start issuing challans under the new Act. “Today, we have issued challans to 603 vehicles, including 427 two-wheelers, 94 four-wheelers, 71 three-wheelers and 11 heavy vehicles. We have collected Rs 66,200 as fines from traffic violators and also seized 13 vehicles in the district,” Kushwaha said. The app used for issuing challan was updated on Monday, said an official. Meanwhile, the RTO department confirmed that they have been issuing challans with new rates from July 31. On Tuesday, the traffic police issued a fine of Rs 15,000 to an autorickshaw driver. Mohan, the driver, said he had bought the autorickshaw in March but “due to the lockdown, I could not get the registration number from the RTO. I have started plying the vehicle to meet ends. I have exhausted my savings.” The Motor Vehicles Amendment Act aims at stricter punishment for violation of traffic regulations. According to the Act, driving without a seat belt, drunk driving, jumping traffic signals, speeding, driving without insurance and overloading vehicles will attract heftier fines. Failure to use a safety belt will attract a penalty of Rs 1,000. Driving under the influence of alcohol will attract a penalty of Rs 5,000 and not giving way to ambulances or fire brigade will attract a penalty of Rs 10,000. Around 98 challans have been issued for various traffic violations since July 31. Rajender Singh, the assistant at RTO (enforcement), said around Rs 4 lakh has been imposed as fines. “Of the 98 challans issued by us till date, 68 were for riding two-wheelers without a helmet, seven without seat belts and 14 without driving licenses,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/steeper-fines-in-gzb-as-new-mv-act-comes-into-effect/articleshow/77494356.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||HC slams BMC over demolition notice to south Mumbai bar||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Tuesday slammed BMC for initiating demolition action on a complaint against Lalit Restaurant & Bar at Dhobitalao by Shiv Sena corporator Amey Ghole. “No sooner a politician or corporator gives a complaint, you start taking action. What is happening in the corporation?” asked a bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar. They heard a petition by owner Lalit D’Souza challenging the August 3 demolition order. Ghole’s complaint stated that the restaurant was illegally constructed in a house gully, but D’Souza’s advocate Karl Tamboly said it was constructed in the 1960s and BMC had issued a registration certificate showing that business had commenced since October 10, 1973. “When you realised it is an unauthorised structure? Who informed you? How did you get (sic) up from your slumber after 40 years?” asked Justice Kathawalla. BMC’s advocate replied that a complaint was received on December 13, 2019, from Ghole, who is chairman, health committee. Justice Kathawalla then remarked that BMC was quick to take action on complaints by politicians and corporators. BMC’s advocate said procedure was followed and an inspection carried out on March 13. But Tamboly said the March 17 show-cause notice for demolition was pasted outside the restaurant, which was closed due to Covid-19, and was not received by D’Souza. Tamboly said before March 17, D’Souza repeatedly wrote to BMC for a copy of the complaint but it was not given. “Why was the complaint not given to the party?” Justice Kathawalla asked. To a court query on whether the inspection report was given, BMC’s advocate replied the show-cause notice gave a description of the structure and measurement. The judges said In the order, “We prima facie are satisfied that corporation has acted hastily upon receiving a complaint by the corporator.” They directed D’Souza to submit his representation to BMC within two weeks, and BMC should then give him a fresh hearing. After passing an order, BMC shall not demolish the structure for two weeks if the order is adverse to him, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-slams-bmc-over-demolition-notice-to-sobo-bar/articleshow/77493437.cms||Rosy Sequeira
August 12, 2020||Rajkot||Man held for sharing obscene photos, videos on his FB profile||Rajkot: A footwear trader from Jamnagar was arrested on Tuesday by Rajkot cyber-crime police for sharing a 45-year-old woman’s obscene photos and videos on his Facebook profile.According to police, the accused Hetal alias Hiten Chauhan was miffed as the woman had broken up relations with him after she moved to Rajkot around a year ago. Chauhan also happens to be the woman’s distant relative. The woman told police that after she moved to Rajkot, Chauhan used to threaten her to continue relations with him or else he will share their photos and videos among the family members.Police said that Chauhan sent the photos and videos to the woman’s eldest son and then to her husband. But as the woman feared that she will be defamed in the society she did not approach police. Recently, the woman learnt that Chauhan had uploaded their photos and videos on his profile so she lodged a complaint at Cyber Crime police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-held-for-sharing-obscene-photos-videos-on-his-fb-profile/articleshow/77490691.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Surat||‘How to bring back migrants?’||Surat: As Surat’s man-made fabric (MMF) industry struggles to resume operation due to severe shortage of migrant workers, industry stakeholders have decided to come on a single platform to discuss the ways and means to bring back the workers. The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has organised a meeting on Thursday of the textile industry players to discuss the next course of action to bring back the huge workforce that had left the city during the lockdown. Industry sources said that against the requirement of 13 lakh workers in the textile sector, only 2.5 lakh are available. Dinesh Navadiya, president of SGCCI told TOI, “After taking sense from the industry stakeholders, we will represent the issue to the central government.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/how-to-bring-back-migrants/articleshow/77490698.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Blaze at share trading firm near Exide||Kolkata: A fire broke out on the 6th floor of an eight-storey building near Exide crossing on Tuesday evening. Cops said they noticed thick black smoke coming out of the office of a share trading firm on the 6th floor. The employees were rushed out of the building after the security guards alerted them. Four fire tenders were pressed into service and brought the blaze under control after an hour. Fire officials suspected a short circuit in an air-conditioner might have caused the fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/blaze-at-share-trading-firm-near-exide/articleshow/77493337.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: WFH the new normal, homes get tweaks to house offices||CHENNAI: From setting up niches for work in existing apartments to asking builders to accommodate extra space for new ones, houses are being redesigned as work from home becomes permanent. “I am redoing a smaller room to make it my bedroom-cum-work space. Working out of my bed didn’t get a lot done. Being in a creative space, my productivity and output depend a lot on my temperament. Since we don’t know when we will get back to office, I am setting up a work room and getting a desk and a nook to work,” said Ananyaa, lead script writer at a digital marketing agency. With some offices closing permanently and others extending the WFH arrangement until the end of the year, people are changing their homes to emulate the work environment. While some purchase office furniture, UPS supplies and stronger WiFi connections, others have been setting up a study or a work room in their homes. Harris Prabhu, director, marketing and sales at D5 interior, says he has been getting anywhere between three and five requests a month, seeking to set up tables, book shelves and room designs for a study or a work room. “There are some clients of ours who are moving to new apartments who want these changes and some of them, who are in the process of shifting, want small modifications to their homes too,” he added. Existing homes are getting work nooks or getting the bedroom or hall reduced by a bit to make space for a work or study room, while newer apartments are becoming bigger to accommodate a work room or a study room for kids. Top real estate developers such as Akshaya Homes and Casagrand are now advertising and offering a work room apart from a bedroom, hall and kitchen in their new projects. They add that most customers want at least 150 sq ft more than usual. Chitti Babu, managing director of Akshaya Homes, said that in new projects, the area was increasing because people either want a study or a bigger kitchen because they are becoming modular. “The existing projects are made work-from-home friendly with furniture, unlimited WiFI provisions and power supply,” he said. Eshwar N, vice-president (marketing) at Casagrand, said apartments in most existing projects were being modified to bedrooms divided to have WFH space. “The houses got smaller with time since the last 12 -18 months and now, they are going back to wanting bigger apartments because of this trend,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/wfh-the-new-normal-homes-get-tweaks-to-house-offices/articleshow/77493336.cms||Aparna Desikan
August 12, 2020||Trichy||Covid positivity high in 5 central dists||Trichy: While the positivity rate of Covid-19 remained high in Thanjavur, Ariyalur, Nagappattinam Pudukottai and Perambalur districts between August 3 and 9, Trichy, Karur and Tiruvarur saw a dip in the rate during the same period. Thanjavur was on top with 14.6% positivity though it was 19.6% on August 5 and 9.6% on August 4. Officials say primary contacts speading within the family was the reason for the spike. Darasuram vegetable market was the only cluster in the district. Local spread and inter-district movement of people for livelihood were cited as the reasons for the upswing in positive cases in Ariyalur district. Citing the positivity rate of 14.3% in the past week, district collector D Rathna told TOI that RT-PCR testing is being done only for those suspected to have contracted the infection. “Farmers rely on neighbouring Kumbakonam, Thanjavur and Trichy localities to market their products, and they travel on a daily-basis. Some of them test positive, so does a few of their family members. While we contain one block, new cases emerge from other blocks,” he said. Nagappattinam had 11.8% though on August 8, the district’s positivity rate was 17.8%, the highest during the period, and on August 5, 1.7%, the lowest. District epidemiologist Dr Liyakath Ali said, “It is in the last 10 days that the numbers are on the rise. During the initial period of lockdown, people abided by the norms due to fear. So, if the general public followed the lockdown norms strictly, the number will definitely come down,” he said. The positivity rate of 11.6% in Pudukottai during the period was also of concern. District collector P Uma Maheswari mentioned the need for increasing the number of tests. “Specifically, we are targeting public in our 70-plus fever camps. Door-to-door checking is done in the containment areas. We are also planning to increase the number of samples,” she told TOI. Like Ariyalur, local spread and inter-district travel were identified as the reasons for fresh positive cases in Perambalur. Cases were also reported in industries there. A significant number of primary and secondary contacts testing positive in bulk has been adding to the fresh cases. The district with a positivity rate of 10.6% in the past week remains the second in the state with the least number of tests conducted daily, next to Krishnagiri. As many as 209 people tested positive in Perambalur out of the 1,968 tests conducted. Three districts — Tiruvarur, Karur and Trichy — recorded positivity rate below 10%. Trichy hold the 30th rank in the state with a positivity rate of 6%, the lowest in the region. The positivity rate of Tiruvarur and Karur were 9.5% and 8.7%. Trichy collector S Sivarasu said that testing of around 1,600 to 1,700 people daily brought down the positivity rate in the district. “Besides contact tracing, we have been doing random testing. Previously, around 10 to 12 contacts of positive patients got the infection, but now it has come down to 4 to 6,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-positivity-high-in-5-central-dists/articleshow/77494353.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Pune||Pune cops held for demanding Rs 5 lakh bribe||PUNE: The state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Tuesday night arrested an assistant inspector and a constable of the Pune rural police for demanding bribe of Rs5 lakh from a suspect involved in a kidnapping case. The assistant inspector, Arjun Keshav Ghodepatil (38), is in charge of the Narayangaon police station. The constable, Dharmatma Karbhari Hande, is posted with the rural police’s special branch. The ACB’s additional superintendent of police, Sanjay Patil, said, “Hande had demanded the bribe of Rs5 lakh from the suspect on August 7 on behalf of Ghodepatil for filing chargesheet without conducting proper investigations and also for not arresting the two other suspects on the run. Our officers verified the bribery demand complaint of the suspect and arrested the two policemen.” The process of registering complaint under the relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act was in progress at the time of going to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-held-for-demanding-rs-5-lakh-bribe/articleshow/77493338.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Rajkot||Paan shop owner found murdered on Jasdan Road||Rajkot: A paan shop owner from Amreli was found dead on Jasdan Road on Monday night. A murder case was registered against unidentified persons by Rajkot rural police.According to police, the victim Haresh Kihala (32) had left from his home in Khanpar village on Monday evening. He had told his family members that he is going out for dinner. However, Kihala did not return till late night and later his body was found by locals in Jasdan. Police found some beedis, his broken mobile phone and his footwear a few metres away from his body.Police officials said that since Kihala was an alcohol addict, he is suspected to have gone for a liquor party. It is believed that Kihala may have got into an altercation there which led to his murder. Injury marks were found on his body, cops said. In the past too, Kihala has been booked and arrested in prohibition cases.“We suspect that two persons may have been involved and we are searching for them. More details can be revealed only after we have concrete evidence,” said a police official.Kihala is survived by his wife and two kids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/paan-shop-owner-found-murdered-on-jasdan-road/articleshow/77490719.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Salem||Salem district records 206 Covid-19 cases in a day; total inching towards 5,000-mark||Salem: Salem district registered an all-time spike of 206 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total tally to 4,951. Of the 206 new cases, 136 are from Salem municipal corporation limit while the rest are from the district. “We did not have any new cases since July... these new cases are due to contact tracing,” said R Sadheesh, commissioner of SMC. Salem collector S A Raman has asked SMC officials to carry out fumigation activities in all commercial buildings in the district. He appealed to traders to disinfect their shops at frequent intervals. Dr J Nirmalson, deputy director of public health, Salem, said so far, 3,639 people have been discharged while 1,254 people are under treatment. A total of 58 people have died from the infection. Neighbouring Krishnagiri recorded 43 new cases on Tuesday, taking the total Covid-19 tally to 1,523. There are 452 active cases. Erode district recorded 17 new cases, including one imported case, taking the tally to 1,115 cases. There are 389 active cases in the district. Dharmapuri registered eight new cases on Tuesday, taking the tally to 906, with 139 cases still under treatment. Namakkal district logged 10 new cases, taking the total Covid-19 tally to 1,033 cases. The district has 294 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-district-records-206-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-total-inching-towards-5000-mark/articleshow/77493363.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Pune||Burglars break into Kalyaninagar apartment||Pune: Unidentified persons broke into a fourth-floor apartment at the Neptune Cooperative Housing Society located in Kalyaninagar. However, the robbers returned empty-handed after finding nothing worth collecting on the premises. The burglary attempt is suspected to have occurred between July 26 and August 9 while the occupants of the apartment were away. The incident came to light when the society secretary Mangesh Partani (41) found the locks on the front door of the flat in the E-1 building broken. Partani informed the police as well as lodged an FIR in the matter on Monday. Assistant inspector Sameer Karpe of the Yerawada police station said on Tuesday, “The owner of the apartment had given the premises on rent to a tenant, who had left for his native place along with his family on July 26. Partani lodged an FIR as both, the tenant and the flat owner, had no interest in pursuing the matter since nothing was reported to be stolen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/burglars-break-into-kalyaninagar-apartment/articleshow/77493356.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Trichy||Independence Day celebrations to be low-key affair in Trichy||Trichy: The district administration has decided to tone down the celebrations to mark the 74th Independence Day on the advice of the state government in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Trichy collector S Sivarasu convened a meeting with the officials of all the departments to review the preparedness for the event and gave inputs to the officials on conducting the celebrations while observing social distancing. “Flag hoisting would be held as part of the function. The guard of honour could be performed but there would be no march past by police or any cultural programs,” the collector told ToI on Tuesday. He added that around 40 doctors and nurses involved in Covid-19 frontline duties would be honoured at the event. The celebration will be held at Armed Reserve Police Force ground in the city. The collector assigned specific tasks to each department such as police, PWD, health, corporation to organise the event while ensuring Covid-19 protocols. The state government has advised the district collectors to ensure that there are not more than 500 attendees at the event. The Independence Day celebration usually witnesses events like honouring of freedom fighters and rewarding the government officers who have completed 25 years of service with unblemished records. Best performers of the government departments and the social workers are also rewarded and welfare measures including financial assistance is also distributed to the beneficiaries. But this time around these events will be dropped from the Independence Day function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/independence-day-celebrations-to-be-low-key-affair-in-trichy/articleshow/77494359.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kochi||Anil Akkara appeals FS to probe Wadakkanchery flat deal||THRISSUR: Congress MLA Anil Akkara on Tuesday alleged that chief minister Pinarai Vijayan was spreading outright lies to counter his “exposes’’ against government in the construction of flats with the help of UAE-based Red Crescent at Wadakkanchery. Akkara has written to foreign secretary Harsh Vardan Shringla demanding a probe into the charges that the state has blatantantly violated diplomatic procedures by allowing a foreign entity to execute a project in the state without proper permission from the Indian government. Akkara said the CM had claimed that the state government or the Life Mission had no direct role in the construction of the flat complex at Wadakkanchery, and the land was allocated to Red Crescent, which was solely responsible for the construction. However as per official documents, the revenue department was the owner of the land, and it was under the pocession of Wadakkanchery municipality. The Life Mission has received the building permit by remitting Rs 84,637 on September 5, 2019. The application for the building permit was also submitted by the Life Mission chief executive officer, as per the documents, Akkara said. The flat complex is constructed by violating a host of rules like the Panchayat Raj Act and Foreign Exchange Regulation Act. As per media reports, the smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh had disclosed to the Customs officials that she had received Rs 1 crore as commission for arranging the finances for this flat complex project, Akkara alleged. In his letter to foreign secretary, he demanded that the probe must cover how crores of rupees of foreign funds were embezzled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/akkara-appeals-fs-to-probe-wadakkanchery-flat-deal/articleshow/77491932.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Goa||Goa death toll soars to 86 as six more succumb to Covid-19||PANAJI: The state’s Covid-19 death toll rose to 86 on Tuesday after six more persons — all men, with comorbid conditions —succumbed to the infection. These fatalities continue the trend of August reporting at least one death every day. So far, 41 persons have died in 11 days this month. A 45-year-old from Goa Velha, a 72-year-old from Sada, a 68-year-old from Mestawada and a 65-year-old from Vasco died at the ESI-Covid hospital, two others, a 68-year-old from Betim-Reis Magos and a 73-year-old from Sada died at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. The 45-year-old, who was referred to GMC with chronic alcoholism, withdrawal symptoms and pancreatitis, had no relatives, and the South Goa collectorate identified him by his voter’s car, and traced his family to Bijapur. His wife is expected to arrive in Goa on Wednesday for final rites. Meanwhile, with four of the day’s six reported deaths being from Vasco, the port town has now accounted for 45% of all deaths in the state. The town’s urban health centre continued to have the highest number of active cases in the state as of Tuesday, with 372. The state’s total caseload rose to 9,444, after 415 new positives were detected on Tuesday. The capital city too crossed the 100-mark, with 27 new cases detected. For the first time, the Margao health centre has more active cases than Cortalim. In fact, Margao, Cortalim and Vasco together account for 40% of the state’s active caseload. Also, health workers continued to test positive for Covid. Two GMC doctors, one of whom is an ENT specialist, tested positive, while a doctor leading the effort to combat Covid in Chimbel is also now a Covid active case. The jurisdiction of the Chimbel PHC extends to Taleigao, Santa Cruz, Merces and Curca. Local MLA Tony Fernandes said the doctor, who worked tirelessly on the frontlines, was asymptomatic. He said he hadn’t returned home for the past two months. “I appeal to people, nurses and staff to take care of your lives, and take precautions. If you turn positive, who will take care of us?” he said to reporters. The Chimbel PHC currently as 151 active cases and has seen three deaths so far. While it has managed to prevent a repeat of Mangor Hill, cases have recently begun to rise again. Meanwhile in Bicholim, swabs were collected at the mamlatdar’s office after an employee tested positive. Mamlatdar Pravinvijay Pandit told TOI that all tests were negative, and that the office was fully sanitised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-death-toll-soars-to-86-as-six-more-succumb-to-covid-19/articleshow/77494361.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 12, 2020||Pune||FTII library to be named after Jagirdar||Pune: The Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) will rename its library after Gajanan Jagirdar, who was the institute’s first director (then principal). The library has received a facelift in terms of space and ambience and will be reopened on August 13, with Jagirdar’s son Ashok, veteran actor and former FTII director Mohan Agashe and playwright and actor Satish Alekar being part of the ceremony to be conducted online. Jagirdar served as the director of the FTII for just over a year, from 1961 to 1962. He forayed into films, three decades before his FTII role, when the campus was the base of the Prabhat Film Company. He started off assisting filmmakers and designing sets from 1931 to 1934 at Prabhat, after which he became a filmmaker, making his directorial debut with Sinhaasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ftii-library-to-be-named-after-jagirdar/articleshow/77493340.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||JEE registration starts today||Kolkata: For WBJEE rankers, the first round of registration, uploading of documents and selection of choices will be held from August 12 to 25. The first round of seat allotment will be published on August 31. There will be three rounds of online counselling and candidates will have to register for each round though they do not have to pay any registration fee. Counselling, upgrading and freezing of seats will be on till October 28. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jee-registration-starts-today/articleshow/77493366.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Rajkot||Thieves involved in dozen thefts held||Rajkot: Two thieves were arrested by Rajkot police for their involvement in 12 thefts in a period of six months.The accused Varam Singh alias alias Ramesh Panchal and Kalu alias Kalo Minawa were arrested near ITI on Bhavnagar Road in Rajkot. Police said that the duo admitted committing thefts in Rajkot, Morbi, Gondal and Jamnagar. Panchal and Minawa along with three accomplices used to burgle houses together and flee on a two-wheeler. Their three accomplices had also been identified as Vishu Singania, Mangilal Masania and Kailash Masania.According to police, both, Panchal and Minawa are natives of Dhar in Madhya Pradesh, but Panchal is a history-sheeter. He is wanted in 13 burglary cases in Madhya Pradesh involving theft of valuables of Rs 15 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/thieves-involved-in-dozen-thefts-held/articleshow/77490740.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Salem||Three, including 2 brothers, drown in lake near Mettur||Salem: Three students, including two brothers, drowned in a lake near Mettur in Salem district on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as S Rithish, 17, his brother S Harish, 15, and A Akul alias Dharshan, 17. All three were residents of Ambedkar Nagar at Pukkampatty village near Mettur. Police said the accident took place when the trio went for a bath in the Nagireddipatty lake situated near their homes. Rithish and Dharshan were studying in Class XII while Harish was a student of Class IX. They left their clothes and footwear outside the lake and got into the water. “The three did not know that the lake is deep... they could have drowned accidentally,” a police officer said. When the trio did not return home, their parents launched a search for them in the evening. They were then informed by local residents that the three had drowned in the lake. Mettur police and fire and rescue services personnel fished out the bodies from the lake and send them for a postmortem. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/three-including-2-brothers-drown-in-lake-near-mettur/articleshow/77493371.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida gears up to prepare master plan for 2041||GREATER NOIDA: Having got the approval from the board, Greater Noida Industrial Development Authority (GNIDA) is gearing up to prepare its master plan for 2041. Boosting industrial activity and strengthening urban services are some of the key points that will be taken up in the new plan, officials said. The last master plan, notified in March 2013, remains effective till March next year. GNIDA CEO Narendra Bhooshan said that a concept note is being finalised and a hunt for a consultant to prepare the plan will be launched within a few weeks. “Our objective is to boost industrial development. Urban services will be also strengthened. But without industrial development and local employment opportunities, residential colonies will not flourish,” he said. “We are working on finalising our requirements internally and will invite applications from interested consultants and urban planners within the next few weeks,” Bhooshan said. “The projected population will be available once the concept note is ready.” As per the last master plan, 12 lakh is the projected population by 2021. At present, close to 10 lakh people are staying in the city. Once ready, the master plan will be sent to the state government for its approval and will be then forwarded to the National Capital Region Planning Board for comments and suggestions. Through the master plan, preliminary approval of the NCR planning board is taken for key infrastructure projects in advance. Besides Gautam Budh Nagar, neighbouring Ghaziabad, Bulandshahr, Hapur and Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar and Shamli have been notified as the part of NCR in UP. The planning will be divided into five sections — transport, ground water restoration and recharge, economic development, drainage and functional plan for sectors. The Authority will also take feedback from RWAs, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/gr-noida-gears-up-to-prepare-master-plan-for-2041/articleshow/77494365.cms||Shalabh
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Bad weather: Port Blair flight returns||Kolkata: A Port Blair-bound IndiGo Airlines fight with 157 passengers returned to Kolkata on Tuesday afternoon after it was unable to land due to bad weather. Flight 6E 282 took off from Kolkata at 7.45am. It reached Andaman around 10am. It then hovered for nearly an hour before turning back to Kolkata. The flight was rescheduled to 5am onWednesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bad-weather-port-blair-flight-returns/articleshow/77493389.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Bhopal||Covid mortality rate goes up in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Death rate has increased in the state capital in the first 10 days of August and Bhopal is the only district among the top 5 districts that reported maximum cases during the unlock period whose death rate of August is above the average death rate of 2.5%. In the first 10 days of August, 44 deaths have taken place in Bhopal, which is highest in the entire state and 1457 new positive cases were found which is again highest in the entire state. If seen statistically, three deaths took place after every 100 patients were found positive. This is above the average death rate of the entire state, which is 2.5 per cent. Between June when unlock started and August 10—five districts - Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior, Morena and Jabalpur - reported maximum number of new cases. And in the first month of unlock, it was Indore which had highest death rate of 8 per cent for that month—i.e. on every 100 new positive cases that were found, 8 deaths were reported in Indore in June—the rate for Bhopal in June was 3 per cent. In July, Indore improved to 3 per cent and Bhopal further improved to 2 per cent. But if figures of the past 10 days are to be seen, Indore has further improved to 2 per cent and Bhopal has deteriorated to 3 per cent. Thus statistically it means that with every 100 new positive cases that were found in August so far, 3 deaths were also reported in Bhopal. In the first 10 days of August, death rate has also increased slightly in districts like Gwalior and Morena where average death rate was below 1 per cent for the entire unlock period, but in the first 10 days of August it has increased to 1 per cent. Sources however say that death rate is not directly proportional to new cases, primarily because in majority of the cases, they are the old patients—new cases of past times—who succumb during treatment and deaths are reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-leads-the-state-in-covid-mortality-rate/articleshow/77493384.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Trichy||74-year-old held for sexually assaulting disabled girl in Trichy||Trichy: A septuagenarian, who had sexually assaulted a minor girl at her house was arrested by police on Monday. The accused has been identified as T Jayaraman, 74, a tailoring machine mechanic of Chinthamani bazaar in Trichy. Acting on a complaint from the 12-year-old girl’s mother, the all women police station (AWPS), Golden Rock police arrested the accused.Inquiry revealed that the 12-year-old victim was differently-abled with mobility issues. On Monday, she was alone at her house when Jayaraman, who had come there to repair a tailoring machine barged into the house after confirming that she was alone and sexually assaulted her. The parents of the girl who returned home, found him indulging in the act and caught him red-handed.Police arrested him under the section 7 and 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. He was remanded in judicial custody. Police put him through Covid-19 testing and lodged him in the Trichy Central Prison on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/74-year-old-held-for-sexually-assaulting-disabled-girl-in-trichy/articleshow/77494364.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Goa||Goa University, colleges to begin academic year online from September 1||PANAJI: For students of general stream graduate and postgraduate programmes at Goa University and affiliated colleges, the new academic year 2020-21 will begin from September 1. GU registrar Y V Reddy said that the year is to begin with online classes. In a circular issued on Tuesday, Reddy said that the decision is “in accordance with the Special Ordinance OS-01 and in partial modification to earlier circulars and in view of the Covid-10 pandemic”. However, the modalities of how the colleges will function will depend a lot on the final Unlock 0.3 guidelines to be issued by the Central government at the end of this month. Assam was among the first states that had expressed its willingness to reopen colleges and hold classes physically from September 1. But the state later decided to wait for the Unlock 0.3 guidelines. Broad standard operating procedures (SOPs) are set to be issued to states, but finally it is likely to be left to state governments to decide how to reopen institutions based on their situations. Schools and colleges are likely to open in a staggered manner starting from September 1 up to November 14. Educational institutes have been shut for students from mid-March due to the pandemic. Under normal circumstances, colleges in Goa open for the new academic year from mid-June. The directorate of higher education (DHE) is currently in the process of recording online lectures to be telecast through local Doordarshan TV channel and through a dedicated DHE YouTube website to be launched specifically for this purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-colleges-to-begin-academic-yr-online-from-sep-1/articleshow/77494366.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Meerut||IAS officer’s husband accused of attempt to murder gets bail||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Rajeev Nayan, regional commissioner of the labour department, Haryana, accused of attempt to murder by his IAS wife, Shailja Sharma, was granted bail on Monday. However, he will be released from jail on Wednesday, his lawyer said. He was arrested on July 3. District and sessions judge Rajiv Sharma granted bail to Nayan, on a personal bond of Rs 50,000 with two sureties of the same amount. Nayan's lawyer, Paranjay Chauhan, said, "His sureties could not be submitted in court because of Janamashtami holiday. He will be released from jail on Wednesday." Sharma, a 2013 batch IAS officer who is currently posted in Bihar and is originally from Muzaffarnagar district, has accused her husband of breaking into her house and trying to strangle her and her father. Based on her complaint, an FIR was filed in the district and Nayan was arrested. In her complaint to the Muzaffarnagar police, Sharma had said, “I had come to my house in Muzaffarnagar on July 31. On August 1, my husband, Rajeev Nayan, broke open the door and barged into the house with the wrong intention. He abused us and when my father tried to stop him, he attacked us and tried to strangle me.” She also alleged that her husband was in an illicit relationship with another woman and had been harassing her and their daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ias-officers-husband-accused-of-attempt-to-murder-gets-bail/articleshow/77490777.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Protesters’ gathering raises questions over functioning of authorities||Ludhiana: Raising a big question mark on the functioning of authorities concerned in the district in the wake of Section 144 already imposed and rising cases of Covid-19, a mob of protesters was allowed to gather outside mini-secretariat and engage in a protest and stay put for quite sometime. This is the second incident in four days, which has brought embarrassment for the authorities concerned. Though Ludhiana police has lodged an FIR against the protesters under various sections and also set to initiate the process for cancellation of their passports and arms licence, but it is still unclear how the protesters managed to gather in such a huge number outside the mini-secretariat and then enter inside and burn an effigy. Though the protesters sat on the side of the main road during their protest but still traffic chaos was caused at several places due to the protest. In the earlier incident on Saturday, many unidentified persons who are said to be Congress supporters gathered inside the house of MP Ravneet Singh Bittu and later on this mob attacked the Lok Insaf Party (LIP) workers who had came outside the house of Bittu to protest. According to eyewitnesses, this mob had started to build up inside Bittu’s home very much before the arrival of LIP workers and after the attack mob went inside his house again. Speaking to TOI on condition of anonymity a resident of Shastri Nagar said, “It is very dangerous to allow crowds like these gather on daily basis and put lives of others in danger. On Tuesday also most of the protesters were without masks and were not following social distancing norm. If by chance even one of them is infected with Covid-19, imagine how many people would have got infected. It is a humble request to the authorities that rather than booking the protesters and violators, in the first place they should not be allowed to gather.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/protesters-gathering-raises-questions-over-functioning-of-authorities/articleshow/77491930.cms||Mohit Behl
August 12, 2020||Ludhiana||City bus service in limbo, councillor questions role of officials||Ludhiana: More than a month has passed since the city bus service has been resumed but till date it is available on a single route as the contractor, who is running these buses, has not extended the service on other routes while citing less number of commuters as the reason. However, the city bus service seems to be in deep trouble due to ongoing dispute over fare revision. A legal battle is also going on over termination of the contract of the contractor. In this regard a meeting was conducted at MC office on Tuesday for reviewing the status of bus service. In the meeting MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal and Congress councillor Mamta Ashu were present, along with officials handling the city bus service. The contractor’s firm is not paying anything to the civic body and even advertisement charges are due. After the meeting Mamta said, “For over a year the case is going on in court against termination of the contractor and we asked the officials about its status. Also the contractor was asking for fare revision and the officials concerned did not reply to the same.” She said the officials were also responsible for the current position of the bus service. However, the officials are tight lipped over the situation and refused to comment. After a gap of three and half months, the bus service was resumed from Clock Tower to Sahnewal Route on July 6 and it was planned to extend the service to other routes in one month. The officials had given permission to start the service in June but the contractor took another month to start it. Already the service was available only on four routes in the city and now it has been restricted to a single route. However, the contractor claimed that he had been requesting for fare revision since 2015 but till date no decision had been taken. While quoting the fare of Chandigarh city bus service, he claimed that minimum fare in Chandigarh is Rs 10 and here in Ludhiana it was only Rs 5, despite the fact that diesel prices had increased manifold. He said the auto rickshaw drivers were also charging Rs 10 minimum fare from passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-bus-service-in-limbo-councillor-questions-role-of-officials/articleshow/77491943.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Noida||Admissions from today at new Covid hospital in Noida||NOIDA: The new Covid hospital in Sector 39 will be taking in patients from Wednesday. Duties of doctors, including specialists, have been finalised and officials said that the 168-bed facility can now be used by patients from Gautam Budh Nagar. While the additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad, had said that Noida Covid Hospital (NCH) will have a TrueNat machine and an RT-PCR machine, for now, samples would be sent to Child PGI at Sector 30 for routine tests. “We are fully equipped and ready to admit patients now. We will start from Wednesday. I have drawn up a detailed duty list and sanctioned manpower at the facility,” said Dr Renu Aggarwal, medical superintendent, Noida Covid Hospital. “The duty schedule now includes 20 MBBS doctors, 50 nurses and specialists, like one anaesthetist, one cardiologist, (yet to join) one pathologist, one community medicine expert, three laboratory technicians, 40 security guards and a few cleaning staff members,” said Dr Aggarwal. Narendra Bhooshan, Gautam Budh Nagar district, the nodal officer in-charge of Covid care, said the chief minister had directed them to not only increase the capacity at the hospital but also make it accessible to the neighbouring areas, including Ghaziabad, Meerut and Bulandshahr. “Patients from the neighbouring areas will also be able to use the facility. But for now, we will start with patients from Gautam Budh Nagar,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/nch-to-admit-patients-from-today/articleshow/77494376.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
August 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Kurichi tank capacity will not be altered: Corporation||Coimbatore: Corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar held a meeting in the city on Monday with officials, social enthusiasts and volunteers regarding the developmental works carried out in Kurichi tank. The corporation has been implementing beautification and rejuvenation works at nine tanks including Kurichi tank in the city under its smart city mission. The construction part of the project, which costs about Rs 52.16 crore, started only a month ago. “More than beautification work, the corporation has been concentrating more on restoring and rejuvenating the lakes. Importance would be given to the ecological factors of the lake. As per the lease agreement signed with the public works department (PWD), full tank capacity would not be altered,” said a release from the corporation. The wide spread area of the tank is 334 acres. The release said after removing encroachments along the bunds, it would be strengthened and other facilities like cycle and walking track, boating facilities, workout area would be constructed.After removing encroachments along its bund, bunds will be strengthened, cycle track, walking track, toilets for every 500 metres, boating facilities, eateries, yoga, karate and workout areas would be constructed, the release said, adding that one of the important components of the project is linking the lake with river Noyyal. Deepam Swaminathan, president of Kurichi Kulam Pathukappu Iyyakam who participated in the meeting, said as we have been working on to restore the lake for the past seven years, we would be working closely with the corporation in implementing the project.He said, “We have proposed a few ideas including readying at least one of the four sluice gates for the emergency purpose, to do a survey to ensure that the capacity of the tank does not change. The corporation has agreed to consider our proposals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kurichi-tank-capacity-will-not-be-altered-corporation/articleshow/77493402.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Trichy||2 killed as car rams truck in Trichy||Trichy: Two people died and two others were severely injured when the car in which they were travelling was involved in an accident with a truck. The accident took place near Pazhur in Trichy on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as T Vijaya Lakshmi, 45, from Royapuram in Chennai and R Siva, 30, of Royapettah in Chennai. Siva was driving the car. Vijayalakshmi’s husband C Thirunamaperumal, 52, and their son T Vignesh, 22, were injured. They were on their way to Nagercoil from Chennai to attend their relative’s funeral. When the car was going near Pazhoor road on the Chennai – Trichy Road at around 3.45pm, a truck proceeding in front of them took a right turn without signalling. The driver lost control and rammed the truck resulting in complete damage to the front portion of the car. Locals came to their rescue. They were rushed to a private hospital where Lakshmi and Siva were declared brought dead. The bodies were taken to government hospital in Srirangam for postmortem. The Samayapuram police arrested the truck driver, M Chelladurai, 35. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-killed-as-car-rams-truck-in-trichy/articleshow/77494380.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Indore||843 new cases take MP corona tally beyond 40,000-mark||BHOPAL: With 843 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, Madhya Pradesh’s tally crossed 40,000. Now the number of people, who have tested positive stands at 40,734. According to the state health bulletin, 18 deaths were also reperted. Of the 18 death, 6 were reported in Bhopal, 3 in Indore, 2 deaths each in Jabalpur and Seoni; and 1 each in Gwalior, Khargone, Sehore, Hoshangabad and Singrauli districts. Now, the Covid-19 death toll across the state stands at 1033. As per the state health bulletin, Indore recorded the highest 176 cases on Tuesday. Bhopal reported 100 new cases, followed by Gwalior (89). Of the 49 districts that reported fresh cases on Tuesday, 22 districts reported more than 10 fresh cases. Overall, 4% of the people whose samples were tested on Tuesday were found positive. This positivity rate—the number of people found positive out of every 100 samples tested— is nearly equal to the state average of around 4% till date. At present, there were 9,105 active cases in the state. On the brighter side, 922 people recovered and were discharged from hospitals across the state. With this, the total number of patients who have recovered so far reached 30,596. In 52 districts, 3194 localities have been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/843-new-cases-take-mp-corona-tally-beyond-40k-mark/articleshow/77496563.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Trichy||4 inmates of old age home test +ve||Trichy: Four inmates of an old age home situated in Rajarathinam Pillai street near Puthur in Trichy, tested positive for Covid-19 during a mass screening carried out by the corporation across the city. A containment zone has been established to isolate the street. Corporation officials said on Tuesday that the home in ward 54 falling under K Abishekapuram has 22 inmates and two caretakers. The four inmates, including three women were asymptomatic. “We thought of shifting them to the Yatri Nivas isolation centre. But, as per doctors suggestion, we admitted them to the MGMGH,” a health official said. “Since a majority of casualties for Covid-19 were senior citizens, we carried out a mass screening in old age homes. Only less than 2% of the samples turned positive. Mass screening of senior citizens is continuing,” corporation commissioner, S Sivasubramanian, said. Meanwhile, 22 of the 23 senior citizens in Kattur old age home who tested positive last month have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4-inmates-of-old-age-home-test-ve/articleshow/77494396.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Mangor Hill government school uses art to boost spirits of students from zone||PANAJI: Physically cut off from the rest of the world for over two months, residents of Mangor Hill, Goa’s first containment zone, faced tough times. Realising that the period was likely to have been especially difficult for the children, teachers of the government high school in the area decided to engage students through an online drawing competition. They were asked to prepare posters on the topic ‘Corona Virus And Safety’. The intention was to not only engage them, but also educate and sensitise them to the Covid-19 pandemic. The exercise was also aimed at expressing solidarity with all the frontline workers, like the medical fraternity, police, municipal staff, social workers and pharmaceutical industry, among others, said Naguesh R Sardessai, the school’s drawing teacher, who initiated the school’s online competition. “Since Mangor Hill was the worst affected, it was necessary to hold this interclass competition to keep them engaged and encouraged and also to spread awareness,” Sardessai said. The competition was organised in junior and senior categories. Sardessai said that the idea to hold the drawing competition came to him from Vishal Signapurkar, headmaster of Government High School, Chimbel. “He had held a similar competition for his school and had mentioned it to me, which motivated me since the majority of the students of the Government High School, Mangor Hill, come from the containment zone,” he said. The drawing teacher of the Dr K B Hedgewar High School, Cujira judged the competition. “This pandemic can be countered only through necessary precautions. And young minds are the right media through which awareness can be spread. I am highly appreciative of the efforts of our students and the drawing teacher for being thoughtful in taking up such a big challenge of helping our community. I hope our students continue to be inspired by such teachers in future too,” said school headmistress Neeta P Naik. While the winners in the junior category were Yallamma S Maddimani, Saraswati D Meti and Deepa Madar, who won the first, second and third prize, respectively, in the senior category the first three places went to Mamta Talwar, Prakruti and Ravikumar Bind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mangor-hill-govt-school-uses-art-to-boost-spirits-of-students-from-zone/articleshow/77494394.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Meerut||Ex-BJP dist chief shot dead in Baghpat, Yogi expresses ‘shock & grief’||Meerut: A former district president of the Bharatiya Janata Party was shot dead by unidentified assailants in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district early on Tuesday. Sanjay Khokhar, BJP district president for Baghpat from 2016 to 2018 and currently a member of the district planning committee, was out on morning walk when he was shot multiple times. He died on the spot.In a tweet, chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed “shock and grief” on the daylight murder and directed the state police to “crack the case with 24 hours, bring culprits to books and also establish the accountability in this case”. Chaprauli police station SHO has been suspended with immediate effect. Senior BJP leaders, including Union minister Sanjeev Balyan and Muzaffarnagar MP Satyapal Singh, visited Baghpat to condole the bereaved family.According to police, personal enmity seems to the reason behind the murder. Meanwhile, Khokhar’s family has lodged an FIR against five persons. “We have constituted five teams to arrest the killers. Prima facie, it is the result of a personal enmity. We are in touch with the family and the deceased's close associates. We are in the process of investigating the role of potential rivals and if they hired anyone to kill the leader. We will catch the culprits within 24 hours," said Praveen Kumar, IG (Meerut range). In his statement to the police, Manish, Khokhar’s son, said, “My father and brother Akshay had gone for a morning walk at 6:30am on Tuesday when all of sudden half a dozen came out of an agricultural field and shot my father who collapsed on the ground. My brother Akshay had to save his life and later told me the whole incident.”Naming five rivals, Manish said, “In 2018, they had attacked my younger brother but were surrounded by our family members and the subsequent jostling left one person from their camp injured. Ever since, they had been looking for an opportunity to settle scores.”While the five persons have been booked, no arrest has been made so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ex-bjp-dist-chief-shot-dead-in-baghpat-yogi-expresses-shock-grief/articleshow/77490824.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 12, 2020||Ludhiana||LIT should take over Feroze Gandhi mkt parking: Association||Ludhiana: Irked over the negligence of the municipal corporation in maintaining the parking lots of markets, the Feroze Gandhi market association members have urged local bodies minister Brahm Mohindra to bring this market in the purview of Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT). In a letter to the minister, the members claimed that the civic body had failed in resolving the issues in the market and now since January the market’s parking lots had been left in abandoned state as the contractor is not willing to take over these, which has led to utter chaos. However, they claimed that in an information obtained under the RTI, they had come to know that the rights of these parking lots are still lying with LIT and it was transferred to the civic body in 1985 for maintenance purpose. The members claimed that MC was supposed to manage the parking lots and maintain the market but it had failed miserably to do justice, resulting in complete mismanagement and gross neglect of this market. They claimed that the parking contract money ranges between Rs 1.90 crore to almost Rs 38 lakh, depending how well the contractor could influence the officials concerned. The MC has been running the five parking lots for over a year and could not earn more than Rs 30 lakh. Such huge losses can only be investigated by the vigilance department. They rued that business in the market was suffering due to chaos all around and there was no fire prevention system in the market. Even fire tenders and ambulance will not be able to enter the market in case of some emergency as the contractors are interested in profits only and not in the parking management. Even the main road from Pakhowal road to a hotel gets choked, resulting in traffic blockades. The members further said, “Ludhiana Improvement Trust is located near the Feroze Gandhi market and the chaos in the parking lots and on the main road is evident to the entire staff of the trust. It is, therefore, requested that LIT should take back the market from MC and manage the parking with assistance of this association or Punjab Ex-Servicemen Corporation and provide relief to public at large and to this market.” “If no action is taken in reasonable time, then this market association will be forced to approach the Punjab and Haryana high court for what they called as non-compliance of orders,” they added. Meanwhile, the secretary of MC, Neeraj Jain, said, “We have already sent the file for taking a decision regarding the contractor who is not taking charge of parking lots in the market. As far as other things are concerned, already one way and towing zones had been implemented in the market and traffic police was informed as well.” He claimed that they had also installed fire lane boards in the market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lit-should-take-over-feroze-gandhi-mkt-parking-association/articleshow/77491952.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Bhopal||843 new cases take MP corona tally beyond 40,000-mark||BHOPAL: With 843 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday, Madhya Pradesh’s tally crossed 40,000. Now the number of people, who have tested positive stands at 40,734. According to the state health bulletin, 18 deaths were also reperted. Of the 18 death, 6 were reported in Bhopal, 3 in Indore, 2 deaths each in Jabalpur and Seoni; and 1 each in Gwalior, Khargone, Sehore, Hoshangabad and Singrauli districts. Now, the Covid-19 death toll across the state stands at 1033. As per the state health bulletin, Indore recorded the highest 176 cases on Tuesday. Bhopal reported 100 new cases, followed by Gwalior (89). Of the 49 districts that reported fresh cases on Tuesday, 22 districts reported more than 10 fresh cases. Overall, 4% of the people whose samples were tested on Tuesday were found positive. This positivity rate—the number of people found positive out of every 100 samples tested— is nearly equal to the state average of around 4% till date. At present, there were 9,105 active cases in the state. On the brighter side, 922 people recovered and were discharged from hospitals across the state. With this, the total number of patients who have recovered so far reached 30,596. In 52 districts, 3194 localities have been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/843-new-cases-take-mp-corona-tally-beyond-40k-mark/articleshow/77493415.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||With 1 case every 2 minutes, Lucknow Covid count jumps to 831 in a day||LUCKNOW: With a person getting infected every two minutes in the past 24 hours, the city on Tuesday recorded 831 new Covid-19 cases, highest in a single day so far. Experts warned that the daily cases may touch 1,000 mark by August end if immediate measures are not taken by people and the administration. How rapidly the infection is transmitting now can be gauged from the fact that the first 830 cases had come in 104 days. Tuesday’s figure took the caseload to 14,221 since the outbreak on March 11, of which 42% (6,043) have been reported in August so far. About 7,317 patients have also recovered till date, but since the transmission rate is higher than recovery, active patients have swelled to 6,743. Though asymptomatic cases are allowed home isolation, the increase in active cases added to the pressure on Covid hospitals. Ambulances services too were seen struggling in shifting of patients requiring medical supervision from home to hospitals. Experts cited three main reasons behind the spike — rainy season, negligence of safety protocol and delay in contact tracing. Prof TN Dhole, senior virologist and ex-professor at SGPGI, said moisture in the atmosphere in monsoon is abetting the spread of the virus. ‘The surge will continue and we may see more than 1,000 cases daily by August end. The transmission rate would peak in October,” he added However, CMO Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh denied laxity in contact tracing. “More cases are being detected because we have doubled our testing capacity to 5,000 daily, double in comparison to July,” he said. King George’s Medical Unit, medicine head and in charge of Covid unit, Prof Virendra Atam said “I see people across the city crowding markets without social distancing and masks. Hand hygiene is also being neglected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-1-case-every-2-minutes-city-covid-count-jumps-to-831-in-a-day/articleshow/77494402.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 12, 2020||Meerut||NGT slams UP for ‘gross negligence’ after just 4 villages get piped water supply in 1 year||Meerut: The National Green Tribunal has slammed the Uttar Pradesh government for “gross negligence” after it was told that piped drinking water reached just four villages affected by contaminated groundwater in western Uttar Pradesh in the last one year. Till July last year, the water had reached 41 villages out of the total 148 flagged by the green panel as they were situated close to the banks of polluted Hindon and its tributaries and prevalence of diseases like cancer and bone deformity was high among its residents. In the last hearing in July last year, the green panel had directed the state government to ensure that the supply of potable water reaches all the 148 affected villages. These villages are situated in Meerut, Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli and Ghaziabad.The NGT had also formed an oversight committee, headed by retired high court judge SVS Rathode, to look into the implementation of its order. Now, to the shock of the green panel, the committee submitted a report saying that just four villages have got the piped water supply so far.“Despite repeated directions by the NGT and this committee, till date, piped water supply has been ensured only in 45 villages. In July 2019, this figure was 41 villages. Thus only 4 villages have been provided piped water in one year’s time. There has been no physical progress in installation of any of three sewage treatment plants (STPs) proposed in the last one year. No action has been taken against any negligent officer despite directions of NGT. Not a single village has been provided water through tankers till now despite written assurance to NGT by Chief Secretary on October 20, 2019. In fact, now ACS Panchayati Raj has informed that in view of hand-pumps working in these villages there is no need of water supply through tankers. Such gross negligence in fulfilling the basic needs of the citizens is not acceptable and punishable,” the tribunal comprising justices Adarsh Goel and SP Wangdi said in the order. Expert member Nagin Nanda was also part of the bench.The NGT has now asked the government to expedite the process and provide piped water to the remaining 103 villages by December 31, 2020. The matter will be next heard on February 2, 2021. The Tribunal was responding to a petition filed by an NGO ‘Doaba Paryavaran Samiti’ in 2014 highlighting the plight of hundreds of villages located on the banks of Hindon and its tributaries.Speaking to TOI, president of the NGO and petitioner in the case Chandraveer Singh said, “I had filed a petition at NGT highlighting the plight of Gangnauli village in Baghpat where residents were suffering from high incidents of cancer, bone deformities, etc. And this was happening because of the toxic water of Krishni river which had also contaminated groundwater. Tests conducted by government approved labs also corroborated with our fear of the presence of heavy metals. And, the worst part is that it is not just Gangnauli but hundreds of villages located on the banks of these rivers all across half a dozen districts. Today’s order will have far reaching consequences and will certainly make life better for these villagers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ngt-slams-up-for-gross-negligence-after-just-4-villages-get-piped-water-supply-in-1-year/articleshow/77490829.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 12, 2020||Aurangabad||12,537 patients recover from Covid in district||Aurangabad: As many as 12,537 patients have so far recovered from Covid-19 in Aurangabad district, while 75 fresh cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the number of total active cases to 4,030. Till date, the total number of cases reported across the district stands at 17,125 along with 558 detahs. “Five deaths were reported at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) on Tuesday,” a health official said, adding that as many as 39 cases were reported from rural parts of the district while just 36 Covid positive cases were found in areas falling under the jurisdiction of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). A total of 253 Covid positive cases are being treated at the hospital, out of which condition of 141 patients is said to be critical. “The hospital so far recorded 414 deaths. Five of those who succumbed due to Covid-19 on Tuesday include two women — from Tansa in Hadgaon tauka of Nanded district and from Snehnagar (Sillod) in Aurangabad district,” the official said. “The male patients included a patient (80) from Ambegaon in Gangapur taluka, 68-year-old from the city’s Gajanannagar in Garkheda and 86-year-old from Eknathnagar in Osmanpura,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/12537-patients-recover-from-covid-in-district/articleshow/77491955.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Online engg courses available in Tamil||Chennai: Engineering students can access lessons on computer operating systems, software engineering, data structures, database management and fundamentals of entrepreneurship in Tamil soon. The Educational Multimedia Research Centre (EMRC) in Anna University is translating lessons in 14 subjects for the Swayam platform. Post the lockdown, many students are opting for massive open online courses (MOOCs) on the Swayam platform. Universities are also offering credits for these courses. The ministry of human resource development (MHRD) has recently initiated the translation project in which 40 courses will be translated into eight regional languages in the first phase. “Tamil-speaking learners will find these video courses useful,” said S Gowri, director of EMRC, Anna University. Each course consists of 37 to 42 video lecture modules that will run for 35 minutes each. Gowri said they are anticipating high number of registrations. The enrollment for database management and data structures which were offered online has been high. Besides engineering subjects, the centre also translated photography, digital marketing, mathematical economics, film studies and industrial pharmacy courses. “EMRC Chennai has already developed seven courses and four are in the editing stage,” Gowri said. Anna University also plans to give credits for MOOCs while University of Madras has already awarded credits to the courses. In the second phase, the MHRD is likely to translate all 114 courses into regional languages. Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa said it would help the students who want to learn engineering in Tamil. “Making available the technical content in local languages will help the development of the language too,” he said. The centre has also produced a documentary -- “AU combats Covid-19” -- which explains the contributions of the university professors to fight Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/online-engg-courses-available-in-tamil/articleshow/77493441.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Post office services hit due to poor internet||Chennai: People who visited post offices in the city on Tuesday had problems accessing financial services as the internet at the public facilities was down. Seshi, a domestic help, told TOI that she went to withdraw her pension at the Mandaveli post office, but could not. “We were told that the post office will not work tomorrow (Wednesday) due to Janmashtami. I wanted to withdraw money but the officials said computer was not working and asked me to come on Thursday,” she said. Customers visiting Mylapore post office told TOI that transactions took more time. “Since morning, there was a problem with the connectivity and we were not able to do transactions. So we sent back all customers," said an official. Customers were asked to approach Anna Salai post office for emergency transactions. Despite repeated attempts, chief post master general of Tamil Nadu circle could not be reached for comments. BSNL, the telecom service provider for post offices in Chennai, said no complaints were received from the post offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/post-office-services-hit-due-to-poor-internet/articleshow/77493453.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Janmashtami to be low key affair with precautions||Ludhiana: The increasing number of coronavirus cases in city has spoiled the Janmashtami celebrations this year as city temples have decided not to organise any large scale functions this time. While Iskon temples will remain closed on Wednesday, other Krishan temples will observe festival on a low keys. Even as the administration has given relaxation in curfew timings for Janmashtami but there are different opinions of temple committees about the celebrations. Sunder Das Dhamija from Govind Godham temple, Hambran Road, said, “For Janmashtami, we used to start preparations almost a month back but this time due to this disease we do not want to take any risk. The temple will open as routine days but there will be no decorations or late night celebrations.” He said those who would come to pray in the temple would be sanitised. He said even though relaxation is up to 1am but they will close the temple at 9pm. Raksha Nath Das and Narotam Das from Iskon temples at Janpath Estate and Civil Lines said, “We have closed temples from Tuesday because if we will open the temples people will definitely come to the premises.” Raksha Nath shared that in routine they do ‘aarti’ seven times a day and if priests get infected, then they will not he able to perform the routine rituals as well. However, Pawan Sharma from Jagannath temple in Chander Nagar said, “Only 10 to 12 people will be allowed in the temple, that too for performing the rituals on Janmashtami while pwople will not be allowed in large numbers.” He said there was sanitisation tunnel outside temple. Sharma said the only change will timing of ‘abhishek’ of Lord Krishna, which instead of 8pm will now be at 12am. President of Sri Sanatan Dharam Mandir Parbandhak Committee Neeraj Verma said they had demanded this relaxation from the government as it was one of the biggest festivals. He said though celebration would remain low key but in some temples they had asked for securitymen at gates to avoid overcrowding. He said for rituals temples would remain open till midnight. Residents plan celebrations at home Sonia Chugh, a resident of Pakhowal Road, said, “Earlier we used to visit the temples for celebrations but this time we have decided to do everything at home.” She said she has decorated temple at home. Another resident from Haibowal Sheetal Ghai said, “This time it is not safe to go to temples because of the rise in Covid cases. We have decorated the temples at our home.” Relaxation in timings In view of Janmashtami and latest guidelines from the government of Punjab, department of home affairs and justice, Chandigarh, on Tuesday, DM Varinder Kumar Sharma, ordered that night curfew during the intervening night of August 12 and 13 will be from 1am to 5am in the district. He also ordered that not more than 20 persons would be allowed to congregate at one point of time in temples. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal has said, “Residents are advised to celebrate the festival at home and refrain from going to temples. The managing committed have been given directions to follow the norms and it would be their responsibility to ensure guidelines are followed.” The guidelines: # In big temples not more than 20 people and in small temples not more than 5 people will be allowed at a time #Temples to deploy volunteers for management # Devotees to follow mask and social distancing guidelines # Only dry packed prasad to be distributed # No tableaux are allowed # Temples should refrain from live reciting of religious songs #Temples should not allow stalls or rehries in front of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/janmashtami-to-be-low-key-affair-with-precautions/articleshow/77491959.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid chariot to spread awareness among citizens||Aurangabad: The local bureau of the outreach and communication department of the central government has created a special ‘Covid chariot’ to spread awareness among the public about the contagion. The mobile unit with a public announcement system is equipped with different audio-visual contents and posters for sensitising the people. “The chariot will make people aware about different Dos and Don’ts to be followed during the ongoing pandemic in order to lead a normal life without getting infected. The initiative will also make masses aware about different welfare schemes and programmes of the Centre,” an official release said. As per schedule charted out by authorities, the chariot will move in different parts of the city and rural areas from 9 am to 5 pm till August 23. Meanwhile, a Covid Care Center — set up by Jain International Trade Organisation near Garware stadium — was thrown open for the public at the hands of Aurangabad municipal commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey on Tuesday. Patienst with mild or no symptoms of Covid-19 will be treated at the facility, which has a total of 65 beds and a team of four physicians and 10 nurses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-chariot-to-spread-awareness-among-citizens/articleshow/77491961.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: NEET exam students must inform about Covid status in advance||KOCHI: Students appearing for NEET exam – the national level qualifying exam for admission to MBBS courses – in state will have to contact their examination centre beforehand and inform authorities whether they are coming from a containment zone or hotspot or if they haven’t finished their quarantine period. Exam centre authorities will have to prepare in advance and communicate arrangements made at the centre for Covid positive students, students in quarantine as well as other students to concerned district health authorities. On Tuesday, health department came out with detailed guidelines for conduct of NEET exam. NEET exam will be held 13 across India on September. But, different parents’ body have already written to MHRD that the exam must be postponed keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation in the country. Last week, 11 students moved the SC for postponing the exam. As per the department’s plan, students with mild symptoms will be seated in a ‘sick room’ to write the exam, while those who haven’t completed their quarantine period will be made to sit in a separate room, away from both symptomatic and other students. Centre has allowed returnees appearing for the exam to seek exemption from IQ by submitting a negative RT-PCR test report on arrival, Kerala has decided to go with it. Further, to minimize the time spent by invigilators inside exam hall, it has been recommended to monitor students using CCTVs. Students, who come from Kerala and are in quarantine from containment zones or hotspots, have been asked to follow sanitized corridors (red channel). They will also be seated in separate classrooms. It will be the responsibility of the exam centre to ensure that there is no crowding of students or parents outside the exam centre. #||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/neet-exam-students-must-inform-about-covid-status-in-advance/articleshow/77491957.cms||Preetu Nair
August 12, 2020||Trichy||On-street parking back in Trichy, snarl-ups too||Trichy: On-street parking, which was absent for a brief period during the lockdown, is resurfacing again in the commercial streets in the city. People have stareted parking their vehicles haphazardly on a portion of the road causing traffic snarls. Social distancing goes for a toss as motorists compete against each other to evade bottlenecks. Gradually the number of people hitting the roads has increased in Trichy city that is evident in the volume of vehicular traffic in commercial streets. While public transportation including government and private city buses were usually blamed for the traffic bottlenecks, snarl-ups form even in the absence of city buses. Residents blamed the haphazard parking of two-wheelers and cars in the commercial streets as the main reason for the bottlenecks. People park vehicles on Salai Road near Main guard gate, Thillai Nagar Main Road and West Boulevard Road. “An ambulance was caught in the bottleneck on Salai Road near Maris theatre RoB as many mini trucks were unloading packages. Two-wheeler riders were made to stand too close,” P Saravanan, a resident of Palakkarai, said. Local people blamed the poor enforcement for the parking violations. A majority of the people visiting the shops park their vehicles well on the right of the way. Similarly, commercial vehicles also occupy the roads during peak hours. “The commercial outlets on Salai Road will be warned to direct their customers not to park their vehicles on the road. Erring vehicles will be certainly wheel locked and owners penalised,” an official with city traffic police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/on-street-parking-back-in-trichy-snarl-ups-too/articleshow/77494409.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 12, 2020||Goa||Keep 2 temples out of IIT land, drop additional plot, Vishwajit Rane tells Goa CM||PANAJI: As opposition to the IIT projects grows in Sattari, industries minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday called for the redemarcation of the entire project land so that two temples are excluded. He also called for the additional 2.45 lakh sq m of land for the project be dropped. “I have spoken to chief minister Pramod Sawant about the issue, and he will take a final decision on it,” Rane said. Rane said that the IIT can come up in the 10 lakh-odd sq m area that doesn’t include the additional land, which he wants dropped. Recently, locals have stepped up their opposition to the project on the grounds that it’s agricultural land and that some temples are located in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/redemarcate-iit-land-to-exclude-temples-drop-addl-plot-vishwajit-to-cm/articleshow/77494412.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Meerut||Tea shop owner’s daughter who made it to top US business school killed in road accident||MEERUT: A CBSE topper who charted her way from a school in Bulandshahr to a top college in Boston was killed in a road accident on Monday morning. The family of 19-year-old Sudeeksha Bhati, daughter of a small tea shop owner and marginal farmer, said she was being harassed by two men on a Bullet when the accident took place. Police, after initially denying the claim, formed an SIT later on Tuesday to investigate the allegation. Two years ago, Sudeeksha had secured a full scholarship to Babson College in Massachusetts, after topping the district with a score of over 98% in her Class XII boards. Her trajectory was not without challenges — the Vidya Gyan School student had to drop out briefly in 2009 because the family didn’t have enough resources to keep her studies going. But she persevered. In March, half-way into her four-year undergraduate business programme, she had come home after the Covid-19 shutdown in the US. She was set to go back later this month. On Monday, she was on her way to visit a relative, riding pillion on a bike. "Two men on a Bullet, riding next to us, started harassing her. While performing stunts, they overtook us. I lowered my speed but the biker applied brakes all of a sudden. We rammed into the bike, my niece fell off and was hit in the head,” said Satendra Bhati, Sudeeksha's uncle, on Tuesday. The accident took place near the Chirora intersection on Shyana Road in Aurangabad. She died on the spot. Satendra called her father, Jitendra, around 9am to give him the tragic news. Police and the district administration, however, had another version. When the case had been reported on Monday, police had registered only an accident and closed the books. “We were going at a speed of 30kmph … A Bullet raced ahead of us and applied brakes abruptly. Didi fell off the bike, nothing happened to me,” her cousin, Nigam Bhati, a minor, said in a video statement tweeted by the police. The biker who was ahead of them sped off, police said, and neither Sudeeksha nor her cousin was wearing a helmet. She died with head injuries, Bulandshahr SP (city) Atul Srivastava said. “After the accident, neither the cousin nor any witness alerted us about any act of harassment,” he added. SHO of Aurangabad police station Subhash Singh said there was no CCTV footage of the accident spot. “A person called Hemant Sharma said he had witnessed the accident. Others also told us what they saw. The Bullet ahead of the bike stopped suddenly when a milk truck came from the opposite direction. The road doesn’t have a divider,” he added. Bulandshahr district magistrate Ravindra Kumar also dismissed her uncle's statement. “Some claims are being made that Sudeeksha’s uncle was driving the bike. It is absolutely false. We have seen her cousin’s video statement. Aurangabad inspector Subash Singh spoke to her maternal uncle, who confirmed that her cousin was driving,” he said. About the harassment allegation, he added, “An inquiry has been initiated. As of now, there is no evidence. Action will be taken on the basis of the findings.” By evening, a three-member special investigation team (SIT) had been set up by the police. "An SIT under circle officer Deeksha Singh, with two crime branch inspectors, has been set up to look into the family's allegations. The report will be filed in three days," IG (Meerut range) Praveen Tripathi said. Sudeeksha’s family, meanwhile, is preparing to file a fresh complaint in the case. “Based on the complaint, an FIR will be registered,” a senior police officer in Bulandshahr said. The harassment allegations stirred a storm online — #JusticeForSudeeksha was trending on Twitter for a few hours. The National Commission for Women has written to UP Police, seeking a “swift probe”. A group of advocates held a prayer meeting for Sudeeksha in Greater Noida’s City Park area. Amid the confusion and counter-statements, BSP chief Mayawati condemned the incident. “Promising student Sudeeksha Bhati, travelling on a bike with her uncle in Bulandshahr, lost her life because of harassers. It is sad, shameful and condemnable. How will our daughters progress? BSP demands that the UP government take strict action against the culprits,” she tweeted. Dadri legislator from BJP, Tejpal Nagar, met Sudeeksha’s family and offered aid of Rs 1 lakh himself, while seeking a compensation of Rs 25 lakh from the state government. Later in the day, Sanjay Singh, in charge of AAP’s UP unit, also visited her family. (Additional reporting by Shikha Salaria)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/tea-shop-owners-daughter-who-made-it-to-top-us-business-school-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/77490860.cms||Piyush Rai
August 12, 2020||Kochi||Panel inspects spillway shutters of Mullaperiyar||Idukki: The sub-committee with representatives from Kerala and Tamil Nadu visited Mullaperiyar dam and inspected the spillway shutters on Tuesday. The visit was in the wake of increased inflow of water level in the dam. The water level on Tuesday was 136.95ft; the maximum storage level is 142ft. Rain in the dam’s catchment areas reduced on Monday night and the inflow dipped to 2,830 cumecs. Tamil Nadu is drawing water at 2,130 cumecs, said officials, adding that a decision on opening the spillways of the will be taken on Wednesday. Kerala had asked Tamil Nadu to draw more water and inform about the release of water through spillway shutters 24 hours in advance. “The subcommittee did not conduct regular meeting. An online meet may be held on Wednesday,” said a source. District administration officials said give the reduction in rainfall, the probability of water level increase in the dam was low. Subcommittee chairman and central water commission executive engineer Saravana Kumar, executive engineer Binu Baby, assistant director (hydrology) NS Praseed from Kerala and executive engineer Sam Irvin and assistant executive engineer Kumar T from TN were part of the team. Meanwhile, water level in Idukki reservoir rose to 2,368.42ft on Tuesday. The new rule curve level fixed by CWC was 2,382 ft, said officials. At the same time in Thrissur, one of the sluice gates of Peringalkuthu dam was opened on Tuesday afternoon. The collector also gave sanction to open the shutters of Asurankundu dam if water level increased further from 7.51m on Tuesday noon. According to an official release, sluice gate of Peringalkuthu dam was opened when water level reached 420.2ft. Already, water is flowing out through the crest gates. All these could lead to rise in water level in Chalakudy River. People staying on the banks of the river have been asked to remain vigilant. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/panel-inspects-spillway-shutters-of-mullaperiyar/articleshow/77491984.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Aurangabad||doneStudent seriously hurt in attack, brother-duo held||Aurangabad: A 20-year-old hotel-management student suffered serious head injuries while another youth was left with fractured fingers in a brawl at the optical market in the Barudgarnala area of the city on Monday. Police on Tuesday morning arrested Shaikh Hasan (22), who suffered fracture on the fingers, and his brother Asif (24) under IPC section 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) for allegedly assaulting the student, Sahib Akhtar. Sahib has been admitted to the GMCH, where his condition is stable, said police, adding that he too has been booked on a comparative lighter charge of IPC section 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt) following a cross-complaint by Hasan. Inspector Sambhaji Pawar of the City Chowk police station said, “Both the families hail from northern states and preliminary inquiry has revealed that there is business rivalry along with some personal grudge.” The officer said that Sahib has stated in his complaint that an unidentified suspect attacked him while taunting him for originally hailing from Uttar Pradesh. “We are yet to find an independent witness to support this claim that he was targeted for being from Uttar Pradesh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/donestudent-seriously-hurt-in-attack-brother-duo-held/articleshow/77491974.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 12, 2020||Trichy||OFT’s ‘stabilized remote-controlled gun’ launched||Trichy: The Ordnance Factory of Tiruchirappalli (OFT) has launched an indigenously manufactured weapon named stabilized remote controlled gun (SRCG). A dedicated assembly and testing facility were also opened for manufacturing the weapon here. Defence minister Rajnath Singh launched the weapon through video-conferencing on Monday as part of Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan (self-reliant India mission). OFT officials said the SRCG fitted with 12.7mm M2 NATO standard machine gun, is designed for marine applications. It will be mounted on warships and patrol boats and can remotely engage small boats, skiff and other small crafts with high accuracy both during day and night. “Equipped with sensors, the weapon has an automatic target tracking capacity. The gun can be fired manually even in case of malfunction,” C Ariya Sakthi, works manager, OFT told TOI. At an estimated cost of Rs 2.8 crore, the assembly and testing facility produces the weapon for Indian Navy and Coast Guard.  The indigenous manufacturing will save Rs 167 crore, officials said. The new weapon will provide a business opportunity for Rs 255 crore per annum for the next four years to OFT and other sister factories. While the gun will be manufactured in Trichy, a contract is placed by integrated headquarters, ministry of defence on Elbit Systems, Israel for transfer of technology (ToT) for SRCG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ofts-stabilized-remote-controlled-gun-launched/articleshow/77494423.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chennai||TN: Teen in viral video walked on ledge of 23rd floor to prove ‘bravery’ to brother||CHENNAI: A video clip of a teenage girl walking on the ledge of the 23rd floor of a high-rise apartment complex went viral on social media recently. Police have found out that the perilous act was undertaken at an apartment complex in Kelambakkam near Chennai on August 6. In the video, a woman’s voice can be heard expressing shock and saying, “She has done it three times now. This is scary.” The video, shot from the road level, could not identify the girl, but police officials identified the building and began inquiries at the apartment complex on OMR, near the Sipcot IT park in Kelambakkam. On August 7, a police team headed by Mamallapuram assistant superintendent of police Sundaravathanam visited the apartment complex and conducted inquiries. Police sources said initially the residents were reluctant to reveal the identity of the girl but after investigations with the security staff and a few residents, police found the teen. Withholding the identity of the family, police said the girl is a Class IX student and the act was the result of a challenge with her elder brother. “The siblings had challenged each other on who is the braver and the 14-year-old went on to walk on the narrow ledge to prove a point,” said a police officer. After warning the girl and her brother, police issued a notice to the residents’ association seeking explanation on the prevalent safety aspects and suggested them to erect blockades to prevent people accessing the ledges on all the floors. “Since the girl is a minor, we let her off with a warning and did not register a case,” said the police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/teen-in-viral-video-walked-on-ledge-of-23rd-floor-to-prove-bravery-to-brother/articleshow/77493481.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Goa||Goa brings 50% power rebate, but expect just Rs 15-40 benefit discount||PANAJI: The state government on Tuesday announced a power rebate of Rs 18 crore to consumers for the lockdown months of April and May. However, there’s hardly any relief for the domestic consumer as the discount in reality for them will be between Rs 15 and Rs 40 a month. A large chunk of the rebate running into crores, will be garnered by high tension consumers. Domestic consumers were not impressed with the waiver of 50% of fixed charges for the months of April and May as this component constitutes only between 5% to 10% of their power bills. The waiver on fixed charges was announced for all low tension domestic, commercial and other low tension categories, while for high tension consumers the chief minister announced that the rebate will be the difference between billed maximum demand charges for the month — around Rs 250 — and actual recorded maximum demand charges for the two months. Chief electrical engineer Raghuvir Keni said high tension consumers will be given a rebate on their contract demand according to their consumption. “For example, even if their contract demand is 100KW, but they utilised only 10KW, they would have had to pay the entire Rs 250 demand charges in other circumstances. However, now we will be waiving off 90KW,” he told TOI. When asked about the negligible rebate to domestic consumers, Keni said, “With 6.5 lakh consumers the government has been kind enough to give consumers a rebate of Rs 18.3 crore. Individually, it may work out to be small, but we are buying power for the state. The tariff’s otherwise for the state are among the lowest in the country. Just across the border tariff’s start at Rs 6 per unit compared to Rs 1.4 paise per unit in Goa.” On a larger chunk of the rebate going to high tension consumers he said these consumers bring in maximum revenue. “Seventy percent of the department’s revenue comes from high tension consumers — industries. Only 30% comes in from domestic and small commercial consumers,” he said. Citizens who complained of receiving exorbitant lump sum bills after the lockdown months were quick to take to social media to express their dissatisfaction with the insignificant discount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-brings-50-power-rebate-but-expect-just-rs-15-40-benefit-discount/articleshow/77494422.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ludhiana||PIO fined Rs 10,000 for not giving info under RTI||Ludhiana: Having taken a serious note of the negligence of a public information officer of the MC in supplying information under the Right to Information Act and not appearing for hearings in front of it despite directions, the Punjab State Information Commission (PSIC) has imposed Rs 10,000 penalty on the PIO of zone A. This amount will be deducted from his salary and will be deposited in the state treasury. The action has been taken over an application filed by an RTI activist. Rohit Sabharwal had sought information from the civic body officials about action taken over his complaint against a building inspector who was not attending his duty. When he was not given this information, he filed a case in the PSIC. Despite five hearings through video conference the activist did not get information and the PIO did not attend even a single hearing. In the orders, it is mentioned that it is the fifth consecutive hearing in this case. Neither any information has been supplied to the appellant, nor any reply to the show-cause notice has been given by the PIO at the office of commissioner, municipal corporation, Zone-A, Ludhiana. The Bench also observed that the PIO is adopting casual approach towards the directions of the commission and did not bother even to attend the hearing in person. This attitude of the PIO is viewed adversely, it added. The facts of the case prove beyond any doubt that the PIO does not deserve any leniency. Hence, in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 20(1) of the RTI Act, a penalty to the tune of Rs 10,000 is imposed upon the PIO of the municipal corporation, zone-A, Ludhiana, to be deducted from his salary, which is to be deposited in the state treasury under the relevant head. The drawing and disbursing officer concerned is directed to deduct the amount of penalty from the salary of PIO and deposit the same in state treasury, the Bench further said.. The PIO is directed to supply complete information to the appellant and also file a reply to the show-cause notice and send the documentary evidence for the deposit of penalty amount in the treasury before the next date of hearing. The PIO is also directed to come in person on the next date of hearing, which is fixed for September 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pio-fined-rs-10000-for-not-giving-info-under-rti/articleshow/77491965.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Man with fever & cough sent home by GMCH docs, dies||Nagpur: A 36-year-old man with comorbidities and suffering from fever, severe cough for the last 8-9 days had gone to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) where his swab samples were taken for Covid-19, but he was sent home without being admitted to the Covid suspects ward. The man, a resident of Isasani on the city’s outskirts, died the next day, i.e. on Monday. He has tested positive. As per the deceased’s roommate, the man, resident of Chandrapur district, was staying with him and another person for a couple of months. “He developed high fever and cough 8-9 days ago. We immediately went to a private clinic at Jaitala where he was given medicines for typhoid. As his condition did not improve, he visited the clinic twice. On August 8, the doctor at the clinic advised chest x-ray and also asked us to immediately go to GMCH for Covid test and get him admitted there citing severe symptoms,” he said. “At GMCH, we had to wait in queue for long hours. It was only after I raised my voice that the man’s swab samples were taken. The GMCH doctors asked him to go home and come for the report two days later. The doctors also said they cannot admit him unless his reports come positive,” he said. The man died at around 2am on Monday. After getting no response from Isasani gram panchayat, the roommate called NMC control room in the afternoon pleading for help to carry out funeral. NGO Together We Can alerted ZP doctors and revenue officials of Hingna tehsil who later performed the funeral. One of the ZP doctors told TOI, “We checked the positive patients’ list received on Monday in which the deceased’s name was there.” The roommate also said, “The deceased’s family members were in Chandrapur and could not attend the funeral. Later, I searched his bag only to learn he was HIV positive. We were not aware about this earlier.” The two roommates were supposed to be tested for Covid-19 immediately. “We were asked to visit testing centre at Hingna. We went on Tuesday morning, but were given a token number for Wednesday. We returned without the test,” said the roommate. Both stayed in the same room without any fumigation and other preventive measures supposed to be carried out by authorities concerned, despite the possibility of the spread of the infection. GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra said, “We do testing of all influenza-like illness (ILI) patients who report to OPD or are referred. We admit those who are symptomatic. Mild symptomatic persons can be treated at home. Patient is first seen by casualty medical officer and if he finds it appropriate, he refers him to physician. It’s unlikely that a patient who deserves admission would be sent back.” Anusuya Kale-Chhabrani of Together We Can said it was very unfortunate that the man was not admitted to the Covid suspects ward at GMCH. “Some positive patients are developing symptoms later in home isolation. We have received complaints from a few people who told us that GMCH and IGGMCH denied admission citing non-availability of beds. Timely admission and treatment to suspected and positive patients can prevent deaths,” she said. Covid-19 guidelines make it mandatory for Dedicated Covid Hospitals to admit a person with symptoms in suspects ward till the test report comes. The GMCH was also following this for a long time. The case also raises questions on the claims of district administration and ZP of surveying all houses in Nagpur rural for identification of high-risk persons and getting them tested for Covid over a month ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-with-fever-cough-sent-home-by-gmch-docs-dies/articleshow/77493430.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||1,080 rookie doctors on Covid duty unpaid for months||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As many as 1,080 doctors, appointed exclusively for Covid care according to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, are working without salary for months now. At least 30% of these doctors who passed out of government medical colleges in April 2020 had joined duty in May. These doctors are now attending their duties, mostly in first-line treatment centres, wearing black badges as a mark of protest. They have approached the chief minister after their repeated petitions to the finance and health departments on their promised salary of Rs 42,000/month did not yield any result. "We are registered medical practitioners but working without salary. Even those doctors appointed on contract under the National Health Mission are paid Rs 50,000/month," said Dr Ousham Hussain K P, state president of Kerala Junior Doctors Association 2020-'21. Lapses in budgetary provisions: OfficialThe issue has come to our notice; the government will be resolving it soon," Vijayan said the other day, when these doctors' hardships were pointed out to him. The decision to appoint fresh MBBS graduates in Covid care was taken in May and the order was issued on the website of directorate of health services. "The appointment order for all of us came as a single order with places of posting. We were initially reluctant to join. We had completed the mandatory one-year internship and the order was not clear on the nature of posting. The government later came out with a clarification that we will be paid Rs 42,000/month," said Dr Ashna Alex V, the association vice-president who is working with a CFLTC in Ernakulam. "It was after the DHS issued a warning of action against those not joining before June 30 that all of us joined. It is August now and we have not been paid a single penny. We learnt that the health department has not budgeted a salary fund for us," Dr Hussain said. A senior official in the directorate of health services admitted that the delay happened due to lapses in budgetary provisions. "The salaries will be disbursed soon," the official said. These doctors are now given the responsibility of taking swabs for testing and data entry in CFLTCs. A few of them are appointed in primary health centres. Association state secretary Dr Krishnapriya T S said they have urged the CM to resolve it by August 14. "We will move court if the matter is not resolved by then," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/1080-rookie-docs-on-covid-duty-unpaid-for-months/articleshow/77493497.cms||Rajiv G
August 12, 2020||Noida||Potholes, sewage-filled roads: For residents, villages far from ‘smart’||GREATER NOIDA: Residents of Khairpur Gurjar and Sadullapur villages in Noida Extension have raised concerns over their health due to poor sanitation and sewage system in the areas. On Tuesday, they claimed that mosquitoes have been breeding in the village ponds and the inside roads are overflowing with sewage and rainwater. A few years ago, the GNIDA had acquired land to develop the area under the Smart Village initiative. However, residents alleged, nothing has happened ever since. In a series of pictures of the village posted on social media, residents have been raising the issue of sanitation and demanding immediate redressal. “In Khairpur, we have a pond for which beatification was promised, but it does not even have drainage and water has overflowed to the surrounding areas and created potholes where mosquitoes have been breeding,” said Surinder Pradhan, former chairman of the village. Another resident, Dhanpal said that the level of inconvenience due to the monsoons is such that every other day a car gets stuck in one or the other broken manhole. Similarly in Sadullapur, six ponds have no drainage along the road that connects the village to the 120m highway. “This road has been like this since forever. We gave our land to the Smart village initiative in hope that it might bring some development,” said Ranvir Singh. Pappu Pradhan from the same village said the authority recently gave tender for the repair work to a local agency but it has not started. Meanwhile, CEO (GNIDA) Narendra Bhushan said relevant officials have been asked to look into the matter. “The complaint is being looked into and officials have asked to take relevant action."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/potholes-sewage-filled-roads-for-residents-villages-far-from-smart/articleshow/77494424.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
August 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Property owners seek to entice tenants with lucrative offers in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: The infamous home rental bubble in Bengaluru has burst, what with potential tenants calling the shots. Property owners are resorting to marketing gimmicks and making eye-catching offers to attract tenants. It took a pandemic to pull down the pricey home rental sector in Bengaluru, that rode on the coattails of the city’s enviable IT sector, which drew thousands of professionals from every nook and cranny of the country. Offers now range from reduced rents, using houses only as storage spaces and one-month free stay among others. The extended nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25, work-from-home options and worrisome news on healthcare access with the pandemic raging, have prompted many migrants to quit the city for their hometowns, resulting in the city’s rental scene taking a beating. Kishore (name changed), custodian of a newly constructed apartment complex near Kundalahalli, has put up a large banner announcing ‘One Month Rent Free’ offer to draw tenants. Pictures of the banner are trending on social media. “Each unit is 1,400 sq feet and the asking rent is Rs 25,000 excluding maintenance, but it is all negotiable. But we have floated the one-month-free-rent offer now for tenants who can assure us they will stay at least for 11 months,” said Kishore, who, however, did not admit that the offer was to attract tenants amid the gloom. But businessman Shaju Philip is quick to concede that his duplex apartment on Hutchins Road, Cooke Town, can’t afford to stay vacant. “I decided not to increase the rent this year and to stick to my tenant. The scene now is bad for property owners and some people I know are struggling to find tenants for their blocks and have to keep paying the building maintenance fee,” he said. Sarthak Bhat, an IT professional, realised that it is indeed a tenant’s market now as his hunt for a two-bedroom flat in Geddalahalli found quick and economical results. What once attracted a rental of Rs 21,000 per month is now going for Rs 15,000 as owners have reduced rents due to falling demand in the area. The trend is similar in most parts of Bengaluru. Bhat clinched the opportunity and locked the deal to move in with his parents into his new flat near the BBMP Park. Some owners who want a fair deal are also calling for reduced rents, but increased advance amounts, which tenants seem not to object to. Those who are unable to find new tenants what with previous ones leaving the city for good following the Covid scenario, are even considering letting out the space for companies to store household goods. A property owner recently floated ‘Flats Without Brokers in Bangalore’, a survey on a Facebook group and a huge section of respondents suggested he convert his property into a warehouse and rent it out as a storage facility. A few brokers in connivance with landlords are also trying to attract single people and offering them a small incentive if they can bring in more people as tenants for vacant units, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/property-owners-seek-to-entice-tenants-with-lucrative-offers/articleshow/77491677.cms||Petlee Peter
August 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Teachers coax dropout tribal students to attend schools||Coimbatore: Over a year after dropping out of his school, M Sanjay, a resident of Puliyankandi tribal settlement near Aliyar in rural Coimbatore, sat in a classroom and listened to teachers attentively for the first time on Tuesday. He was accompanied by five other students, three of whom were his friends. All of them are dropouts now back to school thanks to the school education department that deployed teachers of Government high school in Aliyar to teach themOn Tuesday, five teachers and the school headmistress R Chitra visited the locality and conducted classes for six students at the government elementary school in the locality, between 10 am to 1:30 pm. “I decided to attend school after both my parents and teachers insisted... I have decided to attend school regularly,” said Sanjay, a student of Class IX. On the first day, teachers brushed up basics of the subjects and made them write their names in both English and Tamil.Sanjay’s friend, S Sivanesan, a Class VIII student, said, “I was scared to attend classes. But to my surprise, the teachers were polite and taught us just like our friends. They even shared their phone numbers to call them if we needed any assistance.” Sivanesan was irregular at school in the last two years. The school headmistress said they have distributed books to students studying in classes VII, VIII, IX and X in the school. “We have been sending lessons and assignments through WhatsApp. For those students without a smart phone, we send the lessons on numbers of their relatives or friends. To ensure social distancing among the students, only a few of them attended the class,” she said. Pollachi district education officer (DEO) S Subramanian said, “We have been taking all steps to educate the students from tribal areas in all possible ways like Kalvi channel, WhatsApp, by deploying teachers or asking someone from the locality to teach them. We have also asked the head masters to submit reports every week.” Pollachi sub-collector R Vaithinathan said they have started teaching students at one settlement with the help of motivated teachers. Steps would be taken to educate students in other settlements as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/teachers-coax-dropout-tribal-students-to-attend-schools/articleshow/77493484.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Crime brothers’ boss is bootlegging sister||AHMEDABAD: A woman in jeans and a T-shirt was roaming around the Vatva GIDC police station on Friday. Inspector D R Gohil soon determined that the woman was Sitara Bhurji, 33, a listed bootlegger from Bapunagar. Sitara had come to the police station to meet her brother Abid Bhurji, who had been caught in connection with a robbery. In that case, a man’s cellphone had been snatched at knife-point. Gohil asked Sitara to leave the police station. Sitara lives in Manilal Chawl in Bapunagar. It is alleged that she has a strong nexus with some police personnel. Not surprisingly, she commands fear in her area. “Three of her brothers — Sikander, Sarvar, and Abid — are allegedly involved in several crimes,” Gohil said. A social worker from Bapunagar, Kallim Siddique, said that Sitara as the crime boss has clearly marked out the roles for her family. “Sikander is the eldest brother. His job is to monitor the locality for any act of disloyalty,” Siddique said. “Signs of trouble are reported to Sarvar, the enforcer. He and his men beat up the troublemakers.” Siddique said the gang takes it upon itself to transport the people it has battered to a doctor in Juhapura. “This is done to avert an FIR,” Siddique said. “If anyone musters the courage to file an FIR, Sitara’s group lodges a cross-complaint to complicate matters for the complainant.” Siddique said if the complainant doesn’t back off, his house is ransacked by the gang. “Two families have left the locality over the past month because of the intimidation from Sitara and her brothers,” he said. Siddique said that he tried to raise his voice against Sitara’s bootlegging network and now faces an exterment notice from police. Police sources said that Sitara started bootlegging when she was 23. “She was brought into the business by a policeman who initially gave her Rs 3 lakh,” said a Bapunagar resident who did not want to be identified because he fears reprisals. “She started off supplying 15 to 20 bottles a day,” the local resident said. “Now, she has earned the name of a feared bootlegger”. Local residents said that Sitara is the daughter of tea-stall owner, Abdul Karim. “Sitara’s father abandoned her mother to be with another woman in UP,” another local resident said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/crime-bros-boss-is-bootlegging-sis/articleshow/77491975.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||Haven’t asked for post, there should be no vendetta politics: Sachin Pilot||JAIPUR: Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who returned to Jaipur along with his loyal MLAs on Tuesday evening, said he did not ask for any post from the Congress high command but sought that there should be “no vendetta politics” against the legislators who raised their voices. Pilot returned to the state capital from Delhi amid slogan shouting by his supporters who poured in from Dausa, Karauli, Tonk and other districts at his Civil Lines residence. Explaining the reasons behind his group drifting away from the Congress camp for past one month, Pilot said, "The sedition notice was not a proper thing, so we all went to Delhi to put forth our point of view." Pilot said the "sackings, suspensions, sedition charges, speaker’s notices and police searches" that happened against him and the 18 Congress legislators in the past 30 days initially made it difficult for holding discussions with the party central leadership on the issues they wanted to raise. On being asked what his role would be in the Rajasthan government, Pilot said, "I was in the government earlier but not now. Still, this government is mine. I want this government to do good works and fulfil people’s expectations. I will cooperate more than what will be expected of me." Pilot said Rajasthan was his "karm bhumi". Emphasising that resolving differences between leaders and party workers was the responsibility of the "mukhiya" (chief), Pilot said "a lot of things would change here in the coming days". Addressing the media at his residence, Pilot said, "Though the actions from here in past 30 days were not positive, we did not say a single word or commit any act against the Congress or the party leadership." He added, "Personal attacks were made against me and certain words were used because of which I was left sad, surprised and pained. But I thought that if I must set an example in politics for the future generations, I need to swallow it all and not respond." "But that does not mean we are not humans. Every person’s feelings get hurt. Despite all this, we all decided that we will put across our views to the party leadership." "Whatever issues we raised, be it of leadership, working style, giving pace to people’s works, development, participation of workers, honour and self-respect, everything was put across in detail," Pilot said, adding that the three-member committee would address these in a time-bound manner. "I am confident that the committee will soon begin its work and redress the issues in a justified manner." "Workers, people and leaders who toiled for five years to form the government should get participation (in governance) in a transparent manner and their voices should be heard. We have accountability. If something is lacking (in governance), how can highlighting or getting it amended be an anti-party or illegal or seditious act?" said Pilot, while stressing that he had no personal enmity with anyone. Pilot said, "I was PCC chief for six-and-ahalf years, of which five years were of our struggle. It is my responsibility to see how the participation of people who sweated on roads and in fields in these five years is ensured." Earlier, three independent MLAs Khushveer Singh, Omprakash Hudla and Suresh Tank, who were said to be with Pilot camp, returned to Jaipur and met the CM at his residence on Tuesday morning. The trio said they left because they were disturbed when the ACB booked them on false charges of trying to topple the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/havent-asked-for-post-thereshould-be-no-vendetta-politics/articleshow/77494432.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
August 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Yeldari dam nears overflow, warning on banks of Purna River||Aurangabad: After Vishnupuri dam from Nanded district witnessed overflowing on July 25, Yeldari dam from Parbhani district, another major irrigation project from Marathwada, is likely to witness discharge soon. Yeldari dam, which has live storage of around 28.6 TMC, was filled with over 92% live stock by Tuesday morning. The dam, which has recorded 485 mm rainfall in its catchment areas since June, was filled with only 2% live storage during corresponding period last year. Besides Yeldari dam, Siddheshwar, a major irrigation project from Hingoli district, is also filled with considerable 69% live storage. A senior official from the state Water Resources Department (WRD) said that a few spells of heavy to very heavy rainfall could cause release of water from both these dams. “The good run of monsoon this year so far, barring early August during current rainy season, has resulted into more storage major dams and other reservoirs from Parbhani and Hingoli districts. The district level authorities concerned have been warned to alert people living on the banks of Purna River to take necessary precaution,” he said. Lower Dudhna major irrigation project from Parbhani district stood at 41% live storage as compared to 19% stock last year. Among other major irrigation projects from Marathwada, Jayakwadi dam was filled with 57% live storage on Tuesday. It reported 80% live storage last year which was attributed to release of water from upstream dams. Majalgaon dam from Beed district was filled with 66% live storage, addressing drinking water needs of Beed and other areas. It was filled with only 25% storage last year. Manjra dam from Beed district, which is lifeline to Latur and other areas, showed -2% live storage. It is expected to address drinking water needs in beneficiary areas considering the amount of dead stock. It was showing poorer -23% live storage last year. While Vishnupuri dam from Nanded is already filled to its designed capacity, Lower Manar, another major irrigation project from Nanded, has 69% live storage as compared to 21% stock during corresponding period last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/yeldari-dam-nears-overflow-warning-on-banks-of-purna-river/articleshow/77491985.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Surat||Girl falls to death trying to save brother in Surat||SURAT: A domestic squabble in family living Sachin GIDC area ended on a tragic note when a 19-yearold girl died while trying to save her teen brother from committing suicide. The girl, Roshni Yadav, ran behind her brother Ritesh who rushed towards the gallery of their Nilkanth Residency after their father Nandlal reprimanded him over a two-day old fight with his mother. Sensing that he would take a drastic step, Roshni ran behind him and tried stopping Ritesh from taking the plunge. However, Ritesh jumped from the fourth floor gallery and Roshni too fell after losing balance. While the brother survived, Roshni suffered severe injuries in the head and back. She died during treatment at a private hospital. Ritesh’s condition is said to be critical and his both legs and hands got fractured. He was studying in a local school, but police were yet to gather more details as the family was busy with Roshni’s final rites. Police investigation so far revealed that Nandlal, who works in a factory in the area, had scolded Ritesh for entering into a tussle with his mother two days ago. Ritesh had a fight with his mother as she was scolding his 11-year-old sister over some issue. “The girl ran to save her brother and lost balance when they were near the parapet which has a very less height. Ritesh jumped and while trying to save him, Roshni too fell on the ground,” said a police officer in Sachin GIDC police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/girl-trying-to-save-her-teen-brother-from-suicide-falls-to-death/articleshow/77490902.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Noida||Noida: Youth pukes after ‘overdose’ of alcohol, dies||GREATER NOIDA: A 22-year-old drunk youth died allegedly after throwing up multiple times in Kulesra area of Greater Noida early on Monday. The deceased Ajay Saini, who was a native of Salarpur, lived in a rented apartment in Kulesra with a woman, presumed to be his girlfriend. She told police that Saini was drunk when he returned home. He was rushed to Sharda hospital around 1am after he threw up multiple times. While the doctors at Sharda hospital claim that he was declared dead at arrival, police said he succumbed to his condition during treatment. Anita Chauhan, the SHO of Ecotech 3 police station told TOI that they received the information through a memo from the hospital staff around 11am after which a team visited the hospital and sent the body for an autopsy. The SHO said Saini was living with the woman from the past few years. She told police that he was a habitual drinker and had come home late on Sunday night. “The woman claimed that he was drunk and was having dinner when suddenly he choked on it and started puking. After a while when his condition deteriorated, the woman rushed him to the hospital where he succumbed to his condition while getting treatment,” said Chauhan. Cops presume that he died due to an overdose of alcohol which led to poisoning. “We conducted an autopsy to ascertain the cause of death, however, the report was inconclusive and so the viscera has been preserved,” she said. Saini’s parents have refused to file any complaint of foul play in the case. “The deceased’s family members even resisted an autopsy, however, they were told about the legalities and autopsy was conducted. Later, they took the body back to their native place in Bulandshahr,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/youth-pukes-after-overdose-of-alcohol-dies/articleshow/77494445.cms||Abhishek Awasthi
August 12, 2020||Rajkot||One held for tax evasion of Rs 9 crore||AHMEDABAD: The enforcement wing of the state goods and services tax (SGST) department on Monday arrested Radhan Govind Dangar, for his alleged involvement in a fake billing scam involving tax evasion of around Rs 9 crore. According to senior SGST officials, Dangar fraudulently obtained documents of poor people to obtain multiple GST registrations and float four bogus firms. Four firms based in Bhuj and Rajkot were registered. These included Akash Enterprise, Rajkot, which was involved in tax evasion of Rs 2.53 crore ; Bhavya Enterprise, Rajkot, with tax evasion of Rs 2.47 crore and Superior Ceramics (Rs 2.56 crore) and Skyhigh Ceramics (Rs 2.16 crore) in Morbi. Explaining the modus operandi, a senior official said, “E-way bills reflecting movement of ceramic goods worth Rs 54.81 crore were generated by the firms, and fake bills were used to claim input tax credit worth Rs 9.73 crore. The amount was misdeclared.” The incident came to light last week when a transporter allegedly assaulted an official who was performing his duty at a checkpost at Samakhiyali in Kutch. An FIR was also filed with regard to the case and on further investigation the fake billing racket came to the fore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/one-held-for-tax-evasion-of-rs-9-cr/articleshow/77491992.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Committee to regulate e-passes will be set up, Tamil Nadu govt tells Madras high court||CHENNAI: Facing flak for its e-pass regimen, the Tamil Nadu government assured the Madras high court that it would set up a committee to regulate issuance of e-passes for travel. Recording the submission, a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha said, “We only add that the committee to be formed shall also address the issue of the bogus and misuse of the e-passes.” It said regulatory procedures must be followed to avoid such misuses, the judges said. A submission to this effect was made by a government counsel before the bench when a related case came up for hearing before on Tuesday. He said the chief minister had also made a similar statement while addressing the media recently. Directing the government to file a detailed response in three weeks, the judges then posted the case to August 27 for further hearing. The court issued the interim direction on a PIL moved by P Sesubalan Raja seeking direction to the government to regulate and streamline issuance of e-passes. He alleged that people who have to travel even within the state for their work or other pressing needs could not do so due to the difficulties in getting e-passes from the authorities concerned. In most cases, application for such passes are rejected immediately even without verifying the documents attached and people who had to travel for medical emergencies were unable to get such passes, the petitioner said. Such e-passes are issued only on three grounds – medical emergency, marriage and funeral. But in view of the alleged difficulties in getting e-passes, particularly for work related travel, the Chennai Corporation recently eased the restrictions and added a few more categories to obtain the passes. The additional grounds would include work-related travel and travel to attend job interviews.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/committee-to-regulate-e-passes-will-be-set-up-tn-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/77493498.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Meerut||UP: Sudeeksha Bhati campaigned for girl education, was role model to many||MEERUT: In her native village of Deri Skaner in Gautam Buddh Nagar district, Sudeeksha Bhati was a success story often cited. Not many girls in the area managed to finish schooling, let alone dream of college — they were either married at a young age or forced to drop out due to harassment by local youths. That’s something Bhati desperately wanted to change. As a school student, she ran a door-to-door campaign — called Voice of Women — in Bulandshahr to persuade parents to send their girls to schools. After she bagged a full scholarship to Babson College in Massachusetts, US, she had to convince her own parents to allow her to study and live in a co-educational campus overseas. A 2018 video of Bhati’s school graduation day speech that started doing the rounds on Tuesday — hours after she died in a road accident allegedly chased by some youths — has her speaking on the cause of women’s education while highlighting how incidents of harassment were depriving girls in her region of an education. “I belong to a section of UP where most girls drop out of schools after primary education because cases of harassment are prevalent and most parents don’t think it is safe to send their girls to study in schools,” she said in the video. For the 20-year-old, life had been full of struggles. As a class 2 student, Bhati was forced to drop out of the private school she was studying in since her father, a marginal farmer, was unable to pay tuition fees. In an earlier interview to TOI, she had mentioned that she stayed home for a year and studied from borrowed textbooks before taking admission to a government school. That’s why education was a cause she firmly believed in and had dreams of working towards women empowerment once she finished her four-year bachelors in entrepreneurship. At Deri Skaner, her family is unable to come to terms with their sudden loss. Her mother Geeta Devi refuses to eat and five of her siblings are inconsolable. “She had a bright future and was the apple of my eyes. We want justice,” said the bereaved father, Jitendra Bhati. Neighbours also recalled her as someone who was full of enthusiasm and passionate about education. “Whenever she visited home, she would meet us and tell us why we needed to continue our studies. She was a role model to many and taught us about resilience and hard work. We looked up to her,” said her sister Anchal, a class 11 student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sudeeksha-campaigned-for-girl-education-was-role-model-to-many/articleshow/77490899.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Help, medicines for asymptomatic patients a call away||Lucknow: Asymptomatic Covid-19 patients in home isolation can now dial the helpline ‘Hello Doctor’ at 0522-3515700 in case of any need. The service has been started by the district administration. Doctors at the 24x7 service will guide and assist patients and if required, refer them to level 1, 2 or 3 hospitals. Medical experts will be deployed on rotation to work in three shifts. Similarly, helplines have also been started in community health centres that will function from 8am to 8pm offering services to asymptomatic patients in their respective areas. District magistrate Abhishek Prakash also announced that medicines and equipment including pulse oxymeter required in treatment and monitoring of patients in home quarantine will be provided at subsidised rates through medical shops in the city. These stores will deliver medicines and equipment at doorstep on phone call by patients. The service will be available from 8am to 8pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-help-medicines-for-asymptomatic-patients-a-call-away/articleshow/77494438.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Trichy||Retired co-op secy held for swindling Rs 22.8 lakh||Thanjavur: Police arrested a retired secretary of a primary agriculture credit cooperative society on charges of misappropriation of funds to the tune of Rs 22.8 lakh in Thanjavur. Police identified the accused as Andiyappan, 60, a native of Puthukariyapatti village in Thanjavur. He was a secretary of the primary agriculture cooperative credit society (PACCS) at Avarampatti village. Around 100 members of the society had availed crop loans from the society by pledging their jewellery during his tenure between 2017 and 2018. Of them, several people had repaid the loans and got back their jewellery as well. However, the money remitted by 32 farmers was not credited to the society account. Andiyappan retired from the service in 2018. Meanwhile, during an internal audit was conducted by the cooperative authorities a few months ago, it came to light that the Rs22.80 lakh remitted by the farmers was not credited to the society account. Based on a complaint by the deputy registrar of the cooperative department, Murugan, personnel from the investigation of economic offenses wing arrested Andiyappan on Monday. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/retired-co-op-secy-held-for-swindling-rs-22-8-lakh/articleshow/77494430.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Admissions to start in govt schools on Aug 17||Coimbatore: The state on Tuesday said admissions for classes I, VI and IX would begin in all government schools on August 17, and that for Class XI on August 24. It said admissions for classes II and X for students who shift schools would also be held on August 17. “During admissions, government school students should be provided free textbooks and notebooks by following safety guidelines.” Government schoolteachers welcomed the move stating they could distribute textbooks to students and direct them in academics or conduct online classes only after the admissions. They had received textbooks in July. Teachers said schools should not turn away students, who come for admissions, or refuse Class XI students the groups they ask. “Some prominent government and corporation schools in the city admit students based on marks and turn away students with lower marks. As Class X result has been announced based on the average of students’ quarterly and half-yearly marks, the same would have overall come down. So, schools should not turn away students based on marks. They should also give students the groups they ask for,” said an aided schoolteacher in the city. The state, according to teachers, must ensure students are given admissions in government and aided schools near their houses, considering the pandemic and lockdown situations, as many underprivileged students might not have personal transport options to travel long distances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/admissions-to-start-in-govt-schools-on-aug-17/articleshow/77493495.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Kin of 2 kids drowning in river mining pits await govt aid||Yamunanagar: More than a year after the death of two children, who had drowned into a nearly 30-feet-deep river pit left open by miners, the bereaved families are still waiting for justice and relief from the government. The two kids, Sainty and Sunil Kumar, of Kanalsi village of Yamunanagar district had on July 7, 2019 drowned into the open pits in Somb river, a tributary of Yamuna. The boys belonged to a joint family and their fathers Dharampal and Tejpal are real brothers. They come from the Scheduled Caste (SC) category and work as daily wagers. In a joint application on December 2, 2019, both Dharampal and Tejpal had written to the Yamunanagar deputy commissioner (DC) about the drowning of their kids and also highlighted the illegal mining activity in their village. Dharampal told, “Initially, it took us time to recover from the shock of losing two children of the family. Finally, on December 2, 2019, we wrote to the Yamunanagar DC, demanding justice and halt to the mining activity in our area. But, when we went to the DC office, we were told that since our children were less than 18 years, they cannot be covered under any scheme of the government. Hoping against hope, we are still waiting for some relief.” 5 kids in as many years Yamuna Sewa Samiti president Kiranpal Rana of Kanalsi village said, “Somb river merges with the Yamuna in our village. Mining contractors have contracts to mine Yamuna, but they do mining illegally in Somb river, too. The illegal miners leave deep pits in the riverbed, which are not visible when water level increases. We are highlighting these issues for over five years, as we have lost five kids of our village to illegal mining.” When contacted, Yamunanagar DC Mukul Kumar said, “Normally, monetary compensations are given in case of natural calamity and drowning is not covered in that. The case may be considered for CM Relief Fund, but it happened more than a year ago. It needs to be checked whether the post-mortem was done. I will see if we can help the family in any way.” Dharampal, however, confirmed that since bodies of both boys were found with the help of police, their post-mortem was also conducted as per rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kin-of-2-kids-drowning-in-river-mining-pits-await-govt-aid/articleshow/77493499.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Trichy||Stand-up comedians do their bit at Thanjavur isolation wards||Thanjavur: Kollywood stand-up comedians ‘Robot’ Shankar and ‘Dindigul’ Saravanan regaled Covid-19 patients at the isolation wards in Annai Engineering College in Kumbakonam and slum clearance board buildings at Pattukottai in Thanjavur with their wit and humour on Tuesday. They gave them tips on how to spend their days without stress and also created awareness about the virus and the things to do during their isolation as well as after arriving at their homes.“We had approached all district collectors expressing our willingness to perform a programme in the isolation wards so that the patients would be relaxed for some time. We got the first call from Thanjavur district collector and this is the first such programme we performed across the state”, ‘Robot’ Shankar told reporters after the programme in Pattukottai.Shankar also explained the importance of maintaining social distances and wearing face masks in a humorous way. Patients were made to sit in the open space, away from the entertainers by adopting Covid-19 protocol properly. Shankar said their plan to entertain Covid positive patients was well supported by their family members as well as friends. Revenue officials said the Thanjavur district administration has donated two sets of carrom and chess boards to both the corona treatment centres to help beat stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/stand-up-comedians-do-their-bit-at-thanjavur-isolation-wards/articleshow/77494441.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Vadodara||nCov treatment in Chhota Udepur pvt hospitals capped||Vadodara: After authorities in bigger cities capped price for Covid-19 treatment in private hospital, Chhota Udepur district administration took a similar step on Tuesday.District collector Sujal Mayatra also ordered that all private hospitals in the district, which have more than 20 beds, to reserve and handover 50% beds for coronavirus patients. According to officials, 10 private hospitals in Chhota Udepur and Bodeli will have to reserve 85 beds now. The treatment costs decided by the administration starts from Rs 5,700 for a day and goes up to Rs 19,000. Hospitals without ICU facility will not be allowed to charge more than Rs 5,700 and Rs 8,075 for beds in ward and high-dependency unit (HDU). The second segment is of hospitals with ICU facility where the price for bed in ward has been capped at Rs 6,000 and for HDU at Rs 8,500. The isolation and expenses will be Rs 14,500 and with ventilator it will be Rs 19,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ncov-treatment-in-chhota-udepur-pvt-hospitals-capped/articleshow/77490936.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Vehicle carrying diverted PDS grain seized||AURANGABAD: Parbhani police on Tuesday registered an offence against two suspects for allegedly carrying illegally diverted public distribution system (PDS) grain and seized their vehicle. The incident has been preceded by similar cases registered by police in Aurangabad, Beed, Jalna and Nanded districts of Marathwada region. A policeman privy to the action said that the seized vehicle is just the tip of the iceberg as there have been reports of rampant diversion of grain meant for distribution among the needy people through PDS. The central government has released a large quantity of grain during the pandemic to help the needy people sustain during these tough times. In the latest incident, Chudava police falling under the limits of Purna sub-division intercepted the tempo which was found to be carrying rice bags meant for PDS. Police said that soon after being intercepted, the suspects, including driver of the vehicle, started giving evasive answers about the source of grain. Moreover, they also failed to produce bills for establishing that the grain were sourced from a legitimate source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/vehicle-carrying-diverted-pds-grain-seized/articleshow/77492002.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Aurangabad||70-yr-old woman murdered and robbed in Hingoli||AURANGABAD: A 75-year-old woman was murdered in the wee hours of Tuesday in the Sengaon area falling under the limits of Sengaon police station of Hingoli district. Police have registered an offence against an unidentified people in this connection. Citing preliminary probe, police said that the woman might have resisted the robbers who fled with her valuables, including 10 gm gold, 35 gm silver and some cash. Police said that they have registered a case of murder, voluntary causing hurt in committing robbery and criminal trespass against unidentified people. Police have started probing the case from various angles including if it is the handiwork of someone aware of the woman staying alone. The deceased has been identified Mankarnabai Tulsiram Sarule, a resident of Sakhra. The incident came to light after her youngest son contacted their relatives asking them to look for her as she was not answering the phone calls. Sengaon police station inspector Sardarsingh Thakur said that the woman is survived by three sons and an extended family. “Youngest of the three sons has an optical shop in Risod and would frequent between Sakhra and Risod. He left for Risod on Monday. He spoke to her in the evening, while the elderly woman sat at their relatives’ house in the neighbourhood till 9 pm,” said Thakur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/70-yr-old-woman-murdered-and-robbed-in-hingoli/articleshow/77492000.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||CBSE maths basic void for Class XI admission in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) has decided not to grant admission in Class 11 science stream to CBSE students have who have cleared Class 10 with Mathematics Basic. The state board took this decision in a meeting on August 7 and communicated it to all district education officers on Tuesday. The authorities have been asked to convey the instruction to higher secondary schools affiliated with the state board. CBSE students who have passed Class 10 with Mathematics Basic are not permitted to pursue mathematics in Class 11 in CBSE schools. But they were previously allowed to pursue mathematics and science in schools affiliated with the state board. The state board has stated that CBSE grants two options to its Class 10 students: Mathematics Basic and Mathematics Standard. Students who clear Class 10 with Mathematics Standard can study mathematics in Class 11 in CBSE schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cbse-maths-basic-void-for-class-xi/articleshow/77496423.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Delhi||After brief dip, Delhi again sees Covid rise||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 cases in Delhi are again going up. In the past seven days, more than 1,000 new daily cases were recorded daily, except on Monday, when 707 people tested positive. The increase is also reflected in hospital admissions. According to data shared by Delhi government, 3,318 of 13,906 Covid beds, or 24%, are now in use. “We have seen a significant increase in Covid admissions in the last three or four days,” Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS, told TOI. Possible reasons for this, according to Guleria, were the increased public movement; people ignoring social distancing and face masks; and the humidity, which aids survival of viruses. “The weather certainly plays a role in the longevity of viruses. We have seen with H1N1 how cases increase during the rainy season due to low temperature and high humidity,” the AIIMS director said. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 1,257 new Covid cases, taking the city’s tally to over 1.47 lakh. On the brighter side, only eight new fatalities were reported in the preceding 24 hours, government officials said. In August 2-4, daily cases dipped gradually to a three-figure count: 961 on August 2, 805 on August 3 and 674 a day later. However, in August 5-9, the daily cases again breached the 1,000 mark before falling to three figures on August 10. Of the total tests conducted in the last 24 hours, Delhi government said 5,356 (38%) employed RT-PCR, the gold standard for Covid testing, while 14,084 (62%) involved Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT). The former detects the presence of infection by targeting specific genetic sequences of the Covid virus and has 68-80% ability to correctly identify infection. RAT detects infection by targeting specific viral proteins present in the patient sample. Though it gives results faster, RAT’s sensitivity is significantly lower and can give a high rate of false negative results. On July 27, Delhi high court asked Delhi government to ramp up RT-PCR tests. The city can carry out 11,000 RT-PCR tests every day. “Traffic has become normal in most places in Delhi. People are moving out of their homes, leading to an increase in cases,” opined Dr Arup Basu, senior consultant for chest medicine at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. “While going out in itself may not be bad, it is important to follow social distancing measures and to wear masks. The government must strictly implement these precautionary measures to avoid a wave of new cases. At Apollo Hospitals, Dr Suranjit Chatterjee reiterated, “Since there is no cure for Covid-19 yet, social distancing and masks are key weapons in the battle against the virus.” Watch After a brief decline, Covid cases in Delhi rise again||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-brief-dip-delhi-again-sees-covid-rise/articleshow/77494448.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||Unaware under what conditions Sachin Pilot returned: Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: In his first reaction after the truce with Sachin Pilot mediated by the Congress high command, chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said he would try to find out why and under what circumstances the Congress legislators left, what were their grievances against him and what were the promises made to them. The chief minister said it was now his responsibility to address the grievances of dissident MLAs. Gehlot said he was unaware of the conditions under which Pilot returned. Pilot and 18 Congress MLAs supporting him had revolted against Gehlot’s leadership early last month and claimed that the government in Rajasthan was no longer in majority. The revolt pushed the state’s Congress government into crisis, forcing Gehlot to ring-fence the remaining party MLAs for over a month. As the crisis appeared to end with Pilot camp’s return, Gehlot said, "We will try to overcome it (discontent). I am the CM and if an MLA from my party is angry, it becomes my responsibility to address his grievance and win back his heart. I have done this all my life and will continue to do so." On being asked why the truce could not be negotiated earlier, Gehlot referred to Pilot and his loyalists and said, "Now you ask this to those who were involved in it." The chief minister evaded question on Pilot’s complaint that harsh words were used for him. Before leaving for Jaisalmer where his legislators were corralled since July 31, Gehlot told reporters, "More than 100 MLAs stayed together for so long and not a single person from them broke away despite the BJP leaders using their full might and conspiring to bring down the government at any cost. You can imagine what all they must have gone through. I have told them that they have made history and as long as I am alive, I will act as a guardian to them. It is my duty." "What all was happening — allurements, horse-trading and intimidation — but they stayed in hotels and not one man left. How can we forget them? I know they believed in me and have faith in the party high command. We will maintain their faith at any cost," the chief minister said. Asked if the Congress MLAs who stayed loyal to the party were happy about the peace deal with dissidents, Gehlot said, "The party will remain united, will rule for five years and will win the next election. People now know that the BJP had conspired and they will get an opportunity to teach it a lesson in the next election in 2023. Our government was, is and will remain in majority. Their (BJP and allies) plans have failed." Watch Rajasthan crisis: Sachin Pilot breaks silence, party forms 3-member panel to address his ‘grievances’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-will-address-dissidents-grievances-support-those-loyal/articleshow/77494446.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||41 BEST staff discharged in 24 hours||MUMBAI: Forty-one BEST staff were discharged in 24 hours on Monday, the highest for a day in five months. The recovery rate shot up to 83%, while 1,400 staff have so far been discharged, BEST chief medical officer Anil Kumar Singhal said on Tuesday. The number of Covid cases among staff touched 1,680,.while 27 have been officially declared as Covid deaths, though unions and non-profit citizens group Aamchi Mumbai and Aamchi BEST contested the claim. Hussain Indorewala of AMAB said, “We have information that 107 employees died and BEST should tell us why all are not being considered as Covid deaths.” AMAB will host a webinar on Wednesday evening to discuss importance of BEST for Mumbai, impact of pandemic on BEST staff and way forward for the undertaking. Experts and union leaders are part of the panel of speakers. After discharge on Monday, the 41 will have to undergo a 14-day home quarantine before they can resume duty. “Many discharged earlier are back at work,” said an official. The speedy recovery was due to BEST Covid response teams arranging for beds, ICU facilities at private hospitals and Remdesivir injections in emergencies, Singhal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/41-best-staff-discharged-in-24-hrs/articleshow/77493449.cms||Somit Sen
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Can tracks handle high-speed trains? Southern Railways conducts trials||CHENNAI: Southern Railway has started to assess railway tracks to find out if they are fit for operating trains that will run at speeds above 130kmph. A three-coach train fitted with oscillation monitoring system (OMS) sensors to check swaying motion of coaches and strength of tracks was run at high speed between Chennai Central and Gudur on Tuesday. The test run will be done on Chennai-Arakonam-Renigunta stretch on Wednesday. “The test train touched 135kmph on Tuesday. Similar runs will be done a few times this month on these two routes and probably on other major routes. The shutdown and the suspension of train services have come in handy,” said an official. The series of tests will check the impact on coaches and tracks when the train is run at speeds of up to 143kmph. The sensor will check the extent of vertical jolt and lateral acceleration of the coaches so that riding comfort can be gauged and improved by making changes and repairs to the tracks. At present, the tracks can handle trains that run at 110kmph. “When changes, if any, are made, this can be increased to 135kmph without compromising the riding comfort of passengers,” said an official. He said the OCM test was being done to find out the fitness of tracks. The tests assume importance as the stretches selected are two main routes taken by express trains to western and northern destinations from the city. Private trains, which are expected to start running in two to three years, are expected to run on these routes. Railways is also looking at a possibility to run semi high speed trains on Chennai-Bengaluru route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/can-tracks-handle-high-speed-trains-s-rlys-conducts-trials/articleshow/77493502.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Meerut||Hapur girl’s rape case: Suspect ‘spotted’ near his native place, escapes despite locals alerting police||MEERUT: Although police claimed to have identified the main suspect in the abduction-rape of the six-year-old girl, they missed an opportunity to arrest him despite being alerted by locals who reportedly spotted the accused with country-made liquor on the outskirts of his native village in Amroha on Monday. Hapur police roped in their Amroha counterparts after they identified the suspect as Dalpat, a resident of Mahmoodpur village in Armoha’s Gajraula area. Several police teams have been combing the forested areas near Garh in Hapur and Gajraula in Amroha for the past six days, but the accused continues to be on the run. The girl was abducted by a bike-borne man when she was playing outside her house under Garh police station on August 6. The girl was raped, brutalised and abandoned in a forest area. She was found by one of the search and rescue teams the next day — almost 12 hours after she was abducted. The girl is undergoing treatment at a Meerut hospital, where her condition is stated to be critical as she sustained severe injuries in her private parts causing excessive blood loss. Police have announced — through posters — a cash reward of Rs 50,000 on information leading to the arrest of the accused. Earlier, based on witnesses’ account, three sketches of the main suspect were made that helped police ascertain the identity of the accused as Dalpat. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hapur-girls-rape-case-suspect-spotted-near-hisnative-place-escapes-despite-locals-alert-police/articleshow/77490921.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: MMRDA proposes WEH alternative, activists see red||MUMBAI: The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) has proposed an alternative to Western Express Highway, connecting Greater Mumbai to Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar. State urban development department (UDD) has invited public objections/suggestions to the proposed 45-metre ‘Regional Road’ that will provide connectivity between the city and extended suburbs. The proposal is for change of use of land reserved as residential, no-development zone and special development zone to road. An MMRDA spokesperson said a consultant will prepare the road plan. Times ViewDoes the city really need such new roads, and how many new roads will the authorities build? There are several green lungs along this stretch which would be affected if this project gets the go-ahead. Moreover, with the city adding a whole network of Metros, why would we require more roads to connect it with the suburbs when a robust railway network would be far more smoother and quicker for commuters?UDD’s notification said the road will pass through Eksar village and Dahisar village. Reservation will be changed to road if permission from coastal regulation zone point of view is obtained. Activist Harish Pande said the plot survey numbers are where there are mangroves and wetlands. Plot 532, for which reservation is sought to be changed, is of Ganpat Patil Nagar, one of the largest slums abutting Andheri-Malad Link road and stretching into mangroves. “The slum has come up on CRZ-I notified land and is spread over approximately 50 acres into mangrove land. If the road is constructed from behind the slums, the classification of slum land immediately changes from CRZ-I to II, and it can be developed as per municipal laws,” he said. Pande said before proposing the road, MMRDA must explain the need for it. “Andheri-Malad Link road is 36-metre wide and encroached on both sides, obstructing smooth traffic flow. Metro 2A and 7 are to be commissioned by next May. There are plans to extend Line 7 beyond Dahisar. For whom is this road being constructed?” he asked. Abutting Ganpat Patil Nagar on Dahisar-end is a 400-acre stretch of mangroves for which a residents’ association went up to Supreme Court to save it. “Mangrove conservation cell proposed a mangrove park here. If the road extends to Mira-Bhayander, it will cut through mangroves and Dahisar creek,” he said. Activist Godfrey Pimenta said Development Plan sheets and GoogleMaps clearly show it as covered with thick mangroves and a creek. D Stalin, director, NGO Vanashakti, said that the road will open up nearby areas for construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mmrda-proposes-weh-alternative-activists-see-red/articleshow/77493584.cms||Clara Lewis
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Refund excess charges to patients: NMC tells private hospital||Nagpur: The NMC has ordered SevenStar Dedicated Covid Hospital, situated at Jagnade Square, to return excess charges recovered from Covid-19 patients within two days. It has also issued second show-cause notice to the hospital for overcharging non-Covid patients and directed it to refund the excess amount. TOI on August 3 had highlighted SevenStar DCH recovering charges much above the rates approved by the state and NMC. Taking cognisance of the report, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had formed a five-member squad to monitor private hospitals and initiate action if they are found charging Covid-19 and non-Covid patients above the rates finalized by it on June 4. The squad led by additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma (IAS) inspected SevenStar DCH the same day and found it to be overcharging patients. After getting the report, Mundhe had issued a show-cause notice August 6 to which the hospital filed reply on August 8. After finding the hospital’s reply unsatisfactory, Mundhe on Tuesday directed SevenStar DCH to refund excess charges and also advance taken from Covid-19 patients. Rejecting the hospital’s claim of not being informed about charges finalized by the government and NMC, Munde said, “Government had issued guidelines on May 21 which are automatically applicable to your hospital. NMC issued guidelines on June 4, which were widely publicized.” Mundhe also directed the hospital to charge 80% beds as per rates finalized by the NMC and remaining as per its own rates. He also asked the hospital to display on each bed whether it was being charged as per government or own rates. He also directed the hospital to comply with the orders, submit compliance report and answer all queries raised in the notice within two days. “The hospital will be liable for action under The Epidemic Diseases Act 1897, Disaster Management Act 2005, Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance (Amendment) Act 2011, Mumbai Nursing Home (Amendment) Act 2006, Bombay Nursing Home (Amendment) Act 2006 and Bombay Public Trusts Act 1950,” said Mundhe. In the second notice, Mundhe said the hospital has been found deliberately violating the guidelines related to non-Covid patients. “Your hospital has levied excess charges. Bills of only 304 out of 991 patients were presented. Possibility of discrepancies in remaining bills cannot be ruled out. Refund excess amount to all patients who were admitted and discharged after May 21, submit bills, compliance report and replies within two days,” read the notice. The hospital told TOI, “We are going into the details of each patient. We are committed to follow the guidelines issued by the administration.” NMC had taken similar action against Wockhardt DCH on August 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/refund-excess-charges-to-patients-nmc-tells-private-hospital/articleshow/77493493.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Infant youngest corona victim, 12 die on Tuesday||LUCKNOW: Novel coronavirus claimed the lives of 12 patients, including an infant—the youngest victim so far—on Tuesday, accounting for the second highest toll in a day since the pandemic outbreak. Earlier, 14 Covid-19 patients had died on August 2. TimesViewWith experts predicting that Covid-19 would peak in October, we should expect tough days ahead. It means that more people would be infected and many may die. Implementing drastic measures like lockdown may prove detrimental to the economy. However, the loss of lives and suffering can be minimized if we follow safety protocol and make others do so too. The administration should also improve contact tracing. Also, more measures are required to check the spread of the virus among KGMU doctors and staff, who have been leading the fight. KGMU is the heart of the city that has been offering both Covid and non-Covid patients treatment against all odds. The impact on the institution will have a ripple effect on rest of the city.Four of the deceased were undergoing treatment at KGMU, two at SGPGIMS and the rest in private hospitals. Most of them had been brought to hospital in advanced stage of the disease as they and their families were unaware of breathlessness being a Covid-19 symptom. The 12 casualties took the overall toll to 162. Like cases, casualties have also surged this month with 68 patients having died till Tuesday, at an average of one death every four hours. A one-year-old girl from Alambagh was admitted to KGMU on August 9 with acute respiratory distress syndrome, besides swelling in spleen and chronic liver ailment, said Dr D Himanshu. A 63-year-old Krishnanagar resident, also diabetic and hypertensive, died in KGMU due to blood clotting in brain. A 45-year-old man from Triveninagar and a 72-year-old man from Malihabad, who came with severe lung infection due to Covid-19, also died of respiratory failure in KGMU. Two patients died of respiratory failure at a private medical college in Sarojininagar, including a man (35) from Balaganj brought on August 9 with low blood oxygen level and pneumonia. The other patient, 55, from Faizullahganj, also had high blood pressure and diabetes. Two patients aged 72 and 55 years died of respiratory failure at a private super-specialty hospital on Rae Bareli road. Both were admitted with acute respiratory syndrome. An 82-year-old man from Triveninagar died at Integral Institute of Medical Sciences, due to multiple organ failure. “He was diabetic and hypertensive,” said Dr Sudhir Mehrotra nodal officer Covid-19. Five patients from other districts also died at KGMU on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/infant-youngest-corona-victim-12-die-on-tuesday/articleshow/77494451.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Jal Shakti dept to recruit 2,322 workers, cabinet decides||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh cabinet on Tuesday gave approval to recruit 2,322 more employees in the state Jal Shakti department. These would include 718 para pump operators, 162 para fitters and 1442 multi-purpose workers under the Departmental Para Workers Policy, to manage 486 drinking water and 31 irrigation schemes. The cabinet also decided to upgrade Sarkaghat Nagar Panchayat in Mandi district to municipal council. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur chaired the cabinet meeting in Shimla in which decision was taken to open new division of the public works department at Jhandutta in Bilaspur district. The department’s three three sub-divisions at Barathin, Jhandutta and Kalol of Ghumarwin division would be put under the new division’s control and requisite posts created for its smooth functioning. In order to ensure smooth running of National Ambulance Services-108 in the state, it decided to make payment over and above the provisions of concession agreements as a special interim measure and stopgap arrangement to employees of GVK-EMRI by enhancing the take home salary of its employees. It gave approval to constitute Shahpur Nagar Panchayat in Kangra district, along with creation of seven posts of different categories for it. The cabinet also approved amendment in section 3 of the Himachal Pradesh War Awards Act, 1972, for enhancing the grant of ‘War Jagirs’ from Rs 5,000 to Rs 7,000 annually for all eligible persons. The Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown thereafter has resulted in cumulative losses of about Rs 15.7 crore to floriculturists of the state during March to May due to non-transportation of flowers. Now, in order to provide succour to growers, the cabinet approved the guidelines for providing financial assistance of Rs 4 crore to them. It gave ex post facto relaxation in condition number 2.14 Clause 3 of Chapter II of Toll Policy 2020-21, for allowing all those willing to participate in the auction-cum tender process of allotment of toll leases who have cleared their pending dues of toll lease for the year 2019-20 only. It was also decided to fill up one post of lecturer (English) in Government Polytechnic College, Sundernagar in Mandi district and one post of lecturer (modern office practice) in Government Polytechnic College, Rohru in Shimla district on contract basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jal-shakti-dept-to-recruit-2322-workers-cabinet-decides/articleshow/77493516.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Gang kidnaps, assaults caterer’s driver to ‘recover’ Rs 2 lakh, arrested||CHENNAI: A five-member gang that kidnapped a caterer’s driver from Koyambedu and assaulted him in Ambattur on Sunday was arrested. Police identified the men as Karthik of Ayyapakkam, Kennedy, Arulraj, Jai and Chinna from Kolathur. Police said C Murugan, of Vandavasi, worked as a driver with a private catering service run by a man named Shyam. He was sent to Koyambedu to collect an advance for an order, but the arrangement was a trap to kidnap Shyam, said police. After abducting Murugan, the gang took him to a crematorium in Ambattur and beat him up. They told him that Shyam had taken Rs 5 lakh from them for a wedding feast. But the ceremony was downsized due to the lockdown following which they told Shyam to return the money. But the caterer refused and returned Rs 3 lakh. “So they planned to kidnap Shyam and recover the remaining amount,” said a police officer. They called Shyam posing as prospective customers and asked him to meet near the Rohini Theatre complex in Koyambedu to strike a deal. But Shyam sent Murugan. After assaulting the driver, the men dropped him near Shyam’s office around 10pm. Murugan informed his manager about the incident and got admitted at the Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital for treatment. Based on his complaint, police arrested the men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gang-kidnaps-man-to-recover-rs-2l-arrested/articleshow/77493511.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Losing score in school education reforms||CHENNAI: That Indian education needs surgical corrections is a well established, long lamented reality. To bring about that change the New Education Policy (NEP) has been put forward by the government with an aim to have global standards of education, but the irony is that it drastically differs from all the fundamentals adopted by world leaders in education for decades, like Scandinavian, West European and East Asian countries. Among these basics are decentralisation of education, free, equal, state funded education provided through a common school system with neighbourhood schools and absence of commonly conducted examinations as assessment instruments. The new policy takes diametrically opposite positions in all these fundamentals. A single, overarching, micro-managed policy for a country of immense social, cultural, linguistic, developmental and historical diversity as India, cannot work. The present policy is an acute centralisation of the universe of education from pre-school to universities and research institutes, amounting to a virtual transfer of education from the Concurrent to the Union list. The states would have little say in curricular, regulatory, evaluatory, or certification matters. The government is further withdrawing from its constitutional obligation to provide equal quality public education by encouraging privatisation. Though the policy harps on private education being ‘non-profit’, there is no provision to rein in profit making. This is nothing but deliberate disregard in the face of rampant commercialisation of the private education sector. Market takes over education, with all its implications for a land of traditional and modern exclusions and inequalities. Instead of strengthening the regulatory role of the state, the private sector is given a free run, a total autonomy in its operations, from charging fees to giving degrees. The strongest point that was discussed during the making of the policy was universalisation of school education that begins from age 3 and extends to age 18, thus extending at both ends, the Right to Education Act, 2009, which at present covers children between 6 and 14 years of age. This is a welcome move. However, while the draft policy had proposed to bring in the amendment to the act, the NEP is silent on it. The RTE Act, however, is set for dilution of the standards it has laid down. The policy proposes to make the act ‘flexible’ to the extent of wiping out its mandatory requirements. It says the emphasis would be, not on inputs, but on outcome. In other words, there are no norms or standards for a school. Anybody can set up a school. The disastrous implications for ensuring quality are obvious, though the document constantly harps on quality education for all. The policy bristles with contradictions. While lamenting the pressure on children and ills of rote learning, it imposes the load of three languages, two from Class I and three from Class III. Sanskrit would be given primacy and all encouragement. Children should be able to learn only the mother tongue and through the mother tongue. A second language may be introduced from Class VI, as in many advanced countries. The requirement that mother tongue would be the medium of instruction is appreciable. But it’s purpose is defeated with the clause "wherever possible". It already exists in the present acts, without stopping English from being offered as a medium in all private and a large number of government schools. School education is being reorganised into 5+3+3+4 years. In Classes III, V and VIII, children will be subjected to centrally administered examinations. Examinations are the worst torments causing grievous stress to children. Subjecting them to such examinations is mounting the pressure on them. World over, externally administered exams have long been given up. Evaluation of students is done by teachers in a year-long process of close observation of each student, with remedial needs effortlessly built in. While it is interesting to note that the policy constantly mentions the need for inclusion of socio-economically disadvantaged groups, there is no reference to reservation for them. Good intentions without the backing of a legally-binding policy means nothing, especially where the private sector has been freed from any regulatory system. The concept of school complexes and vocational education, starting from Class VI, may end up pushing children from poverty stricken, dalit and other marginalsed sections out of schools and into child labour. Education of these children has been possible because schools are available in their localities or in close proximity. Thousands of such schools in many states are already closed labelling them unviable. School complexes located far away with the promise of multidimensional education are no compensation to these children, who lose their village school. Further, vocational education in our society of class-caste, urban-rural divide would only perpetuate these divides and not eliminate them. For poor children learning skill development the lines between learning and earning could be easily blurred, pushing them into child labour, while the fortunate middle and upper classes would begin early to negotiate the ladder to corporate jobs. The school leaving certificate examinations as per state board systems has been rendered redundant for entry into higher educational institutions. Admission to any undergraduate course is through standardised national-level entrance tests, equivalent to NEET, to be administered by the National Testing Agency. NEET has spawned a plethora of coaching institutions all over the country and has clearly demonstrated that medical entrance is only possible through expensive coaching. Higher education becomes the preserve of the rich and the privileged, edging out the deprived sections. Yes, we need world-class education, but not by excluding the underprivileged majority and ensuring domination of only the moneyed classes. A policy on education cannot be such an architecture of exclusion. (The writer is a former vice-chancellor of the Manonmaniam Sundaranar University)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/losing-score-in-school-education-reforms/articleshow/77493510.cms||V Vasanthi Devi
August 12, 2020||Kolhapur||452 cases reported in Kolhapur; Show-cause notices to 7 hosps in Sangli||Kolhapur: As many as 452 cases of Covid-19 were detected across Kolhapur district on Tuesday along with 21 deaths. According to a health official, the total number of cases has now increased to 11,513, while the death toll is at 323 “Currently, 6,323 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals across the district,” he said. “Of the 21 deaths, eight were reported in Kolhapur city. The number of positive cases stands at 3,421 of which 205 were added on Tuesday. Shivaji Peth, part of the old city, has now been declared as the new hotspot along with Jawahar Nagar and Sambhaji Nagar. Around 1,300 cases are from the seven hotspots of the city. There are 87 active containment zones in the city,” he added. Sangli reports 9 deaths Sangli district reported nine deaths and 112 fresh cases of Covid on Tuesday. With addition of these new cases, the total number of patients across the district has now reached to 4,983, while the number of people succumbing to the infection stands at 165. There are as many as 2,529 active patients. Show-cause notices issued Sangli district administration has issued show-cause notices to seven hospitals for denying admission to a patient stating non-availability of beds. The patient has lodged a complaint against the hospitals stating that he went from one hospital to other from 9am to 5pm, but was not admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/452-cases-reported-in-kolhapur-show-cause-notices-to-7-hosps-in-sangli/articleshow/77492017.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara registers 174 cases, 8 deaths||Kolhapur: Satara district on Tuesday registered 174 new cases and eight Covid-related casualties with almost one third of the patients being reported from Karad tehsil. With this, the total number of patients in the district jumped to 5,939, of which, 2,999 are currently active. As many as 2.753 people have been discharged from various hospitals so far. In addition, Karad town located on Mumbai-Bengaluru national highway, registered as many as 19 cases in a single day. Most patients are from the densely populated old part of the town such as Somwar, Mangalwar, Guruwar and Shaniwar peth areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-registers-174-cases-8-deaths/articleshow/77492026.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Varsities to hold exams by Sep 30||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Technological University (GTU) and Gujarat University (GU) recently decided to defer the offline (pen and paper) exams that were to be held in August. The varsities cited the recent state government guidelines for its decision. On Tuesday, the state government clarified that it had not come up with any guidelines to cancel the exams and that all varsities have to complete college exams by September 30 as per the University Grants Commission’s (UGC) directives. GTU and GU had stated that the state government and the Centre’s guidelines for Unlock-3 did not allow colleges and other educational institutions to re-open till August 31. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/varsities-to-hold-exams-by-sep-30/articleshow/77492024.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 200th patient delivers boy at Covid-only Victoria Hospital||BENGALURU: There was much cheer amidst the gloom at the Trauma Care Centre at Victoria Hospital when staff assisted with the 200th delivery at the designated Covid-19 facility. The mother, admitted only 24 hours earlier after she tested positive, delivered her third child — a boy — through C-section. Dr Geetha Shivamurthy, medical superintendent, Vani Vilas Hospital, an adjacent facility that oversees deliveries at the Trauma Care Centre, said, “The 200th delivery happened around 5.30pm on Monday. Baby and mother are doing fine. From the 100th delivery to the 200th, it took only 23 days which suggests the incidence of Covid-19 amongst pregnant women is increasing. Three out of every five deliveries have been C-section affairs, while the rest are normal. We try our best to facilitate normal deliveries.” None of the 202 babies born to 200 women were infected although their mothers were. “The babies are isolated from their mothers as a precautionary measure to ensure they don’t get infected. If the baby has to be with the mother, there should be a caretaker from the family willing to be at the Covid-19 facility. No family has come forward for this,” said Dr Geetha. While the jury is out on whether newborns should be breast fed by infected mothers, Dr Geetha said although moms and newborns are kept apart, they are allowed to breastfeed their children whenever required, following hygiene norms. On an average, women who deliver are discharged from the facility in 7-10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/200th-ve-patient-delivers-boy-at-covid-only-victoria-hospital/articleshow/77492038.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra's toll lowest in 14 days, Mumbai's active cases below 19,000||MUMBAI: A day after a significant dip in cases, the state on Tuesday added 11,000 Covid-19 cases, taking the total caseload to 5,35,601. The state, however, reported a dip in deaths: it added 256, lowest in 14 days. With this, total fatalities in the state are 18,306. The state has reported over 1.13 lakh cases in 11 days in August, of which 10,940 cases are from Mumbai. The city for the second day in a row reported less than 1,000 cases (917), taking its overall count to 1,25,224. Mumbai recorded 48 deaths, taking its toll to 6,893. While the city's case fatality rate continues to be over 5.5%, there has been a decline if August numbers are considered. With 540 deaths in 11 days and 10,940 cases, fatality rate has dropped to 4.9%. In another positive sign for the city, active cases further dropped to 18,887 after hovering in the range of 19,000 to 20,000 since end of July. Cumulative recoveries in the city is nearly touching one lakh. With 1,154 patients discharged, a total of 99,147 have fought Covid and gone home. BMC commissioner IS Chahal said the target is to bring down fatality numbers further. "We want it to come below 3%," he said, adding the city now has adequate beds to treat critical cases and hence they are looking deeper into why death rates have remained consistent over months. He said over 2,000 Covid beds in the city are currently occupied by patients from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Health minister Rajesh Tope said the state wants to bring down positivity rate to 5% from 19% currently. Tope met representatives of Indian Medical Association to discuss an insurance scheme for doctors. A closer look at the state's 11,088 new cases showed the majority came from MMR (2,713), followed by Pune division (2,459). Within MMR, Mumbai accounted for 917, followed by Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation and Raigad with 296 and 281 respectively. The total count in NMMC areas rose to 19,033 of which 15,173 patients have recovered. Seven deaths there took the toll to 478. Panvel city reported 179 positives and 4 deaths, taking the tally to 8,427 and deaths to 197. Panvel rural added 26 positives and one more death; Uran taluka reported 25 positives. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 197 patients and 10 deaths, making the caseload there 22,849, with 458 deaths. The twin city reported 458 discharges, making its recovery rate 80%. Thane showed a better recovery rate of nearly 89%. Thane city reported 173 cases, taking the tally to 21,499, while 4 deaths took the toll to 685. With over 10,014 patients getting discharged, the state's recoveries rose to 3,68,435, lending it a recovery rate of 68.79%. Among essential service providers, 41 BEST staffers were discharged on Monday -- highest for a day in 5 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtras-toll-lowest-in-14-days-mumbais-active-cases-below-19000/articleshow/77495333.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Antigen test drive in Pandharpur||Kolhapur: Solapur district administration has undertaken a massive rapid antigen test drive in Pandharpur town even as the the region continues to record new Covid-19 cases every day. Officials said that the drive will also be extended to neighbouring villages and that 500 people on an average are being tested daily. They also said that senior citizens and co-morbid people are given priority. On Monday, 124 people from Padharpur tested positive for Covid-19, taking the total number of cases in the town to 1,085. Of these, 601 are currently active. In addition, Pandharpur has reported 26 Covid-related casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/antigen-test-drive-in-pandharpur/articleshow/77492033.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 5 new cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district recorded the least number of new cases of Covid-19, on Monday, among all the districts in the state. With 5 new cases, the tally of the district stands at 967. With 22 patients already recovered and discharged, the total number of covid patients discharged is 850. The recovery rate of the district is inching towards 90 percent. As on Monday, the rate is 88 percent. Of the 5 new cases, two were reported from Nanjanadu village while two from Kotagiri town. These four cases are contacts of earlier positive cases. Another is a 68-year-old man from Denadukambai who tested positive after visiting Coimbatore for treatment. As many as 114 active cases are being treated at government hospitals in Ooty and Coonoor besides Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-5-new-cases/articleshow/77493520.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Patient on wet floor, kin walking in and out, garbage. It’s all there in GMCH Covid ward||Nagpur: A video shot on Tuesday in Government Medical College and Hospital’s High Dependency Unit (HDU) Covid-19 isolation ward shows positive patients lying on mattress on the floor that has wastewater from toilets all around it. Relatives of patients are walking in and out forced to take care of their patient in absence of staff. There is also garbage strewn in places. An elderly woman is seen lying on the mattress on floor. Due to wastewater on floor, other positive patients, who are symptomatic and require best health care, are keeping their files, plates and bags on the bed itself. Son of a patient admitted in the ward has lodged complaints with GMCH administration, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) over last four days but nothing has happened. “Patients with acute symptoms are admitted in this ward. Instead of getting cured, their health with further deteriorate,” he said. The complainant said, “I and family members of other positive patients in this ward are visiting time and again and taking care of needs of our family members. My father can’t go to washroom without support and there is no staff to take care. So I have to visit whenever required. Like me, other relatives are not tested yet and are at risk. We have no option other than to serve our family members,” he said. There are high chances of such persons getting infected from their kin. Since they are moving out after that, they will undoubtedly spread infection to others all over the city. The person also alleged that his father (56) contracted the disease due to improper facilities at GMCH. “My father had heart attack on August 4 and was admitted at GMCH. He required urgent surgery but nothing has been done for last eight days. He tested negative twice after admission but tested positive two days ago,” he said. GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra said, “GMCH is using all its Covid designated beds to full capacity. My staff has to say patients used wash basin which is not supposed to be used during rainy days. Therefore, water spilled on floor. There is designated place for washing in the toilet area. We may vacate this ward soon,” he said. As per daily Covid-19 report, GMCH was having only 389 positive patients on Tuesday while its capacity is over 500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patient-on-wet-floor-kin-walking-in-and-out-garbage-its-all-there-in-gmch-covid-ward/articleshow/77493508.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 12, 2020||Dehradun||Vikasnagar, Herbertpur emerging as hub of sex trafficking, finds police probe||Dehradun: Vikasnagar and Herbertpur are fast emerging as a hub of sex trafficking, a police probe has revealed. According to a three-month investigation, women trafficked from Delhi, West Bengal, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh are being brought into major hotels in Vikasnagar and Herbertpur while a network of middlemen is targeting illiterate families in the nearby hamlets, promising jobs for their daughters who are then forced into flesh trade. On Tuesday, the chairperson of Uttarakhand State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (USCPCR) directed the state DGP Anil Raturi to take action in the matter and submit a report within a month. The issue first came to light seven months ago when Rani Lekhi (name changed), a resident of Vikasnagar, complained to the National Commission for Women (NCW) about sex trafficking in the area. Lekhi had alleged that women from hills were being duped on pretext of jobs and forced into flesh trade while sex trafficking was flourishing in hotels in these small towns. The complaint was forwarded to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) which directed the state child rights panel to look into the matter. On May 13, the state commission directed police to start a probe. Usha Negi, USCPCR chairperson, said poverty was a major factor leading to exploitation of girls. “The region of Chakrata is dependent on agricultural income. There aren’t many opportunities there. Those with aspirations often fall prey to exploitation. We need to provide skill training to youths in the area.” The state DIG (Garhwal range) Arun Mohan Joshi said swift action would be taken to crack down on the trafficking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/vikasnagar-herbertpur-emerging-as-hub-of-sex-trafficking-finds-police-probe/articleshow/77490950.cms||Shivani Azad
August 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Sugar mills to start Covid centres soon||Kolhapur: Sugar cane factories in western Maharashtra are contemplating whether to start their own Covid Care Centres. Three sugar factories — two from Kolhapur and one from Sangli district — have expressed their intention to start such centers in their vicinity. This comes in response to the appeal made by health minister Rajesh Tope to sugar factories to start Covid Care Centres with minimum capacity of 100 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sugar-mills-to-start-covid-centres-soon/articleshow/77492040.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC to carry out rapid antigen tests of traders, hawkers||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) will soon start rapid antigen tests of all the traders, vegetable vendors and hawkers. According to a civic official, people belonging to these groups are super spreaders. “They come in contact with large number of people every day and if they are infected, the spread of virus is rapid and difficult to control,” he said. District collector Daulat Desai has ordered the civic body to come up with a plan for carrying out the rapid tests at the earliest and has assured that adequate number of testing kits will be provided to the KMC. Civic chief Mallinath Kalashetti said, “We are planning to carry out the antigen tests soon. Our health staff is trained and currently we are randomly screening citizens. For this every ward has been given five oximeters and equal number of thermal scanners. As per the suggestion of the district administration we are going to plan for testing schedule in next few days.” For this exercise, the KMC is going to rope in traders’ and hawkers’ associations to list and schedule the testings. As per the schedule, a batch of traders will be called to the nearest screening centre for the tests. For the hawkers and vendors, the testing camps will be organised at the markets. There are around 13,000 traders and over 8,500 hawkers and vendors across the city. The district administration has provided around 1,000 antigen testing kits which gives the result within 15-20 minutes. “The first batch of the traders and vendors to be tested will be those having comorbidity and above the age of 50 years. The KMC is going to place the requirement of the testing kits after the plan is ready. The city has crossed 3,200 Covid cases so far and most of the cases are due to the local transmission,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-to-carry-out-rapid-antigen-tests-of-traders-hawkers/articleshow/77492045.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Husband to pay wife for abusive social media posts||AHMEDABAD: A local court has ordered a man to pay Rs 15,000 compensation to his wife for his abusive posts about her on social media. The court said it amounts to mental violence and should be considered domestic violence. The couple has been in a matrimonial dispute for four years, and the 28-year-old wife lodged a complaint under the Domestic Violence Act against her husband and in-laws with the metropolitan court in 2016. The magisterial court accepted the woman’s claims of domestic violence and ordered the husband in April 2019 to pay Rs 4,000 monthly maintenance to her, and Rs 1,000 extra for legal expenditure. The wife was not satisfied with this order because of the meagre maintenance and also because the magistrate did not order any compensation for abusive comments on her photographs on social media. She filed an appeal in the city sessions court and specifically pointed out that the magisterial court had not taken into consideration her complaint that her husband had posted abusive comments on photographs on her Facebook account and Instagram handle.  The husband even admitted to it during his cross-examination. He had caused great mental and physical harm but the magisterial court did not pass any judgment for damages or pain caused to her. She also told the court that she was aggrieved by her husband’s actions to malign her and had filed a police complaint. Last week, additional sessions judge Ashok Sharma accepted the woman’s contention and observed that so far as compensation under Section 22 of the Domestic Violence Act is concerned, the magisterial court had erred in refusing to grant relief for abusive posts by her husband. The judge further observed that her husband had admitted during cross-examination that he had posted “the abusive comments on her Instagram handle and Facebook posts regarding the complainant wife which as per my considered and thoughtful opinion is mental violence to any person, hence covered under domestic violence”. The sessions court ordered the husband to pay Rs 15,000 compensation within a month with 6% interest for his abusive posts on social media. Heeding the woman’s other requests, the sessions court ordered the husband to pay Rs 2,000 to her towards rent because she has been living separately. The sessions court even increased the cost of legal expenditure from Rs 1,000 to Rs 3,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/husband-to-pay-wife-for-abusive-social-media-posts/articleshow/77493555.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Coimbatore||District records 324 new cases, Covid-19 tally surpasses 7K||Coimbatore: With 324 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, the district crossed the 7,000 mark just four days after it recorded 6,000 cases. While the total number of Covid-19 cases stands at 7,296, with 150 of them being discharged, there are 1,738 people still under treatment. The district also recorded eight more deaths, taking the toll to 140. While three of the eight victims died in private hospitals, four of them died at ESI Medical College and Hospital. One of them died in Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Monday. Corporation officials said they have found a cluster in Rathinapuri, where more than seven people tested positive, including five from a family in Kannapanagar and a mother-daughter duo from MGR Nagar. Two more people from Syrian Church Road tested positive. Six people from Gandhipuram, including three from 100 Feet Road, have also tested positive. Eight people from two different parts of Ganapathy also tested positive. Besides this, a family of three living in Perumal Kovil Street in Vilankurichi, including a nine-year-old girl, has tested positive. The remaining cases are spread across Kuniyamuthur, which saw more than 10 new cases, Ukkadam, Siddhapudur, Periyanaickenpalayam, Cheranmanagar, JRD Garden, Kovaipudur, Peelamedu, Big Bazaar Street, Selvapuram, Ponnaiarajapuram, Town Hall, Vadavalli and Ammankulam among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-records-324-new-cases-covid-19-tally-surpasses-7k/articleshow/77493554.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab and Haryana HC notice to Centre on rules for AFT administrative members’ appointment||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued notice to the Union government, asking why new tribunal rules promulgated for appointment of administrative members in the Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT) should not be stayed. According to the plea, the Supreme Court (SC) in November 2019 had struck down tribunal rules introduced by the central government in 2017 and asked the government to reframe them in consonance with parent statutes governing tribunals and law laid down by the apex court earlier for ensuring independence of tribunals. The petition points out that the new rules of 2020, however, carry out only cosmetic changes and continue with the control of the executive over tribunals. “Issue notice to the respondents (Centre). In view of the decision of the SC rendered in Rojer Mathew Vs South Indian Bank Limited and others (2019), notice on stay as well. Satya Pal Jain, additional solicitor general of India, accepts notice on behalf of the respondents,” observed the HC while adjourning the case for August 20. HC’s division bench comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli passed these orders while taking cognizance of a public interest litigation filed by Lt Col S N Sharma (retd), a former president of the AFT Bar Association. The petitioner has pointed out that the new advertisement issued for appointments in AFT contravenes Section 6 of the AFT Act which only permits appointment of retired Major Generals and above as administrative members while the new rules and advertisement make any person with experience in economics, management, commerce, industry etc. eligible for appointment. The petition points out that not only is this in contravention of the Act but also law laid down by a constitution bench of SC, which has already ruled that such ambiguous clauses cannot be introduced for appointments in tribunals. The petition also avers that the AFT continues to be placed under the defence ministry and has the defence secretary as a part of the selection committee which is against the law laid down by the SC in L Chandra Kumar versus Union of India and Madras Bar Association versus Union of India as well as the dicta of the Punjab and Haryana high court in Navdeep Singh versus Union of India wherein the government was ordered to place the AFT under the law ministry. Legal experts pointed out that multiple decisions by the apex court for ensuring independence of tribunals have not been implemented by successive governments in letter and spirit leading to varied problems in their functions and autonomy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-centre-on-rules-for-aft-administrative-members-appointment/articleshow/77493553.cms||Ajay Sura
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||How a ballistic report nailed the gangster’s lie||LUCKNOW: Ballistic report of the attack on railway contractor and history-sheeter Surendra Kalia in Alambagh on July 13 has revealed that the criminal had orchestrated the attack on himself to seek police protection. The Lucknow police made the revelation after the arrest of four associates of Kalia – Yashvendra Singh, Sachin Shukla, Sultan Ali and Ashish Kumar Dwivedi – who were arrested from Sultanpur on Monday. Kalia, who has over 20 criminal cases pending against him, is still on the run. Kalia’s cavalcade was attacked near a hospital in Alambagh area in which his private gunner Ramroop Yadav of Etah had suffered injuries. In his FIR, Kalia had alleged that an attempt on his life was made at the behest of jailed mafia-turned-politician Dhananjay Singh. Explaining how ballistic report exposed Kalia’s lies, DCP, east, Somen Barma said experts testified that 13 rounds were fired on Kalia’s vehicle from two separate weapons but shells of only one weapon were recovered from the spot. “Only one shooter was seen firing in the CCTV footage. This was also confirmed by eye-witnesses. Police recovered only four shells from the spot while nine others were missing,” Barma said. “Chemical testing of gunshot residue revealed that nine shots were fired on the vehicle from some other weapon hours before the attack. Only four shots were fired in Alambagh by one person, who was later identified as Kalia’s aide Yashvendra Singh,” he added. Barma said all gunshots were fired on the vehicle’s body and none were shot on the glasses while the vehicle was stationary. He said in such attacks, gunshots are fired on the glasses to ensure that the occupants are hit. “What made our suspicion stronger was the fact that in his initial statement, Kalia told police that he had bagged the doubling work of railway track between Shahganj and Jafrabad railway stations and was being threatened to quit the contract. We crosschecked Kalia’s claim and found it fake,” Barma added. Yashvendra Singh was traced on the basis of CCTV footage who informed the police about the whereabouts of his associates. Barma said efforts were on to nab Kalia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/how-a-ballistic-report-nailed-the-gangsters-lie/articleshow/77494453.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Dehradun||Register online to attend I-Day celebrations||Dehradun: The Dehradun district administration on Tuesday announced that the locals who wish to attend the Independence Day celebrations on August 15 at Police Lines can register themselves at www.dehradun.nic.in while adding that the registration of only the first 200 applicants will be accepted. The officials maintained that no one will be allowed to enter the Police Lines on the Independence Day without a valid registration. The cap on the number of people allowed in the event has been kept to ensure that the distancing norms are followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/register-online-to-attend-i-day-celebrations/articleshow/77490965.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Humans locked out, animals in zoo calm & flora flourishes||Ahmedabad: The lockdown has impacted almost every sphere of life negatively, but the animals and vegetation at the city’s zoo have thrived in this period. Visitors are not being allowed inside the zoo. So not only have the animals been more tranquil, but vegetation has also blossomed. “Since the last week of March, when the entry of visitors was banned, the animals have definitely become much more relaxed,” said R K Sahu, the director of the city zoo. “They tend to move to inner spaces when there are lots of visitors. But now they rest anywhere, even against the railings, which they would not do when people are around.” He added that vegetation in the zoo has also been flourishing. “It is quite common for visitors to pluck flowers and leaves while strolling through the zoo,” he said. “Now that there have been no visitors for over four months, vegetation has grown considerably and the zoo looks very lush and beautiful.” However, the only species in the zoo which is awaiting human attention is the monkeys. “Although the monkeys are well fed, they are basically primates who are friendly with humans,” Sahu said. “The monkeys are waiting eagerly for visitors to be back at the zoo.” He went on to say: “They normally watch and imitate people the whole day. Whenever our workers go to the monkey enclosure to feed them or clean their areas, they are very happy and jump around noisily.” Sahu added that while most animals of the zoo are content that visitors are not intruding on their space, lions, tigers, leopards, and deer appear to be the calmest since the lockdown was imposed. “These animals normally prefer to keep a distance from human beings,” the zoo director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/humans-locked-out-animals-in-zoo-calm-flora-flourishes/articleshow/77492092.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Nandi Hills unlikely to open for tourists any time soon||BENGALURU: Nandi Hills, the go-to getaway on the fringe of Bengaluru, is unlikely to open for tourists anytime soon. Considering malls and gyms are up and running and theatres too might begin screening shows soon, Bengalureans were hoping their favourite hill station would open too. However, officials insist they do not intend to open the destination for tourists in the weeks to come. Some are of the view that the hills can open since people are being socially responsible and following all norms, but N Gopal, special officer, Nandi Hills, said, “We know people are capable of following precautionary rules set by the Centre, but we will still not be opening any time soon. This decision is in the best interest of tourists.” However, those booking overnight stays in facilities run by the horticulture department and Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation on the hilltop will be allowed. The rooms can be booked online. A police officer said, “Only a handful of people book rooms in lodges on the hilltop. That way we are able to control the crowd.” Flex banners announcing the closure are displayed at the foot of the hills. Yet, many tend to miss these banners and go all the way only to be stopped at the gates. The gates are manned by a policeman and two home guards 24/7. Many still ride or drive to the hills just to enjoy the journey. Amogh K, a working professional, who visited recently, said, “There were quite a few people besides my friend and me. We noticed that almost everyone was wearing a mask and following social distancing norms.” Ranjan KM, a student from Bengaluru and another recent visitor, said, “We left at dawn so we didn’t see a lot of people. The hills were closed. Nonetheless we enjoyed the journey.” Srikar K, a student, who recently went to the hills on his bike, said, “I saw everyone there wearing a mask and maintaining social distancing. People are scared these days and behave right in public spaces. If people can manage themselves, the hills can be opened for public.” However, Gopal said there are three other hills in the vicinity and if tourists want a weekend getaway, they could go there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nandi-hills-unlikely-to-open-for-tourists-any-time-soon/articleshow/77492128.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Quality and not number matters in armed forces: Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh||Shortage of personnel in the Army is not new, but it’s not due to lack of interest, rather quality of applicants. The force is creating awareness among young people to ensure better recruitment. Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Centre Commandant of Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington speaks about these plans in a TOI interview Q: Are youngsters joining the Army now? Is the attraction towards the force diminishing?Attraction towards the Army remains the same as in the past. A large number of youth attend the recruitment tests for both as officers and as jawans. Q: So are there enough personnel?There is a shortage of officers and jawans in the Army, but it doesn’t mean that it is less attractive. The deficiency is because we don’t dilute our quality during the selection process. The recruitment procedure has many facets. Qualities of the recruits are quantified through a battery of tests. In the process at least 80% of the applicants are rejected. We are willing to live with deficiency, but don’t want to compromise on quality. Q: Are measures being taken to attract more qualified people?We are creating awareness among the youth in schools and undergraduate colleges. Around 60% of schools practice at the National Cadet Corps. This is another way of attracting youth. NCC has been rejuvenated and re-focused in recent times to create an impact among students. Only in the army, an officer or a jawan gets a second life after retirement; a sense of true well-being, this is one of the incentives for young people. Pruning is happening at the higher level. In another two years, the army will have an optimum level of troops. Q: How about women officers in the MRC?The MRC always has had women officers. Now, we have one officer, Major Preethi. She is an education officer-cum-signal officer. I rate her as an outstanding officer and among the first three officers at the centre. Gender is immaterial in defence. Q: Your message to the young generation?Love and respect for the nation is important. The same respect should be rendered to our national heritage, including the armed forces. Youth should develop a sense of societal discipline. Q: What is the part played by MRC in the Covid fact?Initially, our centre reached out to guest workers by supplying ration and medicines and arranging shelters for them. Donation of blood also happened at the centre depending upon the requirement during the lockdown period. Orphanages and old-age homes in the district were given a helping hand by MRC in terms of ration and medicines. Inter-land villages, which were cut off from supplies were taken care of. We reached out to people in border areas. Still it is an ongoing effort. We created a quarantine facility with 75 beds at K V School in Wellington overnight in the first week of May, which is there to be used||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/quality-and-not-number-matters-in-armed-forces/articleshow/77493536.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
August 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Hospitals denying treatment to lose license: District collector||KOLHAPUR: District collector Daulat Desai on Tuesday informed that private hospitals may lose their licence if they deny treatment to Covid-19 patients. Desai held a meeting of health authorities after receiving several complaints against hospitals denying admissions to critical Covid patients. So far four patients have died after being denied treatment by the hospitals citing lack of the beds. “There are adequate beds in the hospitals. The private hospitals empanelled in Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana should treat patients free of cost. The hospitals will lose their license and will be de-empanelled if any case of denying admissions or overcharging patients is reported,” Desai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/hospitals-denying-treatment-to-lose-license-district-collector/articleshow/77492087.cms||---
August 12, 2020||India||As CM, it’s my duty to win dissidents back: Gehlot||JAIPUR: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said he would try to find out why and under what circumstances the Congress legislators rebelled, what their grievances were against him and what were the promises made to them. This was Gehlot’s first reaction after the truce with Sachin Pilot mediated by the Congress high command. The CM said it was now his responsibility to address the grievances of dissident MLAs. He said he was unaware of the conditions under which Pilot returned. Pilot and 18 Congress MLAs supporting him had revolted against Gehlot’s leadership early last month and claimed that the government in Rajasthan was no longer in majority. The revolt pushed the state’s Congress government into crisis, forcing Gehlot to ring-fence the remaining party MLAs for over a month. “We will try to overcome this (discontent). I am the CM and if an MLA from my party is angry, it is my responsibility to address his grievance and win him back. I have done this all my life and will continue to do so,” Gehlot said. On being asked why the truce couldn’t be negotiated earlier, Gehlot said: “Ask those who were involved in it”. The CM evaded questions on Pilot’s complaint that harsh words were used for him. Before leaving for Jaisalmer, where his legislators have been corralled since July 31, Gehlot said, “More than 100 MLAs stayed together for so long and not a single person broke away despite BJP leaders using their might and conspiring to bring down the government. You can imagine what they must have gone through. I have told them that their act will go down in history and as long as I am alive, I will act as a guardian to them. It’s my duty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-cm-its-my-duty-to-win-dissidents-back-gehlot/articleshow/77495336.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||Solar rooftops must for upcoming houses on 500sqm||Lucknow: Planing to build a housing or commercial unit on a 500sqm land? Add solar panels in the list of materials you need to invest. The Lucknow Development Authority has made solar rooftops mandatory for issuing a completion certificate to any construction work falling under the above parameters. The decision was taken by LDA board on Tuesday as per the new state government policy to maximise the use of renewable energy. Lucknow will be the first state to implement the policy and it will brought in other districts as well. The housing units will include apartments and row houses, while commercial units will include hospitals, nursing homes, guest houses, hostels and restaurants, among others. Those constructing row houses will have to install solar panel themselves, while in apartments and commercial units the responsibility will be of the builder. LDA will also install solar power plants in its upcoming housing and commercial projects, said LDA secretary MP Singh. “Besides, we will urge those who already own properties on 500sqm or above land to install solar panels in their premises, although it will not be mandatory,” he said. He said LDA will assist people in getting details of how to install the facility on their campuses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/solar-rooftops-must-for-upcoming-houses-on-500sqm/articleshow/77494461.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||95° cervical hunch corrected at Civil||Ahmedabad: Saloni, 12, a resident of Jodhpur in Rajasthan, was bedridden for the past six months as the top of her spinal cord was badly deformed. Instead of its natural shape, it was bent in the opposite direction, forming a 95° hunch. The condition, called cervical kyphosis, was corrected by a team of Civil Hospital’s orthopaedic surgery department headed by Dr J P Modi. The correction was carried out last week through a procedure known as laminectomy. Dr Modi said that when Saloni was five years old, she had developed a tumour on one of the vertebrae. The operation that took place to correct it had removed the top and bottom of the vertebra. As the family did not follow it up, over the seven years, her hunch became more and more pronounced as her height increased. “The top of the spine faced immense pressure, due to which she gradually lost control over her legs and became bedridden,” said Dr Modi, who is also the superintendent of Civil Hospital. “The surgery is difficult as it involves neurosurgery and there is minimal margin of error,” Dr Modi said. “A small mistake could lead to grave consequences. This surgery has been done for the first time at Civil Hospital. Across India, about 25 to 30 such surgeries have been recorded so far.” The patient was brought to Ahmedabad after the treatment proved costly — over Rs 5 lakh — in other centres. Her recovery is satisfactory as the hunch between the first and the fourth vertebrae has been corrected after the surgery involving multiple surgeons of several specialties. The surgery lasted four hours, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/95-cervical-hunch-corrected-at-civil/articleshow/77492108.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kolhapur||97 villages not to install Ganpati idol and pandal in the village||KOLHAPUR: Owing to the increasing Covid-19 positive cases in Kolhapur district and the appeal made by the police, 97 villages have decided not to erect pandals and install Ganesh idols this year. Of the 1,100 villages in the district, 303 have agreed to celebrate 'Ek Gaon Ek Ganpati' concept to keep the festive celebrations to the minimum amidst the current pandemic situation. The decision taken by the villagers is a role model for the entire state. Superintendent of police Dr. Abhinav Deshmukh said, “The decision taken by these 97 villages to not celebrate Ganeshotsav is a role model for the state. Of the total 1,100 villages in the district, 303 will celebrate the concept of ‘Ek Gaon Ek Ganpati’ where only one Ganpati will be installed for the entire village. We are trying to get at least 500 villages in the district to follow this new concept. People are voluntarily taking this social initiative understanding the need of the hour”. Sunil Abhre, a villager from Mohare village of Panhala tehsil said, “There were a few Covid-19 positive cases in the village. Owing to it, all the Ganpati pandals in the village have decided not to celebrate Ganeshosav this year. The festival can be celebrated next year as well but Covid-19 prevention is what everyone should look at in this critical situation”. Yuvraj Salvi from Bhudargad tehsil’s Phanaswadi village said, “With ‘Ek Gaon Ek Ganpati’ concept, there is one problem. At times, the pandal who installs the idol may disagree with others on some or the other thing, thus giving rise of internal conflicts. Therefore, our village has decided not to risk it and all groups in the village have jointly decided that not to install Ganpati pandal this year. Also, Bhudargad tehsil has recorded a large number of Covid-19 positive cases in the last few months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/97-villages-not-to-install-ganpati-idol-and-pandal-in-the-village/articleshow/77492100.cms||Rahul Gayakwad
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Call centre busted, 4 held||AHMEDABAD: Cyber police on Tuesday arrested four persons who were allegedly cheating US citizens by calling them and offering easy process of loan, said a police officer. The call centre was run by Saurabh Sharma, 25, from flat in Eden building opposite Godrej GardenCity where the three others Raj Rathod, 25, resident of Kathwada, Anurag Kushwaha, 29,a resident of Odhav and Ajitsingh Rajput, 23, a resident of Vastral were working. The accused dialled number of US citizens using two different softwares so the Americans will never realise that they were calling from India. Then, they duped US citizens telling them that they lack few points in credit score and if they will have to do some transaction after which they would easily avail loans. Following their instructions, US citizens will provide give bank details and the accused will transfer the amount in a week.  Cops booked the four under charges of cheating and breach of trust along with Information Technology Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/call-centre-busted-4-held/articleshow/77493581.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal records 1 lakh Covid-19 cases with 2,931 new infections||KOLKATA: Bengal on Tuesday crossing the 1-lakh mark with 2,931 new Covid-19 infections since the first case was reported on March 17. However, with a high discharge rate at 72.3%, which is more than the national average of 69.8%, the state’s active cases dropped to 25,846. On Monday, there were 26,031 active cases in Bengal. Kolkata, too, mirrored a similar trend. While 711 new cases were reported on Tuesday, 877 patients were discharged. There are 6,615 active cases in Kolkata. On Tuesday, Bengal reported 49 deaths — 18 of them in Kolkata. The fatality rate in Bengal remains 2.1%, which is shade higher than the national average of 1.9%. However, Kolkata’s fatality rate remains significantly higher at 3.3%. In Bengal, 89% of the patients who died due to Covid had co-morbidities. Bengal tested 27,015 samples on Tuesday, its highest daily testing till now since NICED started testing by sending samples to NIV Pune in late February. Bengal has tested 11.5 lakh samples till now, with 8.7% of the samples testing positive. “The positivity rate is varying. In our lab, we are seeing a declining trend over the past seven days. However, it is too early to predict,” said Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhury, microbiologist at Peerless Hospital. “The spike in daily cases is quite high over the past few weeks. This infection is spreading at an alarming rate. This was expected given the nature of the virus and the fact that there are no more effective containment measures. We could be moving towards the peak slowly,” said Debkishore Gupta, an infectious diseases control specialist. Sukumar Mukherjee, who is part of the Covid expert committee, felt it is too early to gauge any trends immediately. “We cannot draw any conclusion with the daily results. We will have to take a longitudinal view with its cumulative effect. It is true that 25,000-odd active cases despite the spike in testing is a healthy sign but crossing the 1-lakh mark is not a good sign,” he said. Sanjukta Dutta, head (emergency medicine), Fortis Hospital, said: “The Covid case load has significantly increased. But I would like to see the trend for a few more weeks to comment on whether we are peaking or stabilizing. Due to the nature of this infection, mainly asymptomatic or mild cases, many people are not getting tested.” “I do not think that this virus is going to slow down any time soon. We have not come across any virus that has remained for such long period. There have been many models predicting how the virus will behave. But I think it has not stuck to these models. So, it is has become difficult to say when we will hit the peak,” said Apurba Ghosh, director of the Institute of Child Health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-records-1-lakh-covid-19-cases-with-2931-new-infections/articleshow/77492043.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Rich rush to Nagpur for Covid treatment, pvt hosps in Catch-22||Nagpur: Increasing number of Covid-19 cases across Vidarbha has created a Catch-22 situation for private hospitals in the city, which has emerged as a medical hub in Central India. People from influential families in rural Vidarbha want to be treated in private hospitals in Nagpur, irrespective of being symptomatic or not. Such people are using political and business contacts to get beds in Nagpur, though rules say asymptomatic patients are not to be admitted in hospitals and home isolation is advised. On the other hand, engaging beds for asymptomatic Covid patients coming from other districts/cities is inviting NMC’s wrath for these hospitals. “No private hospital has been acquired in our district for Covid treatment. Being asymptomatic, we have been asked to get admitted in a makeshift Covid Care centre in our tehsil headquarters. This centre has poor facilities,” said Deepak Parekh (name changed) from Darwha in Yavatmal. “We can afford the expenses and hence came to Nagpur,” he added. Using their clout, Parekh and family secured beds in a private hospital in city. As Nagpur has only five designated private hospitals with limited number of beds, there is a problem of getting beds here too. A senior administrator from a leading private hospital, who was not willing to be named, told TOI that 30% of the beds are occupied by patients from out of Nagpur who came through influential contacts. “Earlier, we had admitted many city patients who were asymptomatic. After the home isolation norm came, we convinced them to go back home and most agreed. But, how to convince the out-station patients when they don’t have home here in Nagpur?” asked the manager. Hospitals have been asked to reserve 80% of beds for patients to be treated on government rates. For rest 20%, hospitals can charge as per standard rates. But, they are not allowed to treat asymptomatic patients under any of the above quota. The only solution to this situation is to allow home isolation (which is allowed only in Nagpur at present) in other districts or acquire more private hospitals. Private hospitals have been acquired only in Amravati and Akola, and all other districts are relying on government facilities. Districts like Buldhana, Washim, and Bhandara don’t have medical colleges and so they refer many patients to Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rich-rush-to-nagpur-for-covid-treatment-pvt-hosps-in-catch-22/articleshow/77493524.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Cong to bring pvt bill for re-employment of sacked PTIs||Chandigarh: The leader of opposition and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Tuesday said Congress Legislative Party (CLP) will bring a private bill for the re-employment of 1,983 sacked physical training instructors (PTIs) during the monsoon session of the Haryana assembly. Interacting with mediapersons through a web conference, Hooda also criticised BJP-JJP alliance government over the issue of lay-offs as well as incidence of corruption and detection of various scams in the state over the past six months. Referring to liquor scam, registries scam and paddy scams, the former CM attacked the Khattar-Chautala government for the cover-up. “The liquor scam was worth several crore of rupees. The government purposely settled for SET and now dithering in further action on recommendations. The registries and paddy scam were dealt with similarly. Instead of pinpointing officials alone, the government should have caught the actual scamsters or people behind it,” said Hooda. “We sought a CBI probe, but they (government) refused; we sought an independent probe by a sitting judge of Punjab and Haryana high court, but the government refused. Now for our and over two crore Haryanavis’ satisfaction, the government can at least constitute a three-member house panel in the assembly to probe these incidents,” the senior Congress leader added. Hooda also announced statewide protests by the Congress against the inaction or failure of government in acting against the errant in various scams during the BJP-JJP government. Referring to the issues of farmers, Hooda categorically asked for addition of MSPs in three new agriculture ordinances while using the C2 formula while fixing the MSP. Talking about the registry scam, Hooda said illegal colonization has been going on under the present government. During the lockdown, irregularities were reported in about 30,000 registries across 32 cities. Besides, there has also been a scam in the purchase of mustard and rice during the lockdown. “The BJP MLA of Jind has himself accepted that every brick in Jind has a stamp of corruption,” he said, indicating that even BJP MLAs have put their own government in the dock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-to-bring-pvt-bill-for-re-employment-of-sacked-ptis/articleshow/77493589.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Pvt firm unveils health monitoring cum attendance recorder system||Coimbatore: A city-based automation company has unveiled a health monitoring system, which it says could also act as an attendance recorder system.The system can do away with the need of security personnel at offices checking every entrant’s body temperature and then recording the entrant’s name, phone number, address and body temperature details. The automation company developed the system over the last three months.“While an employee’s details can be fed into the system, the system can scan his or her RF id from their id card, along with scanning their body temperature when they enter the office. It can scan a guest entrant’s Aadhaar card or driving licence and record their entry,” says one of the team of eight developers who developed the product, S Loganathan.“The system will give a low alarm if the body temperature is normal, but a loud alarm when the temperature is high,” he said.While employees with fever can be detected, guests too can be traced by government officials if they leave the premises after being denied entry. Further, a person with normal body temperature when walking out of the system, can stretch out hands for sanitization. The firm says the system which costs 70,000, would be useful in offices with high people movement like government offices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pvt-firm-unveils-health-monitoring-cum-attendance-recorder-system/articleshow/77493582.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Dehradun||Heavy rain lashes Kumaon, rivers swell, many roads closed||Nainital: Heavy rains lashed most parts of Kumaon on both Monday and Tuesday causing landslides in many areas and swelling of major rivers. As a result, several national highways and other roads in the region were blocked. The worst hit was the Bageshwar district where, according to the district administration, at least 40 roads were closed for traffic along with NH 309A. Till Tuesday morning, Bageshwar had received 100 mm rainfall while Kapkot received 95 mm and Garud over 80 mm. Bageshwar’s disaster management officer Shikha Suyal told TOI, “The district witnessed heavy rainfall late on Monday which continued till early morning. We have been getting reports of landslides from several areas. Enough JCB machines and manpower has been deployed in those areas. We expect many of the closed and damaged roads to become operational soon.” The official data further showed that its two main rivers — Saryu and Gomti — were also flowing near the danger mark. While Saryu’s water level had touched 868 m, Gomti was flowing at 866 m. The danger mark for the rivers is around 870 m. The locals told TOI that the water level in the rivers was high enough to submerge many of the low-lying areas. In fact, the famous Bagnath temple, located on the banks of Saryu, was also flooded on Monday night. “The water level rose so much that many shops and stalls were completely submerged. Though the water level had started to go down by the evening,” said Manish Singh, a local. In Garud, several localities were flooded and Gomti’s water had almost entered the Baijnath temple. “Several roads have been completely destroyed while many houses are submerged. Not only major rivers, but even rivulets are overflowing and threatening to demolish houses built on their banks,” said Anil Singh, a local from Garud. Similar figures came from Nainital and other districts where two major district roads and half a dozen rural roads were closed for traffic. Meanwhile, the meteorological department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall in the next few days as well. The department has issued a red alert for Thursday saying that extremely heavy rains are also expected in Bageshwar, Nainital and Pithoragarh districts among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heavy-rain-lashes-kumaon-rivers-swell-many-roads-closed/articleshow/77491025.cms||Prashant Jha
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||Mushaira at Begum Hazrat Mahal Park made Indori Awadh’s favourite||LUCKNOW: He was only in his 20s, frail in body but heavy with words and hair flowing till his shoulders when Rahat Indori was called to Lucknow for the first time to be part of a mushaira in 1970. The renowned poet, who breathed his last at the age of 70 following cardiac arrest on Tuesday, was little known in the world of poetry then but his name was recommended by famous Lucknow poet Wali Aasi. That not only beckoned him to the city but began his chapter with Lucknow. Half a century later, on Tuesday, the city was filled with grief as soon as news of his demise was confirmed. “Indori was not very well known at that time but Wali Aasi sahab recommended that he be called to Lucknow for the next mushaira. It was held at Begum Hazrat Mahal park,” said 74-year-old Athar Nabi, who organised poetry festivals under the aegis of Hindi Urdu Sahitya Award Committee. Nabi claimed that it was from here on that Indori and his poetry became an inevitable part of mushairas in Lucknow and around such as the acclaimed Deva Shareef mushaira and Meerut Nauchandi mushaira. “During Vishnukant Shastri’s tenure as UP governor, the committee had felicitated Rahat Indori and Gopichand Narang,” he added. The son of renowned poet Prof Malikzada Manzoor who compered the acclaimed DCM Mushaira of Delhi for over 60 years, Pervez, told TOI that it was his father who got Indori to a bigger mushaira in Lucknow in 1976. “The mushaira was held at Begum Hazrat Mahal Park during the Emergency. President of the country Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed and then Congress party president Dev Kant Barua had come for the mushaira and ND Tiwari was chairman of the reception committee,” reminisced Pervez, who was its convener. The Malikzada family, which resided in Old City’s Hasnain Market on Victoria Street then, was a regular haunt of poets in the city and those travelling from other places. “Rahat sahab used to come to our house very often and he would recite stories from such programmes, his writings and have a good time. He was very swift in his art. He was also a painter but that got sidelined when he got busy in this world. Covers of most of his books and his daughter’s wedding card were designed by him,” shared Pervez. There was more to Lucknow though that attracted Rahat sahab. “When in Lucknow, he could be easily found at the book shop of poet Wali Aasi in Aminabad. It was one place every poet would visit and spend hours at,” added Nabi. “Once he said that he did poetry for love and words were a medium to spread both love and hate. He enjoyed this prowess of language and the finesse of tongue in Lucknow,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mushaira-at-begum-hazrat-mahal-park-made-indori-awadhs-favourite/articleshow/77494477.cms||Yusra Husain
August 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Labour laws: HC notice to govt||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Tuesday issued notice to the state government in response to a petition challenging the ordinance amending the Factories Act, by which small industrial units with fewer than a certain number of workers are exempted from the purview of this law. A trade union, the Gujarat Mazdoor Sabha, challenged the alleged dilution of labour laws through the amendment of the Factories Act, 1948. Earlier this month, this union challenged before the Supreme Court the state government’s decision to lengthen workers’ shift from eight hours to 12 hours. In a petition before the high court, the union questioned the validity of state government’s July 3 ordinance and the hurry with which it was brought out, as the government did not wait for the assembly session to amend the law. By this ordinance, the state government amended Sections 2(m) and 85 of the Factories Act. These sections defined factories as industrial production units aided with electricity having 10 workers or more and a unit producing without aid of electricity and having 20 or more workers, which made them liable for inspection by the factory inspector. These units falling in the category of factories are liable to follow all rules of the Factories Act to protect the interests of workers, their working conditions, maintenance of plants and machinery etc. However, with the amendment, units involved in production with aid of electricity and having 20 or more workers would be treated as factories. Similarly, units involved in production without electricity would be considered factories if they have 40 or more workers. The petition has taken strong exception to exclude small industrial units from the purview of the Factories Act and said that this is against the spirit of the law, which was first enacted by the British in 1922, amended in 1934 and finally improved in 1948 with the Independence of India. Senior advocate M C Bhatt argued that the dilution in the law is against the objective of social welfare and social justice. After issuing notice to the government, the high court posted a further hearing for September 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/labour-laws-hc-notice-to-govt/articleshow/77493586.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata scientists sceptical about Russian vaccine||KOLKATA: Researchers and scientists in the city are surprised at the speed at which Russia has developed Sputnik V, the world's first Covid vaccine that scientists at Moscow’s Gamaleya Institute said was ready for mass production. Raising eyebrows at the Russian healthcare regulator’s swift approval to the vaccine that was still under trial, experts in Kolkata said that while it had whipped up a lot of excitement among people desperate for a shot that will insulate them from the virus, they warned that cutting trials short could raise doubts over its efficacy in the absence of robust data and its interpretation and raises serious ethical issues. “A vaccine has to go thorough series of trials on aspects like safety, immunogenicity (immune response) and kind of antibody the vaccine produces. They need to be studied and analyzed in great detail before the vaccine is approved for mass production,” said Dipika Sur, a former scientist at ICMR-NICED who has been involved during clinical trials of vaccines like that of cholera and typhoid. While pre-clinical trials are conducted on animals, clinical trials in humans go through three phases. In phase 1, the vaccine is administered on a small number of volunteers (20-80) to see if it is safe. In the second phase, it is administered to a larger group of volunteers (200-500) to study the safety as well as immunogenicity and antibody production. Phase 3 is carried out on thousands of volunteers to find if the antibody is protective and also how long the immunity lasts. “We need to know how long the vaccine will protect the person against Covid-19. We also need to know the side-effects of the vaccine along with its efficacy,” said Subhrojyoti Bhowmick, director of clinical research at Peerless Hospital. While Phase 1 and Phase 2 trials can be completed in two-three months, the third phase takes longer. Even if researchers are racing against time, it will take at least six months to find out how well the antibody works. “We do not have any data to comment on it. There is no data released in scientific journals other than claims by their own news portals. If it is true and found effective, then it will be an unprecedented human feat,” said Dipyaman Ganguly, associate professor at the translational research unit of excellence of Indian Institute of Chemical Biology Health experts said a healthy individual can get vaccine-induced diseases and hence the adverse data profiling is an equally important part of trials. For example, if the vaccine is potent, it will protect against Covid-19 but the vaccine could induce another ailment — heart attack, stroke or anaphylactic shock — in case the side-effects were not properly studied. “Russian president Vladimir Putin has himself declared that the clinical trial is still incomplete. So there can’t be any assurance yet of a higher level of safety, effectiveness and absence of long-term side-effects. All safety issues cant be monitored so quickly,” said infectious diseases control specialist Debkishore Gupta of CMRI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-scientists-sceptical-about-russian-vaccine/articleshow/77492080.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 12, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Govt ITIs to offer courses that cater to market skills||CHENNAI: From this academic year, the government industrial training institutes (ITIs) in Tamil Nadu would offer aspirational and demand-driven courses to ensure immediate job opportunities for the students. Gauging the growing demand for unmanned aerial vehicle operators, interior designers, smartphone technicians and app testers, the department of employment and training has decided to replace unpopular courses that have poor admission record with such demand-driven courses. After consulting industry representatives, the management committee of each ITI has proposed to revamp the courses that had few takers. Orgnisations like Maruti Suzuki and Tuticorin Port Trust, which have tied up with the government. The government has allocated `4.38 crore to revamp the existing unpopular course with those that fulfill students’ aspirations. The fund would be utilised to procure equipment and study materials for the new courses. “We will also rope in industries to support the courses financially to make them more successful. The industries will also support the institution by deputing experts to teach students,” said a senior official. The new courses have been designed to meet the demand of the industry. “The objective is to make the ITIs offer courses that ensure employment opportunities after students complete their studies,” he added. For instance, a course on carpentry has been revamped into interior designing and decoration. The course would be offered in seven institutes at Chennai, Coimbatore, Virudhunagar, Madurai and Thanjavur. The intake of the students has been increased from 160 to 240 for the new course. “Drone operators are much in demand as the government is engaging them to survey the land, while they are in demand in the private sector too. We are going to offer the course in ITIs in North Chennai and Coimbatore,” said the official and noted that Rs 19 lakh was allocated for each institution to procure drones and other study materials for the course. Smartphone technicians and app testers are options, considering the growing number of smartphone users. Experts from mobile manufacturing firms will also extend their support in running the course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-itis-to-offer-courses-that-cater-to-market-skills/articleshow/77493588.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||Not hidden even 1 Covid case or death: Maharashtra CM to PM||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said at a video conference with PM Modi on Tuesday that Maharashtra had not hidden a single Covid -19 case or death. The PM chaired a video conference with CMs of the 10 worst-affected states, including Maharashtra, that have contributed nearly 80% of cases in India. Modi said states should work to bring down their death rate—it is 3.4% in the state and 5.5% in Mumbai. CM wants national decision to grade students without examsThackeray said Maharashtra “did not hide a single case or death” and had shared all information with transparency. Public health minister Rajesh Tope, who also attended the meet, said, “A target has been given to us to reduce our death rate and rate of positivity. We have increased testing and are using antigen kits as well, and our early detection system will also help bring down our death rate.” Modi said if high-risk contacts of a patient are tested in 72 hours, there is a high chance that the spread of the disease could be curbed further. Thackeray said the state was setting up health infrastructure to deal with patients showing post-Covid complications, and the state would set up dedicated hospitals for treating epidemic diseases. He reiterated the demand for not holding final year exams for non-professional courses. He said a national-level decision should be taken to declare results by giving students aggregate marks. A decision needs to be taken on exams of final-year medical students as well, he said. The Maharashtra government has urged the Centre to again include masks and sanitizers in the list of essential items so that their prices would continue to be regulated. Asked about the local train network, Tope told mediapersons that starting local train services was a prerogative of the Centre, and in fact even adding more services or allowing more people to board trains had to be done with the Centre’s permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/not-hidden-even-1-covid-case-or-death-maharashtra-cm-to-pm/articleshow/77495331.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||To cut fatality rate, BMC to keep tabs on rising count in private hospitals||MUMBAI: Covid-19 deaths occurring at private hospitals and nursing homes will be closely monitored by the civic body in a bid to reduce the city's fatality rate (CFR) that continues to hover over 5.5%, much higher than the state's average of 3.4% and the country's 2%. The share of deaths in private set-ups that used to be around 10-15% seems to be going up. Civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal told TOI the daily death numbers between Monday and Saturday evening will be collated and evaluated on a weekly basis. "Based on that, we will hold discussions with heads of top ten hospitals with the highest death rates," he said, adding the monitoring of deaths at public hospitals will continue simultaneously. As on Tuesday, the city has reported a total of 6,893 Covid deaths. Chahal said that the next mission was to bring the fatality rate to less than 3%. "Importantly, we will evaluate if deaths are due to any treatment lapses or other factors that can be worked on," he said. The BMC has not monitored private facility deaths so far, he said, though they planned to do so under 'Mission Save Lives' announced on June 30. In the beginning of April, Mumbai's CFR has touched 7% -- highest in the country- prompting authorities to set up a task force to evaluate the death rate. A steady decline was visible when CFR dropped from 6.3% on April 11 to 3.9% on April 26. The numbers continued to be consistent until June 16, when BMC added 862 deaths as part of a reconciliation exercise, also spiking the fatality rate from 3.8% to 5.2%. AMC Suresh Kakani said previously the share of private hospitals in deaths was around 10%-15%. "That seems to be going up now. While previously we saw most deaths in public tertiary hospitals, that number is on a decline," he said. "We will be closely looking at issues of late referrals or non-referrals, if any, to the higher centres," he added. KEM dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said daily deaths have come down to single digits from 17-18 seen during the peak of the epidemic. In the private sector, hospitals said they continue to see patients coming with advanced disease. "Often we see patients coming on the 7th or 8th day," said Dr Sunil Agarwal, who runs a Covid mid-level hospital in Malad. In his opinion, the BMC must also look at people self-isolating at home and not realising when their oxygen levels have dipped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/to-cut-fatality-rate-bmc-to-keep-tabs-on-rising-count-in-private-hospitals/articleshow/77495340.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 12, 2020||Bhopal||Public awareness campaign on Covid from Independence Day||BHOPAL: A public awareness campaign to check spread of Coronavirus infection in the district will be undertaken in Bhopal district from Independence Day. The campaign titled "Sahyog Se Suraksha Abhiyan" (Safety through cooperation campaign) aims to reach out to people to remain safe themselves by observing Covid-19 protocol and also ensure safety of their fellow citizens. Director, state health information education communication, has issued a detailed guidelines about the campaign. In the wake of rise in Covid-19 cases, special precautions and need for change in the habits, conduct and attitude of people is required and with the help of various departments, this will be underlined during the campaign, said an official press release issued by district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/public-awareness-campaign-on-covid-from-i-day/articleshow/77493601.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||Govt issues guidelines for hospitalisation of patients||Lucknow: To ensure swift action in case a Covid patient needs hospitalisation or requires to be shifted from one hospital to another, chief secretary RK Tiwari has issued an order outlining the protocol to be followed. The Integrated Covid Command and Control Centre will play a crucial role in this aspect and will be required to have details of doctors, hospitals patients and coordinate between all agencies concerned in every case. The government has said that the practice of patients reaching Covid hospitals directly will be discouraged as it leads to confusion but such patients are not to be denied treatment. The order issued on Tuesday stated that phone numbers of all senior health officials in each district will be kept in the command centre, along with those of the Covid Helpdesks. All Covid-19 hospitals will have to inform the control centres about the number of vacant beds at 8am and 6pm each day. The call centre will have to contact patients in home isolation once a day to enquire about their vital parameters and ensure swift action if they require hospitalisation. If a patient feels the need to be shifted to a hospital, then they can call the centre directly. The call will be forwarded to the medical team and a message will also be relayed to the ambulance allotment team. Before a patient is transferred from one Covid hospital to another, the two hospitals will have to communicate with one another and transfer all essential documents like reports, referral slip, case sheet and health record. If, during treatment for a comorbid condition in a government or private non-Covid hospital, a patient is detected with Coronavirus then the hospital will need to inform the command centre. The hospital where the checkup is taking place will be responsible for the patient till he or she receives help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-issues-guidelines-for-hospitalisation-of-patients/articleshow/77494492.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana Covid-19 casualty count past 500||CHANDIGARH: With 798 fresh infections in Haryana in a single day, the state’s Covid-19 tally rose to 43,227 on Tuesday. The day also witnessed 11 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll in state to 500. Meanwhile, 590 recoveries on the day pushed the overall count of cured patients to 36,082. Intensified testing has also pushed testing rate to 30,445 tests per million daily, and the recovery rate has come to 83.47%. The state now has 6,655 active patients, of whom 135 are critical, with 113 on oxygen support and 22 on ventilator support. Of the 11 casualties, four were Panipat, two in Faridabad, one each in Ambala, Gurugram, Sonipat, Kurukshetra and Panchkula. Faridabad continued to lead other districts of the state with highest number of new cases (121), followed by Panipat (107), Rewari (73), Ambala (69), Gurugram (69), Sonipat (56), Palwal (47), Rohtak (42), Kurukshetra (40), Karnal (38), Panchkula (26), Yamunanagar (26), Kaithal (21), Jind (16), Charkhi Dadri (14), Hisar (12), Jhajjar (11), Bhiwani (5) and Nuh (5). So far, 85,449 patients have completed their institutional and home quarantine while 61,570 are still under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-casualty-count-past-500/articleshow/77493602.cms||Manvir Saini
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||UDH dept proposes max seven flats in 750sqm plots||Jaipur: The Urban Development and Housing (UDH) department’s recent proposal to regulate the construction of residential apartments on small plots has disappointed small developers. According to the new rules draft proposal, a developer is only allowed to construct seven units (apartments) on a plot size measuring up to 750 sqm. Before implementation, suggestions and objections have been invited from residents. The last date for submission is August 12. Developer Rajesh Dukiya said, “The decision will increase the costing and flats will become out of reach of buyers. Our delegation will meet the UDH minister on Wednesday and request to rollback the decision.” As per the 2011 rules, a developer is allowed to construct 6 units on a plot size measuring between 162 sqm to 225 sqm. In all, 8 units are allowed on plot measuring 225 sqm to 350 sqm and 12 units can be constructed on plot measuring 350 sqm to 500 sqm. The small developers demand that government should allow 16 units on a plot size measuring 500 sqm to 750 sqm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-dept-proposes-max-seven-flats-in-750sqm-plots/articleshow/77493594.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Delhi||Hoteliers, gym owners in Delhi urge lieutenant governor Anil Baijal for solution||NEW DELHI: The owners of hotels, gyms, yoga centres and shopkeepers in weekly markets have threatened to launch protests if lieutenant governor Anil Baijal doesn’t permit them to start their businesses by the end of this week. In the first joint press conference convened by them on Tuesday, the businessmen stated that the four months of closure had destroyed their finances and many of them were fighting for survival. A symbolic protest was later organised by them at Connaught Place. While Delhi government wants to open all these economic activities, Baijal has refused to permit them citing the fragile Covid-19 situation in the capital. This issue had also triggered a confrontation between the Aam Aadmi Party government and the LG. Chamber of Trade and Industry convener Brijesh Goyal said around 25 lakh people were dependent upon gyms, hotels and weekly markets. Lack of options to sustain themselves was forcing them to resort to protests. “The Centre has permitted opening of hotels, gyms, yoga centres and weekly markets across the country. Various state governments have permitted these sectors to open despite their Covid-19 situation being worse than Delhi. The pandemic is under control in the capital and the recovery rate has crossed 90%, but the LG is refusing to allow such economic activities,” said Goyal. Chirag Sethi of Delhi Gym Association said that gyms had been allowed to open in Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and several other states. “Delhi has more than 5,500 gyms and over 1 lakh people earn their livelihood from them. We have been jobless for the past 150 days. If we are not allowed to open, we will have no other option but to start protests,” he added. A trader said that Delhi had more than 2,500 hotels and guesthouses, all of which provide livelihood to lakhs of people. “Since all hotels and guesthouses are closed, we are scrounging for a living,” he added. Weekly markets are a major source of employment for thousands of people in the city. Sanjay Sachdeva and Ashok Arora, who are connected with weekly markets, said that about 2,700 weekly markets function across Delhi where thousands of small businessmen sell various products to earn a living. The traders promised that if they were allowed to open, they would strictly follow the social distancing guidelines and standard operating procedures that would be issued by the government for hotels, gyms, yoga institutes and weekly markets. Sources said these sectors were not likely to be allowed to operate anytime soon because of the fluctuation in the number of Covid-19 cases being reported everyday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hoteliers-gym-owners-urge-lg-for-solution/articleshow/77494487.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 12, 2020||Thane||Thane: Four Covid patients shifted after fire||THANE: Four Covid patients were shifted after a fire broke out at a private hospital at Waghbil around 11pm. The four elderly male patients were shifted to another Covid facility in Bhandup. Santosh Kadam of municipal regional disaster management cell said they were alerted about a fire in the medical shop on the 3rd floor of the multispecialty hospital at Waghbil naka. As smoke from the fire was dense, teams decided to shift the patients admitted to ICU as a precautionary measure, said Kadam. The fire was being extinguished past midnight and officials said its cause was not known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/4-covid-patients-shifted-after-fire/articleshow/77493637.cms||Manoj Badgeri
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||Now, salary cuts and forced leave for CBSE teachers too||Nagpur: Some big CBSE schools of the district have now started salary cuts, deferred pay and even unpaid forced leave for teachers. They are claiming that their operations are becoming financially unviable. Some CBSE school promoters told TOI that in some institutes fee collection is as low as 10% while the average is 50%. The Independent English Schools’ Association (IESA) has claimed that over 1 lakh teachers have been affected by salary cuts across Maharashtra. “Many teachers have been sent on unpaid leave and all hiring activity has stopped. Around 30,000 teachers are hired every year in June, but that has not happened either,” said the association’s president Rajendra Dayma. One teacher told TOI that it was unfair that in the fight between schools and parents, they are becoming victims. “Teachers have been working extremely hard all through the summer and now, we are adapting to online classes too. Despite our efforts, our salaries have been slashed by almost half,” said the teacher. Another teacher said, “I have been asked to go on a forced unpaid leave. The principal says fee collection has dropped and hence, they cannot afford so many teachers.” There were at least a dozen such teachers whose names reached TOI, but they did not wish to speak about the issue even anonymously. City-based Unaided Schools’ Welfare Association (USWA), an umbrella group for CBSE schools, may hold a crucial meet of their members next week and take some ‘drastic’ decision due to the financial crisis. One of the USWA members said that because of a few ‘activists’, parents are getting misguided. “Jewellers, hoteliers and transporters are refusing to pay. Government and PSU employees and well-to-do professionals, too, are holding back fee payment citing false messages from these so-called activists. Show me one government resolution which says that fees have to be reduced or that parents don’t have to pay,” said the promoter who wished to remain anonymous as their meet is scheduled within a few days after August 15. Another CBSE school promoter told TOI that he’s on the verge of ‘collapse’. “Till August 1, we have been able to cover only 40% of our expenses. I’m taking loans to tide over the crisis, but now, the next step is to to stop salaries for almost everyone,” said the owner. He added, “This issue started towards the end of March with a confusing circular from the education department. It’s been more than four months and not a single parent or activist from Nagpur has approached the court. Why? Because they know that their arguments are not legally tenable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-salary-cuts-and-forced-leave-for-cbse-teachers-too/articleshow/77493576.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Car rams guard rails, close shave for cops in Red Road 2016 rerun||KOLKATA: In an almost repeat of the security breach during the Republic Day parade rehearsals at Red Road four years ago, a car driven by a youth rammed into a railing early on Tuesday morning, minutes before the Independence Day parade rehearsals were to commence on Red Road. At 6.35am on Tuesday, a speeding blue sedan with a 20-year-old youth behind the wheel, smashed the guard rails put up to prevent vehicular traffic during the rehearsals. The accident took place as the car, which was approaching from Kidderpore Road, was about to take a right turn towards Park Street in front of Fort Williams’ east gate. The accident brought back the memories of then 2016 accident in which Sambia Sohrab, a youth driving his Audi, drove into a marching contingent on Red Road, killing an Air Force personnel during the parade rehearsal. Last year too, a 21-year-old youth driving a car had broken the traffic prohibition and entered Queensway, Lover’s Lane and Kidderpore Road, a day before the Republic day parade, before cops intercepted him. On Tuesday, Aritra Sanyal, the 20-year-old journalism student and a resident of Bondel Gate, said he had left his home with his mother’s car and had planned for a quick drive around the city and return home. “He said he didn’t know about the traffic restrictions on Red Road and had missed the prohibition signs. We have booked the youth for rash and negligent driving. But thankfully, no one was injured in the accident,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police. The rehearsals on Red Road was scheduled to start from 7am but cops start positioning more than one-and-a-half hours before the start. Cops has placed guard rails along the median divider and the start of Red Road to ensure smooth a rehearsal for the Kolkata Police officers of various departments participating in the parade. Witnesses said the car came at a high speed from Casuarina Avenue, brushed past police van bus stationed parallel to road, slipped through a gap between two parked vehicles before crashing into the guard rails. “A group of policemen had just come out of the bus, stood outside for sometime before they had moved to another part of the road. Had the accident happened five minutes before, it could have been catastrophic,” said an officer who was stationed at the spot. According to police, the youth looked shocked when he was brought out of the car. He was shortly arrested and his car was seized. Sanyal was booked under bailable IPC sections 279 (rash driving) and 427 (damage caused by mischief). Police didn’t oppose his bail plea when he was produced before a city court and he was released later in the evening. Cops added the youth had got his driving licence around eight months back. However, after the accident, vigil was tightened along the road as the rehearsals — delayed by 15 minutes at 7.15am — began under cops posted around the guard rails and the vehicle restriction points away from the rehearsal site, manually diverting vehicles to other routes. Owing to the pandemic, the scale of the Independence Day parade ceremony has been curtailed to a 25-minute affair this year with a flag-hoisting ceremony in presence of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and other senior officials of the state, handful of police contingents taking part in the parade maintaining social distancing protocols and a small cultural function followed by felicitation of Covid warriors. The programme will start at 9.50am and will be over by 10.15am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/car-rams-guard-rails-close-shave-for-cops-in-red-road-2016-rerun/articleshow/77492103.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana Covid-19 casualty count past 500||CHANDIGARH: With 798 fresh infections in Haryana in a single day, the state’s Covid-19 tally rose to 43,227 on Tuesday. The day also witnessed 11 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll in state to 500. Meanwhile, 590 recoveries on the day pushed the overall count of cured patients to 36,082. Intensified testing has also pushed testing rate to 30,445 tests per million daily, and the recovery rate has come to 83.47%. The state now has 6,655 active patients, of whom 135 are critical, with 113 on oxygen support and 22 on ventilator support. Of the 11 casualties, four were Panipat, two in Faridabad, one each in Ambala, Gurugram, Sonipat, Kurukshetra and Panchkula. Faridabad continued to lead other districts of the state with highest number of new cases (121), followed by Panipat (107), Rewari (73), Ambala (69), Gurugram (69), Sonipat (56), Palwal (47), Rohtak (42), Kurukshetra (40), Karnal (38), Panchkula (26), Yamunanagar (26), Kaithal (21), Jind (16), Charkhi Dadri (14), Hisar (12), Jhajjar (11), Bhiwani (5) and Nuh (5). So far, 85,449 patients have completed their institutional and home quarantine while 61,570 are still under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hry-casualty-count-past-500/articleshow/77498323.cms||Manvir Saini
August 12, 2020||Faridabad||Haryana Covid-19 casualty count past 500||CHANDIGARH: With 798 fresh infections in Haryana in a single day, the state’s Covid-19 tally rose to 43,227 on Tuesday. The day also witnessed 11 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll in state to 500. Meanwhile, 590 recoveries on the day pushed the overall count of cured patients to 36,082. Intensified testing has also pushed testing rate to 30,445 tests per million daily, and the recovery rate has come to 83.47%. The state now has 6,655 active patients, of whom 135 are critical, with 113 on oxygen support and 22 on ventilator support. Of the 11 casualties, four were Panipat, two in Faridabad, one each in Ambala, Gurugram, Sonipat, Kurukshetra and Panchkula. Faridabad continued to lead other districts of the state with highest number of new cases (121), followed by Panipat (107), Rewari (73), Ambala (69), Gurugram (69), Sonipat (56), Palwal (47), Rohtak (42), Kurukshetra (40), Karnal (38), Panchkula (26), Yamunanagar (26), Kaithal (21), Jind (16), Charkhi Dadri (14), Hisar (12), Jhajjar (11), Bhiwani (5) and Nuh (5). So far, 85,449 patients have completed their institutional and home quarantine while 61,570 are still under surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/hry-casualty-count-past-500/articleshow/77498325.cms||Manvir Saini
August 12, 2020||India||No evidence against MLAs to pursue case, says Rajasthan ACB||The Rajasthan anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Tuesday said they are unlikely to pursue any case against three Independent legislators against whom a preliminary inquiry had been initiated in the MLA horse-trading case as they do not have enough "evidence". According to sources, investigation was initiated against Om Prakash Hudla, Suresh Tak and Khushveer Singh. The ACB had launched a preliminary inquiry around a month ago against these MLAs for alleged involvement in offering money to few of their counterparts for toppling the Ashok Gehlot government. "We do not have any evidence about their involvement, but in case some proof is revealed, we will deal with it accordingly," said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-evidence-against-mlas-to-pursue-case-says-rajasthan-acb/articleshow/77495339.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Bengaluru||KAS aspirants must get Covid-19 test before exam||Belagavi: The Karnataka Public Service Commission has asked blind candidates to commute long distances for medical tests ahead of preliminary exams on August 24. An August 7 circular (TOI has a copy) says blind aspirants for the post of gazetted probationers must undergo medical tests at Bengaluru, Mysuru, Kalaburagi and Belagavi divisional centres. The KPSC website has posted dates and venues.The order also asks candidates to carry Covid-19 test report and to get a Rapid Antigen Test done a day before the visit. They have to pay for tests as well as travel and accommodation. One such candidate from Ballari says he has to travel 316kms to Belagavi for the medical test to ascertain disability. “How can I travel alone? I’ve tested positive for Covid. Am I allowed to travel by public transport?” he asked, and urged the commission to postpone the exam. Another candidate from Ron in Gadag said, “I was designated a private hospital in Belagavi and will spend Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 for a Covid test. I’ll end up spending around Rs 15,000 just to appear for the exam.” KPSC secretary G Sathyavathi said medical tests were earlier conducted only in Bengaluru but this year, more centres were added. The exam cannot be put off as it has been postponed twice already. “Hospitals, not KPSC, are asking for the Covid test report,” he said. Some government employees taking the exam filed a Public Interest Litigation on Tuesday in Karnataka Administrative Tribunal demanding postponement of the exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kas-aspirants-must-get-covid-19-test-before-exam/articleshow/77492191.cms||Shreyas HS
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||HC raps govt for refusing to act on contempt pleas||Jaipur: The chief secretary has called a meeting of various departments on August 13 after the high court pulled up the government over large number contempt petitions related to government departments not complying with court orders. The court has sought a reply from the chief secretary by August 24. According to court data, about 4,320 contempt petitions are pending with most of them from education, JDA, medical and health and panchayat raj departments. The high court on Friday expressed concern over the increasing number of contempt petitions as the state government was not serious about complying with its orders. The single bench of Justice S P Sharma expressed concern while hearing a contempt plea on minimum wages to cooks with the police department saying that the petition has been pending since 2008 and has not been complied with. This is not only a waste of time for courts but also denial of justice to the petitioners who approach the court as the last resort. The court said, according to the registry there were a total of 4,022 contempt petitions pending as the departments concerned failed to implement its orders. It is the duty of the government to comply with the court orders. The court then directed the chief secretary to look into the matter before the court adopts some unpleasant steps to curb the trend while seeking a report from him on September 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-raps-govt-for-refusing-to-act-on-contempt-pleas/articleshow/77493605.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Delhi||No final call yet, but Delhi banks on plasma therapy to defeat coronavirus||NEW DELHI: The plasma banks opened in Delhi to help critical Covid-19 patients are being accessed in a large number of cases even as the number of donors steadily goes up. The jury is still out on the benefits of the therapy with questions being raised about its efficacy in reducing mortality, but it is being used in the management of the disease that has a limited treatment protocol. Delhi’s first plasma bank, which was opened on July 2, was also the first plasma bank of the country. In nearly 40 days, the bank at Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) has provided plasma for 710 Covid patients and 921 recovered patients have donated plasma at the bank. It is provided free of cost to patients. According to a Delhi government report, 388 units of convalescent plasma have been issued to patients below 60 years of age and 322 units to patients above 60 years of age. The youngest patient to receive plasma is 18 and the oldest 94. The capital’s second plasma bank is functioning at state govt-run Lok Nayak Hospital. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has stated that plasma therapy is a crucial element of the Delhi model to fight the novel coronavirus and is now being adopted by other states too. The plasma banks established by the Delhi government at ILBS and Lok Nayak Hospital are providing free convalescent plasma to all hospitals, including the ones run by the Centre, state and civic bodies besides the private ones, added Kejriwal. In a statement, the chief minister said that experts across the world have claimed that plasma therapy can help in the recovery of critically ill Covid patients. He added that plasma therapy has played an important role in the declining death rate of Covid-19 patients, and till the world gets a vaccine, it should be considered an effective treatment for Covid-19. Kejriwal said convalescent plasma has been provided to patients of all blood groups, including the rare blood group type AB for which 90 units of AB plasma have been issued. “Apart from this, 171 units of A blood group plasma, 180 units of O blood group plasma, and 269 units of B blood group plasma have also been issued,” the government said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-final-call-yet-but-capital-banks-on-plasma-therapy-to-defeat-virus/articleshow/77494499.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb gets record 32 deaths, total rises to 636||Chandigarh: Covid-19 fatalities witnessed yet another alarming jump in Punjab on Tuesday as a 32 people succumbed to the virus, highest number of deaths in a single day so far, taking the toll to 636. The virus claimed the lives of 11 people in Ludhiana. Four people died in Sangrur, three each in Jalandhar, Mohali, Amritsar and Patiala, and one each in Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Muktsar and Tarn Taran. The high mortality rate has raised questions over the care of critical patients. When this report was filed, 21 patients were in a critical condition and on ventilator, and 139 on oxygen support. A total of 1,002 positive cases were reported from all 22 districts of the state, taking the overall tally of cases to 25,889. Two cases belonging to other states were removed from Punjab’s tally. Of the total new cases, 766 cases, or 76.44%, were from six districts. Ludhiana continued to report the highest number of cases for 15 days in running. The district alone got 252 new cases, of which 75 were contacts of positive cases and 48 patients were found to be co-infected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Ludhiana was followed by Patiala and Amritsar, where 118 people each tested positive. Also, 83 people were found to be infected with the virus in Mohali, 77 in Hoshiarpur, 64 in Pathankot, 54 in Jalandhar, 38 in Bathinda, 36 in Kapurthala, 34 in Mansa, 20 in Ferozepur, 16 each in Moga and Nawanshahr, 15 in Sangrur, and 13 in Gurdaspur. In Fatehgarh Sahib and Barnala, nine people each were tested positive, while test reports of five people came positive in Muktsar, four in Ropar, and three each in Fazilka and Tarn Taran. As many as 1,055 people — Ludhiana (516), Jalandhar (262), Amritsar (49), Sangrur (60), Mohali (36), Gurdaspur (18), Ferozepur (22), Pathankot (5), Fatehgarh Sahib (17), Moga (10), Nawanshahr (28), Fazilka (26), Muktsar (1) and Barnala (5) — were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged 16,790.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-gets-record-32-deaths-total-rises-to-636/articleshow/77493606.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Bhopal||107 fresh Covid-19 cases in Bhopal||BHOPAL: As many as 107 new Covid-19 cases were diagnosed in the state capital on Tuesday. Since the pandemic began, more than 7,900 people in the city have been diagnosed with the infection. So far, Covid-19 has claimed 226 lives in Bhopal alone. The latest Covid-19 cases include 17 jawans, of whom 11 are policemen. The 11 positives have been reported from Gaurav Hotel (near Railway station platform no-6). The cause of the infection is being attributed to the hotel itself, said sources. The district administration has declared the hotel a containment zone. Four Rapid Action Force (RAF) jawans have also tested positive along with two jawans from CRPF Bairagarh. The campus of Hamidia Arts and Commerce college and Bhoj University were sealed after two staffers were diagnosed with the infection. It is suspected that the staff in clerical position came in contact with various faculty members. Admission process is underway in the two campuses. A hosteller in MANIT was also diagnosed with the infection. Office of the managing director, Madhya Pradesh Madhya Kshetra Vidyut Vitaran Company Limited, located in Bijli Nagar Colony, was sanitised after an employee tested positive for the infection. Four doctors, one each from Gandhi Medical College (GMC), AIIMS Bhopal, TB Hospital and Maxx hospital tested positive for Covid-19. Four members of the same family tested positive in Ridge Colony (Idgah Hills) while five new positive cases were reported from Ibrahimpura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/107-fresh-covid-cases-in-city/articleshow/77493607.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: Revenue minister Suresh Khanna camps in Kashi, Mirzapur, chief secretary in Kanpur||LUCKNOW: With a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in the state, senior officials and ministers have been dispatched to various districts to review the situation on ground. While revenue minister Suresh Khanna visited Varanasi and Mirzapur on Tuesday, chief secretary R K Tiwari was sent to Kanpur. Additional chief secretaries for medical education, health and home inspected major Covid hospitals in Lucknow on Tuesday and reported that a 319 bed hospital under KGMU would be ready by the end of this month. ACS (home) Awanish Awasthi said CM Yogi Adityanath had asked Khanna for spot inspection of health services in Varanasi and Mirzapur divisions. “Many senior officials and ministers are out on inspection in various districts. We also inspected KGMU, SGPGI and RML hospitals in Lucknow on Tuesday morning. The CM has given instructions to increase the number of L-2 and L-3 beds in all districts, especially in sensitive ones,” he said. The districts where the CM has asked for special precautions are Lucknow, which reported 831 cases on Tuesday, followed by Kanpur Nagar (248), Bareilly (198), Prayagraj (252), Gorakhpur (201) and Varanasi (169). The CM has said that special attention must be given to protect doctors and police personnel from contracting the infection. With UP recording more than 5,000 cases in a single day, the highest so far, Yogi has stressed on the importance of awareness programmes. Awasthi said in rural areas, awareness through word of mouth would play a crucial role in ensuring that people wore masks and maintained social distancing. “Various modes of publicity like television, newspapers, banners and posters should be used to underline the importance of sanitation drives and Covid protocols,” Awasthi said. Sanjeevani, the online OPD service of the central government, should be well publicised so that maximum people can benefit from the facility, the CM said. The CM has stressed on improving surveillance in the state, with a focus on contact tracing and door-to-door surveys. On Tuesday, he said that the Integrated Command and Control Centre should maintain regular communication with the home isolated patients to get feedback about their condition. Meanwhile, Rs 361.93 crore has been distributed under various heads from the Rs 429.50 crore Covid care fund. Awasthi said Rs 198.84 crore of the total amount has come from public contributions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/khanna-camps-in-kashi-mirzapur-cs-in-kanpur/articleshow/77494502.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 12, 2020||Vadodara||Bizman held in GST fraud worth Rs 2cr||Vadodara: Proprietor of a city-based firm was booked and arrested by the central goods and services tax (CGST) officials for fraudulently availing of input tax credit without receiving any goods. Manoj Agrawal, authorized signatory of Maa Renuka Trading was arrested on Monday and later released on bail.GST officials said that the accused created fake suppliers at Ahmedabad and Gandhidham and availed input tax credit worth Rs 2.23 crores. GST investigations had revealed that these supplier firms existed only on paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bizman-held-in-gst-fraud-worth-rs-2cr/articleshow/77491084.cms||---
August 12, 2020||India||Rajasthan BJP promises an 'action-packed' assembly session||Following a truce between Congress and Sachin Pilot, BJP in Rajasthan has changed its strategy from fortifying their MLAs in a five-star hotel to focussing on an 'action-packed' assembly session, reports Shoeb Khan. Senior party leaders are planning a multi-pronged attack on the governing Congress over Covid-19 mismanagement, disrespecting Maharana Pratap in textbooks, relief in power and water bills, locust attack and unemployment allowance during the assembly session starting from August 14. BJP state president Satish Poonia on Tuesday said they will seek an explanation from the government on holding the state to ransom for 30 days by staging a political crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-bjp-promises-an-action-packed-assembly-session/articleshow/77495342.cms||Shoeb Khan
August 12, 2020||Jodhpur||HC allows home-cooked food for Asaram in Jodhpur jail||JODHPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday allowed Asaram, serving life term in Jodhpur Central Jail for sexual assault on a minor girl, to have home-cooked food in jail. The jail authorities will first check the food thoroughly before permitting Asaram to eat. His counsel J S Choudhary had moved an application in the court praying that he be allowed special food, fit for his consumption, from outside the jail citing old age and medical condition of Asaram. Choudhary argued that the food provided in the jail was not edible and likely to affect his health adversely. “We argued that during the trial of the case, he was allowed to have food from private sources and urged that the same liberty be provided to him in view of the safety and security measures as per the Rajasthan Prison Rules 1951,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/hc-allows-home-cooked-food-for-asaram-in-jodhpur-jail/articleshow/77502808.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Salem||Water discharge from Mettur dam increased to 10,000 cusecs||Salem: The public works department on Tuesday increased water discharged from the Mettur dam to 10,000 cusecs from 1,000 cusecs after the water storage level in the dam crossed 95ft. “The water level in the dam has increased by nearly 30ft in the past six days,” said a PWD official. The water level is likely to cross 100ft on Wednesday, the official said. According to PWD officials, the water level in the dam stood at 101.7ft when cheif minister Edappadi K Palaniswami released water on June 12 for irrigation purpose in delta districts. On August 6, the water level was recorded at 64.2ft. After heavy downpour in catchment areas of Kabini and Krishnaraja Sagar dams, the Karnataka government released water from the dams into Cauvery. The Mettur dam was receiving 5,000 cusecs of water on August 6. Subsequently, it was increased to 1.5 lakh cusecs in the next few days. “The water level was measured 95.44ft at 8am on Tuesday. The water level will cross 100ft as the inflow is maintained nearly at 80,000 cusecs,” the official said. Meanwhile, the PWD has started checking the shutters to release water through the dam’s left bank canal when the water level crosses 100ft. “We have greased and oiled the shutter ratchet wheels and will release water after the benchmark is reached,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/water-discharge-from-mettur-dam-increased-to-10000-cusecs/articleshow/77493639.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Erode||Man held for sending obscene pics to girl on Facebook||Erode: A 22-year-old man was arrested here on Tuesday for sending obscene pictures to a 16-year-old girl on Facebook. Police identified the accused as P Karthik, a farmer, from Kermalam near Sathyamangalam. The accused befriended the girl on Facebook. “Suddenly, he started sending obscene pictures to her. Taken aback, she informed her parents,” a police officer attached to the Erode all-woman police station said. After receiving a complaint from the girl’s parents, the police questioned the accused. “He confessed to his crime. Based on his statements, a case under the Pocso (protection of children from sexual offences) Act was lodged,” the officer said. He was later lodged at the prison in Gobichettipalayam. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/man-held-for-sending-obscene-pics-to-girl-on-facebook/articleshow/77493610.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||HC allows home-cooked food for Asaram in Jodhpur jail||JODHPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday allowed Asaram, serving life term in Jodhpur Central Jail for sexual assault on a minor girl, to have home-cooked food in jail. The jail authorities will first check the food thoroughly before permitting Asaram to eat. His counsel J S Choudhary had moved an application in the court praying that he be allowed special food, fit for his consumption, from outside the jail citing old age and medical condition of Asaram. Choudhary argued that the food provided in the jail was not edible and likely to affect his health adversely. “We argued that during the trial of the case, he was allowed to have food from private sources and urged that the same liberty be provided to him in view of the safety and security measures as per the Rajasthan Prison Rules 1951,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-allows-home-cooked-food-for-asaram-in-jodhpur-jail/articleshow/77493680.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Nagpur||78 age-old trees near Gandhi Ashram axed for road widening||Nagpur: While the cash-strapped state government has no funds to plant trees under the Vasantrao Naik Harit Maharashtra Abhiyan, it is felling hundreds of trees for road widening — even Mahatma Gandhi’s land Sevagram has not been spared. Protests marred felling of 78 over 80-year-old trees were planted on Wardha-Sevagram road during Gandhi’s stay in ‘Bapu Kuti’ in the 1930s & 40s. The public works department (PWD) felled the trees on Saturday for widening the road from existing 10 to 14 metres. Murlidhar Belkhode, a Gandhian and president of Nisarga Seva Samiti, Wardha, said, “In the 8km stretch from Circuit House to Sevagram ashram, 78 trees were felled. These trees were planted on the appeal by Mahatma Gandhi and could have been saved by proper road planning.” “Over 200 more trees are to be felled but we want maximum trees be saved by widening the road from one side so that trees on other side could be saved. PWD officials say the road is under the development plan and felling permission has been granted by tree officer,” Belkhode said. The road doesn’t have heavy traffic but is being expanded under hybrid annuity mode (HAM) from Wardha-Sevagram-Samudrapur-Girad-Umred (state highway-326) length of which is 93km. The project cost is over Rs206 crore but it doesn’t include any wildlife mitigation measures between Samudrapur-Girad, which is a tiger corridor between Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) and Umred-Karhandla wildlife sanctuary. PWD executive engineer Gajanan Takey did not respond to repeated TOI calls. As per the Indian State of Forest Report (ISFR-2019) by Forest Survey of India (FSI), Wardha is among the 20 districts having green cover below 16.5% (as per geographical area). Hence, green cover in Wardha needs to be improved but hundreds of trees are being felled without planting them first. Wardha district honorary wildlife warden Sanjay Ingle Teegaonkar says trees are being felled at a rapid pace despite Supreme Court taking a strong stand against it. “Green cover must be preserved and alternatives should be explored to develop infrastructure without cutting trees, the apex court has said and underlined ‘rapid deterioration’ of natural resources. However, the enthusiasm road agencies show in felling trees is not seen while planting the same,” Teegaonkar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/78-age-old-trees-near-gandhi-ashram-axed-for-road-widening/articleshow/77493597.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 12, 2020||Delhi||Coronavirus infects festive spirit in Delhi: Durga to come and leave ‘silently’||NEW DELHI: Durga Puja is still a couple of months away, but Covid-19 is looming large over the five-day festivities marked by pandal hopping, cultural events, feasting and fasting. In Delhi this October, the puja will be a one-day affair in most areas and marked also by only handful of residents joining the priest. The coronavirus pandemic has ruled out big gatherings and the financial strain caused by the lockdown has reduced the possibility of sponsors contributing to the tens of lakhs of rupees usually needed for the occasion. In the capital’s mini Bengal at Chittaranjan Park — which with the neighbouring Greater Kailash, Alaknanda and Kalkaji hosts at least a dozen popular Durga Puja pandals that attract lakhs of visitors — there will be a small group performing a one-day ghat or kalash (sacred vase) puja instead of the customary pratima (idol) puja. This means no grand theme-based pandal will be erected or prasad and bhog distributed, and no food stalls either. PK Paul, secretary of Dakshin Palli Durga Puja Samiti in CR Park’s Pocket 52, disclosed plans to perform a ghat puja with not more than five present for the ritual, including the priest and the assistant, even if 50 people are allowed. Paul is also secretary of East Bengal Displaced Persons Association (EBDP), the apex body of RWAs in CR Park, which manages overall arrangements in the area though local samitis organise the pujas. At B Block, Tamal Rakshit of the local samiti similarly revealed, “We will have a one-day puja in the presence of the priest and his helper without anjali or bhog.” Rakshit reasoned that people are mentally ready to sacrifice grandeur in a year like this which comes once in a century. “Also,” he added, “where will we get sponsors for a large-scale celebration? The market is doing poorly and we will get donors even if we decided on a regular puja.” With over a lakh people visiting its pandal every day and 30,000 served bhog over three days, the Mela Ground Durga Puja is arguably north India’s biggest in scale. Narayan Dey, secretary of the puja samiti, told TOI, “We are waiting for a government notification on Durga Puja celebrations. Without that, we are unable to take a decision. The organisation of the puja starts four months in advance, but this year we haven’t even approached potential sponsors or booked an idol maker.” Other big puja organisers too will opt for the simple ghat puja, among them the 110-year-old Delhi Durga Puja Samiti, more popular as Kashmere Gate Durga Puja. “We will perhaps go back to our simpler roots of 1911,” said Som Prakash, samiti president. “We have neither held our general body meeting nor approached sponsors yet.” The Kali Bari Mayur Vihar Samiti hasn’t firmed up plans beyond saying there will be basic rituals but no cultural events. “We will wait for government guidelines to see if distribution of bhog will be at all possible,” said Utpal Banerjee, puja panel secretary. Debashis Saha, chief coordinator of Safdarjung Enclave’s Matri Mandir Durga Puja, declared that “we need to take care of life as well”, but said if government directives allowed even a gathering of 50, the committee has the resources to hold full-fledged celebrations. “We will raise funds even if we get 40 days’ time,” Saha said, “and we have already booked four artists, subject to the situation then. We will have a small idol and not allow more than 25 people to gather at a time.” He pointed out that the livelihoods were dependent on the celebrations, including of idol makers, pandal creators, cooks and drum beaters. Watch Coronavirus infects festive spirit in Delhi: Durga Puja to be celebrated quietly||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/coronavirus-infects-festive-spirit-durga-to-come-and-leave-silently/articleshow/77494505.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Ray actor beats Covid, wants to return to sets||Kolkata: Eight days of stay at the Beliaghata ID Hospital hasn’t been able to dampen his spirit. Pradip Mukherjee — the protagonist of Satyajit Ray’s ‘Jana Aranya’ — returned home having beaten Covid-19 in the first week of August. On his birthday on Tuesday, the 73-year-old actor said he was eager to shoot a good film again. Despite being a COPD patient, Mukherjee didn’t have any major issues when he was infected. His wife, too, was hospitalized. What was challenging was that both his children were away in UAE. “At the hospital, I stayed in the general ward along with other patients. That kept me from slipping into depression,” he said, adding that he was grateful to minister Sujit Bose and the state government for supporting him during the trying period. “I can vouch for the high standard of the treatment provided at the ID Hospital,” he said. Pradip Mukherjee in 'Jana Aranya'Memories of his tryst with Ray have often flooded him during his recovery. “During 1972, I would often visit Manik-da (Satyajit Ray) at his residence. I believe, he had taken a liking to me. When he wanted to do ‘Jana Aranya’ in 1974, he started looking for me. But by then, I had got busy with my job at an Indo-Japan collaboration and was no longer a regular at his place,” he said.  Mukherjee clearly remembers the evening of December 22, 1974, when he had dropped by at the Ray residence. “Manik-da was delighted to see me and since there were people at home, he asked me to meet for half an hour the following day for an interview. I reached his place on time and we spoke on a wide range of topics. I don’t know how time flew and the meeting went on to last for over two hours,” Mukherjee recalled.  ‘Jana Aranya’ was critically acclaimed and till today remains extremely “pertinent”. Adapted from a novel penned by Shankar, the film traces the journey of a young Calcutta University graduate named Somnath who struggles to find a job till he meets a well-wisher (Utpal Dutt) who introduces him to the world of middlemen where he has to turn a blind eye to ethics for cracking deals. The climax, where Somnath ends up offering his best friend's sister to a client for a business favor, points at what a compromised world we live in. “The film is as relevant today as it was in the 70s. Nothing of it has got lost,” he said. Apart from the film winning the Best Direction award in New Delhi and the government of West Bengal’s awards for Best Film, Direction and Screenplay, it also won the Karlovy Vary Prize. It had fetched Mukherjee the Filmfare Awards East for Best Actor in 1976.  But the wait for the next Ray movie was long. The next call came in 1990 for ‘Shakha Proshakha’. “Though I met Manik-da in between, I could never being myself to ask for a role. It might have been different had I managed to ask him to cast me. But I have always been a shy person,” he hazards a guess. Pradip Mukherjee and Mamata Shankar in 'Dooratwa' In between, he had worked in Buddhadeb Dasgupta’s ‘Dooratwa’ where he played Mandar - a Left liberal political science college reader hailing from a Bengali-Hindu middleclass background. He marries a girl named Anjali (Mamata Shankar) since he has been in love with her. Later, Mandar’s world falls apart when Mamata discloses that she is pregnant with a child from a pre-marital relationship. Thus, starts the conflict between liberalism and conservativeness and the concept of love and possessiveness. The film begins with Anjali having already left him and how the distance between the estranged couple leaves room for introspection. ‘Dooratwa’ won the National Award for the Best Feature Film In Bengali and the jury award at the Locarno International Film Festival and was programmed at the Berlin international Film Festival.  Mukherjee also worked with Dasgupta again in ‘Mando Meyer Upakhan’. Other films, including Rituparno Ghosh’s ‘Hirer Angti’, ‘Dahan’ and ‘Utsav’, Sandip Ray’s ‘Baksho Rahasya’, ‘Gorosthaney Sabdhan’ and ‘Badshahi Angti’, Aparna Sen’s ‘Goinar Baksho’ and Indrasis Acharya’s ‘Bilu Rakkhosh’, ‘Pupa’ and ‘The Parcel’, also have him in the cast. Though the list is quite exhaustive, protagonist roles were hard to come by. “I was stamped as an actor of good roles and that worked against me. This is actually a norm in Tollywood. Whenever Soumitra-babu went through a rough patch, a Ray film fortunately came him way and he bounced back. Uttam Kumar died in 1980. From 1980 to 1984, I had a hard struggle period. Back then, artistes never had money. They had to either do theatre or cinema. Theatre would hardly pay anything.”  Thankfully, his legal degree came handy during his hard days. On the behest of his wife, he went back to his legal profession and started working full-time as an income tax consultant, balancing his profession with his passion. Did he also interact with actor Santosh Dutta, better remembered as Jatayu from Ray’s Feluda films? After all, both of them were from the legal profession with passion for acting. “He was a criminal lawyer. It was such a pleasure interacting with him. I remember going over to his place to meet him too,” he said. Pradip Mukherjee and Sudiptaa Chakraborty in 'Pupa' Those days of filming is gone but revisiting his old movies still make him happy. A few days back, he watched ‘Dour’ on YouTube. “On a recent viewing of ‘Dooratwa’, I was wondering what if I had done a certain scene a little differently. I like to believe that I have acted smartly in the roles offered to me,” the septuagenarian said with a smile.  Contemporary directors, including Atanu Ghosh, describe Mukherjee as an amiable senior who has always made it a point to call them up to appreciate their movies even when he has never worked in their films. “Why won’t I do so if I like a work?” Mukherjee asked.  Now that he has recovered, Mukherjee is waiting to return to the sets. Once an actor, always an actor is a maxim he lives by. “An actor’s instinct doesn’t die till he is on the pyre,” he said on a lighter vein. “All my life, I have been dedicated to cinema. My first concern has been to do my job well. The thought of earning a living from movies came later. Contemporary directors like Indrasis are also working with me. Anik Dutta has been in touch too. I am certain that good roles will come my way again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ray-actor-beats-covid-wants-to-return-to-sets/articleshow/77493640.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 12, 2020||Kolkata||Cancer survivor gets plasma after online plea||Kolkata: Two Covid survivors from Kolkata Police have donated plasma after an appeal on social media by a Covid-infected 26-year-old to save his 58-year-old father, who, too, is a Covid patient and a cancer survivor. Seven Kolkatans from different walks of life, too, pledged to donate their plasma for the cause.On Monday, constable Bhasker Bera and police driver Pappu Kumar Singh donated their plasma. A resident of Jadavpur, the 58-year-old — a senior executive at a leading orthopaedic equipment firms — is now under ventilation at a multi-speciality hospital off EM Bypass. According to the 26-year-old — a media and public relations executive — his father was admitted to the hospital on July 7. “My father is a cancer survivor and his last chemotherapy cycle ended in February. But he was weak. When the virus hit my family, my father was infected along with my 54-year-old mother and me. Only my twin brother tested negative,” he told TOI. When doctors told the family that they would need to arrange for plasma, the family was at a loss.“I decided to appeal on Facebook for blood group B+ donors. Thankfully, it went viral and several people shared it across social media platforms,” he said.A twitter user by the name ‘Blood Donors India’ tweeted for help. Commissioner of police Anuj Sharma noticed the tweet and immediately asked his men to see if help could be arranged. The appeal was shared with the control room that found the donors. “By the next evening, two cops were ready to help. Their plasma was used on my father. Doctors said his oxygen parameters had stabilized. But he is still on ventilation,” the 26-year-old said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cancer-survivor-gets-plasma-after-online-plea/articleshow/77493657.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 12, 2020||Bareilly||Three cops suspended for beating up dhaba staff in Budaun||Bareilly: Three constables were suspended on Monday for allegedly beating up employees of a roadside dhaba in Budaun while they were drunk.According to police, three constables -- Jitendra I, Jitrendra II and Sunil -- went to a dhaba in Sabdalpur village under Mujariya police station on Sunday night. When they were eating, they had an argument with dhabha employees over a petty issue. The angry constables allegedly beat up the dhaba’s staff. However, the latter called up the police station and informed senior policemen about the incident. Station house officer of Mujariya police station submitted a report to SSP Ashok Kumar Tripathi about the matter.SSP Tripathi said, “Prima facie, it appears that these three constables were in an inebriated condition and beat up the dhaba staff. They have been suspended considering the report of the SHO.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-cops-suspended-for-beating-up-dhaba-staff-in-budaun/articleshow/77487441.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 12, 2020||Goa||‘Act against power dept for risking lives of staff, public’||Margao: Goacan, a consumer network organisation, has written to the deputy director of transport (South), Ivo Rodrigues and Deputy SP, Traffic (South) Prabodh Shirvoikar, demanding action against the electricity department for using its truck in violation of the Motor Vehicle Act and Rules and endangering the lives of its employees and the general public. Goacan coordinator Roland Martins said that despite the accident that claimed three lives, the electricity department continued to openly carry in their truck their employees and poles which were protruding from the vehicle. “It may be noted that the Government of India, on March 5, 2014, issued a notification striking down the proviso in Rule 93(8) of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989 thereby putting a ban on vehicles carrying protruding rods or protruding load. The need to enforce the implementation of this notification was discussed at earlier meetings of the District Road Safety Council and the District Consumer Protection Council,” Martins said in the letter to the authorities. He further said that the fatalities that have occurred in the recent fatal road accident at Borim circle on August 6 will be reflected in the quarterly report to the Supreme Court Road Safety Committee along with the action taken by way of the enforcement drives of the directorate of transport and traffic police. “Goacan is convinced that action by the directorate of transport and traffic police against the electricity department will send a strong message that violation of the Motor Vehicle Act and Rules will not be tolerated even if the violator is a department of the government of Goa,” the letter adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/act-against-power-dept-for-risking-lives-of-staff-public/articleshow/77494541.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Gurgaon||Haryana: MDU online classes don’t click with rural students in Rohtak||ROHTAK: With Maharshi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak, commencing online classes, poor internet connectivity and non-availability of smart phones have become a hurdle for a large section of students, especially from the rural areas. Monika Rani, a student pursuing law in the university, said the lecturer’s voice often breaks due to slow internet speed of her phone. “To memorise everything taught online is difficult, so preparation of notes is a must. But the rhythm breaks whenever there is disruption in the internet,” she added.Samiksha from Sampla village of the district and a student of political science said attending classes in the university is a lot easier and better for learning as compared to online classes. “My brother and I have one phone and if he is out of the house for some work during the class hours, then there is no other way to attend classes,” she added. She said family members seek help in domestic chores and one cannot say no to everything. “They don’t take the online classes seriously. There should be some offline content for students like me who do not have a good studying atmosphere at home,” she said. Another student said they have to climb rooftops to get better internet speed to attend online classes. The students said if an offline option is given to students, then they can study the content as per their convenience. A senior professor in the university said not only students, faculty members also lack knowledge how to conduct online classes properly. “Even web camera installed on computers were not made available to faculty members,” he added. “Some of us are conducting online classes in whatever way possible,” he said.An MDU spokesperson said due to an unprecedented situation, online classes are stop-gap arrangements. “Certainly, there are issues, but students would be supplied online resources on their WhatsApp groups by the faculty members so that their problem can be addressed to some extents,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/mdu-online-classes-dont-click-with-rural-students/articleshow/77493656.cms||Sat Singh
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||Mandatory hospital posting for PG pass-outs to tackle Covid in UP||LUCKNOW: To flatten the spiralling Covid curve, the state government on Tuesday ordered compulsory hospital postings for MD, MS and PG diploma pass-outs from state medical colleges, which will immediately kickstart recruitments. Medical education department officials said, while degree holders would have to serve for a year, diploma holders will be appointed for two years. Failure to join duty will be a violation of the medical bond signed by medicos, who will cough up a penalty running into lakhs, said officials. Additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajeesh Dube said, “The state invoked Epidemic Act, 1897, on March 24. Covid-19 cases are on the rise and doctors are needed to provide quality treatment and save lives. In UP, 24 government and 28 private medical colleges are running dedicated Covid facilities. Accordingly, all MD, MS and PG diploma pass outs must serve in hospitals.” The order covers 1,200 post-graduate doctors who cleared their final exam in institutes, including King George’s Medical University, Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences and state medical colleges across UP. It also deals with 200 students who obtained their degrees from private medical colleges. Dube said, principals, directors or vice-chancellors may appoint fresh pass-outs directly for a year against vacant positions of resident doctors in clinical, para-clinical, pathology and microbiology departments. Where appointments are more than vacant positions, authorities will rely on merit. However, authorities may appropriately relieve doctors if they get selected in DM/MCH programmes. The order also said, if students passing out from institutes have no positions for senior residents, they may be sent on deputation to newly formed medical colleges in Ayodhya, Basti, Bahraich, Shahjahanpur and Firozabad or institutes like GIMS, Greater Noida, Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Education Institute, Noida, with consensus of parents and deputation centre. Directorate of Medical Education, UP, will serve as a bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mandatory-hosp-posting-for-pg-pass-outs-to-tackle-covid-in-up/articleshow/77494528.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 12, 2020||India||Sachin Pilot in Jaipur after a month; 3 more rebels meet CM||JAIPUR: Former Rajasthan deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot returned to Jaipur along with his loyalist MLAs on Tuesday evening after more than a month even as three independent MLAs from his camp met chief minister Ashok Gehlot at his residence earlier in the day and pledged their support to him. The MLAs met Gehlot a day after suspended Congress MLA Bhanwar Lal Sharma met the CM, becoming the first rebel to trace his footsteps back to Jaipur. The three MLAs - Khushveer Singh, Omprakash Hudla and Suresh Tank - said they had left Jaipur last month as they were disturbed when the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) booked them on "false charges" of trying to topple the Rajasthan government. The legislators were among the rebels who had been camping in a Manesar resort. After returning to his residence here from Delhi, Pilot told mediapersons that he did not ask for any post from the Congress high command but sought the assurance that there should be "no vendetta politics" against the legislators who raised their voices. Explaining the reasons behind his group's drifting away from the Congress camp, Pilot said, "The sedition notice was not a proper thing, so we all went to Delhi to put forth our point of view". "If something is lacking (in governance), how can highlighting or getting it amended be an anti-party or illegal or seditious act?" he said. Emphasising that resolving differences between leaders and party workers was the responsibility of the "mukhiya" (chief), Pilot said "a lot of things would change here in the coming days".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sachin-pilot-in-jaipur-after-a-month-3-more-rebels-meet-cm/articleshow/77495346.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Bareilly||Son beats father to death for snoring||Pilibhit: The 28-year-old elder son of a 65-year-old villager bludgeoned him to death in village Sondha under Seramau North police station on Monday night, ostensibly because his father’s snoring had disturbed his sleep. His younger son Manoj, who had gone to village Nazirganj with his mother to spend some days with his maternal uncle, rushed home on receiving the information and took his father, Ram Swaroop, to the Puranpur community health center at midnight, where doctors declared him brought dead. Police arrested the accused, Naveen, who had fled from the house after the incident and hidden inside sugarcane fields on the village outskirts. Based upon a written complaint filed by the younger son, he was booked under Section 302 (murder) of IPC, while the dead body was sent for autopsy, said SHO Pushkar Singh. Naveen was accustomed to abusing his father and manhandling him about his snoring habit, Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/son-beats-father-to-death-for-snoring/articleshow/77486416.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Hry mortality rate 2nd best in region||Jind: Haryana has the second lowest Covid-19 mortality rate when compared to neighbouring states and UT Chandigarh, according to the latest weekly report compiled by the health department based on data till Sunday afternoon. Himachal Pradesh, with a mortality rate of 0.4%, is on the top. It is also doing much better than its neighbours when it comes to recovery. Haryana’s recovery rate of 83.3 % is the best in the region after Delhi, whose recovery rate is 89.8%. Uttar Pradesh’s recovery rate is the worst — 59.2%. Data says Delhi has reported the highest number of cases, 1.44 lakh. It is followed by 1,18,038 in Uttar Pradesh, 51,328 in Rajasthan, 40,843 in Haryana, 22,928 in Punjab, and 3,264 in Himachal. Haryana’s mortality rate is 1.2%. It is 1.5% in Rajasthan, 1.7% in Chandigarh and UP, 2.5% in Punjab, and 2.8% in Delhi. Chandigarh’s recovery rate is 61.2% and that of Himachal is 63.8%, according to data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-mortality-rate-2nd-best-in-region/articleshow/77493661.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Delhi||South Delhi Municipal Corporation eases rules for conversion of properties||NEW DELHI: The South Delhi Municipal Corporation standing committee on Tuesday approved the proposal to simplify the process of conversion of leased commercial properties to freehold in 38 markets. So far, a person getting a shop allotted was required to get permission from authorities before transferring the ownership right of the leasehold property to another person. In case of non-compliance, a penalty of Rs 3,000 per year was imposed. The civic agency on Tuesday proposed to waive off this condition. “Now, the person won’t need to seek permission from the authority concerned before transferring the leasehold property,” said leader of House Narendra Chawla. Also, there is a proposal to change the condition, which requires the person who gets the shop allotted to pay 50% of the unearned increase to the civic agency during transfer of the leasehold property. The unearned income is the difference between the market value of the property at the time of granting of lease and the existing market value. “Suppose a leasehold shop was transferred to a person by the authority for an amount of Rs 5 lakh and after some time, the person transferred this lease property to a second person at Rs 10 lakh. To get the property freehold, the person is supposed to pay 50% of the difference of these two amounts (Rs 2.5 lakh) to SDMC. But we have suggested to change this norm in our recent proposal,” said an SDMC official. According to the new terms, the person will be required to pay conversion charges at the time of getting the property freehold, which will be 10% of value of circle rate of property multiplied by area of shop. In addition to this, he/she will need to pay 33% of this conversion amount as transfer fees to SDMC. The 38 markets, which were transferred by L&DO to SDMC, have 1,252 shops located at Lodhi Road Complex 1 and 2, MB Road, Pushp Vihar (Sector 1 to 4 markets), HUDCO place, Sadiq Nagar, Y-shaped building near ITO and Mohamadpur Shopping Complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/south-corpn-eases-rules-for-conversion-of-properties/articleshow/77493668.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Allow classes for medical courses, Karnataka government requests PM Narendra Modi||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow classes for pre-final and final-year medical and paramedical students so that they can be used for Covid-related activities. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan and medical education minister K Sudhakar made this request during a meeting about the pandemic in 10 states on Tuesday. “We asked for doubling of degree and post-graduate medical seats from 10,000 and 2,000 respectively, and bring in an amendment to laws or issue guidelines making one-year government service compulsory after course completion,” Sudhakar said. Citing the shortage in liquid oxygen, the government sought the Centre's cooperation in setting up manufacturing plants. Sudhakar said Modi was informed about measures taken by the state to control the pandemic, including increasing testing labs from two in March to 100 by August and increasing number of tests from 20,000 per day to 50,000. The ministers told the PM the state would have about 20,000 oxygenated beds by September Sudhakar said Karnataka will take all steps to implement Modi's suggestions to bring Covid spread under control. The PM has asked the state to identify primary and secondary contacts within 72 hours after an infection is reported. He also asked them to bring down the death rate below 1 per cent. The death rate in the country is 1.9 per cent. In Karnataka it is 1.8 per cent, and in Bengaluru it is 1.7 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/allow-classes-for-medical-courses-karnataka-requests-pm-modi/articleshow/77492206.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||BJP fields a Nishad for Rajya Sabha bypoll||Lucknow: Seeking to consolidate its base among Most Backward Castes (MBCs), BJP whipped out the backward caste card on Tuesday by announcing the candidature of Jai Prakash Nishad for the Rajya Sabha bypoll seat that fell vacant following SP leader Beni Prasad Verma’s death earlier this year. The move is seen BJP’s ploy to offset Opposition equations of gaining a foothold amongst Nishads since 2018 when SP and BSP joined ranks to field NISHAD party candidate, Pravin Nishad, who romped home on a SP symbol in the bypoll to Gorakhpur seat vacated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. NISHAD party led by Sanjay Nishad though left the SP and allied with BJP in the run-up to 2019 parliamentary poll. Election to the Rajya Sabha seat would be held on August 24. Given the strength of BJP in the UP assembly, Jai Prakash Nishad would sail through unopposed to the upper house of Parliament. His tenure would be till July 4, 2022. Hailing from Gorakhpur, Nishad is currently party’s vice-president of east UP region and member of the newly constituted Poorvanchal development board. Nishads or Mallahs form 20% of the electorate in the state and BJP wants to cement its hold in the community, whose occupation has traditionally centred around rivers and are divided into nearly 500 sub-castes, including dominant ones like Kashyap and Batham. There have been demands to reclassify these sub-castes from Other Backwards Classes (OBC) to Scheduled Tribes. In Uttar Pradesh, Nishads form 17 OBC communities which were proposed to be bracketed as Scheduled Caste during the previous Samajwadi Party government in UP. SP leader Beni Prasad Verma, who died earlier this year, was from a relatively powerful OBC sub-caste, Kurmi. Earlier with the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party, Jai Prakash Nishad was elected from Chauri Chaura seat on a BSP ticket in 2012 assembly elections, defeating SP’s Anup Pandey by 20,600 votes. He, however, lost the seat in 2017 assembly elections to BJP’s Sangeeta Yadav. Nishad later switched over to BJP in 2018 during a public meeting addressed by Yogi Adityanath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-fields-a-nishad-for-rajya-sabha-bypoll/articleshow/77494544.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Death rate higher than Haryana’s because of 'koi gal nai spirit', says Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Expressing concern over the rising number of Covid-19 cases, Punjab chief minister Capt. Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said Punjabis’ “koi gal nai” (carefree) spirit was causing delays in testing and treatment. “While this is a nice spirit, it could prove to be detrimental in certain instances, as amid the pandemic,” he said. He said Punjab’s mortality rate was higher than that of Haryana due to this attitude, which led people to delay going to the hospital till it became inevitable. He added he had conveyed this to the Prime Minister too. Asserting his commitment to making Punjab an industrial powerhouse, Amarinder said he wanted the state to lead in both industry and agriculture. He was addressing a virtual meeting with top industry leaders across the country as part of a day-long brainstorming conference, steered by Chandigarh University chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu. Inviting industry stalwarts to Punjab and gauge for themselves the conducive industrial climate created by his government, Amarinder cited the state’s business-friendly policies along with reputed educational institutions offering excellent placement opportunities with focus on skill development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/death-rate-higher-than-hrys-because-of-koi-gal-nai-spirit/articleshow/77493666.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Nashik||Farmers demand criminal action against those buying goods below MSP||Nashik: Farmers have demanded that the people purchasing agriculture produce below the minimum support price (MSP) be declared as a criminal act and police complaints be filed against such people.The demand is one of the nine made by All India Kisan Sabha Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) from the Prime Minister on the occasion of Kranti Din.A delegation led by Raju Desale met resident deputy district collector Bhagwat Doifode and presented him the demands.The farmers’ outfit denounced the central government package for agricultural development, saying that it would not help farmers in any way and instead force them to rely on corporates for selling their produce. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-demand-criminal-action-against-those-buying-goods-below-msp/articleshow/77469695.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Meharchand Market to make way for pedestrian plaza||NEW DELHI: The redevelopment plan of Meharchand Market, a key commercial hub near Lodhi Colony, was approved by South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Tuesday. The entire cost of redevelopment will be borne by the traders. The standing committee gave its nod to razing the market and redeveloping it as a modern pedestrianised three-storey shopping plaza to rival the upscale Khan Market, which is located just 1.5km away. Two years ago, the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee had ordered sealing of 135 of the 152 shops for violating building norms and constructing beyond the permitted FAR of 150. Officials said no permission would be required from the committee for razing the market. Raj Dutt Gehlot, standing committee chairman, said, “An FAR of 350 with 90% ground coverage will be permitted to traders. Originally, traderscould only make single-storey shops, but now they can create basement, ground, first and second floors according to SDMC’s standard layout plan.” A senior official from the town planning department said the market would be a pedestrian shopping street without parking facilities within the premises. “Apart from conversion charges, SDMC will get Rs 10 crore revenue with the new layout plan,” he added. Leader of the House Narendra Chawla said this would be the first pedestrianised market in south Delhi. “All walls and columns will have a beige colour finish till the bottom of signboards on the ground floor. There will be a maroon laminate cladding above it. All shop shutters will be painted silver, while the veranda and steps will be paved with ruby red granite stone,” he added. Ashok Sakhuja, who heads Meharchand Market Association, said that traders welcomed the move that had come after a struggle of over two decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/meharchand-mkt-to-make-way-for-pedestrian-plaza/articleshow/77493703.cms||Paras Singh
August 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Fight is against Covid-19 disease, not people, says Karnataka government||BENGALURU: More than 150 days after the first Covid-19 case was reported in Karnataka, the state government is actively destigmatising the pandemic. In its latest guidelines, the government says: “The term ‘home care’ has been used as a synonym for ‘home isolation’ to address associated stigma”. The government is trying to rope in survivors to spread awareness. Our fight, said medical education minister K Sudhakar, is against the disease, not the infected. “Fear and anxiety about the disease can lead people to be biased against their fellow citizens, places, or things. We have several examples of such outbursts,” he said. Om Monday, Sudhakar chaired a meeting on destigmatising the disease in which experts and survivors shared insights on how to tackle the issue. The move follows many suicides and tenants evicted by landlords, among other things. Shalini Rajneesh, additional chief secretary (planning), said all views would be taken seriously and the government is working with stakeholders to create awareness. Fear of stigmatisation has resulted in people refraining from reporting symptoms. Several government officials, including BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad, claimed it’s affecting the government’s ability to track and trace people. Dr CN Manjunath, member, Covid task force, said society is practicing untouchability and families are refraining from collecting bodies of kin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fight-is-against-covid-19-disease-not-people-says-government/articleshow/77492233.cms||Chethan Kumar
August 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab to release over 3,500 prisoners||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has decided to release over 3,500 more prisoners soon to decongest jails to 50% of authorised capacity in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases and to ensure compliance with health protocols in prisons. The state government released nearly 9,500 prisoners earlier on parole or bail. Punjab jails minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the decision was taken considering relaxations in lockdown restrictions increasing the number of new inmates. The decision was taken on recommendations of the high powered committee on the orders of the Supreme Court. The average admission in special jails of the state is around 3,000 per month due to which the present population of Punjab jails stands at around 17,500, which is around 73% of capacity. As many as 449 jail officials and 77 prison officials have tested Covid-19 positive till date. Randhawa said most of the Covid-19 cases in prisons had been detected in last few weeks, though two levels of testing of all prisoners started mid-May. The minister said that considering various challenges faced by the prison administration related to containment of Covid-19 and related issues, a third meeting of the high powered committee was held on July 31 for further decongestion of jails. Since 80% of the total population in prisons is of undertrials, the criteria for recommending the release of prisoners was of undertrials only, and mainly of those accused under the NDPS Act with recovery up to intermediate quantity and not having more than three cases. The committee also recommended release of prisoners on interim bail in some other sections of IPC including 379, 420, 406, 452, 323, 324, 188, 336, 316, 279, 170, 337, 338, 315 and 498-A. The committee reiterated that interim bail of all prisoners out of jail may be extended further till the notification of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, was in force. It was also recommended that cases of Covid-19 positive prisoners may be taken up on priority basis by judicial officers for interim bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-release-over-3-5k-prisoners/articleshow/77493673.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Sri Lanka to send blood samples of gangster’s parents||COIMBATORE: Officials of the Indian high commission in Colombo on Tuesday confirmed that the Sri Lankan government had initiated the process to send blood samples of gangster Maddumage Chandana Lasantha Perera alias Angoda Lokka’s parents to Tamil Nadu. A man found dead in Coimbatore on July 3 has been identified by local police as Lokka, a most wanted criminal in Sri Lanka. The DNA to be extracted from blood samples of his parents will help ascertain the identity of the deceased, by cross-matching that with the one collected from the body. Coimbatore police were alerted about the man’s death by a Sri Lankan newspaper article on July 23. “There are two ways to send the samples to India. The Sri Lankan government can hand it over to the Indian high commission in Colombo or they can send it to their deputy high commission office in Chennai in Tamil Nadu,” a senior official in the commission in Colombo told TOI. According to sources, blood samples were collected from Angoda Lokka’s father Maddumage Layanal Perera and his mother Chandrika Perera for the DNA test. “Samples taken from the parents could give a 99% accuracy in match. Lokka was arrested by the Sri Lankan police in 2014 and his fingerprints taken. The fingerprint samples will be sent along with the blood samples to India for further verification,” said a senior Lankan police officer. On Monday, Sri Lankan police spokesman Jaliya Senaratne told journalists in Colombo that diplomatic level intervention was on through the ministry of foreign affairs to confirm the death of Lokka in India. Lokka died of cardiac arrest in Coimbatore city on July 3 night and the postmortem examination was carried out at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital. Lokka’s body was cremated in Madurai by lawyer Sivakami Sundari and a female aide Amani Dhanji, 27, who hailed from Sri Lanka. Viscera from his liver, stomach, kidneys and small intestine was taken and sent to the Forensic Science laboratory in Chennai. “Once the DNA is retrieved from the viscera, the forensic science experts would compare it to the samples taken from Lokka’s parents,” said a Coimbatore crime-branch CID officer. Angoda Lokka, 35, who was residing in Coimbatore city as Pradeep Singh since 2018, is believed to have moved to Balaji Nagar in the city in February 2020. The gangster got a nose job done to conceal his identity. Coimbatore police arrested Amani Dhanji, lawyer Sivakami Sundarai and her friend Dhyaneswaran. Amani Dhanji had visited Madurai a few months ago and met lawyer Sivagami Sundari. Meanwhile, the CB-CID team wound up its first phase of inquiry and left Madurai on Monday night after DSP Muralidaran tested positive for Covid-19. Having worked closely with Muralidaran, the team members are to isolate themselves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lanka-to-send-blood-samples-of-gangsters-parents/articleshow/77493677.cms||A Subburaj
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||22 Lucknow jail inmates faint after drug reaction||LUCKNOW: At least 22 inmates of Lucknow district jail fainted on the prison’s premises after being given a wrong anti-allergic medicine by an in-house pharmacist AshishVerma on Tuesday. The prison department took cognizance of the incident and directed jail superintendent to issue a show cause notice. The anti-allergic was administered as part of a routine immunity boosting exercise in wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Spokesperson, DG prisons, Santosh told TOI that on Tuesday morning 22 inmates of cell number three turned unconscious.“Senior jail officials were informed and jail medical superintendent Dr NK Verma was directed to attend the patients,” he said. Later, a preliminary inquiry was conducted which revealed that doctors had prescribed an anti-allergic tablet for some inmates. However, the prison pharmacist gave them another tablet which caused dizziness among inmates. “The condition of all the 22 inmates was stable. A few of them had high blood pressure, but they turned normal by evening. Dr Verma was personally monitoring the condition of inmates,” said the PRO. A show cause notice was also issued to Ashish Verma by Lucknow Jail Superintendent- Ashish Tiwari on the directions of prison headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/22-jail-inmates-faint-after-drug-reaction/articleshow/77494551.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Bareilly||Tigress dead after neck gets entangled in nylon wire trap; poaching suspected||Bareilly: A six-year-old tigress died after her neck got entangled in a nylon wire trap allegedly laid by poachers in Jatpura beat of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve’s Mailani forest range in Lakhimpur Kheri district. “It was a clear case of poaching,” said officials, who claimed to have found a plastic wire around her neck. The carcass was sent to IVRI in Bareilly for autopsy. The carcass was spotted in the field of local farmer Rajaram in Hardua village on the edge of the forest on Tuesday morning. After receiving information, deputy director (buffer) Anil Patel, along with a dog squad, rushed to the spot. “There were injury marks on the tigress’ neck, caused by the rope. We combed the area thoroughly and even used a metal detector to find any other articles used in the poaching,” said Patel. Later, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF-wildlife) Sunil Pandey, PCCF (eco-tourism) Sanjay Srivastava and field director Sanjay Pathak also inspected the spot. Well-placed sources with the forest department told TOI that it appeared that the tigress got stuck in the trap that was laid for wild boars by villagers, as most of them hunt wild animals and many of them were even caught in the past. The department is now gathering information through informers. Patel told TOI, “The tigress got trapped elsewhere and she managed to rescue herself from the trap, but couldn’t get rid of the nylon rope entangled around her neck. The tigress must have roared, but villagers deliberately didn’t inform the forest department. We are trying to identify the spot where the tigress was trapped because the place where the carcass was found didn't seem to be the place where she struggled for over 24 hours.” “We will lodge an FIR in this connection after gathering information. We have identified a few suspects and they will be questioned now,” added Patel. Last year, two big cats were found dead: on March 27, a tiger was snared by villagers in Kheri’s Shivpuri, while a tiger’s carcass was fished out of a Sharda canal in Kheri on July 10 and the autopsy confirmed poisoning as the reason of the feline’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tigress-dead-after-neck-gets-entangled-in-nylon-wire-trap-poaching-suspected/articleshow/77489916.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Task force grapples with data from apps, ground work suffers||Bengaluru: Despite deploying a dozen cabinet ministers and 30 IAS/IPS officers to contain Covid-19, Karnataka is still struggling to flatten the curve. A major reason, some officials say, is because the Covid management team is too tech focused on compiling data rather than action on the ground. According to field officers, the Karnataka Covid War Room has developed nine mobile phone apps for enable officials and patients to feed data and it’s becoming cumbersome. Initially, the tech-savvy government managed to contain the outbreak better compared to other states by using technology for tracing and tracking Covid patients and monitoring home quarantine. The war room, under Munish Moudgil and his team, has developed nine apps that record all contacts of Covid patients, interstate travellers, patients in quarantine, international arrivals, door-to-door health survey of 1.6 crore households, critical patient tracking system and daily analytics and reports. It plans to launch a website which would given the public real-time data. Central agencies such as the National Centre for Disease Control and National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority are part of the government’s efforts. But, ground work has suffered. “It’s clear there are serious gaps. So much time is spent on data and meetings. We need sweeping reforms and field officials should be spared data collection,’’ said an officer who is overseeing Covid Care Centers. Another officer, who handles booth-level committees, said: “About 50% of our energy every day is spent on data updation and several meetings with ministers and officials. This leaves little time for field work. It’s been nearly a month since booth-level committees were mooted but we haven’t been able to do it yet.” Officials said the government has deputed over 10 senior secretaries to assess preparedness. Most have started interacting mostly in WhatsApp groups and conference calls on the move and it’s counter-productive. “During such crises, chats and meetings shouldn’t take up your time. That’s why we haven’t been able to do justice on the ground,” said an officer. Capt P Manivannan, member, Covid task force, said: “There can't be a perfect solution to collect and process data. The apps ensure faster work and they were developed using internal resources of war room with nil cost to the exchequer.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/task-force-grapples-with-data-from-apps-ground-work-suffers/articleshow/77492288.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Bareilly||Dead teacher draws salary for over 18 months in UP, inquiry ordered||PILIBHIT: The education department in Uttar Pradesh has ordered a probe after it accidently found out that the salary of one of its teachers continued to be credited into his account for 18 months after his death. Arvind Kumar, who was posted at Bilsanda primary school in Pilibhit, died on May 22, 2016. But, during the scrutiny of his documents-- as his wife had applied for a job on compassionate grounds—the Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA) of Pilibhit found that he got the salary till November 2017. The BSA has now directed the block education officer to file a detailed report on this irregularity. “The irregularity came to the fore when credentials of Kumar were being reviewed by the accounts section. Kumar had joined duty as teacher on November 5, 2015 and he died on May 22, 2016. But the accounts section continued transferring his monthly salary to his bank account till November 2017,” said BSA Devendra Swaroop. When contacted, Pilibhit’s basic education coordinator Rakesh Patel said, “The salary sheet is prepared by the headmaster of the school in the prescribed format. It is then submitted to the block education officer. The officer then forwards it to the account section with his notes regarding any increment or the deduction. The account section raises the bill and then finally transfers the salary to the bank account of the concerned staff member.” “The role of the headmaster of the school, the block education officer and the staff of the accounts section will be probed. This is a serious matter,” the BSA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dead-teacher-draws-salary-for-over-18-months-in-up-inquiry-ordered/articleshow/77489900.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||55-year-old man dies of ‘shock’ over vigilance team visit to home||Kota: Allegedly shocked by the presence of Jaipur Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (JVVNL) vigilance team at his home for checking domestic electricity meter, a 55-year-old man at Rinchwa village under Bakani police station of Jhalawar district collapsed unconscious on Monday evening and was declared brought dead at the local hospital. On the report by family members, Bakani police on Monday night lodged a case under Section 304 of IPC against executive engineer, assistant engineer and five to seven others of the vigilance team and handed over the body to family members on Tuesday morning after obtaining the negative Covid-19 report of the deceased and postmortem by medical board. The deceased man, identified as Suleman, a resident of Rinchwa village of Bakani area collapsed allegedly after the JVVNL vigilance team reached his house for inspection of electricity meter on Monday around 5pm, said SHO at Bakani police station Mansiram. He was rushed to a local hospital where he was declared brought dead, he added. The JVVNL vigilance team, however, did not find any fault with electricity meter nor did they charge any penalty and fill VCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/55-year-old-man-dies-of-shock-over-vigilance-team-visit-to-home/articleshow/77493705.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Thane||Malaria bites Mumbai again, claims 2 lives, breaks 2019's zero death record||MUMBAI: Malaria has claimed two lives ending the city's short-lived streak of zero casualties caused by the mosquito-borne disease. In 2019, Mumbai, for the first time in a decade, had zero malaria deaths despite reporting over 4,110 cases. In Maharashtra, Mumbai and the tribal-populated Gadchiroli currently account for 83% of the malaria cases, followed by Thane and Nagpur. Experts had cautioned against the disruption of anti-malarial activities due to Covid-19 and how that could set back the small victories against the disease in decades. In Mumbai, malaria cases have more than doubled between the months of June (328) and July (872), partly due to incessant rainfall on several days. About 29% of the state's malaria cases are in Mumbai. BMC officials acknowledged that there was a marginal jump. "There are a few suspected malaria deaths which the review committee are yet to audit. We are seeing some increase in cases and efforts are on to bring them under control," said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. The cases are largely being detected from south and central Mumbai wards. However, the city's overall malaria incidence between January and July-1,558-is lower compared to the corresponding period last year when 1,719 cases were reported. Malaria casualties had dropped to single digits in 2017, when there were six deaths and 6,019 cases. That year also marked Mumbai's entry into the elimination phase. In 2018, malaria deaths further fell to three, and in 2019, there were none. The situation is grim in Gadchiroli, where cases have increased four-fold to 3,150. Last year, between January and July, 765 cases were reported. A micro plan has been drawn up to tackle the surge, which involves screening the entire population under five primary health centres that have been reporting majority of the cases. A wider spread can be worrying in the district as plasmodium falciparum, a variant known to cause severe malaria, is predominant there. In fact, of the 3,150 cases reported this year, 2,912 (92%) are of falciparum. In comparison, only 2% cases in Mumbai are of falciparum. "We have begun screening for asymptomatic carriers and will ensure they finish their three-day treatment course. Surveillance and vector-control activities are a big challenge there as people live near their rice fields in the sowing season," said state entomologist Dr Mahendra Jagtap, adding that Gadchiroli district has recorded two confirmed and two suspected malaria deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/malaria-bites-mumbai-again-claims-2-lives-breaks-2019s-zero-death-record/articleshow/77495358.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||Malaria bites Mumbai again, claims 2 lives, breaks 2019's zero death record||MUMBAI: Malaria has claimed two lives ending the city's short-lived streak of zero casualties caused by the mosquito-borne disease. In 2019, Mumbai, for the first time in a decade, had zero malaria deaths despite reporting over 4,110 cases. In Maharashtra, Mumbai and the tribal-populated Gadchiroli currently account for 83% of the malaria cases, followed by Thane and Nagpur. Experts had cautioned against the disruption of anti-malarial activities due to Covid-19 and how that could set back the small victories against the disease in decades. In Mumbai, malaria cases have more than doubled between the months of June (328) and July (872), partly due to incessant rainfall on several days. About 29% of the state's malaria cases are in Mumbai. BMC officials acknowledged that there was a marginal jump. "There are a few suspected malaria deaths which the review committee are yet to audit. We are seeing some increase in cases and efforts are on to bring them under control," said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC. The cases are largely being detected from south and central Mumbai wards. However, the city's overall malaria incidence between January and July-1,558-is lower compared to the corresponding period last year when 1,719 cases were reported. Malaria casualties had dropped to single digits in 2017, when there were six deaths and 6,019 cases. That year also marked Mumbai's entry into the elimination phase. In 2018, malaria deaths further fell to three, and in 2019, there were none. The situation is grim in Gadchiroli, where cases have increased four-fold to 3,150. Last year, between January and July, 765 cases were reported. A micro plan has been drawn up to tackle the surge, which involves screening the entire population under five primary health centres that have been reporting majority of the cases. A wider spread can be worrying in the district as plasmodium falciparum, a variant known to cause severe malaria, is predominant there. In fact, of the 3,150 cases reported this year, 2,912 (92%) are of falciparum. In comparison, only 2% cases in Mumbai are of falciparum. "We have begun screening for asymptomatic carriers and will ensure they finish their three-day treatment course. Surveillance and vector-control activities are a big challenge there as people live near their rice fields in the sowing season," said state entomologist Dr Mahendra Jagtap, adding that Gadchiroli district has recorded two confirmed and two suspected malaria deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/malaria-bites-mumbai-again-claims-2-lives-breaks-2019s-zero-death-record/articleshow/77495350.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||12-year-old boy rapes minor in Dungarpur, detained||JAIPUR: An 8-year-old girl was raped allegedly by a 12-year-old boy in Dungarpur on Monday evening. The police were informed about the incident when the girl was taken to the hospital for treatment. The accused juvenile has been detained. The incident took place when the two had taken their goats for grazing. Chandmal Singariya, SHO, Kotwali, Dungarpur, said, ”the children regularly took their animals out for grazing and on the day of the incident, while the others returned home, the minor girl and the accused trailed behind. According to the girl, the boy raped her when they were alone.” After the assault, the girl went home and did not inform anyone. But, in the morning when she started to feel unwell, she told her aunt about the incident. “The family took the girl to the hospital where the doctor said that the injuries were from sexual assault. While the family was reluctant to lodge a case, the doctor called us and we immediately rushed to the hospital to inquire about the incident,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/12-yr-old-boy-rapes-minor-in-dungarpur-detained/articleshow/77493706.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Goa||Mapusa looks at shifting annual Matoli bazaar||Saligao: Mapusa market has always drawn hundreds of customers to its yearly Matoli bazaar. This year to curb the spread of Covid-19, Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) has approached MLAs of neighbouring constituencies to organise their own markets to reduce crowds at Mapusa. MMC chairperson Ryan Braganza said the municipality has spoken to Calangute MLA Michael Lobo, Aldona MLA Glenn Ticlo, Saligao MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar, Siolim MLA Vinod Palyekar, and Tivim MLA Nilkant Harlankar. After the discussion, Lobo suggested that the MMC organise the bazaar at the Canca roundabout while Ticlo requested that the market be held at Bastora. Harlankar said the bazaar could be held at Khorlim housing board area as well. During the MMC meeting with representatives of Ganeshotsav mandals, NGOs, police and other stakeholders, it was decided that three to four spots at Acoi, Karaswada, Cunchelim, Khorlim and an artificial pond at Bodgeshwar temple will be used for idol immersion. “All this is being done to reduce the number of people gathering in Mapusa,” Braganza said. The municipality has also fixed a tentative time-table from 6pm to 10pm for immersion of idols in all its wards. “We will also be issuing an advisory and expect people to cooperate with us due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” Braganza said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-looks-at-shifting-annual-matoli-bazaar/articleshow/77494566.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Jaipur||Sikar, Kota witness over 100 new cases daily||Jaipur: Covid situation is getting worse in Kota and Sikar. While Kota has reported more than 100 new infections daily for the last 11 days, Sikar’s tally is rising by over 100 for the last two days. Seven jail inmates were found infected in Kota while Khandela, Danta, Laxmangarh, Srimadopur, Piprali and Sikar city areas are constantly reporting new cases. “We have created containment and buffer zones in the districts for checking the spread of the virus in the affected areas,” said Dr Ajay Chaudhary, chief medical health officer, Sikar. Chaudhary said, “We are planning to impose lockdown as cases are constantly increasing. From the trend of new infections, we are suspecting that the strain of the virus has changed as a patient is taking more time in recovering and also it has become more infectious. A woman in Khandela has infected 21 people.” While districts such as Jodhpur, Jaipur and Alwar are keeping asymptomatic and those with mild symptoms under home isolation, in Sikar patients are not allowed home isolation and are kept in Covid care centre. In Sikar, the health department was taking extra precautions and was discharging patients only after testing twice. “If a patient is tests negative twice in two consecutive tests, we discharge the patients. Now, we are discharging after testing them once. We have made the change from Monday as we witnessed a spike in cases,” said Chaudhary. In Kota, the district administration has taken an initiative to impose lockdown on Saturdays and Sundays to restrict movement of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sikar-kota-witness-over-100-new-cases-daily/articleshow/77493725.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Lucknow||UP to bank on land pooling to spur industrial growth||LUCKNOW: The state industry department has proposed a new land pooling policy for industrial, institutional and IT projects to ensure maximum availability of land for industrial units and to also include land owners in the development process. The policy excludes commercial and housing projects. Under the new policy, the industry department is planning to give a basic minimum amount to farmers and land owners on per acre basis for five years till the land is developed. If the land owner is unable to sell the land at the end of the development period, he or she will have the option of selling it to the development authority concerned which will not have the right to refuse. Additional chief secretary (industrial development) Alok Kumar said land pooling policy had been adopted in states like Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh but it was largely for residential purposes. UP also has a land policy for housing development and this is the first time that the system is being used for industrial development. “In this proposal, we are making farmers a partner in the development project. Currently, if land is bought upfront, the farmer does not benefit as the price of land will rise only after it is developed. Moreover, the development authority has to pay upfront which leads to cash flow issues. Under this scheme, we will address both the problems,” he said. Under the proposed policy, minimum 25 acre land should be identified for development and owners of at least 80% land should be ready to participate in the scheme willingly. The remaining 20% land can be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act or by other means. The land should also be of mixed use as it has to be developed for industrial use with commercial and residential facilities. If the land is not of mixed use, the development authority concerned will be allowed to swap land use with another plot of a similar size. During development, 50% of the total area would go for utilities like roads and common facilities. Of the remaining 50%, half will be returned to the land owner after five years. Till five years or the time the land is developed, whichever is later, the owner will be paid Rs 5,000 per acre per month as compensation for loss of agriculture. “Once the plot is developed, 25% of the land would be returned to the land owner. This will include 80% or at least 450 sq m of industrial land, 12% for residential use for the main project and 8% for commercial use. This will not be contiguous land but will include three separate plots,” Kumar said. Before the development begins, the development authority will sign an agreement with the owner. “The proposal has received an in-principle nod and is awaiting cabinet clearance,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-bank-on-land-pooling-to-spur-industrial-growth/articleshow/77494572.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 12, 2020||Delhi||Hawkers, street vendors in Delhi to get easy loans up to Rs 20,000||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will provide loans up to Rs 20,000 to street vendors and hawkers. It will help them revive their businesses, which have been battered by the Covid-19 pandemic. “It will be a permanent arrangement and will continue even after the pandemic is over. Street vendors and hawkers will be provided the loan at a low interest. A policy is being made for the purpose,” social welfare minister Rajendra Pal Gautam said. Hawkers and street vendors were not permitted from March-end till July and only those engaged in the sale of essential items like vegetables and fruits could manage to continue their trade with much difficulties. The pandemic has badly affected them, leaving many of them with survival challenges. Most of them do not even have any savings left. Towards the end of the last month, Delhi government allowed street vendors and hawkers to restart their work and businesses. Lieutenant governor Anil Baijal approved the proposal to allow street vendors and hawkers. From August 1, street hawkers were permitted to operate from 10 am to 8 pm every day with social distancing and all other precautionary measures in place. Delhi has over 5 lakh street vendors. The number of vendors registered with civic bodies is, however, far less. Delhi SC, ST, OBC, Minorities and Handicapped Finance and Development Corporation (DSFDC) will be providing loans to the street vendors at low interest rates. The process of providing loans has been simplified and there is no need for collateral or guarantor to avail the loan. “The decision has been taken because during the crisis, the street vendors are left with no option but to approach the money lenders who charge exorbitant interest,” said an official. Gautam said that the easy availability of the loans will help the street vendors re-establish their businesses and earn a living in a dignified way. The policy is still in the works, but an official said that the process to get the loan would be simple and there would be no requirement of collateral, or guarantor. “After someone makes a request for loan, a simple verification will be carried out to check the person’s credentials. The person should be a resident of Delhi. After the general verification, the loan will be disbursed,” said an official. The rate of interest is yet to be decided, but it will be very low, the official added. Watch Delhi government to provide easy loans up to Rs 20,000 to street vendors, hawkers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hawkers-street-vendors-toget-easy-loans-up-to-rs-20000/articleshow/77493748.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 12, 2020||India||MHA's Assam panel makes 'confidential' report public||GUWAHATI: A high-level committee constituted by the MHA for finding ways to protect and preserve the identity of Assamese people under the Assam Accord of 1985 has suggested that only those people who were residing in Assam on or before January 1, 1951 and their descendants will be eligible for the constitutional safeguards. The contents of the report by the 14-member committee was submitted to centre and state government last February and since then has been under wraps and no visible action has been initiated for its implementation despite assurances from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah. On Tuesday four members of the committee—the three top leaders of All Assam Students' Union (Aasu) and senior advocate of Gauhati High Court, Nilay Dutta, broke the 'confidentiality' of the report and made the contents public at a news conference here. They said the people of Assam need to know the suggestions penned in the report for their constitutional safeguards, which the government has kept under wraps for five months now. AASu chief advisor Samujjal Bhattacharya said, “Union home minister Amit Shah gave a commitment in the Parliament that the government will respond promptly, as and when the Clause 6 committee submits its report. We, the committee members of the committee, were silent for the last five months with a hope that the Centre will inform us about the status of its implementation. However, neither there was any progress on the part of the government, nor the report was made public. People of Assam should know the recommendations given by the committee. It's their right.” Advocate Dutta added, "There has not been any breach of confidentiality after putting the report in the public domain. The report itself was prepared for the people of Assam and they have every right to know the recommendations. Besides, all the recommendations given by us may not be apt and thus, they can further recommend modifications.” The constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards of Assamese people are enshrined in Clause 6 of the Accord but their implementation was not possible due to lack of a proper definition of "Assamese people". The committee has suggested Centre to consider only those people as Assamese, who are indegenous tribal and other indegenous communities as well as all other citizens of India residing in the territory of Assam on or before January 1, 1951 and their descendants. The report adds that this definition of Assamese people is for the specific purpose of implementation of the Clause 6 of the Assam Accord. Aasu said that the core proposals given by the committee included full implementation of the 1985 accord in a time bound manner, as the Assam Accord is yet to be fully and effectively implemented after 35 years of signing on August 15, 1985. "Prompt and adequate measures to be adopted to completely seal the Indo-Bangladesh border in the line of Indo-Pakistan border. Till deportation of post 1971 stream of declared foreigners is completed, they should be resettled in areas outside the state of Assam, as an interim measure," read a statement issued by the students' body, quoting the report. The committee has also suggested that at least 80 percent of parliamentary seats and equal percentage assembly constituencies of Assam be reserved for the "Assamesepeople." AASU, however wants the reservation to be 100 % from local body to parliament constituencies For employment too, the committee has recommended that 80 percent of group C and D level posts under Central, Semi-central government, Central PSUs and private sector including establishments under PPP mode arising in Assam be reserved for the "Assamese people". However, Aasu's stand for the same has been 100 percent reservation for group C and D, and 90 percent for group A and B level posts under the said categories in Assam. On the language question, it recommended that Assamese language shall continue to be official language of Assam as per the provisions of Assam Official Language Act, 1960 throughout the state with provisions for use of local languages in Barak valley, hill districts and Bodoland Territorial Area Districts (BTAD).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mhas-assam-panel-makes-confidential-report-public/articleshow/77495352.cms||Kangkan Kalita
August 12, 2020||Ranchi||Janmashtami celebrations begin, MP announces online competition||Ranchi: Residents across the state on Tuesday started celebrating Janmashtami, the birthday of Lord Krishna, indoors and many more will do so on Wednesday because of the coronavirus pandemic. Unlike the previous years when people thronged the temples and organised ‘dahi handi’ and Radha-Krishna ‘sajja’ programmes, the devotees are celebrating and offering prayers at home. Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth, who used to organise the ‘dahi handi’ programme at Firyaylal Chowk for the past several years, has cancelled the event this time. He urged people to take to the digital route to celebrate the occasion and announced an online dahi handi competition. He said, “The dahi handi competition is very popular and takes place from the village level onwards. Thousands gather for the competition at Firayalal. However, we are holding only an online contest this time.” The MP further said recitation of bhajans will also be telecast live on his Facebook page. On the online competition, he said, “People can put up three pictures each of their on the WhatApp number 9334459081 after registration to take part in the competition. The pictures should be of dahi handi decorations for their houses and balconies and children below the age of 12 dressed as Radha and Krishna.” He added, “The pictures can be sent from 9pm on Tuesday till Wednesday noon.” A local resident said, “The pandemic has changed the way we observed festivals. We will all pray that the pandemic ends by next year so that the festivities like Janamashtmi are celebrated normally.” SSP Surindra Jha said, “Police have been deployed at sensitive places to maintain social harmony. We appeal to people to abide by the government orders to prevent the viral infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/janmashtami-celebrations-begin-mp-announces-online-competition/articleshow/77492112.cms||Sanjay Sahay
August 12, 2020||Ranchi||Tenughat dam opens four sluice gates, alert sounded||Bokaro: Tenughat dam authorities has opened four of the 10 radial sluice gates built on Damodar river, releasing water into the river flowing between Jharkhand and Bengal in the last 48 hours. After the gates were opened, the water level of the river increased by 1.75m on Tuesday. Pankaj Kumar, the nodal officer of Tenughat dam flood control cell, said apart from informing the Bokaro administration, messages have also been conveyed related to Dhanbad administration and the West Bengal government. Residents living in the periphery of the river were also warned and asked them to venture into the river for baths and other activities. Kumar added that the water level at the dam, which can retain water till a height of 852 feet, has been reduced to 848.25 feet from 851.45 feet maintained for the past seven days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/tenughat-dam-opens-four-sluice-gates-alert-sounded/articleshow/77492279.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ranchi||Huge quantity of opium, poppy seized||Ranchi: A special investigation team (SIT) on Tuesday seized 17 kg of opium and 18.60 quintals of unprocessed poppy bulbs worth around Rs 35 lakh in the black market from a truck along the National Highway 33 under Ormanjhi police station area. The driver and the helper, namely, Narpat Kumar Mangaram and Chuna Ram, both from Barmer district of Rajasthan, have been arrested in connection with the seizure. Around Rs 30,000 cash was also found on them. SP (rural) Naushad Alam informed the media that acting on a tip-off on Monday regarding the movement of a truckload of opium, the SIT set up a checkpoint and intercepted the truck near a hotel on the national highway and seized 17 packets of processed opium weighing 1kg each and 93 sacks of poppy bulbs weighing 20kg each. “The driver and helper failed to produce the relevant papers for transporting the material. A forensic science laboratory team also visited the spot and examined the seized materials,” Alam said. Police said the contraband items were loaded at a village located on the Ranchi-Khunti border in Namkum police station area. Efforts are on to locate the village along with the persons involved in the loading. Opium cultivation is banned in the state but many farmers illegally grow the crop. The product is sold to inter-state gangs at lucrative prices, who get an even higher price at markets in Rajasthan and other states. The harvesting season of the crop is over long back. Currently, the miscreants are mainly engaged in transporting the products from the state to various destinations for sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/huge-quantity-of-opium-poppy-seized/articleshow/77492142.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ranchi||Smart devices can compromise nat’l security: CISF tells its personnel||Bokaro: The Jharkhand unit of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Tuesday issued a set of guidelines on the use of social media applications by its officers, jawans and their family members to avoid risks that could compromise national interests and reputation of the force and its personnel. The instructions issued by DIG (CISF) S S Mishra said the nearly 3,500 officers and jawans deployed at Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) and Central Coalfield Limited (CCL) should understand that major social media applications for exchange of information like Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, Whatsapp, etc., carry a risk of sharing classified information unintentionally in the public domain and have the potential to impact national security. Mishra said these platforms are also vulnerable targets of counter-intelligence wings of both state agencies as well as radical non-state inimical groups. He said, “I have asked all CISF officers and jawans not to carry smart devices in critical areas of workplaces, including conference and meeting rooms. I also asked them not to upload personal information that scam artists or identity thieves could use. They also should avoid using government emblems in their posts.” Since CISF is a sensitive organisation, Mishra said the personnel were asked to not to share photographs taken while wearing identity cards or clothing accessories that would reveal information about the force. He stressed that said special care should be taken with regards to sharing manpower issues, promotions and local orders as such information may give an opportunity to the adversaries in intelligence gathering. Stating that their family members should be sensitized about these guidelines, the DIG said the personnel must avoid using location services and geo-tagging features while utilizing social media sites and disable the feature on auto-downloading of contents. At the personnel level, the personnel should not use ethnic slurs, personal insults, obscenity, bully someone or engage in gossip about work and colleagues or any conduct unbecoming of their status. They were also asked not to write anything out of anger, spite or when under the influence of alcohol. Making adverse comments on government or its policies and posting political and religious statements on the platforms are not allowed. Moreover, the personnel should not use social media to air grievances and report if they came across any inappropriate contact attempts, Mishra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/smart-devices-can-compromise-natl-security-cisf-tells-its-personnel/articleshow/77491987.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ranchi||State Covid toll set to cross 200-mark, caseload near 20k||Ranchi: With three Covid casualties and 683 new infections in 24 hours until 10pm on Tuesday, including 92 new cases detected late on Monday, Jharkhand inched closer to 20,000 total cases and 200 casualties, the two grim milestones the state is likely to cross in a couple of days if the current pandemic trends continue. In some good news, the state’s recovery figures crossed the 10,000-mark with 682 patients discharged on Tuesday. As on Tuesday night, Jharkhand had a cumulative caseload of 19,469 Covid infections, of which 8,720 are active, 10,555 have recovered and 194 have died. In Jharkhand, nine of every 100 samples tested returned positive on Tuesday. The state’s seven-day rate stood at 4.65%, much higher than the national average of 2.98%. The state’s recovery rate stands at 54.21%, lesser than the national average of 69.34%. East Singhbhum, which remains the most second-worst affected district behind Ranchi, reported 150 new infections, the district has 1,973 active cases while Ranchi with 103 new cases has 1,921 active patients. Both the districts, along with Deoghar reported one casualty each. East Singhbhum also has the highest number of Covid fatalities (73), followed by Ranchi (33). As many as 19 deaths have been reported from Dhanbad while 13 have been documented in Hazaribag. Together, the four districts make up for 71% of the state’s Covid toll. As on Tuesday, Jharkhand’s mortality rate stood at 0.99% In Ranchi, the deceased Covid 19 patient was a retired doctor at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims). “The patient had various ailments and died at a private hospital in Kokar area in the morning,” a health official said. Sources at Rims said he was also administered plasma earlier this month. Palamu reported 128 cases, West Singhbhum 30, Koderma 20, Ramgarh 20, Dhanbad 17, Seraikela-Kharsawan 13, Gumla 12, Hazaribag 12 and Sahibganj 11. Ten cases were reported from Bokaro, Deoghar and Simdega each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-covid-toll-set-to-cross-200-mark-caseload-near-20k/articleshow/77492217.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 12, 2020||Ranchi||State milk federation to launch ‘instant kheer’ today||Ranchi: Now, you can prepare and eat your favourite dessert ‘kheer’ within two minutes, thanks to the Jharkhand Milk Federation which has come up with a new product that can be made ready just like the two-minute instant noodles. Officials of the state-run federation said the new product will be launched on Wednesday and sold under the brand name Medha. Amritesh Kumar, head of marketing of the brand, said, “The product, ‘Medha Kheer Mix’ will be healthy and affordable.” He said, “One packet will give four bowls and will be priced at Rs 30.” Kumar said ‘kheer’ was chosen because of its popularity across India’s kitchens. “Initially, we will produce 120 kg to 200 kg of the mix from the Medha plant in Hotwar. The product will be supplied across the state. It contains roasted ‘sooji’, milk and sugar as ingredients and will be vacuum packed, which will give it a shelf-life of two months,” Kumar added. Agriculture minister Badal Patralekh will formally unveil the product at the Hotwar plant. Patralekh will also launch 'Sanjeevani Herbal Garden' at the plant. The garden will have medicinal plants like giloi, tulsi, lemon grass and ashwagandha. “The project has been developed considering the growing inclination of people towards herbal products,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-milk-federation-to-launch-instant-kheer-today/articleshow/77492023.cms||Sanjay Sahay
August 12, 2020||Ranchi||Cong criticises env impact assessment draft||Ranchi: The state unit of Congress on Tuesday criticised the Environmental Impact Assessment Draft 2020 prepared by the Union ministry of forests, environment and climate change. The ministry is currently inviting public suggestions for the draft before being tabled in Parliament. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “We reject this draft as it is tilted towards the needs and concerns of corporates rather than taking into account the issues for safeguarding forests and wildlife. This will be a bane for a state like Jharkhand which has about 33% forest cover and immense wildlife.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-criticises-env-impact-assessment-draft/articleshow/77492075.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ranchi||Will move SC again if Deoghar temple is not reopened: Dubey||Dumka: BJP’s Godda MP Nishikant Dubey on Monday said he will soon approach the Supreme Court again to press for reopening of the Baba Baidhyanathdham temple in Deoghar, which was closed since the lockdown in March. Dubey had moved a PIL earlier in the apex court and during its hearing last month, the court had suggested that the state government should explore if it can reopen the temple with proper precautions and restricted entry. Following up on the SC recommendations, the government had opened the temple for six hours on the last Somari of the Shravan month on August 3 but restricted entry of devotees. The administration also set up a high-level committee to explore the modalities on re-opening of the temple. Talking to TOI on Sunday evening, Dubey said, “I am going to knock at the doors of Supreme Court in the next couple of days if the state government continues with its dilly-dallying and defy the apex court’s order of allowing the common devotees a darshan at the Deoghar temple." The Deoghar district authorities said they have furnished their report to the state government two days ago with their recommendations to reopen the temple during the ongoing Bhado month. DC Kamleshwar Prasad Singh said, “After conducting a feasibility study and taking stock of other requirements, we have submitted our report to the state government’s committee. Now, we are waiting to hear from the government.” Singh added that they will comply with the government’s directives. Sources in the Dumka district administration said a similar feasibility report was also submitted for reopening of the Basukinath temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/will-move-sc-again-if-deoghar-temple-is-not-reopened-dubey/articleshow/77492294.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ranchi||BDS student commits suicide||Ranchi: A 30-year-old dental course student, Divita Divya, committed suicide in the city on Tuesday. Police said Divya, a BDS student of Garhwa Medical College, suddenly jumped into a well near St Francis School near Argora police station area while taking a morning walk. Her body was fished out by locals. She was suffering from depression for the past several days and was undergoing treatment. Her parents are employees of All India Radio. SSP (Ranchi) S K Jha said the body was sent for autopsy. He added, “A case will be registered based on the statement of her parents.” A senior psychiatrist of Rinpas, Siddhartha Sinha, said, “The student must have been in a very low mood. She had not interacted with her parents for long and has not shared her problems. The trend of hopelessness and helplessness is getting common in this Covid period.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bds-student-commits-suicide/articleshow/77492200.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ranchi||Paid isolation facilities at 2 Dhanbad hotels||SINDRI: To handle the spike in coronavirus cases in the coal belt, a hotel and a resort in Dhanbad will be converted into paid isolation centres for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients from Wednesday. After signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Kings Resort and Wedlock Green Hotels and Resorts on Tuesday, the district administration said patients here will be under strict observation of doctors at Dwarka Das Jalan Asian Hospital and Patliputra Nursing Home. Dhanbad is among four of 24 districts in the state with a total tally more than 1,000 Covid cases. After witnessing it’s biggest single-day spike with 95 new infections on Monday, the state caseload on Tuesday morning stood at 1,140, of which 525 are active cases, 596 have recovered and 19 have died so far, state government data said. Officials from the district health department will provide training to hotel staff regarding the protocols to be followed on hygiene while taking care of the patients, especially while serving food and disposing the leftovers. The hotel managements have also been asked to provide gloves, PPE kits and masks to the staff besides making arrangements for oximetres and thermal scanners to monitoring the health of the patients. An official said, “The district administration will also depute nodal officers and magistrates at the hotel to ensure adherence with protocols and coordinated between the hotels and hospitals so that patients who are critical can quickly be shifted to higher medical centers,” said an official. Vivek Poddar, director of the Wedlock Greens, said, “We have 50 isolation rooms in the resort and daily charges for paid isolation will be Rs 4,000 plus taxes. The rate for Kings Resort has been fixed at Rs 3,900 plus taxes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/paid-isolation-facilities-at-2-dhanbad-hotels/articleshow/77492309.cms||---
August 12, 2020||Ranchi||Team to probe reasons for high mortality figures at Steel City hosp||JAMSHEDPUR: The East Singhbhum district administration has formed a two-member team to investigate the reason behind the increasing number of deaths of Covid-19 patients at Tata Main Hospital (TMH) in Jamshedpur. Of the 191 Covid fatalities in Jharkhand, East Singhbhum accounts for 37.5% with 72 deaths and 90% of these occurred at TMH since July 4, when the hospital reported its first two casualties. According to data released by the state government on Tuesday morning, East Singhbhum has recorded 2,994 Covid cases so far, of which 1,864 (62%) are active and 1,058 (35%) have recovered. At 2.4%, East Singhbhum has the highest mortality rate among 24 districts in Jharkhand, which has a mortality rate of 1%. On the direction of DC Suraj Kumar, a two-member team of district health department officials headed by civil surgeon Dr R N Jha, will probe into the reasons to determine why deaths are being regularly reported from the private healthcare centre. “Investigation began on Tuesday and the team is talking to the hospital authorities,” said Jha, refraining from disclosing much about the contours of the probe. The team will conclude the probe in three days and submit a report to the DC. While there was no official word from the TMH, sources at the hospital said, “There are several reasons for the high number of deaths here. Most patients were old, had comorbidities and were in fragile health conditions when they were admitted to the hospital.” Claiming that the hospital is strictly adhering to ICMR protocols while administering treatment to patients, the official, who preferred anonymity, said 1,455 COVID patients were admitted to TMH until August 8, and 921 of them have been discharged while 467 are still being treated. Dr Umesh Khan, president of the Jamshedpur chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) said it should also be probed if Covid alone is the reason for the mortality rate or any other associated virus is taking a toll on corona patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/team-to-probe-reasons-for-high-mortality-figures-at-steel-city-hosp/articleshow/77492410.cms||B Sridhar
August 12, 2020||Jamshedpur||Team to probe reasons for high mortality figures at Steel City hosp||JAMSHEDPUR: The East Singhbhum district administration has formed a two-member team to investigate the reason behind the increasing number of deaths of Covid-19 patients at Tata Main Hospital (TMH) in Jamshedpur. Of the 191 Covid fatalities in Jharkhand, East Singhbhum accounts for 37.5% with 72 deaths and 90% of these occurred at TMH since July 4, when the hospital reported its first two casualties. According to data released by the state government on Tuesday morning, East Singhbhum has recorded 2,994 Covid cases so far, of which 1,864 (62%) are active and 1,058 (35%) have recovered. At 2.4%, East Singhbhum has the highest mortality rate among 24 districts in Jharkhand, which has a mortality rate of 1%. On the direction of DC Suraj Kumar, a two-member team of district health department officials headed by civil surgeon Dr R N Jha, will probe into the reasons to determine why deaths are being regularly reported from the private healthcare centre. “Investigation began on Tuesday and the team is talking to the hospital authorities,” said Jha, refraining from disclosing much about the contours of the probe. The team will conclude the probe in three days and submit a report to the DC. While there was no official word from the TMH, sources at the hospital said, “There are several reasons for the high number of deaths here. Most patients were old, had comorbidities and were in fragile health conditions when they were admitted to the hospital.” Claiming that the hospital is strictly adhering to ICMR protocols while administering treatment to patients, the official, who preferred anonymity, said 1,455 COVID patients were admitted to TMH until August 8, and 921 of them have been discharged while 467 are still being treated. Dr Umesh Khan, president of the Jamshedpur chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) said it should also be probed if Covid alone is the reason for the mortality rate or any other associated virus is taking a toll on corona patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/team-to-probe-reasons-for-high-mortality-figures-at-steel-city-hosp/articleshow/77503395.cms||B Sridhar
August 12, 2020||Mumbai||Plan to allow international flyers to take RT-PCR test at Mumbai airport||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra government is examining a proposal to allow international passengers the option of undergoing an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 at Mumbai airport on arrival, said sources. "The state government may send the proposal to the Centre, and if approved, it would be a major boost to air travel," a source said. "An international passenger who arrives on a morning flight can undergo the test at Mumbai airport and go into quarantine in a hotel. By evening, the test report would arrive and if it's negative, the passenger can go home." Currently, the only option before a healthy passenger who wishes to bypass quarantine is getting the said test done before boarding the flight. According to the new guidelines issued by the Union health ministry last week, which came into effect from August 8, international travellers who have tested negative in an RT-PCR test taken within 96 hours of their departure to India can apply for exemption from quarantine on arrival. Those who haven't taken the test have to undergo seven days of institutional quarantine, followed by seven days of home quarantine. BMC additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said currently there is no provision at the airport for an international passenger to undergo an RT-PCR test after arrival. "Also, once the passenger goes into institutional quarantine, he/she cannot undergo the test at the quarantine hotel till day five. The report comes on day six and if negative, by day seven he/she can leave quarantine," Velrasu added. The Union ministry's new guidelines state that each passenger should also submit a declaration with respect to the authenticity of the report and "will be liable for criminal prosecution if found otherwise". All travellers have to submit a self-declaration form on the government portal at least 72 hours before the scheduled travel. The guidelines have exceptions for special cases, such as pregnancy, death in family, serious illness and parent(s) with children of 10 years or below, wherein home quarantine may be permitted for 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/plan-to-allow-international-flyers-to-take-rt-pcr-test-at-mumbai-airport/articleshow/77495354.cms||Manju V
