August 13, 2020||Kolkata||Health panel slaps 1st deposit case on Kolkata private hospital||KOLKATA: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) has asked two hospitals to submit their respective versions after the family of a patient, who died in the ambulance on Monday night, alleged that she was not attended to and one of the hospitals had asked for an exorbitant advance deposit. Since its formation in 2017, the commission has taken up a case suo motu for the first time. According to the family of the patient from Tamluk, she was admitted to a nursing home in Park Circus, where she had tested Covid positive, last week. The nursing home had reportedly asked the family to shift the elderly lady to a Covid hospital on Monday night. She was taken to Desun Hospital, which had allegedly demanded Rs 3 lakh as an advance. The woman died in the ambulance, waiting for treatment. The patient’s family has alleged that the hospital refused to admit the patient despite depositing Rs 80,000 as advance. Desun Hospital had been partly acquired by the state government as its Covid facility. But the hospital has been allowed to treat private patients in some beds. The hospital has refuted the charge, claiming that the doctors had tried giving CPR to the patient but she could not be revived. “I came to know about this incident from news reports. It could be true or otherwise. So we have taken up the case suo motu. I have asked my office to find the versions of the two hospitals,” said Justice Ashim Kumar Banerjee, chairman of WBCERC. “This is the first time the commission has taken up a case suo motu. We will try to hear the case on August 19. We had earlier got two other complaints on WhatsApp,” he added. The commission has also intervened in the case of a doctor who died in another private hospital where the treatment bill amounted to a little above Rs 18 lakhs. “When we came to know about this from social media, we requested the hospital to review the bill and the hospital has agreed to look into it,” added Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/health-panel-slaps-1st-deposit-case-on-city-private-hospital/articleshow/77512627.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 143 doctors to stand by for local emergencies||KOLKATA: A minimum of two and a maximum of four doctors will be tagged to each police station in Kolkata to help cops and Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) to reach out to people during the Covid crisis. The Indian Medical Association’s Bengal chapter has sent a detailed list of these doctors along with their contact details to KMC boss Firhad Hakim, police chief Anuj Sharma and Kolkata’s Covid nodal officer and state home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. Around 143 doctors, including a state cabinet minister, present and former MPs, government doctors and private practitioners – all IMA members – have volunteered to help police and KMC for the purpose. TimesViewThis step should help Covid patients and their families. Proper implementation of this directive at the neighbourhood level is of vital importance.In a recent meeting, both the police and KMC flagged the concern that they were unable to get doctors while responding to distress calls. Besides, without expert help, they were unable to decide which patient needed hospitalisation and who should be isolated at home. According to sources, the issue of doctors’ death was raised in a recent meeting at the KMC headquarters. Both police and KMC flagged the concerns that they were unable to get doctors while responding to crisis calls. Sources said it was also stressed that without medical help, it was not possible for police to decide which patients require hospitalization and who should be isolated at home. KMC and police officials also sought help from medical practitioners who can advise patients on the phone. “In some cases, deaths have been reported at home and with relatives in home quarantine, the body lay for several hours because of their inability to get a death certificate,” said a source. Bandyopadhyay then urged the IMA state secretary Shantanu Sen, also a Rajya Sabha MP, to help tide over the crisis. Sen said: “I consulted with my colleagues in IMA. The members responded whole-heartedly to my call for help in this crucial time when there is a dearth of doctors. Our members will be readily available for consultation over phone. During emergencies, doctors will also attend patients and decide if they require hospitalization.” Sen himself has volunteered his services in the Sinthi police station area. While most police stations will have two-four doctors, only three will have one doctor-volunteer each. State women and child development and social welfare minister Sashi Panja said: “I have been trying to do my bit in the Girish Park police station area and have volunteered to help.” She added: “Apart from the medical aspect of Covid treatment, there is also a dearth of understanding about this disease. For example, once they know they are Covid positive, people want to go to the hospital. It is here a doctor can play an important role in explaining whether they are mild and asymptomatic patients and require home isolation or need to be hospitalized.” Srjoni Chowdhury, a gynaecologist who has her chamber at Jadavpur, said: “I will be pleased to offer my consultation to would-be mothers who could be Covid-19 suspects. I will respond to calls even at odd hours. After all, people are confused and need our services right now.” AK Dasgupta, who has his chamber in Taltala, added: “It should be a utility service to Covid-19 suspects or positive patients. I will have no difficulties in offering my services to people in need. After all, we need to understand that this is a critical time and we need to act accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/143-docs-to-stand-by-for-local-emergencies/articleshow/77512648.cms||Saikat Ray
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Janamashtami celebrated online||The leading Chandigarh based cultural organization, Pracheen Kala Kendra, organized a special online programme on the occasion of Krishan Janamashtami by noted singers of the city, Kumar Bandhus. The event was held at M.L. Koser Auditorium and telecasted live online. Kumar duos began the recital with a famous Bhajan of Soordas “Tum meri rakho laaj hari”followed by Meera Bai ‘s Bhajan main to saware ke rang raachi”. Hereafter this they moved on to present raga Malhar based Bhajan, “Mere Nayanan mein baso Nandlal" and Rag Kalawati based Bhajan“Aa baso re man govinda”. This was followed by a famous Bhajan “Aae Kanahiya kiso kahega tu mayia” and Badi der bhai Nandlala”. They concluded with the rendition, "Mera aapki kripa se sab kaam ho raha hai." The duo was accompanied by team of artists like, Shibu Singh on Keyboard, Shyam Thapa on Flute, Jaimal Singh on Tabla and Master Dharampal on Dholak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/janamashtami-celebrated-online/articleshow/77512650.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu student jumps to his death in Italy||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A 20-year-old resident of Thuneri village at Kilkotagiri in the district, who was studying medicine in Italy, died after jumping off the third floor of an apartment at Fermo on August 10. S Pratiksh was pursuing his third-year medicine at the University of Luigi Vanvitelli in Naples, Italy. Pratiksh ended his life at his brother Sujith’s apartment. Sujith is working as an engineer in Fermo. According to Sujith, Pratiksh was suffering from epilepsy for the past six months and was taking treatment for the same. “Fifteen days ago, Pratiksh suffered severe mental illness,” Sujith said. Sujith brought his brother from Naples to Fermo. “Pratiksh was treated at a hospital for two weeks in Fermo. He was discharged last week. On Monday morning (August 10), I made one of my close friends stay with him and left for office. Around 10.30am, he jumped off the third floor of our apartment,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-student-jumps-to-his-death-in-italy/articleshow/77512817.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Goa||Govt looking to commence OPDs at old Ponda PHC||PONDA: Health facilities in Ponda have come a full circle as it is back to the old unused primary health centre for citizens, after the sub-district hospital began operation as a Covid hospital from Tuesday. It may be recalled that the government had demolished the old 1977-built infectious diseases (ID) hospital in 2007-08 and constructed the new, well-equipped hospital and had upgraded it to a sub-district hospital in 2012. However, it has once again turned as ID hospital for coronavirus patients. Since the government started a casualty services at the Dilasa palliative care centre at Farmaguddi, which lacks even X-Ray and an ultra-sonography machines, the residents of Ponda on Tuesday were forced to visit to the Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital at Bambolim for their treatment and investigations. Considering the hue and cry regarding the non-availability of even basic medical facilities, the state government is now looking for a suitable place where it can start OPDs in Ponda. Priol MLA and minister for art and culture Govind Gaude, along with Ponda MLA Ravi Naik, on Tuesday, afternoon inspected the old premises of the Planning and Development Authority (PDA) at Ponda, which was used as the primary health centre (PHC) between 2008 and 2012, when the old ID hospital was demolished and a new sub-district hospital was being constructed. After shifting the PHC at the new building on December 19, 2012, the premises was handed over to the art and culture department to set up a modern library for Ponda taluka. But the delay in starting the library has abandoned it with no maintenance. Gaude said he has already issued instructions to the authorities concerned to make the premises usable for re-starting the primary health centre and it may take 15 to 20 days to get it ready. He said that even if OPDs commence at the old PHC building, the facility at the Dilasa palliative centre would continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-looking-to-commence-opds-at-old-ponda-phc/articleshow/77513312.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
August 13, 2020||India||Supreme Court will resume physical hearing of cases in 2 weeks||NEW DELHI: In a big relief to some 15 lakh lawyers reeling under financial hardship due to limited functioning of judiciary only through video conferencing during the pandemic for the last five months, the Supreme Court on Wednesday appeared set to resume limited physical hearing of cases on a trial basis after two weeks while continuing with virtual courts. A seven-judge committee comprising Justices N V Ramana, Arun Mishra, R F Nariman, U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and L Nageswara Rao consulted top medical experts and interacted with bar leaders Manan Kumar Mishra, Dushyant Dave and S Jadhav before zeroing in on a hybrid system that would include opening of three courts with necessary precautions for physical hearing of long-pending matters, while continuing to adjudicate fresh matters through video conferencing. Sources in the SC and bar bodies said medical experts were sceptical of immediate resumption of physical hearing and cautioned against it. Sources said they advised the judges to go slow, given the chances of a spike in Covid-19 cases with migrant workers returning to their workplaces in cities. The SC attracts litigants from across India and many of them come from Maharashtra and southern states where the pandemic still remains a big concern. The experts also said since most judges were over 60 and carried co-morbidities, it would be inadvisable to rush to a full scale resumption of physical hearing in courts. But Dave and Jadhav insisted on resumption of physical hearings by next week, even though Mishra told the committee that it would be better to take a calibrated, low-risk approach for a slow and gradual resumption of physical hearing of cases keeping in mind the safety of lawyers, litigants, court staff and judges. The committee was informed that to maintain safe distance between two courtrooms, one courtroom each in the three wings could be identified for physical hearing purposes. It was told that it could take up to three days to get each courtroom ready with proper sanitisation, ventilation, installation of exhaust fans and glass partitions. After taking into consideration the views of all concerned, the committee recommended to CJI S A Bobde that limited physical hearing, in three courtrooms, could resume only for old matters requiring long hearing. However, only a limited number of lawyers at a time would be permitted in a courtroom given the strict adherence to social distancing norms. The committee said the CJI could fix a date for resumption of physical hearing after two weeks on trial basis after the courtrooms were ready for the purpose. Watch Supreme Court to resume physical hearing of cases in 2 weeks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-will-resume-physical-hearing-of-cases-in-2-weeks/articleshow/77513868.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Vehicle registrations plunge by 45% in city||CHANDIGARH: Vehicle registration dropped by 45% in the first seven months as compared to the same period last year in the city, another fallout of the coronavirus pandemic that has upended life and precipitated an economic crisis. From January 1, 2019, to August 11, over 25,000 vehicles, including two-wheelers and four-wheelers, were registered at the Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA). The figure for the same period this year is just 13,936. As expected, the biggest dip came during the lockdown that had started from March-end. Only 57 vehicles were registered in April, 706 in May and a slightly better 1,763 in June and 1,578 in July, when the city had started tip-toeing into a reopening. Experts said the trend shows 2020 will be the third consecutive year to witness a downfall in vehicle registration in Chandigarh. But there had been a boom too. A senior RLA official said they auction four series of vehicle registration numbers in a year on an average along with leftover number of previous years. In one series, there are 10,000 numbers. So, on an average, around 40,000 to 45,000 vehicles used to be registered every year in Chandigarh. But Covid and the lockdown altered the scenario completely, he said. In 2010, 47,930 vehicles were registered at the RLA office. In 2011, the figure was 47,823. In 2012, the registrations jumped to 49,665. In 2013, the vehicles registered saw a dip of around 6,000, with the total being 43,363. But in 2014, vehicle registrations went up — 46,255 vehicles got registered. In last year’s UT traffic advisory council meeting, members had stated that the rising number of vehicle registrations was leading to traffic congestion. The members had suggested exploring different modes of mass rapid transport system (MRTS) in the city. To facilitate public, Punjab governor-cum-UT administrator V P Singh Badnore in August last year launched the registration of new vehicle (non-transport) at dealers’ point. According to the new system, vehicle owners have to no longer stand in long queues and make rounds of the RLA office. The city has 52 dealers of cars and two-wheelers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vehicle-registrations-plunge-by-45-in-city/articleshow/77514304.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
August 13, 2020||Business||Non-Covid hospital bills add to health claim surge||CHENNAI/BENGALURU: After a four-month lull, insurance claims for hospitalisation are gathering pace, for both Covid as well as non-Covid treatments. While the number of claims on account of the pandemic crossed 1.5 lakh (Rs 2,000 crore in value), the number of non-Covid claims is almost back at pre-lockdown levels but with the average claim size increasing 25%. This is a trend shift from the first four months of the lockdown where health insurance claims shrank as policyholders delayed elected procedures like cataract, knee-replacement surgeries were postponed, and hospitalisation for accidental injury or infectious diseases were fewer because of the lockdown. Also, insurers did not face Covid claims in the first quarter as most of the treatment was undertaken at government facilities. Health claims had dropped to 50% of pre-Covid monthly average in April-May, rose after Unlock 1.0 to 85% in June, and returned to the earlier average in July, said Cholamandalam MS General Insurance MD Suryanarayanan V. According to Star Health and Allied Insurance MD S Prakash, average claim size of (non-Covid) hospitalisation is now Rs 51,000 from Rs 41,000 because of mandatory Covid-19 tests, personal protective equipment costs and staff-handling charges. Of the 1.5 lakh Covid claims, 1.2 lakh (Rs 1,625 crore in value) are those reported by insurers to the General Insurance Council. The remaining 30,756 are under Ayushman Bharat, according to National Health Authority (NHA) data. Of the 23 lakh people tested positive, only about 16 lakh have required hospitalisation, and of these only 10% are covered under insurance, NHA said. This could rise to 15% as reliance on Ayushman Bharat increases in tier-2 and -3 cities, along with rural areas. “We saw non-Covid claims fall sharply in April. However, the rate of these claims doubled in June and again in July. Today, we have close to about 20 lakh claims as markets and malls have opened up,” said Max Bupa Health Insurance director Bhabatosh Mishra. Bajaj Allianz General’s claims in July are 64% over the first quarter average. “We have witnessed an approximately 12% increase in the average claim size recorded in the first quarter of FY21,” said head (health) Bhaskar Nerurkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/non-covid-hospital-bills-add-to-health-claim-surge/articleshow/77514330.cms||Mamtha Asokan
August 13, 2020||Business||Oil PSUs to stop chartering tankers with China links||NEW DELHI: State-run oil companies have decided to stop chartering tankers owned or operated by Chinese companies even if the vessels are registered under third-country flags. The move follows regulations issued last month to curb business dealings with China in retaliation against the Chinese army’s border transgressions in Ladakh and the death of 20 Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley clash. India-China border stand-off: Complete coverageThe oil companies already have a first-right-of-refusal clause in favour of Indian flag vessels in their global tenders. Under this clause, Indian tankers can be given contracts if they match the winning bid of foreign vessels. The latest move throws vessels with any China connection out of the ring. For limited tenders, the companies will not invite bids from Chinese shipping entities previously registered with them. Chinese vessels have a small share of the number of ships chartered by the oil companies. As such, the ban will not have much impact on oil companies’ trade. A Bloomberg report on Wednesday said the oil companies are also planning to ask oil traders and suppliers not to send shipments to India using Chinese vessels. The power ministry had earlier banned import of Chinese equipment needed for generation, transmission and distribution projects that are manufactured in India. It also laid down a strict quality and malware testing norm for equipment allowed to be imported. Watch LAC face-off: Oil PSUs to stop chartering tankers with China links||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/oil-psus-to-stop-chartering-tankers-with-china-links/articleshow/77514437.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt removes August 28 from lockdown list||KOLKATA: Bengal will have one less total-lockdown day this month as the state government has removed Friday, August 28, from the list. According to a new notification, there will be total lockdowns now on four more days this month — August 20, 21, 27 and 31. The lockdown on August 28 was withdrawn because that would have meant businesses and banking operations shutting down for five consecutive days from August 27 to August 31, affecting month-end transactions and credit of salaries. “The government received several communications and so decided to allow an extra day of business in the month-end,” an official said. This is the third change in the August lockdown dates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-removes-aug-28-from-lockdown-list/articleshow/77514538.cms||---
August 13, 2020||India||Amid I-T raids, China calls for ‘fair environment’ for cos||NEW DELHI: After Chinese nationals were raided by the income tax department for alleged money laundering, Beijing on Wednesday expressed hope that the Indian side will provide a "fair, just and non-discriminatory environment for Chinese enterprises to operate normally in India". "What I can tell you is that the Chinese government has always asked Chinese enterprises to cooperate with other countries on the basis of compliance with international rules and local laws and regulations, while at the same time remaining committed to safeguarding the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese enterprises and citizens," said Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian in Beijing responding to a question from Reuters. The Chinese embassy here said in a separate statement that the Chinese government required foreign governments and relevant departments to enforce the law impartially to ensure the safety and legal rights of its citizens. The Chinese response came even as the income tax department on Wednesday continued its raids against some Chinese individuals and their local associates in connection with its probe into a Rs 1,000 crore worth cross-border money laundering racket using shell or dubious firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-i-t-raids-china-calls-for-fair-environment-for-cos/articleshow/77514587.cms||---
August 13, 2020||World||Amid I-T raids, China calls for ‘fair environment’ for cos||NEW DELHI: After Chinese nationals were raided by the income tax department for alleged money laundering, Beijing on Wednesday expressed hope that the Indian side will provide a "fair, just and non-discriminatory environment for Chinese enterprises to operate normally in India". "What I can tell you is that the Chinese government has always asked Chinese enterprises to cooperate with other countries on the basis of compliance with international rules and local laws and regulations, while at the same time remaining committed to safeguarding the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese enterprises and citizens," said Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian in Beijing responding to a question from Reuters. The Chinese embassy here said in a separate statement that the Chinese government required foreign governments and relevant departments to enforce the law impartially to ensure the safety and legal rights of its citizens. The Chinese response came even as the income tax department on Wednesday continued its raids against some Chinese individuals and their local associates in connection with its probe into a Rs 1,000 crore worth cross-border money laundering racket using shell or dubious firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/amid-i-t-raids-china-calls-for-fair-environment-for-cos/articleshow/77514568.cms||---
August 13, 2020||World||Come November, Kamala could be next in line for US President||WASHINGTON: Democratic nominee Joe Biden on Tuesday picked California Senator Kamala Harris, whose mother was from Tamil Nadu, as his vice-presidential running mate for the 2020 election. Harris, who was born in Oakland, California, and whose father is Jamaican, will be the first Black and Indian-American on a major US party ticket. She is also only the fourth woman in history to be chosen on a major party’s presidential ticket. “I have the great honor to announce that I’ve picked Kamala Harris — a fearless fighter for the little guy, and one of the country’s finest public servants — as my running mate,” Biden had announced earlier. “Back when Kamala was attorney general, she worked closely with Beau. I watched as they took on the big banks, lifted up working people, and protected women and kids from abuse. I was proud then, and I’m proud now to have her as my partner.” Beau Biden, the former vice president’s eldest son, was attorney general of Delaware when Harris was California AG. He died of cancer in 2015. President Trump stepped into the fractious Democratic race, noting Harris had virtually called Biden a racist during the Democratic debate. Despite this, she was on Biden’s shortlist because of her lively record as a prosecutor and in her short stint in the Senate. Although California is a Democratic fortress and Biden doesn’t need her help to win the state, the choice brings a geographical balance to the ticket because the former VP is from Delaware in the east. Biden and Harris are expected to make an appearance in Delaware on Wednesday. Read AlsoAll you need to know about Kamala HarrisNEW DELHI: For the first time in the history of United States of America (USA), a Black-Indian American woman will be the running mate of a major party's presidential candidate. Kamala Harris, 55, has been announced as the Democrat's Vice-President candidate running alongside Joe Biden who is in theAlthough she considers herself Black, Harris has often spoken of her Indian roots. While her Indian heritage did not appear to be a major factor in Biden’s choice, there are significant Indian votes in some key battleground states, besides the fact that Indian-Americans are the best-educated and highest-earning ethnic group in the US and are becoming politically assertive. Watch Kamala Harris: Biden's running mate could be next in line for US President||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/come-november-kamala-could-be-next-in-line-for-us-president/articleshow/77514612.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
August 13, 2020||Business||SAIL's Soma Mondal set to breach steel ceiling||NEW DELHI: The Public Enterprises Selection Board has recommended Soma Mondal to be the next chairperson of the country’s largest steelmaker SAIL, which would make her the first woman to head the state-run steel giant. The appointment of Mondal, the company’s current director (commercial), is yet to be ratified by the appointments committee of the Cabinet and, if approved, she will take over as chairperson of the maharatna PSU from Anil Kumar Chaudhary, who retires in December. Her proposed elevation is significant as she is one of the very few women who have emerged to head public sector companies. In 2013, Nishi Vasudeva became the first woman to head a navratna PSU when she was named CMD of state-run oil major Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd. Mondal majored in electrical engineering from NIT Rourkela and joined state-run aluminium maker Nalco in 1984. After spending several years at Nalco, she joined as director (commercial) at the Steel Authority of India (SAIL) in 2017. "I did not feel different anytime. In 2017 when I came to SAIL, people asked me what my challenges were. I told them there are two challenges, the first being my acceptance there and second was the direction of the steel market. I did not face any problem of acceptance despite the fact that I was a woman in a man’s world. I went to plants, visited all of them, went to the shop floors," Mondal told TOI. "I know my selection goes a long way for the empowerment of women. I worked with passion and as much as any man would have worked," she said. She recalls a meeting in a roomful of men a few years ago. "When the food packets came, somebody said 'ladies first' and I remember our director said, 'She is the only man in the room’. All of us had a good laugh," said Mondal. She grew up in Bhubaneswar in a middle-class family. Her father, an agricultural economist, wanted her to pursue medicine as he did not want his daughter to study engineering in a college full of boys. "My father was protective but I stuck to my decision to do engineering. My mother supported me," Mondal said. She credits her parents for driving home the importance of education and being financially independent. "My mother was an educated woman. She had done her MA in those days. She always wanted to be a doctor but she could not. She wanted her daughters to be professionally qualified and financially independent. Once you do well, the world will respect you," Mondal said, recalling her mother’s words. "For us it was studies. It was very clear that you have to ultimately do something. My sister became a doctor and is practising in the US. I had an elder brother who was also a doctor but he passed away in an accident," she said. Mondal’s husband, an engineer and IIM-Ahmedabad alumnus who worked with UTI, passed away in 2005 and she brought up her three children with help from her parents and mother-in-law while continuing with her job. "Looking ahead, there are a lot of challenges but I am confident that we will be able to make some difference. We have been doing good sales in the last two months, prices have started moving up, I would think the downward cycle has gone and now the next two years should be good for SAIL, I am confident. The government is pushing infrastructure projects and that would be a great help," she said when asked about the challenges of facing the steel behemoth. "Change should come in our efficiency and the driver of the change would be the employees of SAIL. My acceptance is great. That is the feedback I am getting." She says as a woman she brings a unique set of skills to deal with the problem. "One of my plus points being a woman is that I have a lot of empathy and a human touch. I can be a hard taskmaster but I can get work done softly. It is all about teamwork. The team has to know that you trust them, empower them and they will do their best," said Mondal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sails-soma-mondal-set-to-breach-steel-ceiling/articleshow/77514689.cms||Surojit Gupta
August 13, 2020||India||Jamia tops list of central universities in government rankings||NEW DELHI: Jamia Millia Islamia, which had been in turmoil in the past few months, has bagged the first spot among all central universities in the country in rankings released by the ministry of education with a score of 90%. In the ‘Grading/scoring of performance of central universities’ by the ministry, Jamia had a score of 90%, compared to 83% of Rajiv Gandhi University of Arunachal Pradesh, 82% of JNU and 78% of Aligarh Muslim University. Jamia topped among 40 central universities. The score is based on an evaluation on key parameters fixed under an MoU in 2019-20. “All the universities were required to sign a tripartite MoU with MHRD (ministry of education) and UGC for continuous evaluation. Jamia was the first university in 2017 to sign this MoU and present itself for performance evaluation,” said a statement by the university on Wednesday. The evaluation was based on parameters which included annual student intake in UG, PG, PhD and MPhil and student diversity, which included percentage of female students, students from other states and foreign students. The other parameters were faculty quality and strength which included student-teacher ratio, teacher vacancy, visiting faculty, etc. Along with this the central universities were also assessed on the number of students placed through campus interviews, and number of students who qualified in NET, GATE, etc. “Jamia also did well on other parameters of governance, finance, national and international rankings like NIRF, NAAC and QS as well as co-curricular and extracurricular activities,” said the statement. Vice chancellor Najma Akhtar said that the achievement was all the more significant because of the challenging time the university has gone through in the recent past. She attributed the achievement to “high-quality teaching, relevant and focused research of highest quality and improved perception of the university” and hoped to improve the performance in the coming years. One of the parameters focused on financial powers. Universities were being encouraged to ensure a gradual annual increase in user charges/fees charged for various courses and facilities and were expected to strictly follow the General Financial Rules, 2017 issued by department of expenditure, ministry of finance, and Government of India in all their financial transactions, including procurement of goods and services. The MoU also made it obligatory for the universities to adopt the public financial management system for receipt of all funds from UGC and the Centre. It stated that the performance evaluation of the parameters shall be carried out every financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jamia-tops-list-of-central-universities-in-government-rankings/articleshow/77514852.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
August 13, 2020||India||Literacy rate for Muslims worse than SC/STs||NEW DELHI: A decade and a half after the Sachar Committee highlighted the issue, a report from the National Statistical Office reveals that Muslims are on various yardsticks of academic marginalisation as bad or even worse than SCs and STs. The report shows that among the various social groups, the literacy rate for those aged 7 yrs or more was the highest for “others”, which is non-SC/ST/OBC population groups, at 91% for men and 81% for women. This proportion declines to 84% for OBC men and 69% for OBC women. For SCs, the ratio was 80.3% for men and 64% for women and for STs 78% for men and 61% for women. Among religious groups, 88% of Christian men and 82% of women were literate, the highest proportions for both genders. This was followed by Sikhs and Hindus. The literacy rate of 80.6% among Muslim men was equivalent to that for Dalits and marginally higher than the rate among tribals. The literacy rate for Muslim women was higher than Dalit or tribal women, but lower than for women of any other religious group. The gross attendance ratio (people attending a level of education as a proportion of the population of the corresponding age group) was the lowest for Muslims among various social and religious groups at all levels of education except above higher secondary, where it was between the rates for Dalits and tribals. At the primary level, the GAR of 100 for Muslims was lower than “others”, SCs, STs, OBCs, Sikhs, Christians, and Hindus. At the upper primary level, Muslims were the only community whose GAR was below 90%. At the secondary level, the GAR of 71.9% for Muslims was lower than STs (79.8%), SCs and OBCs. Similarly at the higher secondary level, the GAR was lowest for Muslims at 48.3%, well below even the 52.8% for Dalits. Above the higher secondary level, the GAR of 14.5% for Muslims was just above 14.4% for tribals but below 17.8% for Dalits. Unlike the tribal population, of which a significant proportion lives in remote areas, Muslims typically don’t live very far from higher educational institutes and yet the drop out at this level was nearly equal. Muslims also had the highest proportion of youth (age 3-35 yrs) who had never enrolled in formal educational programmes. About 17% of Muslim men in this age group had never been enrolled for education. This was higher than for SCs (13.4%) and STs (14.7%). Similarly, for Muslim females, this ratio was 21.9% comparable with ST females, of whom 22.4% in the age group of 3-35 yrs reported having never enrolled in any academic programme||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/literacy-rate-for-muslims-worse-than-sc/sts/articleshow/77514868.cms||Atul Thakur
August 13, 2020||India||Hope India won't complicate border issue: China||NEW DELHI: Reacting to reports that the LAC stand-off may not get resolved any time soon, China on Wednesday expressed hope that the “Indian side can meet the Chinese side half-way” and not do anything to further complicate the situation. The Chinese embassy spokesperson tweeted late on Wednesday that China hoped India will refrain from any action that will complicate the border situation and that it will create “favourable conditions” for maintaining peace and stability in the border areas and healthy development of bilateral relations. Read AlsoAs China factor looms, India hopes to work with Rajapaksas for developmentWhile China may be in the pole position in Sri Lanka with the Rajapaksas in the saddle again, India seems confident that its outreach to PM Rajapaksa when will ensure the island neighbour doesn't return to its pre-2015 pivot to Beijing. India sees itself as having played a major role in improvingThe statement was apparently in response to a query about an “Indian source” saying that the “confrontation” will last long. The official also said the two countries had been maintaining close communication through military and diplomatic channels and that the overall situation at the border is getting “stable and de-escalated”. Read AlsoIndia tests light combat helicopters in LadakhIndia has deployed two of its new indigenous light combat helicopters, in addition to the heavy-duty Apache attack and Chinook heavy-lift choppers acquired from the US, in Ladakh amid the ongoing military confrontation with China there.The Chinese statement is understood to be Beijing’s response to reports in Indian media quoting government sources as saying that the Indian army is preparing for a long haul in eastern Ladakh where the Chinese have refused to withdraw from Pangong Tso and Depsang Plains areas. Watch Hope India won't complicate border issue, tweets Chinese embassy spokesperson||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hope-india-wont-complicate-border-issue-china/articleshow/77514892.cms||---
August 13, 2020||World||Hope India won't complicate border issue: China||NEW DELHI: Reacting to reports that the LAC stand-off may not get resolved any time soon, China on Wednesday expressed hope that the “Indian side can meet the Chinese side half-way” and not do anything to further complicate the situation. The Chinese embassy spokesperson tweeted late on Wednesday that China hoped India will refrain from any action that will complicate the border situation and that it will create “favourable conditions” for maintaining peace and stability in the border areas and healthy development of bilateral relations. Read AlsoAs China factor looms, India hopes to work with Rajapaksas for developmentWhile China may be in the pole position in Sri Lanka with the Rajapaksas in the saddle again, India seems confident that its outreach to PM Rajapaksa when will ensure the island neighbour doesn't return to its pre-2015 pivot to Beijing. India sees itself as having played a major role in improvingThe statement was apparently in response to a query about an “Indian source” saying that the “confrontation” will last long. The official also said the two countries had been maintaining close communication through military and diplomatic channels and that the overall situation at the border is getting “stable and de-escalated”. Read AlsoIndia tests light combat helicopters in LadakhIndia has deployed two of its new indigenous light combat helicopters, in addition to the heavy-duty Apache attack and Chinook heavy-lift choppers acquired from the US, in Ladakh amid the ongoing military confrontation with China there.The Chinese statement is understood to be Beijing’s response to reports in Indian media quoting government sources as saying that the Indian army is preparing for a long haul in eastern Ladakh where the Chinese have refused to withdraw from Pangong Tso and Depsang Plains areas. Watch Hope India won't complicate border issue, tweets Chinese embassy spokesperson||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/hope-india-wont-complicate-border-issue-china/articleshow/77514900.cms||---
August 13, 2020||India||3 killed in Karnataka in police firing as mobs riot over FB post by MLA’s kin||BENGALURU: Three persons were killed in police firing when mobs ran riot over an alleged inflammatory social media post in east Bengaluru late on Tuesday night. More than 70 police personnel were injured as agitators pelted them with stones and set fire to vehicles, including those parked at two police stations, in KG Halli, DJ Halli and Kavalbyrasandra areas. As many as 35 civilians were injured. A magisterial probe has been ordered. The protests were sparked by a Facebook post by local Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy’s nephew tnnNaveen. Police said the 35-year-old, who runs a real estate business, had ruffled feathers a few days ago with a post on the bhumi pujan in Ayodhya. Police said a feeling of insecurity was building in the localities and on Tuesday, Naveen posted a religious slur against them. Police commissioner Kamal Pant confirmed that Naveen has been arrested. Though Naveen deleted his post and claimed his account had been hacked, community leaders, including local Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) activists, on Tuesday sought police action against him. Police claimed a piece of false news that cops refused to take action is believed to have triggered the violence. The mayhem ended in the early hours of Wednesday, after reinforcements were rushed to the troubled localities and police burst teargas shells and resorted to lathicharge at several places. Curfew was imposed in areas under KG Halli, DJ Halli, Bharathinagar, Pulikeshinagar and Banaswadi police stations till the midnight of August 14. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC have been clamped on the entire Bengaluru city till Thursday morning. As many as 145 men, including Muzammil Pasha, a leader of the SDPI state unit, have been arrested in connection with the violence in which 17 vehicles were torched and 73 damaged. Two of the dead have been identified as Yasin Pasha, 28, and Wazid Ahmed, 25, of KG Halli. Pasha assisted his father in their mutton stall while Ahmed did odd jobs. One of the dead has tested Covid-positive, sources said. The protests began around 7pm on Tuesday, with a group of people -- angered by Naveen’s post -- gathering at the Pulikeshinagar MLA’s house in Kavalbyrasandra. Another group approached KG Halli police station with a complaint against the FB post. Soon, the protest took a violent turn, with mobs vandalising the MLA’s house and that of his nephew. A bid to torch Naveen’s house was foiled as a fire tender arrived in time. While police sought time to look into the complaint, mobs attacked KG Halli and DJ Halli police stations. Vehicles parked close by were torched and turned into barricades to prevent reinforcements from rushing in. After bursting of tear-gas shells and lathicharge failed to disperse the mobs, police opened fire. Police were tightlipped about the number of places at which it opened fire but sources in the force said 20 rounds were fired. On Wednesday, paramilitary forces of Karnataka State Reserve Police carried out a flag march in the lanes of DJ Halli and KG Halli from morning to night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-killed-in-karnataka-in-police-firing-as-mobs-riot-over-fb-post-by-mlas-kin/articleshow/77514912.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 13, 2020||India||Bengaluru riot: 'News of police not accepting complaint led to flare-up'||BENGALURU: The riots that rocked parts of Bengaluru on Tuesday night has its genesis in a small meeting of local minority community members in Kavalbyrasandra area. The agenda was to discuss a derogatory Facebook post by a relative of local MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy and the members decided to take up the matter with the lawmaker and the police. The group was miffed that Naveen, the Congress legislator’s nephew, sounded jubilant that the bhumi pujan was conducted for the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. While the comments on bhumi pujan were posted a few days ago, and Naveen’s post on Tuesday -- a slur against their faith -- was the last straw. The community leaders, including some local SDPI activists, decided to press for action against him. Police sources told TOI that it was “false news, which was spread about policemen on duty not accepting a complaint against Naveen, led to the flare up.” “Since Naveen is nephew of an MLA, his posts angered people. Moreover, Naveen was accused of cheating several local residents on the pretext of jobs, land deals, government tenders and pilgrimage to Mecca,” said an investigating officer. A group comprising SDPI activists, headed to Srinivasamurthy’s house, while another went to KG Halli police station. “We did not reject a complaint against Naveen. We only told the group to wait for senior officers to arrive as it was a cyber crime and a sensitive issue. But they wanted Naveen to be arrested immediately. We explained that wasn’t possible without proper evidence. We assured them of action against, but they refused to listen,” personnel at KG Halli police station said. Word that the police were refusing to act spread fast. Watch Bengaluru riot: 'News of cops not accepting complaint led to flare-up'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengaluru-riot-news-of-police-not-accepting-complaint-led-to-flare-up/articleshow/77514914.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 13, 2020||Mysuru||Guest lecturers want their jobs regularised||Mysuru: Members of Government Degree College Guest Lecturers Association protested near the DC office on Tuesday demanding that the government regularize their services. JD(S) MLC KT Srikante Gowda too joined the protest supporting the lecturers. The protesters said their jobs should be regularized in the way it was done in Haryana. They added that they must be paid full salary by considering the lockdown period as service period. “The government should ensure medical facilities and PF for lecturers who are in financial crisis. It should provide Rs 10 lakh for the family members of guest lecturers who have committed suicide,” they said. Association district president Mahadevaiah and vice-president Sumitra Balasubramanyam were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/guest-lecturers-want-their-jobs-regularised/articleshow/77510572.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Business||Spotlight on desi games, Ludo King dethrones PUBG||Chennai: With the entire country locked-in and craving indoor entertainment, India has not just emerged as the world’s largest downloader of gaming apps, but users have sided with desi games. In April-June, there were 15.1 billion game downloads globally and India topped generating 2.7 billion downloads- almost 18%- of all downloads, as per app intelligence firm Sensor Tower. The most-loved gaming app in India during the quarter was Ludo King, which, as per Sensor Tower, generated around 48.3 million downloads in the period, beating gaming giant PUBG Mobile that ranked number three with 30.8 million new installs. Ludo King, developed by Vikash Jaiswal and his company Gametion Tech, has been steadily climbing the charts for a few quarters now and the pandemic accelerated its growth. It was the second most downloaded game in India in January-March at 29.5 million downloads, again beating PUBG Mobile which came in third. “Ludo King has fared particularly well during the Covid-19 pandemic, with downloads increasing dramatically,” Craig Chapple, Mobile Insights Strategist, Sensor Tower told TOI. “In February, the title generated 10.8 million downloads, while in April it accumulated 26 million downloads, an increase of 140.7%.” Chapple added that anti-China sentiment had little role to play in the gaming category, and the boost for local gaming apps was likely due to its connect with the local audience. “Ludo is a game we all played in our childhood and the app brought in a much-needed social connection during the lockdown with a simple interface and ability to play in groups of four,” Vikash Jaiswal, creator of Ludo King and founder, Gametion Technologies, said. While Ludo King’s daily active users (DAU) was around 25 million last year, the app’s current DAU (at its peak) is approx 43 million. The company had to migrate from 25 servers to 200 servers to meet its peak daily traffic during the lockdown with users spending an average 50-55 minutes on the app, Jaiswal added. Though global titles such as PUBG Mobile, Call of Duty, and others enjoy huge popularity in India, industry trackers say that as more local success stories emerge more homegrown studios will gain. Manish Agarwal, CEO of game developer Nazara Technologies believes India now has enough mobile game players making it a large consumption market not just for downloads but also monetization. “The green shoots started pre-Covid and Covid accelerated the growth,” he said. The cricket game World Cricket Championship from Nazara-owned Nextwave Multimedia, helped fill the cricket void during the pandemic, and reported a 25% surge in DAUs. The app welcomed 25% new users to the game at the initial stage of lockdown and has seen in-app purchase growth of almost 100%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/spotlight-on-desi-games-ludo-king-dethrones-pubg/articleshow/77512287.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 13, 2020||Business||HMSI to focus on rural market, entry level segment||Chennai: In an effort to capture a larger chunk of rural demand which currently finds its lowest priced model CD110 too expensive, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India has kicked off ‘investigations’ to come out with a 100 cc motorcycle that will capture rural commuter consumers in larger numbers, said HMSI’s new MD, president & CEO Atsushi Ogata. This is a departure from the urban and premium focus of HMSI which made it distinct from its former partner and now arch rival Hero Motocorp. “Our CD110 is a strong model but we realised there is a price gap with competition and some rural customers cannot purchase our product because it is expensive,” said Ogata. CD110 is roughly Rs 11,000 pricier than the competitor Hero Motocorp’s Splendor Plus. “We have now started investigation on a 100 cc motorcycle that will help capture volume sales from customers and our internal teams, local R&D teams as well as the product development team in Japan are already working on it. Already Tier 1 suppliers and local suppliers are on it and soon there will be a product from us for this segment,” he added. The entry level push comes along with other categories that HMSI is targeting where it currently has no presence. “We have already invested a lot going into new categories where we have never been playing in the past,” said Ogata. “This includes bigger displacement and sportier products which will come to India soon.” The aggression to take on Hero Motocorp in what is its bread butter and jam segment comes from Honda’s realisation that India is the only market where it does not have a dominant marketshare footprint. “In all of Asia-Oceania and Asean, the Honda presence is very strong — around 80% before the Covid outbreak — but in India we do not have the same momentum," said Ogata. This also comes at a time when HMSI’s core business of scooters is facing some road blocks with urban demand stalling. Scooters currently comprise 66%-67% of HMSI sales and rural contribution in both scooters and motorcycles went up by 4% in the April-July period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hmsi-to-focus-on-rural-market-entry-level-segment/articleshow/77512353.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Citrus peel for antibiotic-free poultry feed in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Chicken lovers have something to cheer about as experts in Punjab have developed antibiotic-free poultry feed supplement made from citrus peels by using nano and biotechnology interventions. The free use of antibiotics in poultry feed over the years, despite a ban, has emerged as a major concern for health experts. Excessive use of antibiotics is considered as one of the key reasons for causing antibiotic resistance in humans as they become passive consumers through residues in poultry. Antibiotic-free poultry farming is fast becoming popular across the world as people have started preferring antibiotic-free products. Developed by Dr Mini Singh, associate professor in the department of biotechnology, Punjabi University, Patiala, and K S Pannu, commissioner, food and drug administration (FDA), it has been approved for use as a poultry feed supplement so as to replace the use of antibiotics in poultry farming. The team has filed a patent for the product. Limonin, which has natural strong antibiotic properties, found abundantly in kinnow peels, was used in the product. To improve its absorption capacity upon administration to poultry, nanotechnology intervention was used which showed promising results in a trial that was conducted by a team of scientists at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (Gadvasu), Ludhiana. An experiment was conducted on 200 chicks divided into seven groups to assess the effect of limonin on the health of commercial broilers. The results revealed that nano formulations led to improved health in birds in terms of muscle weight and redness, indicating clear improved poultry meat characteristics, which are important for the industry. The process of technology transfer for this product is under progress by Punjab Agro Industries Corporation. Dr Singh stated that it is expected that the product will not only lead to better poultry-based products for human consumption, but also enhance the export of the same. Pannu said the formulation will effectively protect the birds from infections for which the poultry framers give them artificially made antibiotics. Besides, the product will also provide a solution for sustainable use of horticulture waste, converting it into a value-added product.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/citrus-peel-for-antibiotic-free-poultry-feed/articleshow/77513806.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 13, 2020||Business||Deutsche Bank infuses Rs 2,700cr into Indian ops||Mumbai: Deutsche Bank has infused Rs 2,700 crore into its India operations to fund growth plans in the country. With this, the total capital deployed by Deutsche Bank in its Indian branches stands at Rs 18,200 crore. “The incremental capital being injected into our India franchise is a strong validation of our confidence in our business model and potential in this country, and is demonstrative of our intent to further deepen our presence here. The recent months have thrown up opportunities for us to work ever more closely with our clients and support them with best-in-class services and advice in steering through the current operating environment,” Deutsche Bank India chief country officer Kaushik Shaparia said. Subsequently to the investment, the capital adequacy ratio of its Indian branches has further strengthened to well above the minimum requirement. As on March 31, 2020, capital adequacy stood at 14.9%. This is the second time within two years that Deutsche Bank has increased the capital deployed in its Indian operations. The previous capital increase of Rs 3,800 crore was deployed in early 2019. This capital will be used to grow businesses across segments — corporate banking, investment banking, and international private banking — which has been consistently growing over the years. The year 2020 marks 40 years since Deutsche Bank opened its first India branch in Mumbai. Since then, it has grown to become one of the largest international banks in the country with assets of Rs 1.2 lakh crore as on March 31, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/deutsche-bank-infuses-rs-2700cr-into-indian-ops/articleshow/77513375.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 13, 2020||Lucknow||Aspiring for admission to BBAU? Brace for a stiff contest||Lucknow: If you are looking forward to taking admission to a doctoral course at Dr Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University (BBAU), be ready to face stiff competition this year. Out of total 23 PhD courses being offered by the university, more than 10 candidates will be vying for every seat in 21 doctoral programs. There are at least 12 courses in which 20 candidates will battle it out for a single seat. There are total 38 seats up for grabs for which 856 applications have been received. The highest competition is in PhD (library science) where there are 68 applicants for only one seat. The next toughest course for admission will be PhD in LLM (law) where 57 students will compete for only one seat. For one seat each for PhD in education and management, 45 and 42 candidates, respectively, have applied for admission. “Students don’t want to leave the city due to novel coronavirus pandemic and are looking for the best option available in the state. Being a central university, BBAU is the first preference of candidates,” said admission coordinator Prof Kushendra Mishra. Competition is also tough at undergraduate and postgraduate levels as of the total 53 courses offered by the university, more than five candidates are competing on every seat for admission to 43 courses. In eight courses at undergraduate level, the toughest fight will be for admission to BA (Hons) in public administration and BEd where 17 and 15 candidates, respectively, will compete for every seat. The university has received 1,067 applications for 60 seats in BA (Hons) and 1,904 applications for 124 seats in BEd. Admission to 43 post-graduate courses will also be challenging for candidates. In MSc (agri horticulture), 26 candidates will fight for every seat as 1,001 applications have been received for 38 seats. For LLM course, 22 candidates will compete for every seat as 846 applications have been received for 38 seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aspiring-for-admission-to-bbau-brace-for-a-stiff-contest/articleshow/77514130.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||Digha trawlers bring back 700kg of hilsa||Digha: The season’s largest hilsa catch was reported in Digha on Wednesday with trawlers returning with 700kg of the fish. Since the fishing season began on June 15, hilsa has been eluding fishing nets in the Bay of Bengal. Fishermen from Digha, as well as Diamond Harbour, were returning empty handed, leading to heavy losses. The main reason for the missing hilsa was unfavourable weather. Easterly winds and light rain favours the hilsa, which have been missing this season. Only a small quantity of hilsa had arrived in markets and was sold at an exorbitant price. Naba Kumar Paira of Digha Fishermen and Fish Traders’ Association said, “After the fishing season started, none of the trawlers were returning with hilsa. Things changed on Wednesday when 50 trawlers docked with 700 kg hilsa besides other fish.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/digha-trawlers-bring-back-700kg-of-hilsa/articleshow/77512699.cms||Suman Mondal
August 13, 2020||Business||PM Modi set to unveil scheme to reward honest taxpayers||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to unveil the much-awaited scheme to reward honest taxpayers on Thursday. While the government has for long talked about various plans — ranging from cashback or rewards under GST for those using digital modes of payment to make purchases — it has so far failed to implement them. In fact, several other steps were contemplated on the GST side, but none have seen the light of the day so far. Similarly, there have been recommendations from the Central Board of Direct Taxes to recognise taxpayers at district and state level, besides helping them access government services quickly. Again, the revenue department has failed to implement them for months. There have also been suggestions to offer additional benefits for those who pay their taxes honestly. But the government is unwilling to move in that direction, fearing that it will result in foregoing revenue or incurring expenditure. In the Budget, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced a Taxpayers’ Charter, which is among the set of measures that Modi is expected to announce on Thursday, when he launches the platform to honour honest taxpayers and usher in greater transparency. Officials said some effort is being made to stipulate timelines, so that taxpayers are not made to run to officers, seeking something that rightfully belongs to them. Over the last few weeks, CBDT has been publicising the faceless tax assessment scheme — where the identity of the assessees and the tax officers are not known — that was launched last year. Modi is expected to take the process forward after himself looking at presentations made by CBDT over the last few weeks. In his speeches too, the PM has spoken about the need to recognise honest taxpayers at a time when the government is battling an acute resource crunch. Modi has several ideas on toning up the direct tax regime and had himself advocated rewriting the law and steps to ensure that more effort is made to expand the tax base, which is largely confined to the salaried and transactions where tax is deducted or collected at source. In fact, he had flagged the issue at a meeting with tax officers a few years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pm-set-to-unveil-scheme-to-reward-honest-taxpayers/articleshow/77513246.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Patna||Woman CBI officer to get medal for Muzaffarpur home probe||PATNA: CBI inspector Vibha Kumari, the investigating officer in the Muzaffarpur children’s home rape case, has been selected for the Union home minister’s medal for ‘excellence in investigation’ for 2020. Vibha, who entered the service in 2003, is currently posted with the anti-corruption branch of the CBI in Patna. She is one of 15 CBI officers selected for the award this year. The officer hails from Bihar. Another officer from Bihar, CBI inspector Rakesh Ranjan, who is currently posted in Bengaluru with the anti-corruption branch, is also among the 15 officers selected for the medal. In the Muzaffarpur case, 19 people, including prime accused Brajesh Thakur, have been convicted by a special court in Delhi. Thakur was awarded life imprisonment in February this year. Sources said Vibha along with other CBI officers in Patna worked extensively to get statements of all minor victims recorded meticulously with the help of psychologists, who were roped in from the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) in Bangalore and AIIMS-Patna. According to ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar, Kishanganj SP Kumar Ashish, inspectors Vinod Kumar Pandey and Sanjeev Kumar and sub-inspector Vivek Bharti are also among officers from the state police who have been selected for the Union home minister’s medal for excellence in investigation. Ashish is a 2012 Bihar cadre IPS officer hailing from Jamui. Both inspectors are posted with the vigilance investigation bureau while the SI is posted with Begusarai district police. The ADG said all these officers would be awarded with medal on Independence Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-cbi-officer-to-get-medal-for-muzaffarpur-home-probe/articleshow/77511215.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 13, 2020||Patna||‘Gaya airport runway safe’||GAYA: Flyers using the Gaya International Airport need not worry as the runway is safe for the take-off and landing of aircraft, including Airbus 320, said airport director Dilip Kumar. “Comparisons should not be made with the Kozhikode airport, which has a tabletop runway. The topography of the two airports are completely different and all safety norms are maintained in copybook style,” Kumar said. “Apart from 2,286 metre-long runway, there is a 90x90 metre ‘safe area’ on either side of it. Moreover, the runway was re carpeted a couple of years back and it has been strengthened as per the international parameters,” he said. Asked about the outcome of the ‘obstacle survey’ conducted a few months back to identify the fault-lines and take corrective measures, the airport director said the report was confidential. “Follow-up action is being taken on the basis of the obstacle survey report,” he said. On the point of take-off or landing of wide-body planes, including the Boeing, Kumar said the runway is not long enough to host wide-body planes but given the level of traffic, Airbus 320 is operational. “Whenever it is possible, the runway expansion will be done on the Cherki side of the airport as the NH-83 side has got some obstacles,” he said. According to Arun Kumar Ojha, a hospitality sector expert, the expansion of the Gaya airport runway was a must as airlines across the world were phasing out narrow-body planes and replacing them with the wide-body models. “Economy of scale also favours wide-body planes and at least 500 metres more are to be added to the runway for that,” he said. Earlier, the Union home ministry notified Gaya airport as the destination airport for Bihar-Jharkhand residents to be evacuated under the Vande Bharat mission. More than 20,000 people of the two states stranded in more than a dozen countries like the UK, Russia, Ukraine and the UAE have reached Gaya during the lockdown period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-airport-runway-safe/articleshow/77511236.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 13, 2020||Patna||Katihar man disowns pregnant wife raped by her maternal uncle||PATNA: In a shocking incident, a man refused to accept his wife who had become pregnant after being allegedly raped by her maternal uncle at a village under Falka police station in Katihar for several months. The victim, aged around 20 years, submitted a written complaint to Falka police station on Tuesday against her maternal uncle for raping and impregnating her. Police said the victim is eight months’ pregnant. She has also named four other family members in the FIR, including her maternal grandfather, for thrashing and kicking her out of their residence. Police said the victim’s parents were no more and it was her maternal grandfather who got her married to a person under Rupauli police station area in Purnea district. But she had been staying in Katihar since more than nine months. A police team went to her maternal uncle’s place on Wednesday, but he was not found there, Falka police station SHO Sunil Kumar Mandal said. “The victim would be produced before judicial magistrate on Thursday for recording her statement,” he said. The SHO, quoting the FIR, said she was raped by her maternal uncle for several months under threat that he would kill her if she told anyone about it. “The victim said she went to her husband after being kicked out of her maternal uncle’s home, but he refused to accept her saying she should better stay with the one whose child she is carrying in her womb,” he said. The SHO said a meeting took place in the village a few days back in which her maternal uncle had agreed to pay her Rs2 lakh in ten days for not dragging the matter to police. “Later, he refused to pay her saying he would better fight a case,” the SHO quoted the victim as saying. Mandal said the woman was presently living in her maternal uncle’s residence. “Her maternal grandfather urged police not to register a case saying Rs2 lakh had been already paid to the victim’s husband,” the SHO added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-disowns-pregnant-wife-raped-by-her-maternal-uncle/articleshow/77511209.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 13, 2020||Hubballi||South Western Railway unveils Karnataka’s longest bridge in Vijayapura||VIJAYAPURA: The new Friendship Bridge, connecting Lachyan in Karnataka and Hotgi in Maharashtra across Bheema river, has become a major attraction not only for train travellers on the route, but also for people from the neighbouring districts. The 670m bridge, located in Vijayapura district, is now considered to be the longest bridge in South Western Railway limits. This ‘Engineering Marvel’, as described by railway minister Piyush Goyal, is expected to play a crucial role in the economic development of both the states. People also call it ‘Friendship Bridge’, indicating the sentiments locals have attached to it. SWR general manager A K Singh told TOI that the doubling project from Hotgi-Kudgi-Gadag spanning 284km was sanctioned by the Railway Board in 2014-15. “The bridge has been constructed as part of a project taken up under customer funding model with National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC, a public sector undertaking). This is one such project in Indian Railways where customer of the project too have contributed,” he explained. E Vijaya, CPRO, SWR, said that the doubling work will increase the line capacity, help in avoiding detention of trains waiting for crossing, and introducing additional trains on the route. “This will also help in the smooth movement of rakes to/ from industries/ power plants besides boosting the overall economic development of the region. This is an important rail link connecting Bengaluru and Mumbai. Tourist places like Bagalkot and Vijayapura also get connectivity with this,” she added. K C Swami, chief administrative officer (construction), said that the track passes through 670m bridge over river Bheema. “The bridge has been designed for 25T axle loading. Currently, speed restrictions are imposed on the existing bridge as it is not capable of carrying higher axle loads. The bridge consists of two lines — first one is ready for traffic movement, while the second will be ready by October. Once ready, it will increase the speed of goods trains and throughput,” he added. He recalled that the old bridge, being 133 years’ old, was having speed restriction of 30kmph. “Now the speed restriction is removed. Stage-by-stage checking and inspection was done by the Research and Design Standards Organisation,” the officer explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/south-western-railway-unveils-karnatakas-longest-bridge-in-vijayapura/articleshow/77512349.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 13, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Covid warriors deployed on monitoring those isolated at home work 12 hours a day||HUBBALLI: The Dharwad district administration has constituted as many as 24 teams, each comprising a doctor and a field officer, to monitor the condition of asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and those with mild symptoms, all of whom are quarantined at home. Members of these 24 teams work for 12 hours a day, ensuring that these patients remain upbeat, and checking their key health parameters, et al. All the while, these Covid-19 warriors are putting themselves at risk since they have to be in proximity with patients who are positive for the novel coronavirus. In many cases, these warriors have found themselves in situations where they have had to shift patients who develop complications to the nearest hospital. A day spent in the company of these warriors gives one a glimpse of the demanding nature of their duty, and the sense of purpose with which they discharge. The day of these Covid-19 warriors begins early, when they get a list of patients they are to visit. While there are those patients, the condition of whom need to be monitored, and there are those freshly diagnosed with Covid-19, the homes of whom need to be inspected to see whether or not isolation is possible. In the event of the doctors and health department staff deciding that the house is not suitable for home quarantine, the patient is shifted to a Covid Care Centre. Dr Basavaraj Kamadolli, one of the warriors assigned to the task of monitoring patients quarantined at home, said that it was their proximity to Covid-19 patients that was the most challenging part of their job. “Even the slightest mistake may prove costly since there is always the chance of us contracting the infection,” said Dr Kamadolli, adding that Dharwad DC Nitesh Patil interacted with them via video calls when they were on duty. Nodal officer for teams involved in home isolation Dr Sampath Singh S Rangwale said that dealing with patients in slums, who were inexplicably reluctant to follow instructions, was yet another challenge. “So, we have to make frequent trips to those areas and repeatedly educate them on the need to follow precautions,” Dr Rangwale, expressing his appreciation for all the members of the teams. DC Nitesh Patil too said that he was impressed with the work being done by the teams. “The district administration is behind Covid-19 patients, and members of all teams are committed to taking care of them. We will be adding six more teams to monitor those isolated at home,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/covid-warriors-deployed-on-monitoring-those-isolated-at-home-work-12-hours-a-day/articleshow/77512278.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 13, 2020||Mysuru||Covid-19 victim cremated after three days||MANDYA: The body of a woman, who had died due to Covid-19 three days ago, was cremated amidst police security at Nelamakanahalli in Malavalli taluk on Wednesday. The body of the 68-year-old woman was not cremated for three days due to opposition from villagers. The victim’s body was kept in the mortuary of Mandya Medical College (MIMS), which is also a Covid hospital. On Tuesday, officials and relatives of the dead woman struggled to find a place to perform her last rites, as residents of Hosahalli and Nelamakanahalli villages were strongly opposed to her cremation taking place in their village. District officials were criticised for their inability to ensure a dignified cremation for the dead woman. Finally, Mandya deputy commissioner M V Venkatesh ordered local officials to cremate the body of the woman by deploying the police in full force. Malavalli tahsildar Chandramouli and senior officials conducted the last rites of the victim. “We are appalled as we were forced to spend more than 72 hours guessing when the cremation of our relative could take place. It is scary and inhuman to deny a dignified cremation to a Covid-19 victim,” said a relative. “How can family members bear the pain of the body of their relative being kept in cold storage in a mortuary? We felt helpless at not being able to perform the cremation, which is a pious duty towards the dead person,” he said. A senior official confessed that there were failures on part of the district administration in ensuring the dignified cremation of Covid-19 victims. “We did not expect people to be so heartless, as to not allow the cremation of a Covid-19 victim. It was a tragedy that the bereaved family members had to wait for three days to perform the last rites of their dead relative,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/covid-19-victim-cremated-after-three-days/articleshow/77512019.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||Salt Lake reports no Covid death in 12 days||KOLKATA: Salt Lake has reported no Covid deaths in the past 12 days. In this period, the entire Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC), which also includes Duttabad, Sukantanagar, Mahishbatan and Rajarhat, did not report any Covid death. The only death reported in this period, that of BMC Ward 6 councillor and Baguiati resident Subhash Bose on August 5, has been registered in Kolkata because he died in a city nursing home. The Covid death toll here stands at 41, unchanged since July 31. However, the daily figure continues to fluctuate in the BMC area, with 2,846 Covid cases reported till Wednesday. According to sources, Salt Lake proper contributed to about 35% of the total Covid cases and the rest have been reported from the Rajarhat side, mainly from pockets of Baguiati and Kestopur, and from Duttabad and Sukantanagar. At present, there are no containment zones in Salt Lake. Though Covid numbers continued to fluctuate, the recovery rate was around 51%, with a daily average of about 40 people getting well. A total of 51 people were reportedly released from safe homes or isolation units in the past 24 hours. Till the end of May, only about 90 people had been affected by Covid in the area. The numbers started to surge from mid-June and by June 30, the cases spiked to 480. July witnessed a 3.5-fold increase with 1,461 new cases. Till Tuesday, over 830 new cases have been reported this month. Civic officials said though it is early to say if the Covid numbers have peaked in BMC, the data curve of the past week is more or less a plateau, which is encouraging. “Most of those who are testing positive have mild symptoms and many are asymptomatic. Most are staying in home isolation and recovering within a week or two,” said a civic official. The highest single-day record in Bidhannagar was on August 4 with 135 new cases. Since then, the daily cases have crossed the three-figure mark only on two days.  There have been scattered complaints from residents of different areas in Salt Lake and Rajarhat that the civic authorities were not keeping in touch with affected families and were not taking steps to prevent the virus from spreading further. However, the civic authorities said they were taking all necessary actions, like sanitization in all the wards, collecting swab samples daily, sending Covid patients without isolation facilities at home to safe houses and holding awareness campaigns. “Unfortunately, some people are still flouting safety norms. We have been receiving reports that in some places, family members of Covid patients were not following the quarantine or isolation rules,” said a civic official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-reports-no-covid-death-in-12-days/articleshow/77512624.cms||Suman Chakraborti
August 13, 2020||Business||Desi jobs attract resumes from abroad||MUMBAI: When TeamLease Services recently advertised for an opening in a marketing role at the recruitment firm, it was surprised to receive a response from candidates not only across India but from the US as well. Both employers and employees have recognised the potential of working from any location. This has opened up a geographically diverse talent pool for companies to hire from. For candidates, the canvas of job opportunities just got wider. Not only that. The situation could be advantageous for India as global companies are expected to outsource jobs, said hiring firms. Randstad India head (strategic account management) Sanjay Shetty said global CEOs the firm interacts with are keen on outsourcing to India jobs in R&D, processing and design, in addition to technology. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+: Now, foreigners applying for jobs in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/desi-jobs-attract-resumes-from-abroad/articleshow/77513298.cms||Namrata Singh
August 13, 2020||Nashik||ZP implements SACH across district||Nashik: The health survey and analysis of people with co-morbid conditions, which was successfully tried in Sinnar taluka, will now be replicated across the district. The application is meant to keep tab on the health parameters of senior citizens and those with co-morbid conditions. Both these groups of people are considered to be at high risk of catching the Covid-19 infection. The health office of the Nashik zilla parishad has designed the survey and analysis of Covid-19 co-morbid health (SACH) application for Sinnar taluka and launched on July 30. It has a system to alert the entire health department for early intervention measures. “Citizens above 60 years of age and those with co-morbidity are more vulnerable. We have noticed that less than 5% cases turn critical, most of who are from these high risk groups. Their health has to be strictly monitored to ensure early treatment,” the officers said. A database of the high-risk population of the district will now be entered into the SACH application. It can be tracked easily using a dashboard. “Teachers and ASHA workers joint team visits these people twice a week and check for body temperature, saturated oxygen in body, and if the person is facing any health problems,” the officer added. In case the data is not taken and submitted in time, the health teams look for the missing link and check what has happened. This way, officials are able to monitor the status of the vulnerable groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/zp-implements-sach-across-district/articleshow/77511300.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 13, 2020||Patna||Migratory birds flock to Bhagalpur riverine areas||BHAGALPUR: At a time when human beings are scared amid Covid-19 pandemic, flocks of exclusive migratory birds — ‘Oriental Turtle Dove’ and ‘Oriental Honey Buzzard’ have made the riverine areas of the Ganga their ideal abode and breeding ground in the region. The Oriental Turtle Dove, also known as Rufous Turtle Dove, is found in Siberia and other parts of eastern Asia and Europe besides in the Himalayan region and normally descends on the plains during winter, said environmentalist and birdwatcher Deepak Kumar Jhunnu, who witnessed the flocks of the migratory bird in Kalbalia Dhar diara near Dhruvganj village in Kharik block of Naugachia subdivision recently. The migratory bird, which has four species across the world, is also found in North America, he said and added the species is predominantly ‘granivorous’ (those feeding on grain). The Oriental Honey Buzzard or Crested Honey Buzzard were also seen in the same village, added Deepak, saying it feeds on bees, wasps, rodents, reptiles, insects and other smaller prey including insect larvae. The Honey Buzzard is known to tear down honeycombs and carry it away to feed on itself and for its young ones, he said. The flying and fluttering wings at the peak of the ascent is characteristic of Oriental Honey Buzzard. It mostly breeds in central Siberia, Japan and parts of other Asian countries and migrate to wintering areas in southeast Asia, including flying over the East China Sea by taking 700 kilometres non-stop flight, Deepak said. The region is becoming ideal habitat for several migratory birds due to water bodies, green vegetation and clean environment of Gangetic diara areas in Bhagalpur and adjoining areas, Deepak said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/migratory-birds-flock-to-bhagalpur-riverine-areas/articleshow/77511340.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar government designates AIIMS-Patna as centre of excellence for clinical management||PATNA: The state government has designated AIIMS-Patna as ‘Covid-19 Centre of Excellence for clinical management’. The hospital will now train doctors and health workers across the state and also provide suggestions for treating Covid-19 patients. The decision in this regard was taken after the Centre had asked all the states to select one health institute to act as CoE for clinical management in this pandemic. The Centre has appointed AIIMS-Delhi at national level. A letter was issued by Bihar State Health Society on August 10, designating AIIMS-Patna for this purpose. “The CoE will form an interactive ecosystem enabling for two-way communication to understand and resolve clinical concern on patient management and enhance the capacity development by disseminating resources to all dedicated facilities,” read a part of the letter issued by SHC’s executive director Manoj Kumar. AIIMS-Patna director Dr PK Singh said they had prepared a framework for providing training to doctors and health workers in other medical colleges and hospitals in other districts as well. AIIMS-P’s Covid-19 in charge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said they will set up a 24X7 call centre to be in touch with other doctors and health workers to provide them with any guidance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-designates-aiims-p-as-centre-of-excellence-for-clinical-management/articleshow/77511301.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: Congress eyes Seemanchal seats again||PATNA: Congress is once again eyeing the assembly seats in Seemanchal region for the upcoming state election. The party has started its preparation tocontesr the seats in this Muslim-dominated region, especially after it lost the Kishanganj assembly seat to Asaduddin Owasi-led AIMIM. The Kishanganj seat has become a ‘prestige issue’ for the grand old party and it is trying hard to win it back. Sources said the party is even planning to begin its virtual rally in the state from this very region. However, senior leaders refused to comment on the issue. There are 25 assembly seats in the Seemanchal region. In 2015, Congress fought on eight seats in this region and six of its candidates had won. Even though AIMIM made its entry in 2015, the party could not do any harm to RJD-JDU-Congress alliance (Mahagathbandhan ) and lost all the seats. But the Lok Sabha election results in 2019 made the Congress jittery. Though Congress MLA Mohammad Jawed had won the Kishanganj parliamentary seat by procuring 3,67,017 votes, AIMIM’s Akhtarul Imam managed to get 2,95,029 votes. After Jawed’s entry into Parliament, Congress gave ticket to his mother but lost its sitting Kishanganj assembly seat to AIMIM’s Qamrul Hoda. In fact, Congress was at third the position and it was BJP’s Sweety Singh, who managed the second highest number of votes in the bypoll. When asked what will be the party’s strategy to win Seemanchal, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary in charge for Bihar, Ajay Kapoor said, “We still have hold in this region. I am sure we will perform well and I will personally visit those areas.” Congress minority wing head Minnat Rahmani also said that the party has hold in Seemanchal. He further said they will be raising migrant issues and flood in this election and demand Rs 10,000 to be given in account of each family which has no source of income now in Covid-19 pandemic. Meanwhile, Congress is scheduled to begin its virtual rally from August 25 across the state. State Congress secretary incharge, Ajay Kapoor said, hundred rallies will be held, which will be addressed by senior leaders. Kapoor further said Rahul Gandhi will also hold virtual rallies next month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-eyes-seemanchal-seats-again/articleshow/77511154.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 13, 2020||Business||Non-Covid hospital bills add to health claim surge||CHENNAI/BENGALURU: After a four-month lull, insurance claims for hospitalisation are gathering pace, for both Covid as well as non-Covid treatments. While the number of claims on account of the pandemic crossed 1.5 lakh (Rs 2,000 crore in value), the number of non-Covid claims is almost back at pre-lockdown levels but with the average claim size increasing 25%. This is a trend shift from the first four months of the lockdown where health insurance claims shrank as policyholders delayed elected procedures like cataract, knee-replacement surgeries were postponed, and hospitalisation for accidental injury or infectious diseases were fewer because of the lockdown. Also, insurers did not face Covid claims in the first quarter as most of the treatment was undertaken at government facilities. Health claims had dropped to 50% of pre-Covid monthly average in April-May, rose after Unlock 1.0 to 85% in June, and returned to the earlier average in July, said Cholamandalam MS General Insurance MD Suryanarayanan V. According to Star Health and Allied Insurance MD S Prakash, average claim size of (non-Covid) hospitalisation is now Rs 51,000 from Rs 41,000 earlier because of mandatory Covid-19 tests, personal protective equipment costs and staff-handling charges. Of the 1.5 lakh Covid claims so far, 1.2 lakh cases (Rs 1,625 crore in value) are those reported by insurers to the General Insurance Council. The remaining 30,756 are under Ayushman Bharat, according to National Health Authority (NHA) data. Of the 23 lakh people tested positive, only about 16 lakh have required hospitalisation, and of these only 10% are covered under insurance, NHA said. This could rise to 15% as reliance on Ayushman Bharat increases in tier-2 and -3 cities, along with rural areas. Under the Ayushman Bharat scheme, more than 12 crore e-cards have been issued to beneficiaries with over 1 crore admissions since the start of the scheme in September 2018. The non-Covid claims, which rose in July, include those for cancer surgeries & chemotherapy, emergency general procedures, and surgeries like removal of appendix & gallbladder, cardiac consultations and emergency cardiac surgeries. “We saw non-Covid claims fall sharply in April. However, the rate of these claims doubled in June and again in July. Today, we have close to about 20 lakh claims as markets and malls have opened up,” said Max Bupa Health Insurance director Bhabatosh Mishra. Bajaj Allianz General’s claims in July are 64% over the first quarter average. “We have witnessed an approximately 12% increase in the average claim size recorded in the first quarter of FY21, as compared to last year,” said head (health) Bhaskar Nerurkar. The industry average health Insurance claims settled ranges between Rs 55,000 and Rs 1 lakh before the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/non-covid-hospital-bills-add-to-health-claim-surge/articleshow/77512417.cms||Mamtha Asokan
August 13, 2020||Patna||For many, lockdown gives wings to creative writing||PATNA: The coronavirus pandemic and subsequent lockdown certainly restricted the movement of people, but it has given wings to the creativity hidden hitherto in a large number of individuals, including the youths. Many youths have penned down their emotions of loneliness, fantasies, panic, optimism and uncertainties and rediscovered their love for writing. A Class V student of International School (ICSE wing), Siddhen Chandra was not sure when he first started writing spooky stories that one day it would take the shape of a book. His debut e-novel, ‘Revenge Of The Psychic Ghost’, is now available on Amazon. The 11-year-old loves to read thriller and horror books. Through his book, Siddhen dives into a fantasy world wherein he wove a fantastic blend of paranormal activities, taking his readers to the weird, scary world of mystery, suspense and thrill. “The story revolves around a spooky mansion in New York. An unintended step unlocked the psychic ghost. It started taking revenge by killing the people and destroying the city. Nobody knows how to stop the ghost,” he said. Four months of the lockdown has given enough time to Shubham Jaiswal, an alumnus of NIT-Patna, to pen down his views on modern-day Buddhist architectures. In his book titled ‘Contemporary Buddhist Architecture’, he has compared the architectonic of India with other countries like Bhutan, Japan, Thailand and Sri Lanka. A budding architecture, Shubham from Gaya had visited Bhutan, Myanmar and Sri Lanka to put his research in a book form. The 23-year-old was delighted over the good response. “When it comes to Buddhist architecture, most of the literature on the topic revolves around the study of ancient Buddhist structures, such as rock-cut caves, chaityas, and viharas. My book revolves around the modern Buddhist architecture, which has adapted extensively to the evolving cultural and architectural landscapes across the world. Sanya Sinha, a Class XII student of Notre Dame Academy, and her sister Sanvi, who studies in Class VIII, were also delighted over the response to their collection of poems they wrote during the lockdown. Their book titled ‘An Ode to Verity’, has poems on Covid and other social issues. The poem, ‘Wings of Nightfall’, talks about molestation of a girl child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/for-many-lockdown-gives-wings-to-creative-writing/articleshow/77511349.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 13, 2020||Patna||Floods continue to wreak havoc in north Bihar districts||PATNA: There was no let-up in the flood situation in the 16 north Bihar districts where over 2 lakh more people were affected by floodwaters on Wednesday. According to the state disaster management department, more than 77 lakh people have been affected by the floods across 127 blocks on Wednesday, compared to over 75 lakh people displaced till Tuesday. Nearly 5.5 lakh people have been evacuated to safer places so far. Darbhanga remained the worst-hit with more than 20 lakh people affected by the floods, followed by over 15 lakh in Muzaffarpur and more than 10 lakh each in East Champaran and Khagaria districts. The situation may worsen as IMD forecast rainfall with thunderstorms in East Champaran, West Champaran, Gopalganj, Siwan, Supaul, Araria, Kishanganj, Saran and some other districts on Thursday. Bagmati and Adhwara group of rivers were still flowing above the danger level at all flood gauges in Sitamarhi, Madhubani, Darbhanga and Muzaffarpur and maintained an increasing trend at most places while the Kosi was also above the red mark with rising trend in Saharsa, Khagaria and Katihar. Similar was the case with Bhutahi Balan and Kamla rivers in Madhubani and Darbhanga districts. Lakhandei river at Gai Ghat and Burhi Gandak at Bharaul were also flowing above the danger mark in Muzaffarpur district. According to the IMD, heavy to very heavy rainfall occurred at one or two places over northern parts of Bihar and light to moderate rain at many places in northeast and other parts of Bihar during the past 24 hours. Gaunaha recorded 16cm rainfall, followed by 15cm each at Ramnagar, Chatia and Chanpatia, 13cm at Belsand, 11cm each at Bagaha and Khagaria and 10cm each at Sahebganj and Baltara in the past 24 hours. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was passing through Bikaner, Sikar, Gwalior, Sidhi, Dehri, Dhanbad, Kolkata and southeastward to the northeast Bay of Bengal and extending up to 0.9km above the mean sea level. A trough runs from southwest Uttar Pradesh to south Chhattisgarh across east Madhya Pradesh between 1.5km & 2.1km above the mean sea level. A low pressure area is likely to form over the northwest Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood on Thursday. In Khagaria, Kosi and Bagmati rivers showed a rising trend and were flowing above the danger mark. Fresh rainfall in the catchment areas since Tuesday night further aggravated the situation. Chautham CO Bharat Bhushan Singh said Buchha, Sarsawa, Rohiyar and Thutthi Mohanpur panchayats were completely inundated while Chautham, Hardiya, Madhya Borne and Poorvi Borne panchayats had been partially affected. Sarsawa panchayat mukhiya Nutan Devi said the flood victims were yet to get any gratuitous relief (GR) amount. According to official sources, at least 116 villages under 39 panchayats were under floodwaters, which have claimed 24 lives in the state so far. (With input from N P Thakur in Khagaria)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/floods-continue-to-wreak-havoc-in-north-bihar-districts/articleshow/77511151.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
August 13, 2020||Patna||Patna receives 71mm rainfall in last 24 hours||PATNA: Heavy downpour on Tuesday night left the residents in some pockets of the city struggling with waterlogging and slush in their areas on Wednesday morning. According to Patna Meteorological Centre, 71.6mm rainfall was recorded in the district in the past 24 hours, including 5.5mm on Wednesday morning. Scattered rainfall accompanied with thunderstorm is likely over Bihar, including Patna, for the next 24 hours. Several areas, including Postal Park, Ram Krishna Nagar (east), Gardanibagh, Chandmari Road, Jyotish Path, Rupaspur, new Patliputra Colony, Patel Nagar, some parts of Phulwarisharif and southern parts of Kankarbagh witnessed waterlogging. SK Mishra, executive officer of the Kankarbagh circle of Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC), said water has been drained out from most of the areas, except a few localities where there is no drainage system. “Areas in ward number 32 has been built in unplanned way without any drainage pipeline. There is no proper road even. Every time the civic body tried to make a ‘kachcha nullah’, the residents raised objections,” he said. “Similar is the situation in southern parts of Kankarbagh, where there is no stormwater drainage. The drainage line in Ram Krishna Nagar has been intercepted after the construction of service lane,” he added. Vinod Kumar Jha said rainwater entered the Gardanibagh hospital campus but no one bothered about it. “The sanitation workers said they drained out water from the main road,” he said. Pankaj Kumar of Kadamkuan said rainwater was drained out in the afternoon, but there was slush on the roads. “The manholes are left open and stink really bad,” he added. “Every time it rains, water enters my campus because of the poor sewage engineering in the area. Some engineers assured me that the sewage lines will be changed, but no work has been done yet,” Nishi Sinha, a resident of Patliputra Colony said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-receives-71mm-rainfall-in-last-24-hours/articleshow/77511189.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Locals jittery over testing of jawans in Mehdipatnam||HYDERABAD: The local military authority’s (LMA) move to set up tents, to conduct Covid-19 tests on army jawans returning to duty, at a military ground near Khader Bagh in Mehdipatnam, has triggered panic among locals. The five-acre military ground is surrounded by Bahadur Jung Colony, Laxmi Colony and other residential colonies. Residents say that the sight of people wearing PPEs and screening jawans in the tents, has made them anxious. “Our windows face the ground. Every morning health workers visit the tents and conduct tests. The LMA hasn’t put up any signboards regarding the isolation testing area,” AQ Siddiqui, resident of Bahadur Jung Colony, told TOI. “We are scared about the virus spreading in the area. We do not know if the jawans are positive or are being kept there as a precautionary measure. There is no clue if the camp is for quarantine purpose,” added Siddique. Sumrath Rohina, a 70-year-old resident of the same colony said, “My family is spending sleepless nights due to this testing. We cannot open the windows for ventilation as we are scared.” Another resident of Indira Colony, Aziz Ahmed, said that they initially thought the jawans were there for training purpose. “We later learnt they are using that place for testing. We were not aware that it has been going on for the past two weeks. Initially, the officials had put up 15 tents. They have added another 18 now,” he said. When contacted, defence official sources confirmed that doctors were conducting Covid-19 tests for the army personnel who had gone on leave and were returning to their work stations. They, however, said that residents of surrounding areas had no reason to worry. “The tents have been put up on the military grounds as per ICMR guidelines and civilians need not panic,” a defence source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/locals-jittery-over-testing-of-jawans-in-mehdipatnam/articleshow/77513814.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata Malayalee stronghold sees sudden spike in corona cases||KOLKATA: The entry of Niva Park to the containment zone list for the first time has prompted cops and the Kolkata Municipal Corporation to shift focus to this congested pocket of south suburban Kolkata. The area is a perfect example of cosmopolitan Kolkata and has a strong Malayalee population for decades. Though Covid had hit the entire Mukundapur-Patuli-Baghajatin belt, this part of Kolkata had reported less than 10 cases till July. Thereafter, in July itself, the area showed a major spike that continued even in the first week of August. That this is the lone new entrant to the revised containment list shows that both KMC and cops are worried about the virus spreading further in areas closer to NSC Bose Road. With the area’s proximity to Naktala, Netaji Nagar and Kudghat, KMC believes restricting movement in the area has become inevitable. Four fresh cases from around Niva Park (Usha Park and Hiren Sarkar Road) were reported on Tuesday. The KMC is ready to work to ascertain that the Malayalee population, mostly based in Niva Park, Brahmapur Rathtala and areas closer to Garia, feels like an equal respondent to the pandemic threat. “We need to reach out to the Malayalee population just like everyone else here. Despite the language barrier, we have begun counselling them and seeking their help in this fight,” said Anita Kar Majumdar, a ward coordinator representing the area. Y Padmanavan, a local resident, said that so far, they have been coping with the pandemic with help from all quarters. “We are looking forward to more testing in the area even after we come out of the containment zone. The communities here are ready to support any effort,” he said. The sudden spurt in cases has been attributed to a number of issues. “The unlock led to free movement in the area. Several residents here are associated with hospitals and there is a large migrant population. The area under containment now is located close to the biggest market here. The chances of the virus spreading are greater in these areas,” said an officer. Arka Sarkar, an IT employee from Niva Park Phase I (Phase II is under containment), said there were some drawbacks to restricting market timings. “Unlike in Naktala, where market timing was regulated, here the KMC carried out the occasional sanitization. People walked in groups, their masks around their necks. I feel the damage has been done,” said Sarkar. According to KMC officials, this belt has reported 60 positive cases in the past four weeks. A couple of patients with co-morbidity factors have died as well. The civic body is now worried about a 500m stretch between Kalibari bridge and Kudghat bridge. A KMC official, however, said the civic body was following the instructions from the state health department in declaring an infected area a containment zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-malayalee-stronghold-sees-sudden-spike-in-corona-cases/articleshow/77512654.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 13, 2020||Business||Gehlaut steps down as chief of Indiabulls Housing Finance||MUMBAI: Sameer Gehlaut, the main promoter of Indiabulls Housing Finance (IBHFL), the group’s flagship, on Wednesday stepped down as the chairman of the mortgage lender. S S Mundra, former RBI deputy governor and an independent director on IBHFL board since 2018, has taken over as its chairman. Gehlaut, who set up the company in January 2000 and led it through many ups and downs to become the third-largest home finance company in the country, will continue on the board as a non-independent, non-executive member. This is part of the group’s move to institutionalise IBHFL from being a promoter-driven organisation. In June, Gehlaut had taken up the position of CEO of another listed group company, Indiabulls Ventures, to helm its consumer finance and healthcare services businesses. According to regulations, an individual cannot hold executive positions in two listed companies, a release from IBHFL said. Sources said that Gehlaut’s decision to relinquish the executive position and elevation of an independent director in his place is a precursor to the group’s decision to sell a substantial stake in IBHFL to one or more private equity (PE) players. The company is also talking to institutional players to raise about Rs 1,000 crore through a QIP offer, mainly to bolster its capital base. IBHFL has already approached its shareholders for their nod. As of March 2020, the company’s capital adequacy was nearly 23%, well above the regulatory requirement of 13%. Of late lenders have been on a fundraising spree, expecting some Covid-induced bad loans to hit the industry. According to sources, the group is also expected to announce its decision to exit the real estate development sector soon. In June 2019, Gehlaut had sold over a third of his stake in Indiabulls Real Estate to a joint venture between Embassy Group of Bangalore and PE major Blackstone. And last month, Gehlaut had informed the exchanges that he will cease to be a promoter of the company after its merger with the Embassy-Blackstone JV entity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gehlaut-steps-down-as-chief-of-indiabulls-housing-fin/articleshow/77513160.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Patna||Inform if any Indian crosses border, SSB tells Nepal APF||PATNA: The Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF) has been asked to communicate to the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) in case of any Indian found crossing the border and not thrash him, SSB Patna frontier IG Sanjay Kumar told TOI on Wednesday. Kumar said the SSB had a meeting with Nepal APF officers late Tuesday night after an Indian youth from Sitamarhi was thrashed by them. Both the paramilitary forces are involved in guarding the porous India-Nepal border from their respective sides. One Mahesh Kumar (22) of village Basatpur under Sonbarsa police station area in Sitamarhi was allegedly thrashed by the APF personnel when he was going to Sonbarsa market for selling earthen utensils on Tuesday afternoon. He, along with two women, had used a shortcut road through Sarlahi district in Nepal. The APF personnel asked them to return. As per the IG, one of the women indulged in an altercation with APF guards after which Mahesh was thrashed with batons. “Our 51st battalion commandant Naveen Kumar talked to an APF SP. He requested the SP to inform the SSB if anyone from Indian side moves into their territory. The situation is normal now,” the IG said. “We have also asked villagers not to go to the Nepalese side as the APF is maintaining heightened alertness on international border due to Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Meanwhile, Sonbarsa police station SHO Rakesh Kumar, who was also part of the meeting, said senior officers of Sitamarhi had camped there after the incident. “We urged them to stay on the Indian side. Instead, SSB commandant and deputy commandant Bhola Nath Yadav, Sonbarsa BDO Om Prakash and I went for the meeting held on a bridge on river Jhim and the matter was resolved. We told them not to act in such a way as it affects relationship among people on both sides of the border,” he said. This is the third such incident on India-Nepal border in the last two months. On July 12, one Vikash Rai (22) died and two others from village Jankinagar under Sonbarsa police station had sustained bullet injuries inside Nepalese territory near Lalbandi BOP after Nepal’s APF opened fire on them allegedly after scuffle followed by attempt of snatching weapon. On July 19, one Jeetan Kumar Singh (31) of Mafitola in Kishanganj was shot at by APF personnel after he crossed the border to catch his ox which had stayed into their territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/inform-if-any-indian-crosses-border-ssb-tells-nepal-apf/articleshow/77511175.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 13, 2020||Amritsar||Amritsar youth ends life, kin allege police torture||AMRITSAR: A youth on Wednesday committed suicide in Amritsar, allegedly after being humiliated and tortured by the police. The deceased, Sandeep, hanged himself from the ceiling fan of his room. Carrying Sandeep’s body, his family members protested in front of the police station and demanded stern action against the cops responsible for the tragedy. The bereaved mother alleged that her son was tortured by them for two consecutive days. Local Akali leader Talbir Singh said Sandeep’s brother Raman Kumar Shanky was wanted in a shootout incident but was absconding. He said the police took Sandeep to the police station to pressurise the family to produce Shanky, though the family had disowned him long back. However, denying the charges, Amritsar police commissioner Sukhchain Singh Gill said Sandeep was called to the police station for an inquiry into a case, in which his brother is wanted. Sources in police claimed that Sandeep had assured the police to produce Shanky, but later his brother refused to appear. “Maybe, he was too tense, so he took the step,” said a police official. Gill said he has marked an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/amritsar-youth-ends-life-kin-allege-police-torture/articleshow/77513810.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Patna||JLNMCH to start plasma therapy for Covid patients||BHAGALPUR: The much-awaited plasma therapy for treating Corona patients is likely to start at JawaharLal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) soon as the plasmapheresis machine has reached here and steps have been taken to install the same. “The machine is being installed in the blood bank division of JLNMCH at Mayaganj,” JLNMCH principal Dr Hemant Kumar Sinha said. “Two specialist doctors and two technicians are being sent for training to a higher centre to learn the process of plasmapheresis. By the time the machine is installed, they will complete their training and plasmapheresis will start,” Dr Sinha added and said that hopefully plasma therapy at JLNMCH will start in the next 15 days. Referring to plasmapheresis, Dr Sinha said that it is a process in which the liquid part of blood, which is known as plasma, is separated from the blood cells with the help of a machine. “Plasma is used in treatment of various ailments including auto-immune disorders and now in Covid-19 patients. Plasma of patients, who have recovered from Covid, develops antibodies and when this plasma is transfused to other critically ill patients, it helps in developing antibodies to fight the deadly disease,” Dr Sinha added. Earlier, a six-member committee headed by HoD medicine Dr Binay Kumar, HoD surgery Dr Mrityunjay Kumar, associate professor in the department of medicine and nodal officer for Covid-19 Care Center at JLNMCH Dr Hem Shankar Sharma, Dr P B Mishra (department of medicine), HoD pathology Dr Satyendra Kumar and blood bank in-charge at JLNMCH Dr Rekha Jha was formed by the JLNMCH principal to look into the modalities for procuring necessary medical equipment for plasma therapy. JLNMCH doctors had also raised the issue when the health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit visited the hospital on July 31 to review the medicare facilities. The Bhagalpur chapter of India Medical Association (IMA) had also drawn the attention of the state government authorities to start plasma therapy in Bhagalpur. “We hope to start plasma therapy, as per the guidelines of Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), soon at JLNMCH. Permission of the state health department and ICMR has also been sought,” Dr Sinha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jlnmch-to-start-plasma-therapy-for-covid-patients/articleshow/77511287.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 13, 2020||Patna||Recruit all MBBS degree holders in coronavirus crisis: IMA to Bihar government||PATNA: The Bihar branch of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has urged the state government to appoint all MBBS degree holders looking for a job and having the qualifications to handle any medical emergency situation like the Covid-19 pandemic these days. In a letter to state health minister Mangal Pandey and principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit, the IMA said though the government has started interview for the appointment of 4,000 doctors on Wednesday, it would not fill all the vacancies. IMA state vice-president Dr Ajay Kumar said doctors and health workers are the frontline warriors in corona times and the government should strengthen its health sector by taking all MBBS passouts of recent years into medical service. It will help both the urban and rural areas in getting medical service in this pandemic era. IMA state secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said while the total number of unemployed MBBS degree holders in the state is around 7,000, there were nearly 9,000 existing vacancies. Even if the government recruited 4,000 under the ongoing process, about 5,000 posts would remain vacant. He said about 500 doctors across the state, including 150 in Patna, have already tested positive while discharging their duties, 19 of them died due to Covid-19 infection. Needless to say, families of these doctors had also to face many problems that way. The IMA further demanded hike in the stipend of interns who have been tirelessly rendering services in the Covid wards and other departments. They are getting Rs15,000 per month only and the amount should be doubled, at least. It also urged the state government to relax the provisions of Clinical Establishment Act and exempt the clinics, nursing homes with maximum number of 50 beds from it. The IMA appreciated the government’s move to increase the number of testing facilities and sanctioning amount as incentive to doctors and health workers and said these acts have helped in expeditious testing of suspected patients and boosting the morale of the frontline warriors, Dr Sunil added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ima-to-govt-recruit-all-mbbs-degree-holders-in-corona-crisis/articleshow/77511317.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Patna||CUSB to start new academic session through online mode||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown, Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) has decided to kick-start the new academic session through online mode this month. A decision in this regard was taken by vice-chancellor H C S Rathore at a meeting with registrar Col R K Singh (retd), controller of examinations Rashmi Tripathi and the academic council. According to the university’s public relations officer Mohd Mudassir Alam, the decision to conduct online classes has been taken to ensure that the students do not suffer any further loss. Tripathi pointed out that it was a challenging task to switch to online teaching in March this year. “Conducting activities on time for commencement of the new academic session without causing further delay is a matter of concern for all of us,” she told this newspaper on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cusb-to-start-new-academic-session-through-online-mode/articleshow/77511365.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Patna||Pre-primary classes get few applications for admissions||PATNA: With many parents’ unwillingness to send kids to schools amid the Covid-19 pandemic, the process of admission to pre-primary classes has been badly hit. Most of them are struggling to fill all the seats in the Montessori section. According to city coordinator of the Central Board of Secondary Education and principal of Baldwin Academy, Rajiv Ranjan Sinha, admissions in lower kindergarten (LKG) are still going on in schools. “Many schools uploaded their online admission forms after the lockdown, but the number of applicants is low,” Sinha told this newspaper. Vice-chairman of Krishna Niketan and Patna Central School, Coomar Arunodaya, urged the state government to declare 2020 a “zero academic year” due to the uncertainty amid the pandemic. “There are still many vacant seats in pre-primary classes because parents are concerned about their kids. Admissions generally start from mid-March, but due to the sudden closure of schools, the process has been hampered,” Arunodaya said. Director of Bishop Scott Group of Schools, Shailesh Kumar, claimed that only 30% of the seats in pre-primary classes were filled. “Admissions have been badly affected due to the Covid crisis,” he added. Meanwhile, many parents have decided to hire private tutors for their kids instead of sending them to schools. One such parent, Sushant Verma, said, “My 4-year-old son went to preschool last year. I wanted to admit him to LKG, but now I have decided to not send him to school this year.” Another parent, Yash Sinha, said, “Half of the session is over, but nobody knows when the schools will reopen. I do not think the kids will learn much in few months. It will only be a total waste of money.” Anumeha, whose daughter went to a play school last year, said, “If LKG classes are conducted through online mode, it will be an additional burden for me. Hence, I have decided to hire a private tutor for my kid.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pre-primary-classes-get-few-applications-for-admissions/articleshow/77511379.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 13, 2020||Patna||BSEB schools, colleges attract students from Nepal & Bhutan||PATNA: A large number of Class X passouts, who belong to Nepal and Bhutan, have applied for admission to different schools and colleges affiliated with the Bihar School Examination Board (BSEB). According to the data shared by the BSEB officials, the Online Facilitation System for Students (OFSS) has helped altogether 21,453 candidates from other states and two neighbouring countries apply for admissions in Bihar. As many as 87,338 students of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) have also applied. BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said on Wednesday, “Last year, Class X passouts of 19 state boards, CBSE and National Examinations Board (Nepal) had applied for admission to BSEB-affiliated schools and colleges. Now, candidates from seven more state boards and Bhutan Council for School Examinations and Assessment have also got themselves registered through OFSS for getting admitted to Class XI.” He added, “Getting recognition from other boards, especially international ones, is a big achievement for the BSEB. During the last two years, we have brought several changes and received appreciation from others. Some of them are student-friendly mechanism for online admissions, better assessment, timely publication of results and change in pattern of questions.” The BSEB has already released the first merit list for Class XI admissions on www.ofssbihar.in. Those, whose names are on the list, have to get themselves enrolled from August 7 to 17. The board has also extended the date of registration till August 17. Students can choose 20 colleges or higher secondary schools in their application forms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bseb-schools-colleges-attract-students-from-nepal-bhutan/articleshow/77511057.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 13, 2020||Patna||IIT-Kharagpur alumnus develops robot to sanitise train coaches, hospitals||BHAGALPUR: A ‘remote navigated ultraviolet robot (RNUR)’ developed by Bhagalpur- based IIT-Kharagpur alumnus Ajit Kumar to sanitise train coaches and other establishments amid Covid-19 pandemic has found many takers. The RNUR is equipped with detection camera for sanitisation of train coaches, hospitals, nursing homes, shopping malls, multiplexes and other large establishments. The prototype of RNUR, christened ‘Corona Yodha UV Sanitiser Robot’, had been supplied to South East Central Railway (SECR), Raipur, for trial and testing in May. Ajit said he has received a letter from senior coaching depot officer of SECR, Ram Narayan Sahu, expressing keen interest in using RNUR to fight Covid-19 virus. “So far, SECR, some shopping malls and other establishments as well as NTPC’s Kahalgaon Super Thermal Power Station (KhSTPS) have evinced interest in RNUR,” Ajit said. “The production cost of RNUR is Rs 25,000. It can sanitise every nook and corner of train coaches and any establishment. State education minister Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma has also expressed desire for establishing competency learning platform using the technologies developed by me and my team in schools after the RNUR was shown to him recently,” Ajit said. He added, “Covid-19 pandemic came as a challenge to us and we developed UV sanitiser robot to meet the challenges of sanitisation in large establishments and rail coaches.” Resident of Kahalgaon sub-division in Bhagalpur district, Ajit is a mechanical engineer and he left his plum job in Mumbai to establish a startup firm at Lalpur-Bhader village in the same subdivision. “Objective to launch the startup at my native place was to serve the society to which I belong and use the skills in development of ultraviolet robots for various works. Besides, I am also trying to contribute in growth of the youth here by imparting them education and training in science, technology, engineering and mathematics in order to make them employable at various levels,” Ajit said. Other IIT-Kharagpur alumni Sagar Kumar and Alka Ranjan are also working with Ajit to bring changes in the lives of locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/iit-alumnus-develops-robot-to-sanitise-train-coaches-hospitals/articleshow/77511096.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 13, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav flays Nitish Kumar for Bangara Ghat bridge approach road collapse||PATNA: Leader of opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav lashed at chief minister Nitish Kumar over the collapse of the approach road to Bangara Ghat Mahasetu bridge on the day of its inauguration on Wednesday. Sharing the video of the road on social media, Tejahswi questioned the hurry in inaugurating bridges and roads. “Why is chief minister Nitish Kumar in such a hurry to inaugurate? He keeps blaming us, but I challenge him for an open debate and come up with a white paper,” he said. Taking a dig at Nitish, he said, “Nitish Kumar’s name should be registered in the Guinness Book of World Records for inaugurating bridges and roads that collapse within a month of inauguration.” He added that it was only during Nitish’s regime that bridges and roads are collapsing. The RJD leader alleged corruption in all government departments and claimed that Rs 509 crore of public money spent on the construction of this bridge has gone into water. He said a similar thing happened with the Sattar Ghat bridge in which Rs 250 crore was spent. “Even then we had demanded to blacklist the construction company and take back money from them and to take action against officers and the minister. In fact, Nitish Kumar should have resigned.” Tejashwi took the credit for the newly inaugurated renovated lanes of Gandhi Setu, which were thrown open for people earlier this month. He said the construction work began only after he had approached the Union government when he was the deputy CM of Bihar. State govt clarifies:The state road construction department through a press release clarified that the portion of the road, which got destroyed, was 7km away from Bangara Ghat bridge in Satjora village and it was because of the flood. The department stated that the main Bangara Ghat bridge inaugurated by CM Nitish Kumar and other smaller bridges were intact. It further said that the department was trying to repair the approach road but because of heavy rainfall and excessive water in the Gandak the work is getting hampered. “Once the flood water recedes, the approach road, which is 7km from Bangra Ghat bridge, will be made communicable,” the statement read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/road-to-bangara-ghat-bridge-collapses-tejas-slams-nitish/articleshow/77511140.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 13, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka's Chamarajanagar district procures 6,400 rapid testing kits||CHAMARAJANAGAR: As the district continues to register a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, Chamarajanagar administration has procured 6,400 rapid testing kits. The district health authorities are in the process of receiving another 2,000 kits by the end of this month as the district foresees a surge in cases, revealed the sources in the district administration. The district has tested over 28,000 samples and 95% of them were negative. As many as 1,320 samples from across the district tested positive for Covid-19 in both RTPCR and antigen tests as on Tuesday. The authorities have decided to strengthen tracking and testing in all containment zones and all primary health centres to curb the virus spread. Currently, the mobile units are collecting the swabs of suspected patients and those with symptoms in both urban and rural pockets, particularly in containment zones and testing the samples using the rapid kits. Apart from keeping close vigil over 1,568 primary and secondary contacts, the district administration has also identified 34,205 individuals as special cases, including pregnant women and patients suffering from lung, kidney and other problems, to conduct these tests to check the spread. Speaking to TOI, district health officer Dr Ravi said as per the health department norms, the district is conducting both the RT-PCR and antigen test. “We are now testing up to 800 samples daily after the arrival of kits,” he added. “Rapid testing is one of the best ways to identify community spread. Within a half hour, one can get their samples tested with these kits, while RT-PCR testing would take six to seven hours. However, one cannot fully rely on these rapid tests, as the results may vary. In such cases, they will be recommended for RT-PCR tests for the accurate results”, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chamarajanagar-dist-procures-6400-rapid-testing-kits/articleshow/77511577.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Mysuru||Chamarajanagar forests have most jumbos in India: Official||MYSURU: The forest of Chamarajanagar district has the highest number of elephants in the country, said Bandipur Tiger Reserve director T Balachandra. He was speaking at the talk on ‘The tale of Elephas maximus – Asiatic Elephants’ as part of a World Elephant Day programme organized by the forest department and University of Mysore, here on Wednesday. Balachandra said Bandipur and Biligiri Rangaswamy Temple Tiger reserves and Cauvery Wildlife and Male Mahadeshwara Swamy Hills Temple sanctuaries have a total of around 3,000 elephants, which is the highest in the country. “The elephants need habitat which is free from lantana, but nearly 50 percent of the reserve is covered by lantana which is not conducive for elephants. We construct Elephant Proof Trenches (EPT) and erect railway barricades to prevent elephants from straying out of forest and raid crops,” he said. After Africa, rail barricades have been erected only in India, he said. Stating that Bandipur and Nagarahole reserves have optimal habitat for elephants, he said as part of grass land management programme, the department is removing lantana and developing grass land inside the forest. “Similar to Kanha Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh, palatable grass slips planting has been taken up. The government is also improving the elephant corridors between Bandipur and Madhumalai TR in Tamil Nadu by purchasing private lands,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/chnagar-forests-have-most-jumbos-in-india-official/articleshow/77511854.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nashik||ACP gets medal for excellence||Nashik: ACP Samir Shaikh attached with the crime branch of the Nashik police commissionerate has been awarded with the union home minister’s medal for excellence in investigation for the year 2020. This medal was constituted in 2018 with the objective of promoting high professional standards of investigation of crime and to recognize excellence in investigation by officers. ACP Samir Shaikh, who joined the city police commisiosnerate on July 26 last year after his transfer from Pune, has a major share in detecting a number of cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/acp-gets-medal-for-excellence/articleshow/77511319.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 13, 2020||Nashik||4 banks pulled up for poor distribution of farm loans||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare on Wednesday asked the Lead Bank Manager to issue notices to four banks for weak performance in distribution of farm loans in Kharif season.The weekly meeting of private and nationalised banks was held at the collectorate during which Mandhare reviewed the loan distribution performance of the banks.The nationalised, rural, private and cooperative banks are assigned a particular target for distribution of loans to the farmers. The role of the banks is to discourage the farmers from taking loans from private money lenders.According to Mandhare, four banks have been pulled up for their poor performance during the weekly meeting. “Each bank has been given a target of loan distribution to the agrarian community, but there are some banks that have failed to achieve the target. We are conducting weekly review performance of the banks and pull up the poor performers. This week we have pulled up four banks.”Among the four banks that have been pulled up by the district administration, two of them are nationalised banks and two are private banks.“The farm loan distribution target for the district is of Rs 3,303 crore, while the banks have so far distributed Rs 1,363 crore to 52,132 farmers,” a senior official from the district administration said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-banks-pulled-up-for-poor-distribution-of-farm-loans/articleshow/77511309.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 13, 2020||Meerut||UP: Sudeeksha Bhati's family files complaint, FIR doesn't mention harassment charges||MEERUT: With charges of rash driving and negligence, police have booked “two unidentified men on a Bullet” for the death of Sudeeksha Bhati, the 19-year-old US scholar from Bulandshahr. The FIR filed on the basis of the complaint on Tuesday night does not include harassment charges. While police said that's because the family did not spell out “harassment” in as many words, her father said he was not satisfied with the investigation. The two unidentified accused, who were on a Bullet with a "vanity plate", were booked under sections 304A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the IPC and sections of the Motor Vehicles Act for driving without registration and dangerous driving. On Tuesday, the family had alleged that the two men on the Bullet had been harassing Sudeeksha right before the accident took place. While police denied the allegation, they also formed an SIT. It will submit its report in another day. Sudeeksha had come home in March, when her institute, the prestigious business school Babson College in Massachusetts, shut for the pandemic. She had planned on returning later this month. In the complaint cited in the FIR, Sudeeksha’s father Jitender Bhati, a tea shop owner, said she had left home at 8am to visit her maternal uncle. She was riding pillion on the bike. Around 9.30am, two men on a Bullet overtook the bike “callously” and “deliberately”, the FIR said, and suddenly applied brakes. The bike Sudeeksha was on rammed into the Bullet, she fell off and died. “I am not satisfied. I want to ask the administration, why did the accident occur? There was no other vehicle. It was a case of harassment. The men were overtaking the bike repeatedly. What does that mean? Can the DM and police of Bulandshahr explain?” Jitender said. Police, however, said not too much can be read into the words “laparwahi (callousness)” and “jaan boojh kar (with intent)” in the FIR. IG (Meerut range) Praveen Tripathi said, “Had it been mentioned in the complaint that there was harassment, the charges would have been included. To have an impartial investigation, we have formed an SIT.” Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Singh, too, dismissed what the family has been saying. “There were three complaints. One by the cousin, who withdrew the complaint to consult elders in his family. The second was by her maternal uncle — we did not admit that document. The third was by her father, on the basis of which the FIR was filed,” he said. “While the father’s complaint says her uncle had been driving the bike, our investigation reveals the uncle, Satender Bhati, was in Dadri when the accident occurred.” The police, meanwhile, have confiscated some 20 black Bullets, like the one identified in the FIR. The riders have not been traced yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sudeekshas-family-files-complaint-fir-doesnt-mention-harassment-charges/articleshow/77511311.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 13, 2020||Meerut||SSPs of Meerut, Muzaffarnagar to get DGP Appreciation medals on Aug 15||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Meerut SSP Ajay Sahni and Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav will be awarded UP DGP Appreciation medals on August 15, for their work over the past year. While the Meerut SSP will be honoured with a platinum medal, the Muzaffarnagar SSP will get a gold medal. According to sources, during the last year, Yadav has faced remarkable challenges. He has effectively handled the anti-CCA protests which resulted in massive violence, left one person dead and many protestors and police personnel injured in clashes between the two. He launched a drive to make the district drug-free, in which dozens of drug rackets were busted and large quantities of drugs and illicit liquor recovered. The SSP has also sanctioned a state-of-the-art cafe that was recently opened for Muzaffarnagar police, from which on-duty cops can get a healthy meal. He also introduced weekly-offs for constables. On the crime front, Yadav was on job from the first day. On the day he took charge as district police chief, hardened criminal Rohit Sandu escaped from custody after killing a sub-inspector. But the SSP rose to the challenge. Several days later, Muzaffarnagar police gunned down Sandu and one of his associates. For the last one year, the SSP opened history sheets of around two dozen people who indirectly support criminals. Properties worth crores of rupees belonging to eight criminals, which had been earned through illegal means, were seized. Around a thousand criminals were booked under the Gunda and Gangster acts. In the early days of the pandemic, the SSP enforced the lockdown without disturbing law and order. No untoward incident was reported during the three-month-long complete lockdown in Muzaffarnagar. Ajay Sahni, the SSP Meerut, is the only SSP rank officer among 11 top cops who will be awarded the UP platinum medal. Sahni has been serving Meerut district for the last year. Deputy inspector general (DIG) of Saharanpur, Upendra Agrawal, who is also in the list of officers to be awarded the platinum medal, said, “Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav and Meerut SSP Ajay Sahni are outstanding officers and richly deserve this honour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ssps-of-meerut-muzaffarnagar-to-get-dgp-appreciation-medals-on-aug-15/articleshow/77511337.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 13, 2020||Delhi||AAP for probe into survey of dangerous buildings||New Delhi: Reiterating AAP’s demand for a probe into the collapse of a portion of a building in Bara Hindu Rao, party functionary Durgesh Pathak on Thursday said that the annual survey conducted by North Delhi Municipal Corporation had found only two out of 8 lakh buildings dangerous and on the verge of collapse. “Two buildings have collapsed within 24 hours, which suggests that the survey was fraudulent. The survey involved corruption and was conducted in an incorrect and unfair manner,” Pathak said. He demanded an investigation in the matter and strict action against all those involved in the corrupt practice. In response, mayor Jai Prakash said that it had become a habit of AAP to mislead people by hurling baseless allegations on a daily basis. “How can there be only two dangerous buildings in the entire north Delhi if 245 notices have been issued in City-Sadar Paharganj zone alone? The allegation is baseless. I will be sending a legal notice to them on Monday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-for-probe-into-survey-of-dangerous-buildings/articleshow/77534563.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Touts sell med seat in pvt colleges at Rs 80L-Rs 1 cr||Mangaluru: With less than than two months left for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test-2020 (NEET), the phones of aspiring students in the undivided Dakshina Kannada are buzzing with calls from touts. The touts, the parents say, claim to procure seats for their wards at select private colleges and the price starts from a minimum of Rs 80 lakh and goes up to Rs 1 crore. Speaking to TOI, parents said they were shocked to hear the fee. “We are struggling financially due to pandemic, but they are making a killing even before NEET exams. What is the point of the examination when seats are available in a free market,” asked a parent. As a matter of fact, an eligible candidate can earn an MBBS degree in a five-year medical course at a top private medical college in coastal districts of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada with less than Rs 65 lakh (course fee for 2020-2021 batch). When this reporter disguised as a parent of NEET aspirant spoke to one of the touts, staff of a Mangaluru-based consultancy said they can get a NEET seat provided the candidate appears for the examination. “The seat will cost you a total Rs 80 lakh and we can get you admissions in medical colleges situated in Derlakatte, Kuntikana, and Mukka in Mangaluru. The seat is guaranteed if you pay the said amount and some discount can be made by offering scholarships and other deals. We will guide how to make the process once NEET results are out,” explained the tout to TOI. When asked how it is possible to pre-book a seat and guarantee admission even before the examination results are out, the tout said, “We have an understanding with private colleges. One has to pay an advance of Rs 1 to Rs 2 lakh soon after the NEET results.” ‘Don’t fall prey to fraudsters’ A source pointed out that most of these touts are fraudsters, who con candidates and parents. “Some of the colleges are yet to release their 2020-21 fee details. It is best to ignore these touts or else one will end up losing money,” source cautioned. “The entire admission process for UG/PG admissions starts under the watch of government and there is no question about touts offering seats. Over the years, we have seen a lot of parents coming to us crying after losing money to these fraudsters. It is advisable not to entertain them,” said the pro-chancellor of a deemed to be university||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/touts-sell-med-seat-in-pvt-colleges-at-rs-80l-rs-1-cr/articleshow/77510168.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 13, 2020||Nashik||Vehicle sales zip in July, go up by 74%||Nashik: The coffers of the regional transport office began filling up in July, after a lull during the lockdown period. Cars, motorcycles and other vehicles are getting sold in good numbers after the drop after the covid lockdown over April and May. The Nashik Regional Transport Office (RTO) registered approximately 74% more vehicles in July than in June. Officials said that in June, some 2,700 new vehicles were registered, while in July, the number went up to 4,700. Officials said among the 4,700 vehicles registered in July, 2,900 were two-wheelers while 750 were four-wheelers. In June, 1,860 two-wheelers and 500 four-wheelers were registered. Vinay Ahire, deputy RTO Nashik, said the revenue from registration also jumped from Rs 8.97 crore in June to Rs 12.73 crore in July. The number of vehicles registered is still lesser than the average registration in a month. Over a period of time, it is expected that things would improve.” Officials said that the monthly revenue of RTO is usually around Rs 25 crores. Things are expected to return to normalcy with Ganapati festival, and the ensuring festive season of Diwali, Dussera. These festivals usually give impetus to the sale of vehicles everywhere. Officials said many people, who may want to buy new vehicles, are waiting for the festive period, which are not only considered auspicious occasions but bring attractive offers and schemes on purchase of various vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vehicle-sales-zip-in-july-go-up-by-74/articleshow/77511339.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||NMC razes honeytrap accused’s illegal bungalow||Nagpur: The anti-encroachment department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation on Wednesday partially demolished a three-storey illegal bungalow of alleged mastermind in honeytrap audio clip case Sahil Syed in Baghdadiya Colony near Baba Farid Nagar. Following municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe’s directives to demolish illegal bungalow constructed by encroaching upon two plots admeasuring 500 sq mtrs, the anti-encroachment department team armed with three excavators and under heavy police bandobast reached the place in the morning. This action has brought the role of Mangalwari zone led by its assistant municipal commissioner Harish Raut under scanner. Sources said several complaints were filed with the zone about illegal constructions in the locality. Despite having the information, the zone did nothing, which points to a nexus between NMC officials and owners of illegal constructions, sources said. The zone office on August 10 issued 24-hour notice to occupants directing them to demolish the unauthorized construction under Section 53 of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act. As no action was taken by the property owner, NMC on Wednesday demolished 60% of the house. Remaining will be demolished on Thursday. It surfaced all constructions in the 288-plot layout spread across 16 acres belonging to Sataranjipura Badi Masjid Sanstha are unauthorized. No permission was obtained either from NMC or Nagpur Improvement Trust. NMC has served notices to other owners too. Similar action will be initiated against them, said deputy municipal commissioner Mahesh Moroney.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-razes-honeytrap-accuseds-illegal-bungalow/articleshow/77513819.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Allahabad||Varsity appoints 19 teachers for 8 subjects||Prayagraj: Prof Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) University has appointed 19 regular teachers in eight subjects. The announcement was made during a meeting of the varsity’s executive council on Monday. It is for the first time that the university has appointed regular teachers since its establishment in 2016. Earlier, applications were sought for vacancies for 76 posts in 15 subjects from November 22 -December 22, 2019. Of the posts, 19 were for professors and associate professors, and 38 were for assistant Professors. The interview process started from July 22. The candidates gave been given 21 days to join. “The university decided to go ahead with the appointments despite the Covid-19 crisis and has appointed 19 new teachers. Seven more will be joining in a couple of days. An orientation programme for the new teachers would be organised on August 18,” said vice-chancellor of the university Sangita Srivastava. With 629 colleges in Prayagraj, Pratapgrah, Kaushambi and Fatehpur under its jurisdiction, the university has around 4.5 lakh students registered with it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/varsity-appoints-19-teachers-for-8-subjects/articleshow/77511345.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Goa||Cabinet decides to exclude 45k sqm land from IIT Goa project in Sattari||Panaji: Around 45,000 sqm of land will be left out from the IIT Goa campus project in Melaulim, Sattari, as this land includes a temple and other area used by locals for religious and ritualistic practices, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday, post the cabinet meeting. Sawant said that an alternative 45,000 sqm of land in another survey number will be provided instead for the IIT Goa permanent campus project. A group of villagers have been protesting the project in Sattari. “This will end the protests to the prestigious IIT project and the locals should now support the project. The decision has been taken in the interest of the villagers,” said Sawant, adding that the IIT Goa permanent campus will be coming up over 10 lakh sqm of land. The chief minister said that the 45,000 sqm left out from the project will now be permanently transferred for the use of the temple and for religious purposes. “Local MLA and health minister Vishwajit Rane is following up the issue, and if need be, we have decided to allot the land permanently for the temple and activities. It is a revenue land belonging to the state government at present,” Sawant said. Rane said that the temple land was the main reason for opposition to the IIT project, and added that now the locals will not be against the project after the contentious portion of the land has been removed from the project area. “The land to which religious sentiments are linked, the government has said it will now to provided to the temple itself. It was revenue land. After this, I do not think there will be much resistance. The opposition first began with the temple issue,” said Rane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabinet-decides-to-exclude-45k-sqm-land-from-iit-goa-project-in-sattari/articleshow/77513839.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala to oppose quarry distance norms, greens blame it on lobby||KOCHI: Environmental activists in Kerala are of the view that the government move to legally challenge the directive of National Green Tribunal (NGT), which fixed a minimum distance criteria of 200m between quarries and residential/public buildings when blasting is involved, is being influenced by quarry owners. The minimum distance when blasting is not involved has been fixed as 100m. The criteria was fixed based on a report filed by central pollution control board (CPCB). In 2017, LDF government had revised the distance norm of 100m and fixed it as 50m, enabling around 2,600 quarries to get back in business. Additional advocate general Ranjith Thampan, who appeared for the state, would be moving a writ petition under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution to challenge the July 21 order issued by NGT. The court, quoting Tamil Nadu pollution control board v Sterlite Industries Ltd order, also observed that it would be incorrect to state that the tribunal has powers of judicial review akin to that of a high court for judicial review. “State deciding to challenge NGT judgment before the honourable high court sets a bad precedent. Reducing minimum distance criteria from 100m to 50m was in itself irrational and without any scientific study. When a tribunal is proposing a betterment for the distance criteria, the state is defending it with its own forces,” said advocate Harish Vasudevan. President of Wayanad Prakrithi Samrakshana Samiti N Badusha said ideally the minimum distance should be more than 200m as there were instances when projectiles from explosions maimed people beyond a distance of 200m. “Only a few states follow a distance criteria of 50m,” he said. According to him there is no way except to legally challenge this if the state government takes such a stance as the impact on Western Ghats would be severe. “State government and central government are two sides of the same coin. They give prominence to interests of large corporates as that’s the source of their funding. Kerala inordinately delayed commenting on the draft EIA document because they sensed that there was widespread opposition from youngsters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/state-to-oppose-quarry-distance-norms-greens-blame-it-on-lobby/articleshow/77511366.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Allahabad||Varsity appoints 19 teachers for 8 subjects||Prayagraj: Prof Rajendra Singh (Rajju Bhaiya) University has appointed 19 regular teachers in eight subjects. The announcement was made during a meeting of the varsity’s executive council on Monday. It is for the first time that the university has appointed regular teachers since its establishment in 2016.Earlier, applications were sought for vacancies for 76 posts in 15 subjects from November 22 -December 22, 2019. Of the posts, 19 were for professors and associate professors, and 38 were for assistant Professors. The interview process started from July 22. The candidates gave been given 21 days to join.“The university decided to go ahead with the appointments despite the Covid-19 crisis and has appointed 19 new teachers. Seven more will be joining in a couple of days. An orientation programme for the new teachers would be organised on August 18,” said vice-chancellor of the university Sangita Srivastava. With 629 colleges in Prayagraj, Pratapgrah, Kaushambi and Fatehpur under its jurisdiction, the university has around 4.5 lakh students registered with it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/varsity-appoints-19-teachers-for-8-subjects/articleshow/77511344.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Goa||Cases double in Panaji, Ponda, Margao, Dharbandora in a week||PANAJI: Goa’s count of Covid-19 cases continued to rise rapidly as 480 new cases of were detected on Wednesday, pushing the state’s tally to 3,194. The Covid-19 death count rose to 89 as three persons succumbed to coronavirus. Two men—a 62-year-old from Baina and a 74-year-old from Pirna—having comorbid conditions, died while being treated at the Covid-hospital in Margao. Another 62-year-old-man with comorbid conditions from Baina also died at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital. However, 161 patients were cured and discharged. The health centres that are witnessing a massive spike in cases after Vasco and Cortalim since last week are Margao, Panaji, Valpoi, Dharbandora and Ponda. The cases reported from these areas have doubled within a week. The active tally of cases reported by the urban health centre, Margao crossed the 300-mark, Ponda’s total stood at 176 while that of Dharbandora at 130. Panaji’s active count hovered between 60 to 70 cases till last week, but it’s average daily has shot up to 15 to 20 cases in the last few days. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said in the last few days over 40 cases alone have been found at Altinho. “Earlier, infection was seen in a few slums here and there but we are getting cases from all over Panaji, including from better maintained residential areas of the city,” said. On Wednesday, 12 more persons from Altinho tested positive. A senior IPS officer has tested positive. Another primary health centre that has seen its cases rise is Chimbel that has a jurisdiction part of constituencies of Taleigao and Santa Cruz. Its active tally stood at 179 and while most cases have been reported from Indiranagar, which is a slum area, a couple of cases are detected in other parts as well, a health official said. Cases in Vasco had dipped a while ago and its active tally hovered between 300 to 350 cases during the past few weeks, but new infections are on the rise in the port town. Its total of active cases jumped to 309 on Wednesday, with an addition of 37 cases in a single day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cases-double-in-panaji-ponda-margao-dharbandora-in-a-week/articleshow/77514397.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Allahabad||Covid: 4 inmates of Naini central jail among 213 test positive||Prayagraj: Four inmates of Naini central jail among 213 people were tested positive for Covid-19 infection here on Wednesday. With this, the tally of Covid-19 patients in Prayagraj district pushed to 4,697. Senior superintendent of Naini central jail, P N Pandey told TOI that four inmates, currently lodged at old mahila barrak (part of Naini central jail) tested positive for coronavirus infection here on Wednesday. He added that “Testing of a total of 42 people including 24 inmates and 18 jail staff was conducted and four of the inmates were tested positive for the Covid-19 infection”. All the four inmates who tested positive have been shifted to Covid-19 hospital, Kotwa for treatment. Meanwhile, Nodal officer and additional chief medical officer, Dr Rishi Sahai told TOI that, “As many as 213 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 infection and have been admitted at different covid hospitals for treatment by Wednesday”. The city also reported five more deaths and the tally of deceased rose up to 85 . Dr Sahai, meanwhile, said that as many as 80 patients have been cured and discharged on Monday. Till now, a total of 2,125 patients have been cured and discharged from the Covid hospitals in the city. Dr Sahai also said as many as 90 patients have also completed their home isolation on Wednesday and a total of 735 patients have completed their home isolation till now in the city. The officials of the health department have currently laid their focus to trace and primary and secondary contact of positive patients in order to combat against the spread of the Covid-19 infections. For that health teams have been assigned special task to all primary \ community health centres to visit village\block\ semi urban and urban pockets and take the suspects for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-4-inmates-of-naini-central-jail-among-213-test-positive/articleshow/77511363.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nashik||DIG inaugurates Ganesh stall at Nashik jail||Nashik: Inmates of the Nashik Road central jail have put up their stall displaying 600 beautifully crafted and decorated Ganesh idols. This year, however, the idols were slightly different from the previous years as they lacked a special colour which has a velvety texture to it. The colour is unique and is not easily available in the market, said jail authorities. The stall was inaugurated by DIG (Prison), Central Region, Dilip Zalke. He appreciated the efforts put in by the jail inmates. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dig-inaugurates-ganesh-stall-at-nashik-jail/articleshow/77511368.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 13, 2020||Goa||‘Only few tourists have tested +ve’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that a very small number of tourists who have entered the state had tested positive for Covid-19. “Only one or two tourists have tested positive. We are taking care of them,” Sawant said replying to a question. Sawant said that the tourism industry in Goa is already operational and hotels are open for those who want to come in. “Tourism is already operational. Tourists only have to follow the laid down SOPs and enter the state. (For the) rest, hotels and other facilities are already open,” said Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-few-tourists-have-tested-ve/articleshow/77513861.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Lucknow||Pregnant womanamong 6 casualties||Lucknow: A 30-year-old seven months pregnant woman suffering from Covid-19 and jaundice died at King George’s Medical University. The unborn child also could not survive. The deaths took place on Tuesday, but were reported on Wednesday. Besides, five more Covid-19 patients died in past 24 hours, taking the city toll to 168 so far. Of the six deaths confirmed by health officers, two each took place in KGMU and Lokbandhu Hospital. A Covid-19 patient also died in a private institute at Sarojininagar, but the management refused to share details claiming restraint orders from senior government officers. Details of the sixth death were not available with the district administration and health officers till night. Among the six casualties, the pregnant woman, a resident of Saadatganj, had been shifted to KGMU from a private hospital with breathing difficulty on Monday. She also had jaundice, while Covid-19 had severely damaged her lungs. She died of multi-organ failure on Tuesday, said Dr D Himanshu, in-charge isolation unit. Unfortunately, the unborn child too could not survive, he added. A man (62) from Rakabganj also died in KGMU after toxins entered his brain due to kidney failure. “The man was also diabetic and hypertensive. Kidney infection had caused septicaemia,” said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. A woman (63) died of respiratory failure at Lokbandhu Hospital. She was admitted on Sunday and had responded to treatment initially, said Lokbandhu hospital director Dr Madhu Saxena. Another death in the hospital was of a 60-year-old man from Kakori admitted with kidney ailment which got aggravated due to Covid-19. Meanwhile, a 51-year-old Covid-19 patient from Sultanpur died on way from Balrampur hospital to Lokbandhu hospital. He came to Balrampur hospital with breathing difficulty and tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pregnant-womanamong-6-casualties/articleshow/77514173.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Labour firm accuses man of forging papers||Aurangabad: The MIDC Cidco police have booked a 45-year old man for allegedly submitting forged documents at the labour commissioner’s office to claim that he was an employee of a firm supplying labourers and security personnel. Investigation officer and PSI Sanjay Mante said, “The man was employed as a worker with a company in the MIDC Cidco area. A few months ago, he went on medical leave and approached the labour commissioner, claiming that his employer had not paid his PF.”“The suspect claimed that he was hired by the company in the year 2014 and that his PF was not paid despite deducting it from his salary for two consecutive years.”According to police, the man forged the letter head of the labour firm on which he wrote that he was employed by the company during the said period and also produced a salary slip.The company’s management, however, found that the man had allegedly forged the company’s letterhead, appointment letter, salary slip and a stamp, following which a complaint was lodged.The suspect has been booked on the charges of cheating, criminal breach of trust, forgery and forgery for cheating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/labour-firm-accuses-man-of-forging-papers/articleshow/77640880.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru’s solid waste generation reduces||MANGALURU: The pandemic induced lockdown has seen the city’s solid waste generation drop by nearly 22%. According to data accessed by TOI, the Mangaluru City Corporation generates an average of 335 tonnes (in 2019) solid waste per day, but this year, it has dropped to 270 tonnes per day in the last six months. According to MCC officials, the pandemic has given a breather for the city’s solid waste generation, which otherwise increases 5%-6% every day. A case study from 2015 claims that the city’s average waste production was 226 tonnes, and in a span of five years, it was up by 125 tonnes. However, this April, the city’s waste production reeled back to almost 6-7 years, where only 192 tonnes of solid waste was generated per day. As of today, the per capita waste generation is around 550 grams per day. “This April, the city generated an average of 192 tonnes per day, and last year in April, it was 323 tonnes per day. In June it increased to 310 tonnes per day. Though solid waste generation dropped, biomedical waste generation has doubled,” said Madhu S Manohar, environment engineer, MCC. Explaining about how the waste generation has dropped, Madhu said bulk solid waste generators in the city are markets, hotels, and wedding halls. “All these establishments were shut for months due to restrictions. Though the market was kept open and there was a restriction on operating hours. As a result the waste generation was reduced,” Madhu told TOI. There was no change in the generation of household waste and it remained same as before, Madhu added. Though solid waste generation dropped, biomedical waste generation has doubled, said Madhu. He added that apart from regular waste, MCC is also segregating biomedical waste such as gloves, face masks and others. “We are collecting them separately and disposing them through deep burial. Of late, the quantity of masks has been reduced as most of them switched to reusable masks,” MCC environment engineer Madhu pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/citys-solid-waste-generation-reduces/articleshow/77510246.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 13, 2020||Dehradun||In a first, fishing cat spotted in CTR||Dehradun: The Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) has reported sightings of two fishing cats (Prionailurus viverrinus) in its premises for the first time. These cats were spotted during the fourth tiger estimation project of the forest department. Listed as vulnerable in IUCN Red List, the favourite habitat of fishing cats is mangroves. In India, the fishing cats are generally found in the Sunderbans delta and in the foothills of Himalayas. CTR, which spans across 1,200 square kilometres, has repeatedly proved itself as one of the finest habitats for wild animals and the sightings of fishing cats indicates that the reserve has the presence of a rich aquatic life as well. These cats love to eat fishes and are famous for their diving skills unlike other felines. “Two separate fishing cats were camera-trapped for the first time in Kalagarh and Jhirna areas in the CTR during a recent survey. Prior to this, there has been no other record of direct sighting of fishing cats in the reserve,” said Rahul, director, CTR. It is worth mentioning that the rapidly squeezing wetlands and mangroves are threatening the existence of fishing cats. These marshy habitats are gradually reducing due to climate change and urbanisation. “CTR has a rich buffer zone and we ensure that it remains intact all the time. From water sources to the availability of fodder for animals, everything is in sufficient amounts in the reserve,” added the CTR director. Along with fishing cats, the rare Albino Sambar, too was sighted in the reserve, according to officials. Incidentally, the overflowing population of tigers and elephants in the reserve had pushed the Uttarakhand forest department to conduct an internal study to find the actual capacity of the reserve vis-à-vis the present population of wild animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-fishing-cat-spotted-in-ctr/articleshow/77510253.cms||Shivani Azad
August 13, 2020||Lucknow||Sharma does not rule out foul play||Lucknow: Was there a conspiracy to tarnish image of the BJP government as several cities of the state plunged into darkness on Janmashtami festival on Wednesday? Energy minister Shrikant Sharma doesn't rule it out. “I would not rule out anything at this stage. What haunts me is the timing of power failure. How it could happen on Janmashtami day,” he told TOI. Though the minister declined to divulge further, insiders in the UPPCL told TOI that a particular lobby of engineers and private companies was annoyed with the minister’s timebound agenda for power reforms mainly to provide cheap electricity to consumers. “The command and control centre set up by private companies cannot be accessed by anyone without the complicity of engineers,” said a highly placed source. Apart from the complicity and connivance of the disgruntled elements of the corporation, the timing of 'blackout' is also crucial. Snapping of supply on Janmashtami evening in several major cities, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s constituency Varanasi, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's home district Gorakhpur and the seat of power Lucknow, not only hinted at a foul play, but it seemed to be a well thought out game plan, the sources further said. The UPPCL Engineers Federation headed by Shailendra Dubey has blamed private companies for the mass disconnections and lamented that the state government’s experiment with the private sector had failed miserably. The UPPCL sources and a section of the engineers said that the energy minister’s reform agenda for bringing down the transmission and distribution losses to 15 per cent and fixing accountability from the chairman to the junior engineer level has not gone well with the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sharma-does-not-rule-out-foul-play/articleshow/77514210.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 13, 2020||Mumbai||Top law school faces default of Rs 2 crore, will not offer education loans now||MUMBAI: Haunted by bad loans, the country’s top law school has decided to stop giving education loans. Unable to hunt down the defaulters, the National Law School of India University, which has given out loans worth Rs 2.02 crore since 2015, is facing “financial challenges” and has been directed to “initiate more strenuous efforts to recover these educational loans from graduated students”. The school, now staring at a financial deficit, interestingly announced this loan policy in 2015 without it being “reviewed by the Governing Bodies,” stated a notification by the university. “Nor did the university devise a financial model to secure these educational loans.” The NLSIU administration adopted this policy in 2015 to commit themselves to ensure that no student is denied the opportunity to study at NLSIU for want of resources and that students will be given educational loans for the period of their study. “We don’t have a big corpus to give out loans and we expected that students would pay back once they graduated and started earning. But we have not been able to recover the money,” registrar Sarasu Esther Thomas told TOI. In the last 4 years, the university had disbursed loans worth Rs 2.02 crores to students as interest-free educational loans. These loans were disbursed by dipping into the general funds of NLSIU. “So far, despite administrative efforts, we have received repayments of Rs 40,000 from graduated students till date. This policy, and its implementation, was reviewed by the academic council, finance committee and the executive council in 2020. The Governing Bodies have directed the university to make more strenuous efforts to recover these educational loans from graduated students,” reads the notification. Last year, 33 students of the 650-odd took loans from NLSIU, apart from others who bagged government scholarships. Now, the university will direct students to take external help from banks. “We can pay the small interest sum that students need to pay while they are studying. Later, once they graduate, they can pay back the principal sum to the bank and the interest back to the University. That way, we will be helping students and making sure they are not burdened, but not giving out large loans,” added Thomas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/top-law-school-decides-against-offering-edu-loans/articleshow/77514398.cms||Hemali Chhapia
August 13, 2020||Bareilly||Three-year-old killed, three hurt as speeding vehicle rams parked car||Bareilly: A three-year-old boy was killed and three others severely injured after a speeding car rammed their parked vehicle on the Bahjoi-Rajpura road near Faridpur crossing under Bahjoi police station on Tuesday night. According to police, Arif Ahmed along with his family was on his way back home in Sambhal after attending a wedding in Badaun’s Islamnagar when one of his cars developed a technical snag mid-way and the driver parked the vehicle on the roadside in Faridpur Khushal village on Tuesday night when a speeding car rammed their vehicle, killing the boy and injuring three others. Bahjoi police station SHO RP Singh said, “Five people, including three women, a child and the driver, got trapped inside the car after the accident and police rescued them and shifted them to a hospital, where doctors proclaimed the child dead upon arrival while the women were referred to the Sambhal district hospital given the critical injuries they sustained. The injured have been identified as Sakina, the deceased’s mother and Arif Ahmed’s wife, Parveen and Ravina.” “We have arrested the accused driver and impounded his vehicle. The accused driver, Sachin from Agra, has been booked under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304 a (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-year-old-killed-three-hurt-as-speeding-vehicle-rams-parked-car/articleshow/77510263.cms||Maria Khan
August 13, 2020||Dehradun||Renowned ‘butter festival’ of Uttarkashi hills cancelled due to Covid-19||Uttarkashi: The famed ‘butter festival’ held in Dayara bugyal (meadow) of Uttarkashi has been cancelled this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The festival, which is locally known as Anduri Utsav, is held on the slopes of the alpine meadow every year during the auspicious occasion of Sankranti and attracts hundreds of tourists from across the country. During the festival, villagers apply butter, milk and buttermilk on each other and various music and dance performances are held. “According to the age-old tradition, villagers play Holi with butter, milk, and buttermilk on the tunes of folk music during this festival. Every year, usually around August 15-16, hundreds of tourists visit Dayara meadow to participate in this unique festival, which has gained much popularity across the country,” said Manoj Rana, president of Dayara Paryatan Utsav Samiti. However, this year, due to the pandemic, only locals will be allowed to perform traditional rituals on the scheduled dates and outsiders won’t be allowed, Rana said. “It would be impossible to ensure social distancing during the festival. Local villagers though will perform traditional rituals on the scheduled dates.” Pankaj Kushwah, a homestay owner from Raithal village near Dayara bugyal, added, “Butter festival is a big event for us and it contributes majorly to the tourism-based economy of the region but this time, villagers are ready to face financial losses as they don’t want to risk infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/renowned-butter-festival-of-uttarkashi-hills-cancelled-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/77510262.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
August 13, 2020||Goa||CM: Edu policy will shape India’s future||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 is historic and will shape the future of India, in his first official reaction to the policy posts its approval by the Central cabinet on July 29. “My sincere gratitude to Dr K Kasturirangan for his prompt response to my letter thanking & congratulating him on behalf of the people of Goa for having led the team that has crafted the historic New Education Policy that will shape the future of India,” Sawant tweeted. Earlier this week, the directorate of higher education called for inputs on the policy from stakeholders and citizens stating that the inputs will be considered while drawing a roadmap based on NEP for Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-edu-policy-will-shape-indias-future/articleshow/77513869.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Pune||Nagpur, Kolhapur, Beed emerge as new hotspots||MUMBAI: An analysis of daily average growth rates in Maharashtra show the pandemic is now spreading faster in small towns and semi-urban areas with sub-optimal healthcare than in big industrial centres like Mumbai, Pune and Thane. Covid-19 cases in 8 districts grew at a rate lower than the state average of 2.2% per day during August 4-11. These include Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune. Mumbai and Thane had 0.7% and 1.1% growth respectively. Remaining 27 districts registered cases faster than the state average. Beed, Osmanabad, Ahmednagar, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Parbhani have seen growth 2-3 times the average, signalling a worrying shift of the epidemic to regions with sub-optimal healthcare. Marathwada surge likely to strain Maharashtra health infrastructureMost districts of drought-prone Marathwada have reported a high growth rate in new Covid19 cases over the past few weeks. Beed and Parbhani administrations have announced a 10-day lockdown starting August 12. Beed is the only district in the state whose growth rate has consistently climbed over the last six weeks. From a growth rate of 3.9% during June 30-July 7, it has now risen to 9.2%. Cases have doubled from 989 to 1,828 in the last one week. One state official said most districts of Marathwada face an acute shortage of health workers, which may be a big problem. Osmanabad is the second district to register a growth rate of over 7%; cases grew at 11% during July 28-August 4. Osmanabad added over 1,000 cases between August 4 and 11. “Currently, the majority of cases are limited to the cities in the district, but it is also true that cases are starting to be reported from rural areas in the district,” said Dr Ashok Thorat, civil surgeon of Beed. He attributed the rise to increased testing. Despite the surge, he said the state has taken over only one private hospital for Covid patients as the government hospital has a capacity of 1,700 beds, of which over 1,400 beds are empty. Previously the surge in cases was attributed to people who may have returned from Mumbai or Pune, but Thorat said this was not the case now. “The spread is within the district and so the lockdown has been announced,” he said. Kolhapur, Nagpur, and Ahmednagar, too are emerging as big contributors with more than 9,000 cases and growing above 5-6% in the past week. Ahmednagar, growing at three times the state average, has over 3,900 active cases of the overall 11,000 infections. Dr Bapusaheb Gade, Covid incharge for the district, said the focus has shifted from previous hotspots such as Sangamner to a few talukas and the pilgrim town of Shirdi. “Shirdi now has over 100-115 cases,” he said, adding that the district probably saw its peak about ten days ago when it reported over 747 cases in a single day. Since then, it has been adding 300-500 cases daily. “We have about 150 critical patients in need of ICU management so things are under control so far,” he said, adding that a decline in the number of critical cases has definitely helped. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, attributed much of the increase statewide to a surge in testing. “From 12,000-13,000 tests a day, we have gone up to 80,000. Samples tested is eight to nine times of what it was in June, so the rise is to a great extent expected,” he said. “It is important to note that a growth in Marathwada where density of population is lower is quite different from a growth in Mumbai or Thane, where the spread can be more rapid,” he said. In his opinion, Solapur, Jalgaon, Kolhapur continue to be worrying areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nagpur-kolhapur-beed-emerge-as-new-hotspots/articleshow/77515328.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur, Kolhapur, Beed emerge as new hotspots||MUMBAI: An analysis of daily average growth rates in Maharashtra show the pandemic is now spreading faster in small towns and semi-urban areas with sub-optimal healthcare than in big industrial centres like Mumbai, Pune and Thane. Covid-19 cases in 8 districts grew at a rate lower than the state average of 2.2% per day during August 4-11. These include Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune. Mumbai and Thane had 0.7% and 1.1% growth respectively. Remaining 27 districts registered cases faster than the state average. Beed, Osmanabad, Ahmednagar, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Parbhani have seen growth 2-3 times the average, signalling a worrying shift of the epidemic to regions with sub-optimal healthcare. Marathwada surge likely to strain Maharashtra health infrastructureMost districts of drought-prone Marathwada have reported a high growth rate in new Covid19 cases over the past few weeks. Beed and Parbhani administrations have announced a 10-day lockdown starting August 12. Beed is the only district in the state whose growth rate has consistently climbed over the last six weeks. From a growth rate of 3.9% during June 30-July 7, it has now risen to 9.2%. Cases have doubled from 989 to 1,828 in the last one week. One state official said most districts of Marathwada face an acute shortage of health workers, which may be a big problem. Osmanabad is the second district to register a growth rate of over 7%; cases grew at 11% during July 28-August 4. Osmanabad added over 1,000 cases between August 4 and 11. “Currently, the majority of cases are limited to the cities in the district, but it is also true that cases are starting to be reported from rural areas in the district,” said Dr Ashok Thorat, civil surgeon of Beed. He attributed the rise to increased testing. Despite the surge, he said the state has taken over only one private hospital for Covid patients as the government hospital has a capacity of 1,700 beds, of which over 1,400 beds are empty. Previously the surge in cases was attributed to people who may have returned from Mumbai or Pune, but Thorat said this was not the case now. “The spread is within the district and so the lockdown has been announced,” he said. Kolhapur, Nagpur, and Ahmednagar, too are emerging as big contributors with more than 9,000 cases and growing above 5-6% in the past week. Ahmednagar, growing at three times the state average, has over 3,900 active cases of the overall 11,000 infections. Dr Bapusaheb Gade, Covid incharge for the district, said the focus has shifted from previous hotspots such as Sangamner to a few talukas and the pilgrim town of Shirdi. “Shirdi now has over 100-115 cases,” he said, adding that the district probably saw its peak about ten days ago when it reported over 747 cases in a single day. Since then, it has been adding 300-500 cases daily. “We have about 150 critical patients in need of ICU management so things are under control so far,” he said, adding that a decline in the number of critical cases has definitely helped. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, attributed much of the increase statewide to a surge in testing. “From 12,000-13,000 tests a day, we have gone up to 80,000. Samples tested is eight to nine times of what it was in June, so the rise is to a great extent expected,” he said. “It is important to note that a growth in Marathwada where density of population is lower is quite different from a growth in Mumbai or Thane, where the spread can be more rapid,” he said. In his opinion, Solapur, Jalgaon, Kolhapur continue to be worrying areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-kolhapur-beed-emerge-as-new-hotspots/articleshow/77515330.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Nagpur, Kolhapur, Beed emerge as new hotspots||MUMBAI: An analysis of daily average growth rates in Maharashtra show the pandemic is now spreading faster in small towns and semi-urban areas with sub-optimal healthcare than in big industrial centres like Mumbai, Pune and Thane. Covid-19 cases in 8 districts grew at a rate lower than the state average of 2.2% per day during August 4-11. These include Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune. Mumbai and Thane had 0.7% and 1.1% growth respectively. Remaining 27 districts registered cases faster than the state average. Beed, Osmanabad, Ahmednagar, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Parbhani have seen growth 2-3 times the average, signalling a worrying shift of the epidemic to regions with sub-optimal healthcare. Marathwada surge likely to strain Maharashtra health infrastructureMost districts of drought-prone Marathwada have reported a high growth rate in new Covid19 cases over the past few weeks. Beed and Parbhani administrations have announced a 10-day lockdown starting August 12. Beed is the only district in the state whose growth rate has consistently climbed over the last six weeks. From a growth rate of 3.9% during June 30-July 7, it has now risen to 9.2%. Cases have doubled from 989 to 1,828 in the last one week. One state official said most districts of Marathwada face an acute shortage of health workers, which may be a big problem. Osmanabad is the second district to register a growth rate of over 7%; cases grew at 11% during July 28-August 4. Osmanabad added over 1,000 cases between August 4 and 11. “Currently, the majority of cases are limited to the cities in the district, but it is also true that cases are starting to be reported from rural areas in the district,” said Dr Ashok Thorat, civil surgeon of Beed. He attributed the rise to increased testing. Despite the surge, he said the state has taken over only one private hospital for Covid patients as the government hospital has a capacity of 1,700 beds, of which over 1,400 beds are empty. Previously the surge in cases was attributed to people who may have returned from Mumbai or Pune, but Thorat said this was not the case now. “The spread is within the district and so the lockdown has been announced,” he said. Kolhapur, Nagpur, and Ahmednagar, too are emerging as big contributors with more than 9,000 cases and growing above 5-6% in the past week. Ahmednagar, growing at three times the state average, has over 3,900 active cases of the overall 11,000 infections. Dr Bapusaheb Gade, Covid incharge for the district, said the focus has shifted from previous hotspots such as Sangamner to a few talukas and the pilgrim town of Shirdi. “Shirdi now has over 100-115 cases,” he said, adding that the district probably saw its peak about ten days ago when it reported over 747 cases in a single day. Since then, it has been adding 300-500 cases daily. “We have about 150 critical patients in need of ICU management so things are under control so far,” he said, adding that a decline in the number of critical cases has definitely helped. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, attributed much of the increase statewide to a surge in testing. “From 12,000-13,000 tests a day, we have gone up to 80,000. Samples tested is eight to nine times of what it was in June, so the rise is to a great extent expected,” he said. “It is important to note that a growth in Marathwada where density of population is lower is quite different from a growth in Mumbai or Thane, where the spread can be more rapid,” he said. In his opinion, Solapur, Jalgaon, Kolhapur continue to be worrying areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/nagpur-kolhapur-beed-emerge-as-new-hotspots/articleshow/77515333.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 13, 2020||Kochi||Quarrying: Kerala HC orders status quo||KOCHI: The high court has ordered for maintaining status quo in implementing National Green Tribunal’s recent directive to increase the minimum distance from residential units for quarries to operate. NGT had directed increasing the distance from 50 metres to 200 metres. Justice Alexander Thomas ordered for maintaining status quo after the state government informed the court that it is filing a petition challenging the NGT’s order of July 21. The 50-metre rule is specified under Kerala Minor Mineral Concession Rules, 2015. Counsels representing several quarry operators had also informed the court that the operators are also planning to question the jurisdiction of NGT in issuing such an order. The court said it has to preserve the subject matter of the dispute even before taking a decision on admitting the challenges to the NGT directive. The court then ordered that status quo should be maintained in the case of quarries with valid licences on the day of the NGT’s order but who fall short of the new distance rule. During the hearing, additional advocate general Ranjith Thampan submitted that the NGT’s order amounts to striking down of the rule framed by the state government. NGT cannot strike down statutory rules or regulation and it doesn’t have the power of judicial review akin to the high court, the additional AG contended. State government would be filing a separate petition questioning the NGT’s order, the court was told. The court said the government’s petition can be considered as the lead case and directed for listing the cases filed by quarry operators along with the government’s case for admission hearing at a later date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/quarrying-hc-orders-status-quo/articleshow/77511393.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Goa||Iffi will take place this year: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that the 2020 edition of the International Film Festival of India (Iffi) will take place as scheduled this year. As film screening facilities remain closed across the country due to the Covid-19 pandemic, this has also cast doubts over hosting the festival in Goa. Besides the release of the official poster for Iffi by the Union information and broadcasting ministry, there has been no word officially on whether hosting of the festival would be possible this year. On Tuesday, the Union ministry called for submission of entries from filmmakers in the Indian Panorama section as well as for international films. When queried if Iffi 2020 would be held, Sawant on Wednesday simply nodded in the affirmative without further elaboration. Officials at the Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) confirmed that the CM did have a discussion recently with Union ministry officials over the hosting of Iffi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iffi-will-take-place-this-year-sawant/articleshow/77513867.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: On the run, Zenito Cardozo finally surrenders before police||PANAJI: Zenito Cardozo, key conspirator in the June 20 Santa Cruz shootout case, surrendered before the SDPO in Panaji on Wednesday morning. History-sheeter Cardozo had been untraceable and a police hunt across three states of Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka had been launched. His bail plea was earlier rejected by the court. “He surrendered today before us in presence of his lawyer. Accordingly, PI Old Goa has been instructed to take his custody and do the investigation,” Panaji SDPO Uttam Raut Dessai said. Cardozo is wanted on the charge of ‘conspiracy’ under Section 120b of the IPC, Dessai said. Cardozo is a history-sheeter involved in several cases over the years including murder, attempt to murder, gang wars and extortion. In 2013, he was detained under National Security Act, before being granted bail by the high court of Bombay at Goa. More recently, Goa police had opposed his anticipatory bail application filed before the district court in Santa Cruz case, wherein one member of his gang had succumbed to gunshot injuries. The shootout had taken place at the house of one Imran Bepari at Santa Cruz. North Goa SP Utkrisht Prasoon had said that Cardozo is wanted in conspiracy behind the attempt to murder. “During our investigation, we found that Cardozo has a role in the conspiracy,” Prasoon had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/on-the-run-zenitofinally-surrenders/articleshow/77513863.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Nagpur, Kolhapur, Beed emerge as new hotspots||MUMBAI: An analysis of daily average growth rates in Maharashtra show the pandemic is now spreading faster in small towns and semi-urban areas with sub-optimal healthcare than in big industrial centres like Mumbai, Pune and Thane. Covid-19 cases in 8 districts grew at a rate lower than the state average of 2.2% per day during August 4-11. These include Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune. Mumbai and Thane had 0.7% and 1.1% growth respectively. Remaining 27 districts registered cases faster than the state average. Beed, Osmanabad, Ahmednagar, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Parbhani have seen growth 2-3 times the average, signalling a worrying shift of the epidemic to regions with sub-optimal healthcare. Marathwada surge likely to strain Maharashtra health infrastructureMost districts of drought-prone Marathwada have reported a high growth rate in new Covid19 cases over the past few weeks. Beed and Parbhani administrations have announced a 10-day lockdown starting August 12. Beed is the only district in the state whose growth rate has consistently climbed over the last six weeks. From a growth rate of 3.9% during June 30-July 7, it has now risen to 9.2%. Cases have doubled from 989 to 1,828 in the last one week. One state official said most districts of Marathwada face an acute shortage of health workers, which may be a big problem. Osmanabad is the second district to register a growth rate of over 7%; cases grew at 11% during July 28-August 4. Osmanabad added over 1,000 cases between August 4 and 11. “Currently, the majority of cases are limited to the cities in the district, but it is also true that cases are starting to be reported from rural areas in the district,” said Dr Ashok Thorat, civil surgeon of Beed. He attributed the rise to increased testing. Despite the surge, he said the state has taken over only one private hospital for Covid patients as the government hospital has a capacity of 1,700 beds, of which over 1,400 beds are empty. Previously the surge in cases was attributed to people who may have returned from Mumbai or Pune, but Thorat said this was not the case now. “The spread is within the district and so the lockdown has been announced,” he said. Kolhapur, Nagpur, and Ahmednagar, too are emerging as big contributors with more than 9,000 cases and growing above 5-6% in the past week. Ahmednagar, growing at three times the state average, has over 3,900 active cases of the overall 11,000 infections. Dr Bapusaheb Gade, Covid incharge for the district, said the focus has shifted from previous hotspots such as Sangamner to a few talukas and the pilgrim town of Shirdi. “Shirdi now has over 100-115 cases,” he said, adding that the district probably saw its peak about ten days ago when it reported over 747 cases in a single day. Since then, it has been adding 300-500 cases daily. “We have about 150 critical patients in need of ICU management so things are under control so far,” he said, adding that a decline in the number of critical cases has definitely helped. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, attributed much of the increase statewide to a surge in testing. “From 12,000-13,000 tests a day, we have gone up to 80,000. Samples tested is eight to nine times of what it was in June, so the rise is to a great extent expected,” he said. “It is important to note that a growth in Marathwada where density of population is lower is quite different from a growth in Mumbai or Thane, where the spread can be more rapid,” he said. In his opinion, Solapur, Jalgaon, Kolhapur continue to be worrying areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/nagpur-kolhapur-beed-emerge-as-new-hotspots/articleshow/77515326.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 13, 2020||Thane||Nagpur, Kolhapur, Beed emerge as new hotspots||MUMBAI: An analysis of daily average growth rates in Maharashtra show the pandemic is now spreading faster in small towns and semi-urban areas with sub-optimal healthcare than in big industrial centres like Mumbai, Pune and Thane. Covid-19 cases in 8 districts grew at a rate lower than the state average of 2.2% per day during August 4-11. These include Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune. Mumbai and Thane had 0.7% and 1.1% growth respectively. Remaining 27 districts registered cases faster than the state average. Beed, Osmanabad, Ahmednagar, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Parbhani have seen growth 2-3 times the average, signalling a worrying shift of the epidemic to regions with sub-optimal healthcare. Marathwada surge likely to strain Maharashtra health infrastructureMost districts of drought-prone Marathwada have reported a high growth rate in new Covid19 cases over the past few weeks. Beed and Parbhani administrations have announced a 10-day lockdown starting August 12. Beed is the only district in the state whose growth rate has consistently climbed over the last six weeks. From a growth rate of 3.9% during June 30-July 7, it has now risen to 9.2%. Cases have doubled from 989 to 1,828 in the last one week. One state official said most districts of Marathwada face an acute shortage of health workers, which may be a big problem. Osmanabad is the second district to register a growth rate of over 7%; cases grew at 11% during July 28-August 4. Osmanabad added over 1,000 cases between August 4 and 11. “Currently, the majority of cases are limited to the cities in the district, but it is also true that cases are starting to be reported from rural areas in the district,” said Dr Ashok Thorat, civil surgeon of Beed. He attributed the rise to increased testing. Despite the surge, he said the state has taken over only one private hospital for Covid patients as the government hospital has a capacity of 1,700 beds, of which over 1,400 beds are empty. Previously the surge in cases was attributed to people who may have returned from Mumbai or Pune, but Thorat said this was not the case now. “The spread is within the district and so the lockdown has been announced,” he said. Kolhapur, Nagpur, and Ahmednagar, too are emerging as big contributors with more than 9,000 cases and growing above 5-6% in the past week. Ahmednagar, growing at three times the state average, has over 3,900 active cases of the overall 11,000 infections. Dr Bapusaheb Gade, Covid incharge for the district, said the focus has shifted from previous hotspots such as Sangamner to a few talukas and the pilgrim town of Shirdi. “Shirdi now has over 100-115 cases,” he said, adding that the district probably saw its peak about ten days ago when it reported over 747 cases in a single day. Since then, it has been adding 300-500 cases daily. “We have about 150 critical patients in need of ICU management so things are under control so far,” he said, adding that a decline in the number of critical cases has definitely helped. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, attributed much of the increase statewide to a surge in testing. “From 12,000-13,000 tests a day, we have gone up to 80,000. Samples tested is eight to nine times of what it was in June, so the rise is to a great extent expected,” he said. “It is important to note that a growth in Marathwada where density of population is lower is quite different from a growth in Mumbai or Thane, where the spread can be more rapid,” he said. In his opinion, Solapur, Jalgaon, Kolhapur continue to be worrying areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/nagpur-kolhapur-beed-emerge-as-new-hotspots/articleshow/77515334.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 13, 2020||Lucknow||Despite surge, UP’s positivity ratio below 5% in ideal range||LUCKNOW: Despite surge in novel coronavirus cases, UP’s case positivity ratio (CPR) or the number of persons testing positive among those tested remains below 5%, well within an ideal range of 3-12%. “The CPR of UP for August has so far remained at 4.8%,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad on Wednesday. To note, 47,352 cases have been reported between August 1 and August 11, while 9,89,009 tests were conducted during the same period. Prasad stated that as per Union ministry of health and family welfare and the World Health Organization (WHO) norms, a CPR of 3-12% meant that the situation was under control. The health ministry has asked all states to make efforts to keep case positivity rate to below 5% through aggressive testing. Reviewing the situation in 10 states, accounting for 80% of the country’s active case burden, Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed officials to test every contact of a positive person within 72 hours. Talking about tests, Prasad said: “UP conducted 97,911 tests in the past 24 hours which took the total number of tests to 34,12,346. We are conducting maximum number of tests in the country now.” Detailing about the pattern and trend of CPR, Prasad said: “The top five districts in terms of CPR are: Kanpur, Gorakhpur,Deoria, Maharajganj and Lucknow in that order, while districts with lowest CPR were: Hathras, Baghpat, Mahoba, Kasganj andBulandshahr.” Experts were of the view that a district-wise break up would present the real picture. “In a state like UP, which is equal in size to the world’s fourth largest country, an average number does not present the accurate picture. The authorities must study the district wise data to understand the micro-picture,” said one of them. Meanwhile, the state recorded 4,583 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1.35 lakh, including 49,347 active infections. The health bulletin revealed that 54.2% (or 2,488) cases were reported from just 14 districts, including Lucknow (475), Basti(306), Kanpur (232), Prayagraj (227), Gorakhpur (224), Bareilly (183), Varanasi (166), Saharanpur (106), Kushinagar (106),Ghaziabad (100), Moradabad (100), Azamgarh (92), Siddhartnagar (87) and Gautam Budh Nagar (84). The state also recorded the death of 53 persons, taking the total Covid 19 casualties to 2,230. As per the bulletin, seven deaths were reported in Lucknow, while six were recorded in Kanpur. In Gorakhpur, five persons died because of the pandemic infection, while four deaths were reported from Bareilly. Three deaths each were reported in Hardoi, Auraiya and Varanasi, while two entries were made in Maharajganj. In Sravasti, Balrampur, Kanpur Dehat, Bhadoi, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh, Bijnore, Mirzapur, Muzaffarnagar, Mathura, Chandauli,Pilibhit, Basti, Shahjahanpur, Ayodhya, Barabanki, Agra, Moradabad, Jaunpur, Jhansi, Prayagraj and Ghaziabad one death each was reported. Health officials also stated that a total of 4,073 persons were discharged from different hospitals. With this, the total number of recoveries reached 84,661.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/despite-surge-ups-cprremains-below-ideal-5/articleshow/77514251.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 may push back deadline for new Parliament building||NEW DELHI: The Covid pandemic has hit the government’s ambitious plan for completion of the new Parliament building before the monsoon session of 2022 and even the rest of the Central Vista Redevelopment Plan may get delayed by at least six months beyond the 2024 deadline. The government had prioritised construction of the new Parliament just opposite the existing one so that it could be ready by the time India celebrates its 75th Independence Day. Sources said the two-storey building may not be ready before December 2022 as the selected contractor would require at least two years for construction of this mammoth structure which will also have state-of-the-art IT features. TOI had on November 3 first published the detailed plan of Parliament building, new PM’s residence close to Rashtrapati Bhavan and location of new government buildings along Rajpath. Officials said the three infrastructure majors —L&T, Tata Projects and Shapoorji Pallonji— would now put their financial bids and the government has to comply with the mandatory norms for bidding out the projects. Only after bagging the work, the successful bidder would mobilise men and material for the project. The contractor would be allowed to carry out construction round the clock, in three shifts. “But it’s a massive project. It would take time for procurement of specified materials by the contractor as well. It must not be built in a hurry,” said an industry source. Sources said the government is holding regular review meetings on the progress of the entire redevelopment project. They said there is no change in the plan at all. Meanwhile, the Central Public Works Department is preparing the plan to develop a huge park on Yamuna bank, which will be named as “New India Park”. Though earlier there was a plan to build an iconic tower in the park, this has now been dropped considering the norms laid for development in flood plains area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-may-push-back-deadline-for-new-parliament-building/articleshow/77534580.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 13, 2020||Bareilly||Man arrested for posting objectionable comments with morphed photo of PM Modi on social media||Bareilly: A resident of Harharpur village under Hafizganj police station in Bareilly was arrested for allegedly posting objectionable comments with a morphed photo of Prime Minister Narendra Modi on social media. Senior superintendent of police Shailesh Pandey said the accused had posted objectionable comments with a morphed photo of PM intending to disturb communal harmony. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-arrested-for-posting-objectionable-comments-with-morphed-photo-of-pm-modi-on-social-media/articleshow/77510259.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 13, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Nagpur, Kolhapur, Beed emerge as new hotspots||MUMBAI: An analysis of daily average growth rates in Maharashtra show the pandemic is now spreading faster in small towns and semi-urban areas with sub-optimal healthcare than in big industrial centres like Mumbai, Pune and Thane. Covid-19 cases in 8 districts grew at a rate lower than the state average of 2.2% per day during August 4-11. These include Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune. Mumbai and Thane had 0.7% and 1.1% growth respectively. Remaining 27 districts registered cases faster than the state average. Beed, Osmanabad, Ahmednagar, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Parbhani have seen growth 2-3 times the average, signalling a worrying shift of the epidemic to regions with sub-optimal healthcare. Marathwada surge likely to strain Maharashtra health infrastructureMost districts of drought-prone Marathwada have reported a high growth rate in new Covid19 cases over the past few weeks. Beed and Parbhani administrations have announced a 10-day lockdown starting August 12. Beed is the only district in the state whose growth rate has consistently climbed over the last six weeks. From a growth rate of 3.9% during June 30-July 7, it has now risen to 9.2%. Cases have doubled from 989 to 1,828 in the last one week. One state official said most districts of Marathwada face an acute shortage of health workers, which may be a big problem. Osmanabad is the second district to register a growth rate of over 7%; cases grew at 11% during July 28-August 4. Osmanabad added over 1,000 cases between August 4 and 11. “Currently, the majority of cases are limited to the cities in the district, but it is also true that cases are starting to be reported from rural areas in the district,” said Dr Ashok Thorat, civil surgeon of Beed. He attributed the rise to increased testing. Despite the surge, he said the state has taken over only one private hospital for Covid patients as the government hospital has a capacity of 1,700 beds, of which over 1,400 beds are empty. Previously the surge in cases was attributed to people who may have returned from Mumbai or Pune, but Thorat said this was not the case now. “The spread is within the district and so the lockdown has been announced,” he said. Kolhapur, Nagpur, and Ahmednagar, too are emerging as big contributors with more than 9,000 cases and growing above 5-6% in the past week. Ahmednagar, growing at three times the state average, has over 3,900 active cases of the overall 11,000 infections. Dr Bapusaheb Gade, Covid incharge for the district, said the focus has shifted from previous hotspots such as Sangamner to a few talukas and the pilgrim town of Shirdi. “Shirdi now has over 100-115 cases,” he said, adding that the district probably saw its peak about ten days ago when it reported over 747 cases in a single day. Since then, it has been adding 300-500 cases daily. “We have about 150 critical patients in need of ICU management so things are under control so far,” he said, adding that a decline in the number of critical cases has definitely helped. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, attributed much of the increase statewide to a surge in testing. “From 12,000-13,000 tests a day, we have gone up to 80,000. Samples tested is eight to nine times of what it was in June, so the rise is to a great extent expected,” he said. “It is important to note that a growth in Marathwada where density of population is lower is quite different from a growth in Mumbai or Thane, where the spread can be more rapid,” he said. In his opinion, Solapur, Jalgaon, Kolhapur continue to be worrying areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/nagpur-kolhapur-beed-emerge-as-new-hotspots/articleshow/77515335.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 13, 2020||Mumbai||Nagpur, Kolhapur, Beed emerge as new hotspots||MUMBAI: An analysis of daily average growth rates in Maharashtra show the pandemic is now spreading faster in small towns and semi-urban areas with sub-optimal healthcare than in big industrial centres like Mumbai, Pune and Thane. Covid-19 cases in 8 districts grew at a rate lower than the state average of 2.2% per day during August 4-11. These include Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Pune. Mumbai and Thane had 0.7% and 1.1% growth respectively. Remaining 27 districts registered cases faster than the state average. Beed, Osmanabad, Ahmednagar, Nagpur, Kolhapur, Parbhani have seen growth 2-3 times the average, signalling a worrying shift of the epidemic to regions with sub-optimal healthcare. Marathwada surge likely to strain Maharashtra health infrastructureMost districts of drought-prone Marathwada have reported a high growth rate in new Covid19 cases over the past few weeks. Beed and Parbhani administrations have announced a 10-day lockdown starting August 12. Beed is the only district in the state whose growth rate has consistently climbed over the last six weeks. From a growth rate of 3.9% during June 30-July 7, it has now risen to 9.2%. Cases have doubled from 989 to 1,828 in the last one week. One state official said most districts of Marathwada face an acute shortage of health workers, which may be a big problem. Osmanabad is the second district to register a growth rate of over 7%; cases grew at 11% during July 28-August 4. Osmanabad added over 1,000 cases between August 4 and 11. “Currently, the majority of cases are limited to the cities in the district, but it is also true that cases are starting to be reported from rural areas in the district,” said Dr Ashok Thorat, civil surgeon of Beed. He attributed the rise to increased testing. Despite the surge, he said the state has taken over only one private hospital for Covid patients as the government hospital has a capacity of 1,700 beds, of which over 1,400 beds are empty. Previously the surge in cases was attributed to people who may have returned from Mumbai or Pune, but Thorat said this was not the case now. “The spread is within the district and so the lockdown has been announced,” he said. Kolhapur, Nagpur, and Ahmednagar, too are emerging as big contributors with more than 9,000 cases and growing above 5-6% in the past week. Ahmednagar, growing at three times the state average, has over 3,900 active cases of the overall 11,000 infections. Dr Bapusaheb Gade, Covid incharge for the district, said the focus has shifted from previous hotspots such as Sangamner to a few talukas and the pilgrim town of Shirdi. “Shirdi now has over 100-115 cases,” he said, adding that the district probably saw its peak about ten days ago when it reported over 747 cases in a single day. Since then, it has been adding 300-500 cases daily. “We have about 150 critical patients in need of ICU management so things are under control so far,” he said, adding that a decline in the number of critical cases has definitely helped. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, attributed much of the increase statewide to a surge in testing. “From 12,000-13,000 tests a day, we have gone up to 80,000. Samples tested is eight to nine times of what it was in June, so the rise is to a great extent expected,” he said. “It is important to note that a growth in Marathwada where density of population is lower is quite different from a growth in Mumbai or Thane, where the spread can be more rapid,” he said. In his opinion, Solapur, Jalgaon, Kolhapur continue to be worrying areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nagpur-kolhapur-beed-emerge-as-new-hotspots/articleshow/77514399.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 13, 2020||Lucknow||Smart meters make consumers‘powerless’ on Janmashtami in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Energy minister Shrikanth Sharma has ordered a high-level inquiry into sudden 'blackout' in thousands of homes on the occasion of Janmashtami on Wednesday evening after thousands of smart meters installed in several cities snapped supply to even those consumers who had cleared their bills. “If needed an FIR would also be lodged against those who mishandled the control and command centre at UPPCL headquarters in Lucknow,” Sharma said while monitoring the repair work to ensure early restoration of supply on the festival. The minister regretted the inconvenience caused to power consumers. In a late evening action, the director of Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL), Venkatesh Dwivedi, tweeted that the state heads of EESL and L&T had been placed under suspension for dereliction of duty. EESL, a government of India company, is responsible for the installation and maintenance of smart meters. On Wednesday evening, when people were busy celebrating Janmashtami, power went off in thousands of homes in several cities, including Lucknow, as the smart meters started displaying 'disconnection due to non-payment of monthly arrears'. Talking to TOI, many domestic consumers said that power was snapped despite the fact that they had cleared bills much in advance. Besides, the department was not authorised to initiate the disconnection process before 11 am on Thursday, they added. Soon after the power was snapped on Wednesday evening, UPPCL offices in various cities started receiving complaints from thousands of consumers. Sensing the trouble, senior officers of UPPCL alerted energy minister Shrikant Sharma who in turn asked chairman Arvind Kumar to set up a high-level committee to probe into circumstances leading to disconnection of supply by the smart meters on the festival day. Initial investigation pointed towards hacking of computer IDs at the command centre at UPPCL headquarters in Lucknow as the reason for the power failure as well as some technical issues with smart meters. The minister has sought a detailed report in this connection. The smart meters have been supplied and installed by private companies to phase out outdated meters mainly to ensure a foolproof billing process. In the first phase, the UPPCL has been replacing old meters with these meters in Lucknow, Varanasi, Gorakhpur and Gautam Budh Nagar. About one lakh meters installed in these cities developed some snag on Wednesday, leading to the ‘blackout’. The repair work was continuing in some cities when the last reports came in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/smart-meters-make-consumerspowerless-on-janmashtami/articleshow/77514206.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Two booked for duping man of Rs 1 lakh||AURANGABAD: City police have booked two suspects on charges of cheating and criminal breach of trust, after they duped the son of an inspector, serving with the state crime investigation department, by taking Rs 1 lakh to help settle the complainant’s Rs 2.50 lakh outstanding education loan. According to police, the complainant, Vinod Chavan (30), is an employee of District Central Cooperative Bank in Parbhani and he had obtained an education loan of Rs 2.6 lakh from State Bank of Hyderabad in 2013. “After completing his Masters in Computer Applications from Pune, he recently bagged a job with the bank. Later year, through one of the colleagues, Vinod came in touch with one of the suspects, who boasted about his contacts in the SBI and during the conversation even claimed of helping him settle the outstanding education loan,” Cidco police station inspector Ashok Giri said. “Falling prey to the trap laid by the key suspect and his accomplice, both hailing from Beed, Chavan ended up transferring an amount of Rs 1.1 lakh to their bank account in December 2019,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-booked-for-duping-man-of-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/77511371.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Lucknow||RALC to be turned into Covid hosp: KGMU VC||Lucknow: Two days after taking charge as KGMU VC, Lt-Gen (Retd) Bipin Puri announced that the Rehabilitation and Artificial Limb Centre (RALC) building of the university will soon be converted into a Covid hospital for all services to be provided to Covid-19 patients under one roof. In his maiden press conference through video conferencing on Wednesday, the new VC said, “Renovation work of the building is underway and it will be ready soon to work as a dedicated Covid hospital.” The building will have 200 beds with oxygen support. About 20 of them will also be equipped with ventilators. It will also have a fever clinic where suspected cases will be screened apart from several collection points for swab samples. A triage area will also be made for atients to report for sampling and screening. Those diagnosed with Covid-19 symptoms will be admitted in the Covid hospital, while others will be sent to other departments. The decision to convert RALC building—located about a kilometre from the main campus—was taken in May, but could not be executed because of opposition from faculty members and staff of the five departments housed in it. However, later the university went ahead with the decision and shifted all the departments to different buildings. The VC also said that KGMU is conducting research on various aspects of Covid-19 that the results will be of national and global importance. The university is already leading in the state by conducting over 3 lakh Covid tests so far in the microbiology lab, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ralc-to-be-turned-into-covid-hosp-kgmu-vc/articleshow/77514156.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 13, 2020||Goa||Withdraw land rate hike, waive power bills, says GFP||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Wednesday slammed the government for putting additional financial burden on common men by increasing land rates on one hand while offering token relief through a rebate on the fixed charges for power. The party accused the government of working for the interests of the rich while ignoring the common man’s grievance. Party office bearers also demanded that the government should withdraw the increase in land rates and to waive off the power bills. “This government is of the rich,” said GFP vice-president Dilip Prabhudesai. “It also shows that the government is either stupid or thinks that Goans are stupid.” Prabhudesai said that of the Rs 18.3 crore rebate announced by chief minister Pramod Sawant, low tension consumers will get Rs 3 crore as benefit while the remaining Rs 15 crore will benefit high tension consumers such as resorts, large industrial estates and mining companies. “Nilesh Cabral announced that the Centre is giving Goa this Rs 18.3 crore and the state is passing it on to the consumers. This means that if the Centre had not given this money, then the state would have not done anything for Goans,” said Prabhudesai. Referring to the government’s power rebate as “alms giving”, GFP said requested people to donate the amount to the Chief Minister’s Covid Relief Fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/withdraw-land-rate-hike-waive-power-bills-says-gfp/articleshow/77513872.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Goa||As pandemic rages, gurudwara sees drop in footfalls||Panaji: Footfalls at the Sikh temple in Betim, Gurudwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha, have fallen due to the pandemic. Compared to 400-odd people visiting the Gurudwara on a Sunday morning, the place of worship is now allowing a crowd of only 30-40 people to maintain social distancing. “The gurudwara is operating with some conditions laid down. We are not entertaining any get togethers or festivities. People can only visit for prayers. The footfalls are very low,” Harvinder Singh, a member of the gurudwara committee told TOI. He further said that the devotees were requested to pray from home prior to the place’s opening in June through the week and visit the Gurudwara only on Sunday. The few that do turn up at the Gurudwara on Sunday are under the strict watch of the committee members to ensure that social distancing is maintained, and their masks are fully up. “These devotees only attend the kirtan and participate in the langar while maintaining social distance,” Singh said. The Gurudwara Shri Guru Singh Sabha welcomed worshippers inside its premises from June 8 onwards, following MHA guidelines to open places of worship. As a precautionary measure, devotees are being requested to enter the premises wearing a mask and to use sanitisers. They are also requested to wash their hands before and after accepting the kada prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-pandemic-rages-gurudwara-sees-drop-in-footfalls/articleshow/77514402.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Mangaluru||NMAMIT transforms vehicle on combustible fuel to electric||MANGALURU: The department of electrical and electronics engineering, NMAM Institute of Technology, Nitte has transformed a petrol engine car into pollution-free, energy-efficient and eco-friendly electric vehicle. NMAMIT principal Niranjan N Chiplunkar launched the electric car at the campus recently and appreciated the efforts of the team. Being touted as the next-generation vehicles, demand for electrical vehicles is surging and NMAMIT has taken the lead in innovating them. Explaining how a vehicle on combustible fuel was transformed to electric, project mentor Suryanarayana K said, “The power electronic converters designed and developed by the team successfully drive the electric motor and charge the battery array of the vehicle.” Suryanarayana further explained that a microcontroller unit designed and developed in the research and innovation centre of the institute controls the electric vehicle with Semikron power electronic stack, array of 25 batteries of 12V, 45Ah each, and a three-phase 7.5HP induction motor. The team has not only developed a microcontroller system with algorithms and required controls, but also has designed a battery charging circuitry. Consistent endeavours of the team for about nine months in converting the engineering theory into practice resulted in the successful execution of the electric vehicle with a peak speed of 50kmph and estimated the distance of 80kms with the batteries fully charged. Principal and the project mentor thanked the president of Nitte Education Trust N Vinaya Hegde for encouraging research culture in the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nmamit-transforms-vehicle-on-combustible-fuel-to-electric/articleshow/77510267.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP-Nepal border shut, traffic curbs around NCR dists||Lucknow: A high alert has been sounded across Uttar Pradesh ahead of Independence Day celebrations. Senior police officials of the rank of additional director general (ADG) and inspector general (IG) will camp in sensitive districts and additional police personnel will be deployed at public places. Officials in DGP headquarters said UP-Nepal border has been sealed and vigil has been stepped in districts bordering Nepal. ADG (Law and order) Prashant Kumar told TOI that all district police chiefs have been asked to increase patrolling and checking in all sensitive areas under their jurisdiction. “Traffic restrictions would be implemented in the districts bordering Delhi and NCR from Thursday and continue till August 15 midnight,” he added. The district police chiefs have also been instructed by the DGP headquarters to conduct security drills and carry out checking at the bus stations, railway stations and district borders. ADG said instructions have also been given to district police chiefs and the two police commissioners on monitoring of social networking websites. DGP headquarters has asked senior officials to continue camping in districts around Ayodhya. While ADG Ashutosh Pandey will camp in Amethi, ADG Ashok Kumar will be in Gonda, ADG Ram Kumar in Bahraich, IG Vijay Bhushan in Barabanki, IG Vijay Prakash in Sultanpur, IG AK Rai in Basti, IG Piyush Mordia in Ambedkarnagar, DIG Chandra Prakash in Maharajganj, and DIG RK Bharadwaj Siddharthnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-nepal-border-shut-traffic-curbs-around-ncr-dists/articleshow/77514202.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Lucknow||LDA to build new township with 6k housing units||Lucknow: Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) will construct a township comprising around 6,000 housing units on over 2,000 acre land on Sultanpur road. The authority has prepared a blueprint for the acquisition of 2,052 acre land in nine villages for the scheme. The township will accommodate around 22,000 people and 1,500 commercial units will also be part of it. According to LDA officials, the township will also have facilities like community centre, school, parks, bank, shopping complex, temple and a swimming pool. “The project, which will come up at an estimated cost of Rs 148 crore, will be completed by the end of 2025, if the land acquisition process is completed by March 2021 and the construction begins soon after,” an official said. The proposal for the township on Sultanpur road was approved by the LDA Board on July 24. Earlier, a private developer had proposed a township on 700 acre land at the same place. However, LDA Board cancelled the approval granted to it earlier after finding irregularities in paperwork. It was then decided that LDA will construct a township nearly three times bigger than the one proposed by the private player. It was also decided that land will be acquired from nine villages – Malakpur, Dhakwa, Bajpur, Malauli, Chaurahia, Yaad Sarai, Dularmau, Salauli and Samenapur – for the purpose. LDA secretary MP Singh said, “The process for land acquisition will start from October. Currently, we are preparing a list of land owners who will be compensated after acquisition.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-to-build-new-township-with-6k-housing-units/articleshow/77514181.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Anti-Romeo Squads made over 11,000 arrests in three years||LUCKNOW: The Anti-Romeo Squads formed to check crime against women in Uttar Pradesh have arrested as many as 11,222 eve-teasers and stalkers in the last three years. Senior police officers said that the government’s zero tolerance policy against crime and of crime against women has led to a drastic drop in crime against women in 2020. The officers also attributed the drop in crime rate against women on effective action taken by Anti-Romeo Squads, making public places safer for women. More technical advancements are being made for making these squads more effective, senior officials told TOI. The purpose is to not only prevent eve-teasing and harassment, but also to keep a check on crimes like chain, mobile and purse snatching in public places. The data of three years of Anti-Romeo Squads accessed by TOI reveals that since the Yogi government came to power, as many as 7,134 FIRs were registered by the squad in which 11,222 persons were arrested from across the state, while 34,26,323 others were issued a warning before being let off by cops. It also shows that maximum FIRs (1,593) were registered in the Gorakhpur police zone. On the other hand, 18,15,896 places were checked in Meerut police zone, which is highest by any Anti-Romeo Squad in the state. ADG (law and order) Prashant Kumar told TOI that the effectiveness of Anti-Romeo Squad could be gauged from the fact that its activeness has led to a drastic decrease in crime against women. “Among categories of crime against women, there has been a decrease of 28% in rape cases, 36% in kidnapping for marriage and about 7% in dowry deaths,” the officer said. He said that the overall objective of Anti-Romeo Squads is also to train girls and women by making them self-sufficient and reliant in not only reporting crime against themselves but also acting against it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/anti-romeo-squads-made-over-11000-arrests-in-3-yrs/articleshow/77514194.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
August 13, 2020||Lucknow||Jail pharmacistshifted for givingwrong medicine||Lucknow: A day after 22 inmates of Lucknow district jail fainted on the prison’s premises after they were given a wrong anti-allergic medicine, the department transferred in-house pharmacist Ashish Verma on Wednesday. The prison department also got an inspection done by psychiatrist from Balrampur hospital Dr PK Srivastava. “Dr Srivastava, who examined the prisoners who had complained of dizziness, opined that the drug usually affects for a period of 10 hours and not thereafter. Hence, the prisoners were pretending to be ill,” said deputy inspector of jails, Sanjeev Tripathi. Tripathi further said that the pharmacist had been attached to Central Jail in Fatehgarh. A preliminary inquiry revealed that doctors had prescribed an anti-allergic tablet for some inmates. However, the prison pharmacist gave them another tablet which caused dizziness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jail-pharmacistshifted-for-givingwrong-medicine/articleshow/77514185.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Supreme Court slams Centre on delay in funds for Amrapali projects||NEW DELHI: Anguished over delay by SBI Capital in not finalising the plan for releasing money out of the Centre's real estate stress fund for completion of Amrapali's stalled housing projects, the Supreme Court on Thursday slammed the government and questioned why the fund was created if money could not be released for even a court-monitored project. The apex court had two months back asked the SBI Capital, which manages the Centre's 25,000-crore stress fund, to release funds which could be used for completion of Amrapali's housing projects in which more than 50,000 home- buyers had booked their flats almost a decade back but construction came to a halt due to siphoning off of money by promoters and directors of the company. Although SBI Capital had earlier told the court that it was agreeable to infuse Rs 1,000 crore in eight housing projects of Amrapali, it failed to come out with final proposal and repeatedly sought time to chalk out details. The court had also asked the Centre to infuse additional Rs 500 crore but the government has so far not taken any stand. As the construction work could not be started due to lack of funds, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit pulled up the Centre and SBI Cap for delaying the projects by creating hurdles in the efforts of the court to benefit thousands of home-buyers. “You created the stress fund but you are not releasing the fund. This is a court-monitored project and it is happening with this project and the fund is not being released. This is the stress fund but you are creating all sorts of problems. If a fund was created then it must be used. We are persuading everyone but nothing is happening and 2-3 months have passed,” the bench told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. “It is a dead project and we are trying to revive it. If you do not release money for a court-monitored project then we will pass an order invoking our extraordinary power for release of funds,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-slams-centre-on-delay-in-funds-for-amrapali-projects/articleshow/77534610.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
August 13, 2020||Kochi||Sub-registrar suspended for ‘ill-treating’ cancer patient||Idukki: PWD and registration minister G Sudhakaran suspended Kattappana sub-registrar G Jayalakshmi on her inhuman treatment of a cancer patient when he approached the registrar for land registration process. The minister also directed action against the official for removing her from government service. According to officials, the incident took place on August 6 when Suneesh Joseph, a government official and a cancer patient, arrived in an ambulance at the Kattappana sub-registrar office for registering land. The sub-registrar office is on the third floor of Kattappana mini civil station. But sub-registrar Jayalakshmi directed him to be present in her chamber for the registration process. His condition was very critical and he was carried on a chair to the third floor to complete the procedure. He later died on August 9. After Joseph’s death, his friend and a government official Jose Kallumkal posted the tragic incident on his Facebook page and it went viral. After receiving complaints, the minister intervened and ordered Jayalakshmi’s suspension. “The government official failed to provide natural justice to the cancer patient. The government will not allow such inhuman acts by government officials. Tax department joint secretary has been directed to probe the issue and submit a detailed report,” said the minister. In his Facebook post on Wednesday, Sudakaran said, “I have directed for a probe on the issue and remove the sub-registrar from government service.”  Joseph joined government service as a driver at Karunapuram grama panchayat in Idukki around ten months ago. However, within a month he was diagnosed with cancer. “The government official could have gone to the ambulance to approve the documents,” said Sudhakaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sub-registrar-suspended-for-ill-treating-cancer-patient/articleshow/77511438.cms||---
August 13, 2020||India||Muslim youths form human chain to protect temple in B’luru||BENGALURU: Amid the rioting on late Tuesday night, an extraordinary act of harmony warmed the citizens’ hearts -- a group of Muslims formed a human chain to protect the Hanuman temple in RT Nagar. The temple is located close to Pulakeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivasmurthy’s office-cum-residence which was set on fire by the mob. When the rioters turned towards the temple, a few men formed a human chain around it and prevented them from targeting it. The video, captured by an unknown person, went viral on social media, following which a large number of devotees visited the temple on Wednesday morning. Meanwhile, on Wednesday, Jayanthi R, mother of Naveen P who is accused of posting a derogatory post on Facebook, expressed gratitude to Muslim youths for “saving her life.” “Had local Muslim youths not come to my rescue, I don’t think I would have been alive today,” said Jayanthi. Jayanthi, a resident of Kaval Byrasandra, lives with her husband and family members 500m from her younger brother, Congress MLA Akhand Srinivasmurthy’s residence. On Tuesday evening, the family members were watching TV while Naveen and his wife had gone out to buy groceries. “My daughter who lives in Vijayanagar had come to our house with her family. We were watching a TV serial when a mob gathered in front of our home. At 8.30pm, the mob vandalised and set fire to bikes. I got all my children and grandchildren to go to the terrace from where they shifted to neighbouring houses.” Jayanthi stayed back as there were gold ornaments and valuables. “The situation was worsening. There was no way I could flee as there were hundreds of people on the streets setting cars and bikes on fire,” she recalled. “At 10.30pm, a few local Muslim youths came to my house and told me I should leave with them immediately. By then, the mob had entered our compound. One person told the youths escorting me that they were doing injustice to their religion by protecting Naveen’s mother. The youths warned the mob that no woman or child should be touched,” she said. “I was literally carried across our compound to the next building. In less than a minute, our building was set on fire,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/muslim-youths-form-human-chain-to-protect-temple-in-bluru/articleshow/77514984.cms||Petlee Peter
August 13, 2020||Dehradun||Majority of water ATMs set up in Doon lying shut||Dehradun: Out of the 15 water ATMs set up by Dehradun Smart City Limited, many are now closed as employees complain that they have not received salaries for the past two months. In one such water ATM situated near Clock Tower which has been closed for some time, employees have even pasted a notice which says that the facility is closed due to "non-payment of salaries". The other water ATMs which were found to be closed include the ATMs at Dehradun railway station and Doon Hospital. An employee who works at the water ATM situated at Gandhi Park, said, "I had joined the company in June and did not receive any salary so far. Even after repeated attempts to get in touch with the officials, we have not been able to get our dues." Mohit Singh, another water ATM operator near Rispana river, told TOI, "Not just our pending salaries, we hardly get any response from officials when the water dispensing machines develop any glitch. During rain, water seeps into the machines which has also become a challenge for us. I have decided to leave the job as working without pay since past few months has become difficult." Surya Kotnala, AGM, Dehradun Smart City Limited, when queried about the matter, said, "The water ATMs are being maintained by a Delhi-based company under PPP mode. We had also received the complaints related to delayed salaries which are being resolved. Since Delhi was among the top Covid-19 hotspots, the technicians could not travel to Dehradun for maintenance work. But as soon as the situation turns normal, all the issues will be resolved."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/majority-of-water-atms-set-up-in-doon-lying-shut/articleshow/77510311.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Beds can’t treat, more doctors, nurses needed, say experts||LUCKNOW: Emphasizing that Covid-19 containment strategy must focus more on human resources than infrastructure, health experts across the country said unless the shortage of doctors, nurses and paramedical staff is addressed, the battle against coronavirus pandemic may not stand the test of time and patience. Speaking on the sidelines of the launch of Covid Healthcare Professional (CHP), a not-for-profit joint initiative between ECHO India and Naukri.com, cardiologist Dr Devi Shetty said, “Beds do not treat patients… nurses, doctors and paramedical staff are the real life-savers. So, the focus has to be on human resources.” Dr Shetty’s insight is crucial for a state like UP where Covid care is largely dependent on government system which is already stressed due to shortage of doctors, nurses and other staff. Take the example of doctors. While WHO recommends one doctor over a population of 1,000, in UP one doctor covers a population of 19,962 as per National Health Profile Report 2018. Almost five months into the pandemic, health staff has come to a point where physical and mental fatigue has started setting in, while many are contracting infection as well. “Several doctors and other staff have died in the line of duty, but the battle has to continue till the situation is under control. Therefore, strategic deployment of available hands and creating a pool of those who can take charge of the situation if the burden increases further, must be given its due attention,” he said. Chairman, CHP initiative, Arun Duggal said the CHP model aims at bridging the gap. “The model is designed to match the skills of professionals via a simple five-step process — Register, Match, Shortlist, Train and Deploy them wherever the need be. We will also orient the staff about Covid-19 and train them about necessary preventions and precautions to save themselves from any trouble,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/beds-cant-treat-more-docs-nurses-needed-say-experts/articleshow/77514190.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 13, 2020||Goa||From 3pm tomorrow, Panaji market to be shut||PANAJI: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has decided to keep the Panaji market closed for half day on August 14 to sanitise parts of the market for the safety of visitors visiting for Ganesh Chaturthi shopping. “We want to sanitise the Panaji municipal market complex, fish market, and its surroundings before Ganesh Chaturthi. The task will be executed in the second half of the day (Friday),” Panaji mayor, Uday Madkaikar said. These parts of the market will be inaccessible to the general public from 3pm onwards. The Ashtam fair, which is annually held on the promenade along the Mandovi riverfront in Panaji, has been cancelled in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases and social distancing norms. The fair usually sees a multitude of stalls selling furniture, clothes and festive items. The matoli market, which is simultaneously held, will however be given a free pass. Preparations are being done to organise the matoli bazaar in the surrounding areas. For this, the portion adjoining Royal Chicken and the stretch of road in front of the Dempo building may be cordoned off to ensure that the area is restricted to only buyers and sellers of matoli items. “We will take a call on whether or not there will be a cut off on the number of sellers,” Madkaikar said. A meeting has been called by the CCP on Friday in the presence of representatives of police, traffic cell, fire services, North Goa collectorate, river navigation department and Drishti. The officials will discuss the organisation of the matoli bazaar and also chalk out guidelines for restricting the crowd at the places of immersion of the Ganesh idols in Panaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-3pm-tomorrow-panaji-market-to-be-shut/articleshow/77514456.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Four-laning work from Karavali Junction to Malpe to start by year end||UDUPI: Work on converting four-km stretch of NH 169A between Karavali Junction and Malpe here in to four-lane road will start by this year-end as per a plan drawn up by national highways division of state PWD. The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) on July 20 issued a preliminary notification to acquire 69,568 square metres of land in Ambalpady, Moodanidambur and Kodavoor villages of Udupi district – for the work. The notification covers 206 pieces of property – four in ambalpady, 146 in Kodavoor and 56 in Moodanidambur. The stakeholders must file their objections within 21 days from notification date. This is part of 4-laning work on Malpe-Parkala stretch of Malpe-Shivamogga NH 169A. Work on Karavali Junction and Manipal is nearing completion. Land acquisition issues has slowed work on Parkala portion. Nagaraj Naik, executive engineer, PWDs NH division, Sringeri said the four-lane work between Karavali Junction and Malpe entails construction of two-lane carriageways that are 9.5 m wide each, a 1.5m-wide median, 2m wide cobblestone-paved road on either sides of the carriageway and 1.5m wide shoulder drains on both sides. MoRTH will approximately need to acquire up to 15m land from the centre of the existing highway on both sides, he said. After hearing objections, the government will issue final notification and then acquire land by passing awards. The department has Rs 10 crore in its kitty to pay compensation to land losers. The project will however start only after all the required land is acquired, Naik said, adding this is to avoid sharing or taking on the blame for delays that hurdles in land acquisition brought forth in executing the Parkala stretch of the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/4-laning-work-from-karavali-jn-to-malpe-to-start-by-year-end/articleshow/77510299.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Business||Aurobindo Q1 net up 23% at Rs 781 crore||Hyderabad: Driven by healthy growth in the US formulations business, pharma major Aurobindo Pharma on Wednesday said it has clocked a nearly 23% jump in consolidated net profit after JV share and minority interest for the first quarter ended June 30, 2020, at Rs 781 crore as compared to Rs 636 crore in the corresponding period of financial year 2019-20. This was on a 9% rise in revenue from operations for Q1FY21 at Rs 5,925 crore as against Rs 5445 crore in Q1FY20 despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. The company said overall formulations revenues grew over 9% during the quarter at Rs 5144 crore from Rs 4712 crore in Q1FY20, accounting for 86.8% of total revenues, while APIs accounted for the remaining 13.2% revenues and rose 6.5% to Rs 780 crore in Q1FY21 from Rs 732 crore in Q1FY20. While US formulations grew 15.6% to Rs 3107 crore in Q1FY21 from Rs 2688 crore in Q1FY20, accounting for 52.4% of consolidated revenues, ARV (anti-retrovirals) formulations revenues jumped 33.6% to Rs 425.5 crore in Q1FY21 from Rs 318.5 crore in Q1FY20, accounting for 7.2% of consolidated revenues. However, the Europe formulations business, which contributed 22.3% to revenues, degrew by 5% to Rs 1322 crore from Rs 1392 crore in Q1FY20 and revenues from growth markets formulations (4.9% revenue share) fell 7.6% to Rs 289.6 crore from Rs 313.4 crore. Commenting on the performance, Aurobindo Pharma MD N Govindarajan said: “Amidst challenging times, we have started the financial year by reporting a healthy performance. We are committed to adhere to quality standards by investing continuously and developing a differentiated product pipeline for sustainable growth.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/aurobindo-q1-net-up-23-at-rs-781-crore/articleshow/77512741.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chennai||BJP leader makes strong pitch for party to lead alliance in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: BJP state vice president V P Duraisamy, who recently switched over from the DMK, on Wednesday made a strong pitch for his party to lead the AIADMK-inclusive alliance in Tamil Nadu. Being a national party and enjoying huge popularity with the people, BJP should lead the alliance in Tamil Nadu, Duraisamy said. The ruling AIADMK, caught in a debate over who should be the chief ministerial candidate, Edappadi K Palaniswami or O Panneerselvam, was, however, firm that it would lead the alliance in the forthcoming elections. Duraisamy said the BJP was growing in strength in the state. “It was the DMK versus the AIADMK until last week. Now with (DMK) MLA Ku Ka Selvam joining the BJP, it has changed. It is now the BJP versus the DMK. This reflects our growth,” he told reporters here. So, what about the alliance? “All the like-minded parties will be part of the alliance. Ours will win and form the government,” he said. Will the alliance be headed by the BJP, or will BJP be part of the alliance? Duraisamy promptly asserted, “We (the BJP) will. We are a national party.” The remarks sent ripples in political circles with speculation already rife over some more disgruntled DMK partymen planning to join the BJP.  Senior AIADMK minister D Jayakumar said his party would not respond to the remarks as it had not come from the BJP high command. “Did Murugan (BJP state president) say so?” the minister asked. The AIADMK-BJP relations have been under intense debate in the wake of the recent developments wherein the AIADMK leadership chose to not condemn a Youtube group that denigrated ‘Kanda Sashti Kavasam’, the Hindu devotional song in praise of deity Murugan. The state government invoked Goondas Act against Karuppar Koottam only after BJP partymen raised a hue and cry.  While asserting that the ruling AIADMK alone would lead the alliance in 2021 polls, party deputy coordinator K P Munusamy said, “Duraisamy shifted loyalty and ideology for political gains. What authority does he have to speak on alliance issues immediately after joining the party? Does his high command permit him to do so?” the senior leader asked.  Observers see it as mere posturing on the part of the BJP. “Duraisamy would not have spoken about alliance without the knowledge of the party leadership. This is the strategy of every party to gauge the sentiments and evolve plans,” said political analyst Tharasu shyam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-leader-makes-strong-pitch-for-party-to-lead-alliance-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77513919.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: AIADMK keeps CM question hanging||CHENNAI: Amid conjecture as to who would be the AIADMK’s chief ministerial candidate for the 2021 assembly election, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami or his deputy O Panneerselvam, senior minister D Jayakumar on Wednesday said his party would take a decision based on consensus. The AIADMK general council, executive committee and office-bearers would decide at the appropriate time. Cooperative minister Sellur K Raju on Monday said the elected members of the party would choose the legislative party leader and chief minister designate. The dairy development minister Rajenthra Bhalaji took to twitter to say that Edappadi K Palaniswami would be the CM forever and the party should project him ahead of the polls. “Views expressed at this juncture will only weaken the party. It is better not to comment,” Jayakumar said, hastening to add that Bhalaji’s comments should be treated as his own and not that of the party. The AIADMK party is managed by the dual leadership of a coordinator (OPS) and co-coordinator (EPS) after the merger of the factions in August 2017. Jayakumar said the party’s general council and executive committee, the apex bodies of the party, had taken some crucial decisions during challenging times under M G Ramachandran and his successor, J Jayalalithaa, and after her death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-keeps-cm-question-hanging/articleshow/77513941.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Delhi||ASI dies as portion of building collapses in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A policeman died while his colleague suffered severe injuries after a portion of a building being constructed illegally collapsed on them in north Delhi’s Bara Hindu Rao. The incident took place around 10.20am on Wednesday. ASI Zakir Hussain and constable Debu Singh posted at Bara Hindu Rao police station had gone to conduct tenant verification at Ram Bagh Road. When they reached Gupta building, the tenants pointed out that illegal construction was taking place on the third floor. The policemen then went to the under-construction floor and reportedly started taking photographs to send to municipal officials for taking action against the violations. Eyewitnesses told police that suddenly the constructed portion collapsed on the two cops and because there was no railing they fell off the floor. While Hussain landed on the road below, Debu fell on the second floor terrace. Chunks of concrete also fell on them. Hussain’s scooter, which was parked on the road, also got badly damaged. The locals called the PCR and the two policemen were rushed to Aruna Asaf Ali Hospital. Hussain was declared dead on arrival, while Debu was admitted with multiple injuries. Police said the house owner and construction contractor fled after the incident and efforts are being made to track them down. An FIR under IPC sections 288 (negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings) and 304A (causing death due to negligence) has been registered against the house owner. An inquiry has also been initiated to find out why the policemen had gone beyond their mandate to inspect an illegal construction. According to a Delhi Police circular issued in 2014, policemen cannot intervene in illegal construction activities and can only inform the local civic bodies about it. Hussain’s family members, who stay in Wazirabad, were handed over his body after an autopsy. He had joined Delhi Police in 1993 and is survived by his wife and three children. His eldest daughter is pursuing graduation, while his son is preparing for NEET. “He was posted at Bara Hindu Rao police station in 2014. He was the sole breadwinner of the family,” said Shahid, Hussain’s brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/asi-dies-as-portion-of-building-collapses/articleshow/77512878.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Dehradun||‘A week after agreeing to it, Nepal has not moved CCTV looking over Indian side’||Pithoragarh: A week after Champawat district authorities and officials of Kanchanpur district of Nepal met to discuss the alleged intrusion by some Nepalese nationals into a contested piece of land in Brahmdev, near Tanakpur, Champawat district magistrate (DM) SN Pandey said that although Nepal had agreed to change the direction of a CCTV camera pointed at India in the meeting but hadn’t kept its word. The meeting, held on August 4 at a Sahastra Seema Bal (SSB) camp at Banbasa, Champawat, was necessitated after some Nepalese citizens were spotted planting saplings and putting up fences on the disputed land. India claims that the stretch, also known as the area near “pillar 811”, is part of no-man’s land while Nepal claims it as its own. “In the meeting, Nepalese authorities had assured us that the CCTV camera had been placed just to monitor Nepal’s citizens and since India found it objectionable, they would move it. A week has passed and the camera still looks over the Indian side,” Pandey told TOI. “If Nepal authorities want the camera to keep a vigil on their side, why is it rotating 360 degrees? The (Champawat) district administration will write to the Nepalese authorities and the state home department on this,” Pandey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/a-week-after-agreeing-to-it-nepal-has-not-moved-cctv-looking-over-indian-side/articleshow/77510340.cms||Prem Punetha
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||Covid unforeseen challenge, but we aren’t scared: GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra||Nagpur: Amid complaints of poor patient management, sanitation, body disposal and spike in deaths, GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra on Wednesday said the issues are cropping up because coronavirus in an unforeseen challenge and hence the problems are also bigger. Dr Mitra spoke to TOI over phone explaining the measures taken at GMCH with worsening Covid-19 situation. “We are not scared. I have a good team and infrastructure. All we need is support from all corners,” he said. Having accepted the challenge of running a dedicated Covid hospital (DCH), the government hospital has now deployed all senior consultants, anaesthetist, professors of medicine, chest medicine, paediatrician, resident doctors and nurses now at the forefront of the corona war. “All are in the battleground now as the war is at its peak,” Dr Mitra said. GMCH Nagpur is said to have the biggest facility in terms of Covid beds as compared to any government hospital in the state. “600 Covid beds is not easy to deal with. With bigger challenges come bigger problems and bigger determination. All my colleagues are working non-stop for last five months without fear and favour,” the dean said. Of late, as the load increased, the GMCH administration introduced a slew of measures for smooth functioning. These included help desk outside the DCH, Covid casualty, point-to-point supervision of dead bodies, and a monitoring team led by one deputy superintendent or professor level doctors to sort out administrative issues. Regarding deaths, he said several were brought dead or at critical stage whereby majority died within first three days. “The recovery rate at GMCH is still at 83.34 % and 6% fatalities,” he said. Mitra said for every 100 Covid patients, the staff requirement is thrice as compared to non-Covid duties. “Yet, we have operationalized all 600 Covid beds. Today, 19 wards, one operation theatre and seven dialysis units are working,” he said. The GMCH had committed 600 beds but it is not synonymous with only Covid patients. “115 beds are kept aside for presumptive ward, and highly critical SARI patients who are tested and treated here,” he said. Of the 600, another 90-bed ward is set up in the DCH’s basement where patients complained of wastewater flowing inside. “During heavy rains, we knew there would be drainage issue and waterlogging. Hence, patients were advised not to use the wash basin. We have deployed pumps which are removing the excess water,” he said. Both, the basement and presumptive wards are part of our 600-bed DCH. Mitra said the funding through district planning committee, NDRF and District Mineral Funds has made them well-equipped. “I thank guardian minister Nitin Raut, divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar and district collector Ravindra Thakre for their support,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-unforeseen-challenge-but-we-arent-scared-gmch-dean-dr-sajal-mitra/articleshow/77512885.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 13, 2020||Kochi||138kg of ganja seized from truck carrying fish||Thrissur: In a major breakthrough 138kg of ganja, which was being transported in a truck carrying fish, was seized by Chalakudy police on Wednesday. The police have also arrested Arun, 29, from Sakthikulangara in Kollam district in connection with the seizure. Thrissur rural police commissioner Viswanadh R said the ganja was being brought from Visakhapatnam. The seizure was made during vehicle inspections carried out based on intelligence inputs that narcotic substance was being brought into the state in fish trucks. Sandeep K S, Chalakkudy CI, said the lorry was carrying fish from harbours like Munambam in Ernakulam to Andhra Pradesh, and ganja was being brought back during the return trip. Ganja was kept concealed in gunny bags behind the fish containers. He said only Arun, who was driving the truck, was present in the vehicle during the seizure. According to his statements, another person was present in the vehicle when the ganja was being loaded. However, he got down enroute. According to reports, the ganja was meant to be handed over to a gang based in Kochi. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/138kg-of-ganja-seized-from-truck-carrying-fish/articleshow/77511495.cms||---
August 13, 2020||India||CBI officer who cracked Dabholkar case, 120 other policemen recognised with ‘HM’s medal for excellence’||NEW DELHI: Recognising the high standards of investigation by law enforcement officers, the home ministry on Wednesday rewarded 121 police personnel, including CBI officers who cracked the Narendra Dabholkar murder case, with the ‘Union home minister’s medal for excellence in investigation’. This category of police medals was instituted in 2018 with the objective of promoting high professional standards of investigation of crime and to recognise excellence in investigation. Among the personnel who have been conferred the medals this year, 15 are from CBI, 10 each from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra Police, eight from Uttar Pradesh Police, seven each from Kerala and West Bengal Police, and the remaining from the other state/UT police. As many as 21, or one-sixth of the awardees, are women. In a congratulatory tweet, home minister Amit Shah said: “A thorough investigation plays a pivotal role in delivering justice. I congratulate all the recipients of ‘Medal for Excellence in Investigation-2020’. This is a recognition of the outstanding service and commitment of our police personnel. India is proud of them!“. ASP Subhash Ramrup Singh, who cracked the murder of rationalist Narendra Dabholkar, shot dead by gunmen at Pune in 2013, had recovered the weapon used in murder with help from a diving team and hig- end equipment from Thane creek. The investigation had also turned up clues about the murders of Kannada writer M M Kalburgi , journalist-activist Gauri Lankesh and communist leader Govind Pansare. Inspector Perwez Alam from Ranchi solved the murder of engineering student Jaya Bharti whose body was found in her room. Alam and team scanned through a list of over 300 numbers from dump data list, questioned 150 and collected 11 blood samples to zero in on the rapist and murderer who had been arrested by the Lucknow police for mobile theft and was in jail. Inspector Rakesh Ranjan posted in Bengaluru has received the medal for solving the murder of BJP worker Yogesh Gowda in Karnataka's Dharwad. A charge sheet was filed against eight people in the case. Inspector Vibha Kumari who investigated the infamous Muzaffarpur shelter home abuse and SP Cephas Kalyan Pakerla posted at Hyderabad was awarded the medal for his investigation in the i-Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam. DSP Mukesh Sharma posted at the CBI''s special crime unit in Delhi got the award for investigation in rape and murder of a minor girl in a police station in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri by a UP Police constable. Other awardees are DSP Rajan Kumar Jha and inspectors Vijaya Vaishnavi, Prashant Kandpal, Parvender Mathur, Ashish Anand, K Bindhu, Duli Chand Yadav, Jyotirmoyee Majhi and Shiv Kumar Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-officer-who-cracked-dabholkar-case-120-other-policemen-recognised-with-hms-medal-for-excellence/articleshow/77515039.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chennai||Covid is not Chennai’s biggest concern||CHENNAI: Despite the raging pandemic taking centrestage in most conversations, Chennaiites don’t view Covid-19 as their biggest civic grievance. The infection is only fifth most important. The highest number of grievances received by Chennai Corporation were related to garbage removal, revealed official data While the number of complaints are almost similar to previous years, residents said redressal is slow. The civic body’s common excuse is that the corporation is busy with Covid duty. In 2018, the corporation received 1.49 lakh complaints, followed by 1.70 lakh in 2019 and 65,675 in the past eight months. As per corporation’s data, the number of complaints related to garbage has increased from 22,074 in 2018 to 30,137 in 2019. This year so far, 11,531 complaints have been received under this head. Apart from this, absenteeism of sweepers, irregular door-to-door collection of garbage are also common complaints. “There is a lot of fear among residents and they have begun dumping garbage in unused grounds. Those who segregated waste earlier are not doing so now. This would be rectified once the Spanish firm, Urbaser, takes over in September. There will be a lot of changes in the entire garbage collection and disposal system and everything would be streamlined. Community intervention and awareness activities to ensure people segregate waste will be done,” said N Mahesan, chief engineer for solid waste management. Deputy commissioner, works, Kumaravel Pandian said every grievance is attended within six to 12 hours. “We pull up officials when complaints are not addressed. The assistant commissioner of general department also reviews the status of grievances once a week to ensure there are no backlogs,” he said. Residents of Kodambakkam, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Royapuram and Adyar zones have been raising the most of the grievances via the mobile application, phone number 1913 and emails. The residents of zones that were added in 2011 such as Ambattur, Perungudi, and others still don’t use these avenue much and depend on former councillors and local officials. A senior offficial said since separate toll-free numbers are available for Covid, people don’t use these grievance redressal systems for Covid-related matters. Satish G of OMR said over the years, the city has been plagues with the same complaints, but redressal systems have become better. “Features available on the website aren’t there on the app, such as checking death or birth certificates. The civic body should update the app,” he said. V Sandhya of Anna Nagar, who raises complaints regularly, said the time taken to resolve an issue has gone up by three weeks. “Earlier, they would address issues within a day but now they time and tell us they are busy with Covid work,” she said. But with monsoon around the corner, mosquito menace, garbage disposal will play a crucial role to control spread of dengue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-is-not-citys-biggest-concern/articleshow/77512896.cms||Komal Gautham
August 13, 2020||Goa||Rising corona cases pushes sale of matoli items online||Panaji: Markets in the state are crowded ahead of Ganesh Chaturthi festivities despite the rising number of Covid cases. This has led a few sellers to go online to offer items for matoli. Matoli is a wooden canopy decorated with seasonal fruits, roots, wild flowers and other greens. This is suspended over the head of the installed clay idol of Ganesha during the festival. Jagdish Badiger, a Mapusa-based interior designer, started supplying mangoes door-to-door as an alternative means of income since the pandemic broke out. His wife and mother-in-law urged him to go a step further and sell matoli items online. Through social media, he managed to spread the word and was inundated with calls to deliver flowers, fruits and roots at their doorstep. “This is being done on a no-profit-no-loss basis,” he said. Yogesh Parab started a similar venture with his friends — Raj Naik and Shripad Mokhadkar — in Porvorim. They connect with users via social media and sell matoli items. They offer buyers a choice from a list of items. Two weeks into the initiative, they have managed to extend their clientele to other parts of Bardez. “We are overbooked with orders and have stopped taking new requests,” Parab said. Through Amey Parsekar’s venture called Fresh Patlo, buyers can pre-order over 30 items for their matoli and get home delivery at Rs 2,400. Panaji-based Raghuveer Mahale has started selling puja kits with 22 items for Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the state. Anticipating demand for kits in times of the pandemic and the fear of lack of social distancing, Mahale started the process a fortnight ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rising-corona-cases-pushes-sale-of-matoli-items-online/articleshow/77643590.cms||Nida Sayed
August 13, 2020||Lucknow||Man suspected of killing wife in Delhi hangs himself in Hardoi house||Lucknow: The body of a 25-year-old taxi driver was found hanging from the ceiling of his room in his house in Hardoi on Tuesday evening. Investigations revealed that the deceased, Surjit, worked in Delhi where he lived in Anand Vihar with his wife. Delhi Police were on the lookout for Surjit since they had found his wife murdered in their Delhi home on Saturday. On Tuesday, police in Delhi picked up a relative of his whose family members called up Surjit in Hardoi to inform him about the development. According to Hardoi police, Surjit panicked at this and fearing police action against himself, committed suicide. Surjit’s wife Rinki worked in a beauty salon in Delhi and the duo were married in 2018. Harpalpur (Hardoi) circle officer Rakesh Vashishth said that Surjit had fled to his paternal village Lonar in Hardoi after his wife’s murder, for which he was the prime suspect. Delhi police had been looking for Surjit ever since Rinki’s body was found. Based on surveillance inputs, they had interrogated some relatives of Surjit, who disclosed his location to be in Lonar. “After Surjit’s relative told him of the raid by Delhi police, he was disturbed and hanged himself at home,” said the CO. Hardoi police also said that on Tuesday, three members of Delhi police had reached Lonar to inquire about Surjit. The postmortem examination of Surjit’s body would be done on Thursday after his Covid report comes. BOX: 13 cops in one police station Covid positive As many as 13 cops of Lonar police station including SHO Lonar and additional inspector tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday. The CO said that all of them are asymptomatic. So far, around 4,550 cops have tested positive for Covid-19 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/man-suspected-of-killing-wife-in-delhi-hangs-himself-in-hardoi-house/articleshow/77514213.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: NGT tells chief secretary, top cop to monitor noise pollution||NEW DELHI: National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Thursday said while Delhi Police, Delhi government, Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) have taken certain measures to control noise pollution in the capital, further steps are required to solve the problem. The tribunal directed the chief secretary and the police commissioner to take a joint stock of monitoring noise pollution in the capital, stating officers of the rank of DCP and SDM needed to be spared for the undertaking assigned to them and imposing penalties. It also formed a committee headed by former Delhi high court judge SP Garg to oversee implementation of the penalties imposed, while asking CPCB to implement the new structure of fines on violators not following noise norms, which can go up to Rs 1 lakh, depending on the type of offence. In its submission earlier this month, DPCC had told NGT that noise levels were well beyond the prescribed standards in silence, residential and commercial zones in the capital, with only industrial zones recording noise levels within the standards set. A second report had found honking and vehicular noise were the biggest sources of noise pollution across the city. A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel further said the committee formed may take assistance of any other experts, institution and associate such members of public/educational institutions/social organisations, which may be found useful and asked it to submit a report before the next date of hearing. “We are of the view that the compensation scale laid down by CPCB may be enforced throughout India,” the bench said, adding that a centralised mechanism for monitoring compliance was required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ngt-tells-chief-secy-top-cop-to-monitor-noise-pollution/articleshow/77534694.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chennai||Corporation adds four more symptoms to its virus watchlist||Chennai: As the number of Covid cases declines and the monsoon season set to begin, the civic body is adding more layers to its surveillance process, tracking residents for four more symptoms of the viral infection. Earlier only those exhibiting fever, cough, cold and sore throat were being monitored daily. Now, those with a headache, lack of taste or smell, body pain and vomiting will also be tested immediately. This is to reduce the number of deaths in the city, officials said. The corporation added that elderly citizens with any type of wheezing problems will be taken to the hospital immediately. Focus is also on private offices with more than 100 samples taken from each company from every zone every day. “The number of covid cases has been below 1,000 for the past six days, but the number of deaths hasn’t reduced. The corporation is now trying to ensure that the most vulnerable are identified early. If even one person tests positive in a company, we test everyone there. Last week in Guindy, about 115 samples were taken from a private firm and about 15 tested positive,” said an official. Several walk-in testing centres have also been set up in mobile vans. “We have allowed private clinics also to refer symptomatic cases to our testing centres. Around 10 mobile vans are also taking samples in all zones,” said joint commissioner P Madhusudhan Reddy. All fever surveillance workers, outreach workers and corporation officials have been asked to look for more symptoms. Apart from this, officials found that very few workers used the mobile application to update the health status of residents. “Now it has been made mandatory. They continue to enter in the register, but have to update temperature and oxygen saturation in real-time on the app. Residents can always question the workers if they don’t do so,” said a senior official. More vans, autos and ambulances have been mobilised at the ward-level to ensure the time taken to respond to a patient is reduced, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corporation-adds-four-more-symptoms-to-its-virus-watchlist/articleshow/77512907.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chennai||Gutka in Tamil Nadu assembly: Madras HC restarts hearing on notices to DMK MLAs||CHENNAI: After a lull of three years, the Madras high court has recommenced hearing on pleas of 21 DMK MLAs, including party president M K Stalin, challenging a privilege motion against them for waving gutka packets in the Tamil Nadu assembly. The first bench comprising Chief Justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthikumar Ramamoorthy has allotted three days (Wednesday to Friday) exclusively for hearing the case. On Wednesday, senior advocate for the DMK R Shanmugasundaram commenced his arguments saying, “We have objection for deputy speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman chairing the privileges committee of the Tamil Nadu assembly as he has recently moved a civil suit for damages against Stalin in connection with the Pollachi sexual assault case.” He also said two of the 21 DMK legislators, J Anbazhagan and KPP Samy, had died during the pendency of the pleas and sought that their petitions may be removed. “Similarly, Thousand Lights legislator K K Selvam has switched sides and therefore we are not representing him. We have no objections for him to have a separate counsel of his choice,” the senior advocate said.As to the challenge made against the showcause notices issued by the privilege committee against the 21 MLAs, senior counsel said the Food Safety Act, under which the notices had been issued, did not prohibit possession nor exhibiting of gutka packets or its pictures. “This apart, the rules of practice of legislators prohibits bringing items like umbrellas and guns inside the House, but not gutka packets. The notice has been issued riddled with gross illegality and in total disregard to the assembly rules,” he argued. Asserting that the court can review the decision of the privilege committee, Shanmugasundaram said, “Judicial review of acts of constitutional authorities are permissible when such acts constitute patent illegalities.” Continuing the arguments, senior advocate N R Elango said, “When the notices were issued, a minority government was in the rule. Therefore, the actions of the committee were nothing but to strike a balance in the number of legislators in the house.” The actions of the committee must be judged taking into consideration the situation in that point of time. The attempt was clearly to remove 21 MLAs of DMK to match the number, Elango added. Adding to the arguments on behalf of DMK, advocate Amit Anand Tiwari submitted that once the House viewed an act as a breach of privilege, then the same should be dealt with then and there. In such a situation, the speaker cannot refer the issue to the committee. Recording the submission, the bench adjourned the hearing to August 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gutka-in-tn-assembly-hc-restarts-hearing-on-notices-to-dmk-mlas/articleshow/77512913.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Ravneet Bittu blames Bains for ‘inciting’ protestors||LUDHIANA: Reacting to the allegations of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLAs against alleged manhandling of their workers and leaders, Congress MP Ravneet Bittu alleged that first LIP leaders attacked the Congress leaders with a small sword. He also added that the dispute had been going on for long. He denied having any role in the incident and claimed that he was not in Ludhiana that day. Bittu said over phone, “In the latest statement to police, we have now asked for registration of case against Balwinder Bains for hatching this conspiracy. The man for whom Bains brothers are raising hue and cry that his turban was removed, had attacked Congressmen with his sword. He along with another 65 years old man had come from Balwinder Bains office.” He said Sunny Kainth and youth Congress leaders had some rivalry and before the attack, LIP leaders had put objectionable messages in WhatsApp groups that had resulted in the incident. Bittu further said instead of pacifying the young blood, the Bains brothers have started pouring fuel in the fire. He said Simarjit Bains seem to have forgotten how he had beaten up revenue officer Banipal. Bittu claimed that Bains brothers were trying to create an issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bittu-blames-bains-for-inciting-protestors/articleshow/77512914.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Vijayawada||CM launches YSR Cheyutha to empower women||Vijayawada: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Wednesday launched YSR Cheyutha scheme, extending financial assistance of Rs 75,000 to each beneficiary over the next four years. Over 23 lakh women from the SC, ST, BC and minority communities and in the age group of 45 to 60 years are set to get Rs 18,750 per year. This would cost the government Rs 4,687 core annually. It has tied up with a few private companies to help the women invest this money under the sustainable livelihood programme. The chief minister on the day interacted with the beneficiaries from his Tadepalli camp office through video conference. He said, “The YSR Cheyutha is an answer to several problems. We have, moreover, gone one step ahead by not only providing financial aid but also by opening up opportunities for entrepreneurship, starting from small grocery stores to dairy and food processing units, and we are also helping them get bank loans for their endeavours.” The beneficiaries will have full freedom on how they would like to spend the annual amount. For those who want to invest the money, village volunteers will come to the beneficiaries with a two-page letter to take their consent and the state has a business model ready for them. The state has signed MoUs with ITC, Proctor & Gamble, HUL, Amul and Reliance, besides banks, to help women who start small or medium business units. In the coming days there would be MoUs with more major business houses that will create more business opportunities. These companies will supply their products at the price they are supplying to their agents or even for less so that the women entrepreneurs can profit, he said. SERP (Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty) and Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) will coordinate in the process. During the interaction, the beneficiaries thanked the chief minister for launching the scheme during the current challenging time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-launches-ysr-cheyutha-to-empower-women/articleshow/77511541.cms||Gopi Dara
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Simrajit Singh Bains refuses to test for Covid-19||LUDHIANA: A day after city police claimed that the protesters of Lok Insaaf Party, who held a demonstration, would have to test for coronavirus, the party chief Simrajit Singh Bains has refused to get himself tested. Bains claimed that he and his party workers are healthy. He also threatened that if Ludhiana police failed to get an FIR lodged for hurting religious sentiments of LIP worker till Thursday night, his party would stage a protest outside chief minister’s residence as well as the residence of Sonia Gandhi in Delhi. On Tuesday, the Division number 5 police registered a case against MLA of Atam Nagar, Simrarjit Singh Bains, his brother MLA of south Balwinder Singh Bains and their accomplices for violating guidelines of Covid-19, as they staged an intensified protest outside the office of commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Agarwal. Besides registering a case against agitators, CP Rakesh Agarwal stated that the police have asked agitators to get their corona test done and submit a report with the police. Agarwal had stated that, in case any agitator was found positive, the police would register a case against him for endangering life of others and may also be booked for attempt to murder. When contacted, LIP chief Simarjit Singh Bains said, “We have not got any intimation from the police for getting the corona test done. Moreover, why should we get our tests done? We all are fit enough. The police administration first should focus on getting tests of their entire police force done.” On asking about the next step in the case of tossing the turban of LIP worker Sunny Kainth, Bains said, “Turban of Sunny Kainth was tossed by Congress workers. Moreover, derogatory remarks were made at some of the workers. We have given time till Thursday night to Ludhiana police for lodging FIR against Congress workers under sections of 295-A (deliberate and malicious act, intended to outrage religious feeling of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) of IPC and SC Act. If Ludhiana police do not register a case in this context, we will stage a protest outside the residence of Capt Amarinder Singh in Chandigarh and of Sonia Gandhi in Delhi. We will also not refrain in approaching the high court against it as we have evidence to prove these allegations.” Jatinder Chopra, assistant commissioner of police, Civil Lines, said, “Notices have been sent to all accused who have been booked asking to get their corona test done. They are given time of Friday night to submit their corona reports.” In case if they don’t submit reports, ACP said, “we will see what action has to be taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bains-refuses-to-test-for-covid-19/articleshow/77512911.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Lockdown lifted, power demand back to normal||NEW DELHI: Despite an exodus of 7-8 lakh migrants, Delhi’s hunger for electricity has remained high this summer. The peak power demand recorded this season was just about 10% lower than that of 2019, shows an analysis carried out by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE). The study, which was released on Thursday, says the trend was largely driven by heat stress and the cooling demand in the residential sector. “Higher heat stress combined with thermal discomfort in poorly-designed buildings and increased dependence on air conditioning upset the energy budget. Every degree rise in heat index resulted in an 187MW increase in electricity demand during lockdown – this was 6 % higher than in 2019,” says the CSE analysis. “Climate change will increase the frequency and intensity of heatwave in the future. If the built environment is not designed for thermal comfort, heat stress will further increase cooling demand and use of energy-intensive cooling systems,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director-research and advocacy at CSE. In its study, CSE carried out a rapid analysis of real-time electricity demand during the lockdown and unlock phases, considering the pre-lockdown phase, the first four lockdowns and the two unlock phases until July 31. “Overall electricity demand during the severe lockdown dropped substantially compared with the corresponding period in the previous years. But it also bounced back with partial reopening and higher heat stress during the unlock phases,” said the study. On the eve of the Janata curfew (22 March), the average electricity demand dropped by 23% (563MW) compared with the previous day. During the lockdown phases, the lowest demand (1,748MW) was recorded on 29 March. It rose to over 4,000MW by May-end. The demand got more than doubled within the lockdown period and with limited reopening of the economy in the later part. During the unlock phases, the average daily demand further increased. “One would have expected that the overall peak electricity demand during this season would remain much lower this year. But the daily average demand hovered around 4,000MW during most of unlock phases with limited reopening. The season’s highest average (5,287MW) and peak (6,305MW) were recorded on July 3. In the past couple of years, the seasonal high has also been recorded pretty much around the similar dates. But it is notable that the peak level recorded during this summer was just about 10% lower than 2019’s high of 7,372 MW,” said the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lockdown-lifted-power-demand-back-to-normal/articleshow/77534739.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Agra||Random testing in rural areas to curb spread of Covid-19||Agra: To curb the spread of Covid-19 in rural areas in Agra district, the health department has decided to conduct random testing in villages. Since June, around 350 Covid-19 positive cases have surfaced in the rural areas of the district. Rapid antigen technique will be used for random testing. Junior doctors will be tasked to conduct random testing. According to the health department officials, at least 100 tests will be conducted per day. The primary focus of random testing will be in Fatehpur Sikri, Sainya, Fatehabad, Jagner and Bah block where maximum positive cases have surfaced in the past one month. The random testing will continue till the Covid-19 containment zones marked in the rural areas are declared completely out of danger. At present, there are 51 active containment zones in the Agra district. According to the health department records, there are active Covid-19 cases in 11 out of 15 blocks of Agra district. Chief medical officer of Agra district Dr RC Pandey said, “Random Covid-19 testing will be done in the rural areas to put a tab on the spread of infection. Teams of junior doctors are being constituted for the same. Teams will be carrying rapid antigen testing kits and an ambulance will also be sent along with the team. Symptomatic patients would immediately be sent to hospital if they test Covid positive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/random-testing-in-rural-areas-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19/articleshow/77511566.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||Thackeray bats against EIA 2020 draft, calls it unacceptable||Nagpur: Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray has opposed the draft environment impact assessment (EIA) 2020 in its present form and said it dilutes nature and scope of scrutiny of environmental impacts of proposed projects. In his representation to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, Thackeray said the draft exempted several environmentally destructive activities such as coal presetting, crushing and screening of ore, seismic surveys for oil and gas exploration etc from EIA. “Up to 50% expansion of any existing project does not require public consultation. Besides, up to 25% does not require an EIA process at all. Moreover, national parks and wildlife sanctuaries will no longer be safe as appraisal is no longer needed for some B2 category projects to which various hazardous industries in (red & orange) category have been added,” Thackeray said. According to Thackeray, Western Ghats is listed in world’s 8th hotspot of biological diversity. They spread across Maharashtra and five other Indian states and are home to 325 globally threatened flora, fauna, birds and many other species. “Large parts of these Western Ghats are eco-sensitive areas (ESAs). However, the draft EIA narrows down the definitions of ESAs defectively excluding villages, forests, wetlands, coast etc,” he said. Citing example, Thackeray said Konkan region is home to more than 28 million people. If projects are passed in this ecologically sensitive region without extensive public deliberations, it will have an adverse impact on the region’s biodiversity, livelihood of fishermen and agriculture. It allows old data as baselines for environment assessment and not multi-season studies. Draft EIA report will not be openly accessible to the public, but be made available only on written request and that too for electronic inspection at a notified place, during office hours. The draft notification allows for granting of ex-post facto EC to project proponents who are in clear violation of the law. This is not recognized under environmental jurisprudence and is also against the precautionary principle, Thackeray stated. Another flaw is that violations will be legally recognized only when reported by project proponents or government officials and not project-affected persons (PAPs). National defence and defence related matters are significant and therefore protecting such projects’ core information is realised. However, other projects, which would be considered as strategic by the Central government, should not be excluded from public intervention, he said. “Also, over 40 types of harmful industries are exempted from public consultation and EIA process. These include mines, petroleum etc. The draft gives power to the Centre to appoint State EIA Assessment Authorities,” Thackeray said. “Such centralization in environmental clearances would only lead to hurdles of clearances without taken into account the local issues,” he remarked. “Therefore, reducing state’s control will have direct consequences on environment protection efforts. Further, it absolutely undermines the nature of cooperative federalism that is embedded in our constitution. “The voice of the citizens, PAPs and the unheard voice of ‘Mother Nature’ must be heard by the governments,” said Thackeray. “Climate change is there for real, and while the world prides in steps towards environment protection, we cannot dilute our environment laws,” Thackeray pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/thackeray-bats-against-eia-2020-draft-calls-it-unacceptable/articleshow/77512944.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Four private hospitals start Covid-19 treatment in last 3 days||LUDHIANA: On district administration’s nudging, four private hospitals have started Covid-19 care centres in their premises in the last three days. On Wednesday, Shri Raghunath Hospital in Aggar Nagar area started a 10-bedded Covid care centre in their premises. Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma and commissioner of police (CP) Rakesh Kumar Agrawal on Wednesday visited the hospital and thanked the management. The other three private covid care centres are a 25-bedded centre at Verma Super Speciality Hospital near DMCH, 10-bedded centre at Arora Neuro Centre on Mall Road, and a 25-bedded IMA Ludhiana Covid Care Centre at the Lord Mahavira Homeopathic Medical College and Hospital, Hambran Road. DC Sharma assured the residents that there is no shortage of beds for Covid-19 treatment in Ludhiana district. He said people should not panic and check the status of vacant beds through mobile app “HBMS Punjab” or on official web links “https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district/" or “www.hbmspunjab.in". He said data of all private hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment has been added on the mobile app as well as the web links. CP Agrawal urged managements of other private hospitals to also come forward and set up Covid care centres in their premises. ADC (development)-cum-nodal oficer Covid, Sandeep Kumar was also present on the occasion.s||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/4-pvt-hospitals-start-covid-19-treatment-in-last-3-days/articleshow/77512931.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Nuzvid bags first prize in quarter one||Vijayawada: Director general of police D Gautam Sawang handed over Awards for Best Crime Detection (ABCD) during the past three quarters at AP Police Headquarters in Mangalagiri on Wednesday. Nuzvid police from Krishna district bagged first prize in Q1 of 2020 for cracking the minor rape case within 36 hours on Februrary 27. Nuzvid police had no clues to start with as the 10-year-old, Class 3, victim had remained in a state of shock with severe injuries. Eventually, the cops gathered that the accused had picked her up on a cycle and provided her biryani. They then tracked down the criminal by questioning all local cycle mechanics and biryani shop owners and arrested Annam Venkateswara Rao (35), a hotel employee. Rao allegedly lured the girl who was waiting for her father outside her home saying he will take her to him. He then sexually assaulted her and left her in the bushes and fled the scene. Addressing the media, Sawang announced a new award category to honour best conviction under the Prevention of SC/ST Atrocities Act, 1989. “Normally, it is hard to get conviction in these cases because in many instances, both the victim and the accused tend to compromise, or they would withdraw themselves from the case. Hence, we chose to introduce this category to encourage policing for the vulnerable sections of society,” Sawang said. Under this category, K Supraja, deputy superintendent of police, won the award for cracking the case dating back to 2015 at Atmakur PS limits in Kurnool. The case entails the story of Maddhileti Swamy alias Swamiji who was convicted for cheating nine woman by collecting money and raping them under the guise of blessing them with a baby. The first prize for Q4 of 2019 went to Eluru III Town police who managed to crack the ‘Cyanide Siva’ case. The accused, who popularly came to be known as Cyanide Siva, was a serial killer who killed 10 persons by giving them prasadam laced with cyanide. The first prize for Q3 of 2019 went to CID’s cybercrime police station for tracing and arresting a night watchman for making ‘objectionable’ remark against chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy. The accused floated the fake news that he was dead by using several fake Twitter handles. Eventually, police arrested him by tracing his phone number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nuzvid-bags-first-prize-in-quarter-one/articleshow/77511573.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||GMCs now consuming two month’s oxygen in a day||Nagpur: Government medical colleges and hospitals are now consuming almost two full tanks having capacity to store 3,000 cubic metre of medical oxygen on a daily basis since last two weeks days in their dedicated Covid hospitals (DCHs). Doctors said the consumption is unprecedented as over 700 Covid patients are being administered oxygen in varying concentration at both GMCs. Each Covid patient is needing at least two litre to 70 litres of oxygen every day. “The higher requirement indicates condition of patient’s lungs when they are being brought here,” they said. Mayo officials said they are refilling their tank twice a day. The tank’s capacity is 6,000 cu mm but it can store 3,000 cu mm liquid only before conversion to gaseous state. They said one tank was enough for a month before the outbreak. Fortunately, there is no shortage of supply as many industries in region had switched to medical oxygen production in March following divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar’s request. Oxygen is playing an important role in treating moderate to severe and even some asymptomatic patients. As compared to entire March, when Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital’s (IGGMCH) lone Covid isolation ward consumed just three jumbo and 68 small cylinders, 2,849.40 cubic metre oxygen was supplied through its tank to its DCH on July 28. As per IGGMCH officials, approximately 7,000 jumbo and small cylinders can fill up its tank with a storage capacity of 3,000 cu mm. All 300 Covid patients in IGGMCH’s DCH are getting oxygen from the tank while medical manifold set up using jumbo cylinders remains on stand -by. Small cylinders are being used during inter-ward transfers or on way to investigations. Between May 3 to July 28, IGGMCH has consumed 46,832 cu mm from its tank, 296 small and 138 jumbo cylinders. At GMCH, the DCH is mainly supplied oxygen through the medical manifold (group of large cylinders to supply via pipeline). As per its record, 4,996 cu mm was consumed in July by the DCH. Between March and July, 10,500 cu mm from jumbo cylinders, 1,87,777 cu mm from tank and 1,961 from small cylinders have been consumed. The GMCH tank also supplies to rest of the wards hence its tank consumption is four times of IGGMCH, also known as Mayo hospital. At Mayo, 140 jumbo cylinders are always attached to the manifold for emergency use or to maintain pressure during tank refilling. Another 260 jumbo cylinders are reserved in case of pressure drop. The 280 smaller ones are for mobile use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmcs-now-consuming-two-months-oxygen-in-a-day/articleshow/77512962.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Three journalists allege assault in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A day after three journalists from a city-based magazine, Caravan, claimed that they were chased and beaten up by a group of men when they had gone for a story to the riot-affected area of Subhash Mohalla in north-east Delhi, the police said they had received complaints from both sides and were conducting an inquiry. DCP (north-east) Ved Prakash Surya said a police team had reached the spot after they received a call from the journalists. “The allegations are being verified and FIRs will be registered accordingly,” he said. The police claimed that the locals have alleged the journalists were trying to take photographs and make videos without their consent and asking “communally charged questions” after which they were asked to leave. When they refused, an argument ensued. According to the police, nobody sustained any injuries. Several residents, including a woman, have recorded their statements after filing a complaint, the police added. The alleged confrontation took place around 2pm when two reporters and a photographer from the magazine had gone to report an incident of saffron flags being put up on some gates in the area. In their complaint, the journalists told the police that they were threatened, heckled and insulted with communal slurs. A woman journalist who was accompanying them was also sexually harassed by a mob who had gathered in the area during the argument, the complaint alleged. The three have alleged that they were also manhandled by a group of women who had gathered along with the mob. According to the journalists, there were about a hundred people who were being led by a man wearing a saffron kurta. One of them also snatched the camera of their colleague. They were forced to delete the videos they had shot in the area. The journalists alleged that a man had also chased their female colleague. In a counter-complaint, as claimed by the police, the locals have accused the reporters of trying to create disharmony among them and demanded action against them. They claimed that the reporters were asked to verify their sources regarding the incident that they were referring to and had got into an argument with the locals. A Delhi Police spokesperson added that “police personnel acted swiftly and brought the media persons to the police station…Taking pictures without consent may provoke those present and create a law and order problem, including communal problems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-journalists-allege-assault-in-city/articleshow/77512975.cms||---
August 13, 2020||India||Aaditya aide 'passes off' British marine ambulance as BMC's||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena corporator and BMC health committee chairman Amey Ghole has come under fire on Twitter for posting a photo of a marine ambulance belonging to an English Channel island and claiming that it was the Maharashtra government’s service from Mandwa jetty to the Gateway of India. On Sunday, Ghole, a close aide of minister Aaditya Thackeray had tweeted: “A Very unique and nice initiative by Maharashtra Govt. introducing Boat Ambulance from Mandava Jetty to Gate Way of India, Thank You @CMOMaharashtra !!!” along with the photograph. His tweet was shared by Sena Rajya Sabha MP Priyanka Chaturvedi, who said it was a “good intervention and initiative”. Soon, he was trolled after a fact check showed that the photograph was that of the marine ambulance Flying Christine III in Guernsey, one of the English Channel islands near the French coast. But Ghole told TOI that he had posted the picture for representation purposes and should have mentioned it in his tweet. “I have learnt a lesson. Henceforth, I will proceed with caution while using pictures on social media,” said Ghole, who has been admitted in hospital since the last 22 days after he tested positive for Covid-19. He also pointed out that images of Rafale jets were used by many on social media before they arrived in India. Ghole, a close aide of minister and Yuva Sena chief Aaditya Thackeray, added, “Opposition members are not able to digest the fact that a good initiative is being launched. They are making an issue on social media. I did not state in my tweet that the ambulance shown in the picture has been launched. Many have also appreciated this initiative.” Aditi Tatkare, minister of state for tourism and industries, had earlier announced that the tender process for the boat ambulance has been cleared. “The government will soon launch the boat ambulance-cum-mobile medical unit on a pilot basis. This initiative will help patients reach Mumbai faster for further treatment,” Tatkare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/aaditya-aide-passes-off-british-marine-ambulance-as-bmcs/articleshow/77515152.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Uber to help deliver free meals to hungry||New Delhi: App-based cab aggregator Uber on Thursday announced its partnership with the Robin Hood Army (RHA), a volunteer-based organisation, which fights against hunger. Uber will help deliver free meals for the hungry and those impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic by providing free rides to RHA’s volunteers in ten cities including Delhi-NCR.“Uber is supporting RHA’s ongoing #Mission30M project, one of the largest food relief efforts by civic society, with free rides for volunteers,” an Uber spokesperson said, adding the project started July 1 and will culminate on August 15. The project is being supported by over 60,000 volunteers, who’re attempting to distribute staple food items to 30 million people most affected by the pandemic.Apart from Delhi-NCR, Uber is also providing free rides to volunteers at Mumbai, Hyderabad, Pune, Bangalore, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Jamshedpur and Chandigarh over a two month test phase of the partnership.“We’re thrilled to join forces with the Robin Hood Army and be a part of the solution for supporting vulnerable communities in these trying times,” said Prabhjeet Singh, President, Uber India and South Asia.“Our partnership ensures that our Robins have a safe and easy way to travel and mobilise the food, and focus on serving millions of people,” said Neel Ghose, RHA’s founder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/uber-to-help-deliver-free-meals-to-hungry/articleshow/77534740.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Ludhiana||People sat in protest against non-lifting of garbage at Partap Singhwala||LUDHIANA: A protest took place outside the residence of Congress MLA Kuldeep Vaid on Wednesday against non-lifting of garbage from vacant plots in Partap Singhwala. The members of Helping Hands Club and Whistle Blowers Group staged this protest, following guidelines of Covid-19. Only four people sat on protest while others supported through social media. The members claimed that for over one and half month, they have been requesting the authorities to clear garbage from these plots before Janamashtami, as these plots is en route to Govind Godham. Since they did nothing, the members said they were forced sit in protest. The members, however, claimed that they have been given assurance that garbage will be lifted in 48 hours and in case it did not happen, they will move to court and file a public interest litigation against the apathy of the authorities. Raman Goyal from Helping Hands Club said, “We asked mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu to get garbage cleared from these plots, but he showed helplessness by saying that it is outside MC limits. Then we approached MLA Vaid as well, but nothing happened.” He also claimed that MLA Vaid was not at home so his son Harkarandeep Vaid assured that problem will be solved in the next 48 hours. He said if it did not happen, they will knock at the door of judiciary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/people-sat-in-protest-against-non-lifting-of-garbage-at-partap-singhwala/articleshow/77512949.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Agra||Orphaned Aligarh siblings threaten suicide if father’s ‘killers’ are not arrested in 72 hours||Agra: Life’s had never been fair to Amit, 16 and Richa, 15 -- names changed. First they lost their mother in 2006. And, as they reconciled with life, it took away their father. On Tuesday, as kids of their age were busy putting up recreational videos on social media, the two school-going siblings in Aligarh used the platform to announce that they will commit suicide in two days if people responsible for their father’s death are not brought to the book.With no one left to call their own, all they want to know is the truth-- what prompted his father to commit suicide.Krishna Dutt Sharma, 38, a fourth class employee in Sri Gandhi Smarak Inter College of Aligarh, allegedly committed suicide on August 3. He had consumed poison.Before taking the extreme step, Sharma had told his relatives that his college principal and clerk were demanding Rs 2 lakh to give him his full salary. They were allegedly giving just half his salary and also not letting him mark the attendance.Sharma also told them that he had already paid Rs 1 lakh to them but they were harassing him for the remaining amount. He also shot a video while consuming some poisonous substance and uploaded it on social media.The next day, police registered an FIR against unidentified persons under section 306 (abetment to suicide) of IPC a day after the incident. However, no one has been arrested in the case so far. Disappointed, the siblings have also taken to the social media for justice.When contacted, superintendent of police (rural) Atul Sharma said the matter is being investigated. “I spoke to the children and told them about the ongoing investigation. I have assured them that those responsible for it will be arrested.” One of their relatives, Guarav Kumar Sharma, told TOI, “Sharma got the job in 2007 in place of his father who had died. Sharma told me before death that the principal and the clerk were harassing him and constantly demanding money.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/orphaned-aligarh-siblings-threaten-suicide-if-fathers-killers-are-not-arrested-in-72-hours/articleshow/77511571.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||‘Forgive, move on,’ Gehlot tells MLAs upset over rebels’ return||Jaisalmer/Jaipur: Facing resentment among his flock to the idea of taking back all 18 dissidents who had sided with Sachin Pilot, CM Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday advised the legislators to “forgive, forget and move on”. Party sources said a CLP meeting scheduled for Thursday could see “all Congress MLAs” from either camp in attendance. The Congress high command has deputed MP and AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal to be its representative at the CLP meeting. While a rapprochement with the Pilot faction has been initiated by the high command, the Gehlot camp isn’t lowering its guard. MLAs loyal to the CM returned to Jaipur from Jaisalmer by a charter flight on Wednesday afternoon and were immediately herded back to the city hotel where they had been staying till July 31. “We are going to Hotel Fairmont. The next part of our strategy will be decided by CM Gehlot,” transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said. The MLAs, including some from Congress’s allies, are likely to remain ensconced at the hotel till the assembly convenes for a special session on Friday. Speaking to reporters before leaving Jaisalmer, Gehlot had said it was “natural” for his MLAs to be upset over the prospect of those who had revolted against the party being taken back, no questions asked. “I urged them to put this behind in the interest of the state, the country and the people. Democracy in under threat. This was a fight to save democracy, in which our MLAs gave their support.” Gehlot, who had written a three-page communication last week urging all MLAs in the 200-member assembly to “listen to the people’s voice”, said each of the dissidents should now get back to “working together to fulfil the commitments made to the people of the state”. AICC general secretary Avinash Pande, who was on the flight back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer, said Congress was looking beyond just completing a five-year term in Rajasthan. “We will win the next assembly elections in 2023.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forgive-move-on-gehlot-tells-mlas-upset-over-rebels-return/articleshow/77514005.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Agra||BJP MLA alleges thrashing by cops inside Aligarh thana, SHO suspended & SP transferred||Agra: A BJP MLA was allegedly manhandled and his kurta was torn during a fist fight with a station officer (SO) inside Aligarh’s Gonda police station on Wednesday afternoon. The scuffle triggered a large-scale protest by the ruling party members, led by Aligarh MP Satish Gautam. And, within hours, the fax machine of the Aligarh’s Gonda police station came alive, announcing the suspension of SO Anuj Saini. Very soon superintendent of police (rural) Atul Sharma was also given the marching orders. IG (Aligarh zone) Deepak Ratan has also been directed to submit a detailed report into the matter by Thursday. The scuffle took place when Iglas MLA Raj Kumar Sahyogi went to the police station to inquire about an FIR registered against a VHP worker after a clash. On August 2, two groups of different faiths had attacked each other over some personal enmity in the district. Five men of the minority community were booked for that under various sections of IPC including 307 (attempt to murder) on the basis of a complaint filed by the local VHP worker. Later, a cross FIR was also registered against three persons, including the VHP worker, on the basis of a complaint filed by the other party. Irked over the registration of the case against the VHP worker, the Iglas MLA reached Gonda police station and confronted the in-charge, SO Saini. The arguments allegedly snowballed into the fist fight. Sahyogi came out and alleged that he was thrashed and his clothes were also torn apart by the SO and a few other policemen. However, police sources denied the allegation and claimed that it was the MLA who manhandled SO Saini. Aligarh SSP Muniraj G said, “SO Saini has been suspended and a departmental inquiry has been ordered against him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bjp-mla-alleges-thrashing-by-cops-inside-aligarh-thana-sho-suspended-sp-transferred/articleshow/77511591.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 13, 2020||Mysuru||Independence Day celebrations to go online||Mysuru: Independence Day celebrations will be a low- key affair in all educational institutions this year. However, technology has come to the aid of the institutions with most deciding to use the online streaming services to ensure students will participate in the national festival. The Department of Public Instruction (DPI) has made flag hoisting compulsory in all the schools. KG Jagadisha, commissioner, DPI, issued a circular to all the schools in this regard. Only headmasters and teachers shall attend the flag hoisting ceremony. The Visvesvaraya Technological University too has opted for digital celebrations. As per the notification issued by the university, colleges have been asked to conduct events like recitation of patriotic songs and quiz at the college level. According to the circular issued by the university, flag hoisting is compulsory. University of Mysore VC G Hemantha Kumar said they will live telecast our event. Students and others can join the celebrations, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/independence-day-celebrations-to-go-online/articleshow/77510482.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Ludhiana||AAI awaits transfer of Sahnewal airport in its name to begin Halwara work||LUDHIANA: It seems it will take more time before work on the much touted Halwara International Airport will begin. An Airport Authority of India (AAI) officer has said approval might be granted by the agency after the state government gets mutation of Sahnewal airport done in AAI’s name. Meanwhile, district administration officials aver that it is procedural thing and will be done. An AAI officer, on condition of anonymity, said the AAI board approves such projects before the file is signed by the chairman. He added that as part of the memorandum signed between the AAI and the state government, the latter had to get mutation of land at Sahnewal airport in the name of AAI apart from Halwara airport, wherein a joint venture company will be formed. “The project of development of Halwara International Airport will cost us around Rs 500 crore.Why will AAI invest such huge money if it is not gaining much. The state government must transfer Sahnewal airport, owned by it and from where we are operating, to AAI. Once that is done, we will get approval from higher authorities after which work will start. We too want early shifting of operations from Sahnewal to Halwara, which has better facilities,” said AAI officer. Executive engineer public works department , building and roads wing, (PWD) Rakesh Garg said they are yet to get approval for the project work from AAI. District administration said the necessary steps will be taken. “It is not in my notice and will ask aviation authorities about it (mutation of land) tomorrow. However, we have got directions to get mutation (of Sahnewal Airport land) done in their name. It is just a procedural thing,” said Ludhiana deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Sharma. The AAI officer also revealed that they have plan ready for the Halwara project. He added that they have decided that the construction of boundary wall of the airport will be done by PWD. “Once we get approval, we will try that the work on the airport building having three terminals — international, domestic and cargo — takes place simultaneously with the boundary wall construction,” said the officer. He added that the airport terminal will be a state of the art complex with latest equipment, including Cute (Common User Interface Terminal) system, inland baggage, face recognition system for walk through identification of passengers. On July 22, during a review meeting of the project, DC Sharma had said the estimate of Rs 21 crore for construction of 4-km long retaining wall and road leading to the airport have been forwarded to the state government. He had said once this gets cleared, the construction work in this regard would start soon. The DC also said 4-km long retaining wall would be constructed around the 161.2703 acres acquired for the construction of civil terminal of Halwara International Airport. He had added that 26 acres have been earmarked for the construction of a taxi stand, food court, a five-star hotel, two-storey shops, besides other amenities, while 135 acres would be used for constructing the civil terminal. He said the road leading to the airport site would also be widened and the PWD and the officials have been directed to start the work on the boundary wall of the international airport at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/aai-awaits-transfer-of-sahnewal-airport-in-its-name-to-begin-halwara-work/articleshow/77512956.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 13, 2020||Mangaluru||SDPI distances itself from Bengaluru violence, blames police for inaction||MANGALURU: The Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) has distanced itself from the violence that rocked DG Halli and KG Halli areas of Bengaluru late on Tuesday. Elyas Mohammed Tumbe, state president of SDPI, in a video message, while expressing concern and regret over the incident, said the alleged blasphemous post by the accused, and police inaction in arresting him forthwith in an attempt to buy time, was the trigger for the incident. Police did not initiate any action against accused Naveen till around 11.30pm, and it is apparent that this was guided by the fact that he is the nephew of Pulikeshinagar Congress MLA R Akhanda Srinivasamurthy, Elyas said. “A group of agitated people who had gathered there were further incensed by the apathy of the police,” he said, and said that it had created an atmosphere of discord. It is police failure that has led to loss of three precious lives in subsequent firing, he added. Defending the action of SDPI leader Muzammil Pasha, whom police have since arrested, Elyas said Pasha and other leaders are seen in videos trying their best with the police to pacify the agitated mob. “Pasha and the local ulema are seen beseeching the crowd not to lose their cool, as leaders of the community are in touch with the police to sort out the issue,” he said. Subsequent action taken against Pasha is a cover up for intelligence, government, and police failure, Elyas alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sdpi-distances-itself-from-bluru-violence-blames-police-for-inaction/articleshow/77512255.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Bhopal||No quick bucks for Tricolour vendors this Independence Day as Covid stings business in Bhopal||BHOPAL: For Raju, selling the Tricolour at the Board Office on Independence Day has been a routine for the past 20 years. But this year, he and several small vendors have been left empty-handed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The work of MP Khadi Gram Udyog, however, remains unaffected as it sells mostly to government departments and institutions like schools and colleges.  “For the past 20 years, I have been selling small Tricolours to car and bike owners. This year, I have nothing to sell. Few days’ sale during Independence Day was enough to earn a month’s income,” said Raju. Asked who has been providing him Tricolours to sell, he replied, “Several vendors used to bring it from Delhi and other parts of the country. But this year, they avoided visiting due to Covid.” It is a similar story with Pinky. “I have several regular customers who used to buy Tricolours from me every year. This year, hardly a couple of people contacted me as most are staying indoors. I have to wait for a year more to see those large numbers of customers buying Tricolour from me again.” She has been selling flags at New Market for the past 15 years. Another Tricolour vendor said that the demand for the national flag has dropped sharply this year. “We used to take orders in bulk even a month before Independence. This year, the business has come down by 50%,” said Arvind, a tricolour vendor. Manager (marketing) MP Khadi and Gramodyog Board, AK Prajapati said, “We will be able to exhaust our stock this year like last year. We buy around 3 lakh proper flags from Gwalior and it will be sold without any issues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-quick-bucks-for-tricolour-vendors-this-independence-day-as-covid-stings-biz/articleshow/77512957.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Subdued Janmashtam this year, as coronavirus yet to peak||LUDHIANA: Like most festivals celebrated post-corona outbreak, Janmashtami too was a subdued affair on Wednesday. The temples did celebrate but these were nothing compared to the grandiosity that this festival is known. Moreover, some residents preferred to stay at home and celebrate quietly with family. The devotees visited city temples for paying obeisance to Lord Krishna, but not more than 20 people were allowed at a time. In Krishna mandir at Model Town extension, devotees came to seek blessings, but nobody was allowed to enter without mask and sanitising the hands. At the entrance their temperature was also checked. Temples took care to put up barricades and direct devotees through a single entrance to control overcrowding inside the premises. Even for night events, the temple management committees were told to get rituals performed with only five priests. Meanwhile, a resident of Haibowal, Manish Khanna said, “My son has recently turned one and we dressed him like Lord Krishna and we celebrated the festival at home. Earlier, we used to go to temples as small kids used to perform roles of Lord Krishna and Radha, but this time we decided against it, as it is not safe to go out.” Another devotee, Gauri Gupta, said last year her family had great fun together on Janmashtami, but this time she went alone to pray in Govind Godham, as her parents are old and more more to infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/subdued-janmashtam-this-year-as-coronavirus-yet-to-peak/articleshow/77512965.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Vijayawada||AP records 9,597 +ve cases as tally rises to 2.4 lakh||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh recorded 93 Covid-19 deaths on Wednesday, taking the toll to 2,296, even as the cumulative positive tally went up to 2,54,146 with the detection of 9,597 new cases. About 6,600 Covid-19 patients were discharged from various treament facilities on Wednesday. There are currently 90,425 active cases with 1,64,425 cumulative recoveries. The recovery rate further improved to 63% with the fresh discharges. Even though the number of daily new cases seems to have stabilised in the last one week, the number of deaths continued to be on the higher side. The overall mortality rate currently stands at 0.9%. Of the 93 deaths reported on Wednesday, 13 are from Guntur, 11 from Prakasam, 10 each from Chittoor and Nellore, 9 from Srikakulam, seven each from Anantapur and Kadapa, six from Visakhapatnam, five each from East Godavari and Vizianagaram, four each from Kurnool and West Godavari and two from Krishna. East Godavari reported the highest number of cases on Wednesday as well with 1,332 infections, followed by Chittoor 1,235 and West Godavari 929. Andhra Pradesh so far conducted 26.49 lakh tests with an overall case positivity rate of 9.59% against the national average of 8.95%. Kurnool crossed the 30,000 case milestone on Wednesday to become the second district to achieve such a grim feat. On the other hand, the caseload of East Godavari soared past the 35,000 mark. Now other than Prakasam district, which was once classified as a red zone district by the Union government, all other districts have at least 10,000 cases. Even the Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts, which were the last to get affected by the Covid-19 outbreak in Andhra Pradesh, have also been battling with an increasing number of daily new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-records-9597-ve-cases-as-tally-rises-to-2-4-lakh/articleshow/77511598.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corpn drags feet on Gandhi market dvpt||Trichy: Despite the imminent need to overhaul the century-old Gandhi market serving as a blot on city’s traffic, Trichy Corporation is hesitant to redevelop it using smart cities mission fund. Ever since Trichy Corporation was selected under smart cities mission in June 2017, redevelopment of Gandhi market had been a default proposal. In July 2019, corporation launched the preliminary work to prepare a detailed project report (DPR). Since then, there has been no progress. While the district administration is under pressure to relocate the wholesale traders from the Gandhi market to the integrated market at Kallikudi, the corporation is in no hurry. The absence of willingness by authorities also makes way for traders to resist the redevelopment plan. “Traders are not willing to shift to Kallikudi. A private market was proposed on the Trichy-Chennai NH. Until that proposal is completed, we cannot move out of Gandhi market,” a trader on condition of anonymity said. “Consensus with traders is evading. Last year we had a meeting with them but that ended with a deadlock. The renovated market will be spacious and will have offices on the first floor as per the proposal,” a senior corporation official said. Smart City proposals must be implemented within five years. For Trichy, the duration ends in June 2022. At this pace, the civic body may miss the opportunity to redevelop the market, residents said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-drags-feet-on-gandhi-market-dvpt/articleshow/77513996.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||Dist’s positivity rate jumps from 7% to 21% in August||Nagpur: Less than 7% of those tested were found positive for Covid-19 in the district till July-end. The positivity rate has trebled to 21% in just 12 days of August, depicting the widespread of the virus in the district. As per data of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), zilla parishad (ZP) and civil surgeon’s office, 79,600 persons were tested in 143 days between March 11 and July 31. Of them, 5,392 were found infected for a positivity rate of 6.8%. The NMC and ZP have increased testing to control deaths, which are increasing by the day. As on August 12, the number of persons tested was at 1.13 lakh of which 12,486 have come positive for a progressive positivity rate of 11.04%. Approximately 33,400 persons were tested in the 12 days of August of which 7,094 tested positive for a positivity rate of 21.23%. The number of positive cases in 12 days of August is 24% more than that was registered in 143 days between March 11 and July 31. The pandemic situation in the district seemed to be under control till easing of the full lockdown. The total cases were 541 during the full lockdown between March 16 and May 31. The central and state governments had eased full lockdown to some extent from June, which registered 964 cases, taking the total number of cases to 1,505. More relaxations were allowed from July 1. The new cases detected in July were at 3,887 and total 5,392. From August 1, lockdown has remained only on paper as majority of activities were allowed. Also, the NMC and ZP have come up with home isolation of asymptomatic patients and home quarantine of close contacts of positive persons. The chances of spread of the disease due to these steps cannot be ruled out as some people violate the home isolation and home quarantine norms. The detection is likely to increase further as municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has planned to increase testing from 3,200 to 5,000 per day. “Cases are on the steep rise. But need is to prevent deaths for which testing is being increased,” he said. Mundhe and his team led by additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi, chief medical officer Dr Yogendra Savai had started ‘Walk-In Test For Covid-19’ at 21 centres across the city. Between August 3 and 11, 9,299 persons were tested at these centres of which 1,160 came positive. Testing is being done at these centres using rapid antigen kits. But the civic body has no idea of how many of the 8,139, who tested negative in rapid antigen test, have undergone testing through RT-PCR. It is mandatory for persons who test negative in rapid antigen test to again get tested in a laboratory through RT-PCR method. If not complied with this norm, the chances of further spread cannot be ruled out. Mundhe said, “Cooperation from people is required to contain spread of the disease. We are requesting through all possible mediums to people to come out only if necessary. We are also urging to ensure wearing mask and maintain Covid distancing when outside. Cases are on rise due to violation of guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dists-positivity-rate-jumps-from-7-to-21-in-august/articleshow/77514014.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||Underpasses, flyovers at Ravi Nagar, Medical and RBI Squares proposed||Nagpur: Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari has asked MahaMetro to execute three more traffic improvement schemes for Ravi Nagar, Medical and RBI Squares. National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will fund these schemes. A Metro official said Gadkari wanted there should be no intersection of traffic at these squares. “For this, underpasses and flyovers will have to be built,” he added. The official further said MahaMetro would engage a consultant for preparing the plans. “The consultant will tell us the sum required for each scheme. We will then submit these to NHAI. Work will begin only after NHAI approves it. However, with Gadkari as minister, this should not be a problem,” he added. One traffic improvement scheme of MahaMetro is stuck since months due to failure of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to relocate shopkeepers under Station Road flyover. Gadkari had asked MahaMetro to execute Jai Stambh Square traffic improvement scheme and had sanctioned Rs 232 crore for it from Central Roads Fund (CRF). The scheme includes demolition of the flyover and construction of a six-lane cement road in its place. Initially, a four lane road would be built and when Ministry of Defence provides its land, two more lanes would be added. MahaMetro has built 70 shops for station flyover shopkeepers. However, NMC has failed to do its job. Assistant commissioner Milind Meshram attributed the failure to Covid-19 pandemic. Another MahaMetro project is stuck due to failure of NMC to convey its decision to MahaMetro. Initially, MahaMetro was to build a road through Bharat Van but due to strong opposition from citizens and intervention of high court, it decided to build one through Ravi Nagar. This road passes through playgrounds and NMC and Public Works Department (PWD) have to take a decision on it. Pramod Gawande, assistant director town planning (ADTP), said the road existed in development plan and hence there was no problem in building it. Metro officials, however, said they had not received any communication in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/underpasses-flyovers-at-ravi-nagar-medical-and-rbi-squares-proposed/articleshow/77512983.cms||Ashish Roy
August 13, 2020||Agra||Agra MP’s son tests Covid-19 +ve, 3 health workers infected in Meerut||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: After the wife of Agra MP SP Singh Baghel, his son has now tested Covid-19 positive on Wednesday. Being symptomatic, he was admitted at a private hospital in Haryana. The MP's wife is undergoing treatment in Agra. She was tested positive on August 6. The MP himself is under home quarantine. According to the health department, 38 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 2,209. The cases include three patients suffering acute respiratory distress syndrome, two patients of influenza-like illness, two of severe acute respiratory infection, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Moreover, 30 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Out of the 2,209 cases reported in the district, 80.1% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are 338 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer (CMO) RC Pandey said, “So far, 1,769 people have recovered." In Meerut district, at least 36 people, including three health workers, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total tally to 2,608, confirmed Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut's CMO. Also, a Covid-19 positive 53-year-old man died, taking the toll to 99. Significantly, 159 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly on Wednesday, according to additional chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar. Of these 159 cases, 40 people are from central jail. Three persons - a 50-year-old woman, an 18-year-old boy and an 85-year-old woman - succumbed to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-mps-son-tests-covid-19-ve-3-health-workers-infected-in-meerut/articleshow/77511603.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kanpur||BJP office-bearer held for making threat call||Kanpur: Police have arrested BJP’s Kanpur Dehat district vice-president for allegedly making threat calls to the manager of a paan-masala company in Panki industrial area of the city. Police identified the suspect as Neeraj Pandey. He had allegedly made a call to one Pawan Kumar Gupta, manager of a paan-masala company, threatening him to renew license of a wholesaler which was suspended by the company after he was caught thrice by the government authorities doing business during the lockdown. To renew the license, said police, Pandey had made threat calls to paan -masala company manager Pawan Kumar Gupta. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bjp-office-bearer-held-for-making-threat-call/articleshow/77514015.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Delhi||SDMC hikes charges for desealing illegal shops||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation has increased the charges for desealing illegal eateries, banquet halls, dhabas, grocery stores, paan shops and other trade activities. People running such establishments, which were run without proper licences, will have to pay three times of licensing fees. The decision was taken at a standing committee meeting on Tuesday. Earlier, the corporation planned to charge a uniform fee of Rs 50,000 for desealing any commercial establishment running any health trade activity. Till now, the average desealing charge was Rs 15,000. “In comparison, the licensing or annual renewing fees will be just Rs 15,000; so it will be better to follow norms,” said a SDMC official. The department has given relaxation only to minor trading activities, which are in force since July 2019. “No increase has been suggested for them,” said an official. Health trade licences are granted in commercial or conforming areas, mixed land use streets and residential areas under Master Plan of Delhi 2021. In south Delhi, around 10,000 health trade licences have been issued by the corporation. “Licences are granted to traders only after they fulfil all norms,” said an official. “But it has been seen that many eateries have either not applied for the licence or continued to operate for years without any renewal,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-hikes-charges-for-desealing-illegal-shops/articleshow/77512988.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||Ngp, Amravati report 78% of Vid’s Wednesday tally||Nagpur: Vidarbha’s two major hotspot cities — Nagpur and Amravati — accounted for 78% of the region’s total 1,297 Covid cases on Wednesday. Nagpur also saw 28 out of the 40 deaths across the 11 districts in a day today. The new cases took Vidarbha’s patient tally to 27,198. Nagpur also crossed 400 Covid deaths. At 12,486 cases now, Nagpur had recorded first 100 deaths till July 29 followed by the next 300 fatalities in just two weeks. Amravati was the only district after Nagpur (855) to clock three-digit rise in fresh cases at 154, taking its tally to 3,391. Bhandara, Wardha, Gadchiroli, and Washim didn’t register any death in the day while their caseload too remained low. Vidarbha has 11,163 patients under treatment now, while 15,282 have been discharged till date. The Covid deaths in Nagpur were attributed to late hospital admissions or patients being brought in critical stages though the administration and government medical colleges and hospitals claim to be well equipped with all facilities. Yet, the focus remains on early detection and treatment of all people suffering from influenza-like illnesses (ILI) and SARI. AMRAVATI: Twenty-four inmates of Amravati Central Jail were among the 154 who tested positive on Wednesday to take the district’s count to 3,391. Wednesday’s spike was the highest reported on a single-day by the district since lockdown in March last. It beat the previous high of 146 reported on August 2. The day also saw a 50-year-old woman from Wadali and a 57-year-old male from Samarth Colony, Morshi, succumbing to Covid today to take the district’s death toll to 92. The day also saw 149 patients getting discharge that took the number of recovered patients to 2,203. The month of August is proving to be explosive for the district as it has reported 1,234 cases in 12 days only, recording 100-plus spike on six days. The rural belt reported 44 cases today to take its count to 850. Warud tehsil reported nine cases from Malkheda to take its count to 48. Paratwada reported six to take its count to 40 while Achalpur reported four to take its count to 51. Three cases each came from Daryapur and Walgaon that took their respective count to 46 and 22. Two cases each came from Chikhaldara, Morshi, Teosa, Anjangaon Surji and Rahatgaon that took their respective patient count to five, 51, 29, 44 and nine. GONDIA: The administration has conducted reconciliation of Covid-19 deaths on August 12 which added four casualties to the district’s tally taking the total death toll to eight. According to the administration, one patient each from Mundipar, Rertoli, New Laxmi Nagar areas of Gondia died of Covid-19 till date. In rural parts, one each from Khodseoni village of Sadak Arjuni tehsil, Garada from Tirora tehsil, and Patiltola, and two from Birsi have died. When these people tested positive and other details could not be ascertained. With 25 new cases on Wednesday, the number of total cases has reached 699 in the district. Of the new cases, 11 are from Gondia, six from Amgaon, five from Tirora, two from Sadak Arjuni and one from Salekasa tehsils. Twenty-four persons were discharged on Wednesday. AKOLA: Two Covid deaths were reported in the district on August 12 taking the death toll to 127. A 55-year-old man from Barshi Takli died during treatment. He was admitted on August 11. A 48-year-old woman from Murtizapur, admitted since August 1, also died during treatment. In a major relief, the number of new cases has gone down in Akola. On Wednesday, 451 reports of RT-PCR and 209 rapid antigen tests were received and only 23 of them tested positive. Covid-19 cases have reached 3,124. Total 14 patients recovered in a day taking the number to recoveries to 2,458 which means Akola’s recovery rate is still around 80%. At present, 539 patients are under treatment here. YAVATMAL: Two Covid deaths were reported in the district on Wednesday. A 58-year-old man from Ambika Nagar in Darwha (tehsil HQ), and a 49-year-old man from Matha village in Kalamb tehsil died on August 12. This took the Covid toll of Yavatmal to 53. Including two deceased, 71 persons tested positive taking the total number of cases in district to 1,960. With 31 patients discharged on Wednesday, total 1,281 patients have recovered till date. Yavatmal has 626 patients under treatment at present. Yavatmal has conducted 30,662 tests till date, of which 921 reports are still pending. BULDHANA: An 85-year-old man from Kumbharwada area in Khamgaon tehsil died during treatment on August 12 taking the Covid toll of the district to 36. District received 266 reports on August 12 out of which 30 were positive for Covid-19. This took the total number of cases in Buldhana to 2,029. On the other hand, 42 patients recovered from the infection taking the total number of discharged patients to 1,232. Buldhana still has 761 patients under treatment. Meanwhile, the complete lockdown order up to August 21 has been revised on Wednesday. Now, curfew will be imposed only on Sundays. CHANDRAPUR: With the death of a 68-year-old woman from Ghugus, Covid toll in the district has risen to six. In-charge dean of Chandrapur Government Medical College, who recently took over, has also contracted the Covid-19 infection. Sources claimed that his swab samples were taken on Tuesday after he developed symptoms. He was admitted to the GMCH after his reports came positive on Wednesday. District collector Dr Ajay Gulhane confirmed the GMCH dean testing positive. A total of 46 new patients were also reported during the day and the total caseload has climbed to 944. While 18 patients were discharged during the day taking the number of cured patients to 561, there are 377 patients under treatment. WARDHA: Seventeen persons tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday while 16 were discharged. Now, the district has 55 patients under treatment. Ten men and seven women were among the positives. They are from Arvi (5), Wardha (3), Samudrapur (3), Hinganghat (3), Selu (2) and Ashti (1). Total 202 new swab samples were sent for testing including those of close contacts of newly positive persons while 320 reports are awaited. WASHIM: The number of recovered patients was more than the number of new cases for the third consecutive day in district on Wednesday. With 23 new patients, the total number of cases surpassed 1,000-mark and reached 1,021. Now, all five districts in Amravati division have more than 1,000 cases. Total 47 patients were discharged on Wednesday. With 675 recovered, and 19 deaths till date, 327 patients remain under treatment. BHANDARA: With 16 new cases reported from the district on Wednesday, the number of Covid cases has reached 450. Eight of the new cases are from Mohadi while Bhandara (3), Tumsar (2), Sakoli (1), Lakhandur (2), also added patients. At present, 263 patients have recovered from the district and two deaths have been reported. With this, 185 are under treatment. GADCHIROLI: Seven CRPF jawans, two health workers, two district police personnel, and three citizens are among the 17 who recovered on Wednesday. On the other hand, 16 CRPF jawans, and 10 others tested positive taking the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district to 777. With 611 recovered and one death earlier, total 165 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngp-amravati-report-78-of-vids-wednesday-tally/articleshow/77514018.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 13, 2020||Agra||3 migrant labourers returning to Delhi for work among 4 killed in Yamuna e-way accident||Agra: Four people, including three migrant labourers, were killed and eight others were injured when a truck rammed into a parked bus, carrying 67 labourers from Bihar’s Katihar to Delhi, on Yamuna Expressway near milestone 105 around 7:15 am on Wednesday.The deceased labourers worked in the construction sector and were travelling to Delhi to join work. They have been identified as Mohammad Ramjani (22), Mohammad Shamsher (23) and Gopal (24). The other victim was Narendra Misra, the assistant driver of the truck.Talking to TOI, Mathura superintendent of police (city) Udai Shankar Singh said the bus was parked on the roadside as it had ran out of fuel. Many passengers were also standing on the road when the truck, coming from Agra, rammed into the bus.The SP said the bodies were sent for post mortem, and the injured were admitted in hospital, where doctors said they all were out of danger. According to Mohammad Wasim, a relative of one of the deceased labourer, the bus started from Katihar at 5pm on Monday. The construction company, L&T Constructions, had sent the bus to bring them to Delhi so that they can resume work. The labourers were travelling to Sector 25, Dwarka, in Delhi, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-migrant-labourers-returning-to-delhi-for-work-among-4-killed-in-yamuna-e-way-accident/articleshow/77511618.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Varsities ready to hold final exams by September end||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the University Grants Commission making final exams mandatory, the big challenge for state universities is to devise a calendar, which would allow them to hold the exams by September-end while taking into account the challenges of the current situation. Given the pandemic, which has disrupted academic activities, a lot of micro-planning may be needed before varsities finalise the date and conduct exams. This is primarily because the online option has been ruled out as a majority of the students of these varsities are from rural background with limited access to computer resources. But when it comes to the students of intermediate semester or year, they will have the freedom to conduct exams based on a comprehensive assessment of the situation or even grading the students based on their performance in the previous semesters and internal evaluations. Andhra University vice-chancellor Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy said the Council of Architecture has already sent a set of guidelines on how to evaluate and grade the students of intermediate semesters/years. “The AICTE is also expected to release the guidelines in the next few days for the engineering students. AU is the only varsity in the country to conclude the final exams for the BTech students. We have also issued certificates to them two months ago,” said Prof Reddy. Prof Reddy added that they will study various options to conduct the final exams for the conventional courses. “One proposal is to reduce the duration of the exams from the normal three hours to one and a half hours or one hour. We will plan in such a way to safeguard the students,” said Prasad Reddy. Prof K Ramji, vice-chancellor of Dr BR Ambedkar University, Srikakulam, said the varsity has already completed the undergraduate examinations. Meanwhile, the central institutions like Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE) and private universities like Gitam Deemed to be University conducted online exams for their students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/varsities-ready-to-hold-final-exams-by-sept-end/articleshow/77518299.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 13, 2020||Bhopal||Dewas, Singrauli store 95% of ammonium nitrate in MP||Bhopal: After the Beirut blasts that led to massive destruction and loss of lives, the focus is back on storage of ammonium nitrate—commonly used in fertilizers and explosives. In Madhya Pradesh more than 81,000 quintals of ammonium nitrate is stored at different places. Surprisingly of the 81,000 qtls, 95% of this storage is in two districts —Singrauli and Dewas. In Dewas, around 40,000 quintals is stored.  TOI took stock of the situation in MP. Petroleum And Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), which monitors the storage as well as transportation of ammonium nitrate, has only three officials and seven office staff in the state. The district administration sends monthly inspection reports to the PESO officials who then scrutinize it and take action if any discrepancy is found. Sources said that there are around 72 premises where ammonium nitrate storage permissions are granted in the state. But a majority of these premises are in Singrauli, Dewas, and smaller quantities in Anuppur and Katni districts. Several protocols are laid down for the storage, security and movement of ammonium nitrate, sources from PESO said. Movement of the explosive is monitored online by PESO officials as well as district administration said sources. The biggest licencee of ammonium nitrate is a single firm which makes fertilizers and is also a distributor of ammonium nitrate. It has storage licences in Dewas as well as Singrauli. Besides, the power plants in Singrauli also have storage licences. Mining companies of the government, which are in Singrauli, Anuppur, Shahdol Betul, also have storage licences, but in very less quantity. In Dewas, only 45,000 quintal storage is allowed in two premises, while 31,000 quintals is stored at eight premises, 1,200 quintals is stored at Anuppur, 3,500 qtls in Katni district. These are sanctioned storage capacities. Actual storage is dynamic — sometimes it may be less than this but it will never cross the maximum limit, added sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/dewas-singrauli-store-95-of-ammonium-nitrate-in-mp/articleshow/77512985.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||NMC: Covid test must for all shopkeepers, staff by Aug 18||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has asked all shopkeepers to get themselves and their staffers tested for Covid-19 (regular or antigen) by August 18. Only those establishments from where none has tested positive will be allowed to remain open. If any shopkeeper fails to follow this instruction, strict action will be taken against him/her. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, office-bearers of Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC) urged all shopkeepers to get themselves and their assistants tested. “NMC is operating over 20 camps in different parts of the city where Covid testing is being done for free. If somebody wants to avoid the crowds, then he can get tested at private laboratories also,” said chamber president Ashwin Mehadia. “You can get antigen test done from a private laboratory. It costs between Rs650 and Rs750. NMC accepts its result,” he further said. There are thousands of shopkeepers and shop assistants in the city. Nagpur simply doesn’t have the infrastructure to test all of them in five days (August 15 is Independence Day). On this, Mehadia said NMC may extend the last date for testing if shopkeepers respond positively to its order. “Earlier, the last date was August 7 but the same was extended to August 18,” he told the media. Mehadia also said only shopkeepers who store specified goods more than certain quantity were required to obtain a license from NMC. “We are studying the issue in detail and are preparing a memorandum. NMC is illegally asking us to seek license. We will oppose it vehemently,” he added. On ending the odd-even system of opening shops, Mehadia said municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had made it clear that it would remain in place until daily number of cases go down. “This system will remain in August,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-covid-test-must-for-all-shopkeepers-staff-by-aug-18/articleshow/77512989.cms||Ashish Roy
August 13, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Varsities ready to hold final exams by September end||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the University Grants Commission making final exams mandatory, the big challenge for state universities is to devise a calendar, which would allow them to hold the exams by September-end while taking into account the challenges of the current situation. Given the pandemic, which has disrupted academic activities, a lot of micro-planning may be needed before varsities finalise the date and conduct exams. This is primarily because the online option has been ruled out as a majority of the students of these varsities are from rural background with limited access to computer resources. But when it comes to the students of intermediate semester or year, they will have the freedom to conduct exams based on a comprehensive assessment of the situation or even grading the students based on their performance in the previous semesters and internal evaluations. Andhra University vice-chancellor Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy said the Council of Architecture has already sent a set of guidelines on how to evaluate and grade the students of intermediate semesters/years. “The AICTE is also expected to release the guidelines in the next few days for the engineering students. AU is the only varsity in the country to conclude the final exams for the BTech students. We have also issued certificates to them two months ago,” said Prof Reddy. Prof Reddy added that they will study various options to conduct the final exams for the conventional courses. “One proposal is to reduce the duration of the exams from the normal three hours to one and a half hours or one hour. We will plan in such a way to safeguard the students,” said Prasad Reddy. Prof K Ramji, vice-chancellor of Dr BR Ambedkar University, Srikakulam, said the varsity has already completed the undergraduate examinations. Meanwhile, the central institutions like Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE) and private universities like Gitam Deemed to be University conducted online exams for their students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/varsities-ready-to-hold-final-exams-by-sept-end/articleshow/77511626.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||School closed, parents want admission in preferred institute||Nagpur: Parents of a state board English medium school which closed down from this academic session have demanded that education department provide admission to their wards in schools of their choice. The state board school closed after getting all permissions and emerging on the winning side of a protracted legal battle, which went all the way to the Supreme Court. On Wednesday, a group of parents again landed up at the local education office and opposed plans of transferring their wards to a school about 1.5km away from the current location. Parents were unhappy that the school chosen by the education department was not up to the mark as the previous one. As per rules, it is the responsibility of the education department to ensure that all affected students are admitted in some or other school. A senior education official told TOI that the department will comply with court’s orders to ensure admission for every student. “We have identified a school where all the kids can be easily accommodated. This school is also an aided institute where fee won’t be charged. But the demand of parents to be given admission in some of the top schools is impractical,” said the official. As per existing rules, there is no provision of providing admission in schools of choice, he added. Another education official said, “Recently, in an RTE admission matter related to a closed school, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has ruled that parents cannot get admission in school of their choice. It is our responsibility to give them admission in nearby schools.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-closed-parents-want-admission-in-preferred-institute/articleshow/77513003.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 13, 2020||Kanpur||3 tanneries face Rs 1.3L fine for violating roster, rules||Kanpur: The regional pollution control board on Wednesday recommended a fine of Rs 1,37,500 each on three tanneries in Kanpur for violating the roster. Officials of the regional pollution control board had found the three tanneries — Jurich International, Liaqat Leather Finishers and R K Tanners — all in Jajmau area violating the roster. Regional pollution contron board officer Dr S B Franklin said the three tanneries were found violating the roaster that had been prepared by the district administration after seeking consent of all tanneries. The state government had given sanction to 258 tanneries to operate. According to the roster, 138 tanneries have to operate in the first fortnight and remaining 120 in the second. All 258 tanneries are linked with Chabileypurwa, Wajidpur, Sheetala Bazar and Budhia Ghat pumping stations. When all tanneries operate together then their discharge overflows and passes directly into the river. The state government imposed a roster to check the discharge overflow and ensuring that every tannery gets 15 days to operate. Franklin said, “As per the roster, the three tanneries had to operate in second fortnight i.e. from August 16 to 31, but were found operating their units from August 1.” The three tanneries are linked with Sheetala Bazaar and Budhia Ghat pumping stations. The regional pollution control board had warned them for operating their units illegally but they ignored the warning, he added. The regional pollution control board office also found that the units were using drums more than sanctioned limits and have been fined for it too. He referred the matter to UP pollution control board head office in Lucknow for approval of fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/3-tanneries-face-rs-1-3l-fine-for-violating-roster-rules/articleshow/77514034.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Bhopal||Citizens opt for e-darshan despite relaxation in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Temples of the city and devotees of Lord Krishna celebrated the Krishna Janmashtami at midnight, welcoming the deity into their homes and hearts amid the pandemic. With no gathering at temples to witness the janmotsav ceremony, celebrations remained low-key, yet the spirit of Janmashtami remained the same. “The temple was decorated with flowers and lights on the birth anniversary of Lord Krishna and we set up a hindola for baby Krishna. The temple that is otherwise full to capacity every year at Janmashtami was empty this year as only the pujari performed the janmotsav ceremony and offered the bhog to Laddoo Gopal,” said K K Pandey, member of the management committee of Birla mandir. The temple held a special Krishna-aarti for devotees in the evening, a few hours prior to the birth of Lord Krishna. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan also visited Birla Mandir in the evening. The Krishna Pranami mandir, that was bathed in colourful lights, also saw a small celebration as devotees watched the ceremony online. The ISCKON temple of the city also organised a grand celebration at midnight for the devotees who reside at the temple and streamed the event live for the citizens of Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/citizens-opt-for-e-darshan-despite-relaxation/articleshow/77512993.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kanpur||Stray dog drags away baby, dumps it into water-filled pit||Kanpur: A 30-day-old baby girl has died after a stray dog dragged it from inside a house and later dumped it into a water-filled pit in Barra area of the city on Wednesday. Reports said local residents rushed to help after they heard the screams of the baby’s mother and threw stones in an effort to scare the dog away, but it dumped the infant in a water-filled pit at E-1 Kacchi Basti in Barra and ran away. Neeraj Kumar, the baby’s father, and a contractual civic worker, told reporters: “The main door of the house was open and my wife Chandni was busy attending to household chores. Suddenly, a black coloured dog barged inside our house and grabbed the child lying on the cot by the neck and rushed towards the Pandu river.” “Before my wife could understand anything, the dog took away our daughter. After a chase the dog left our daughter in a water-filled pit, but it was too late. She died following drowning. We took her to a nearby hospital but she was declared dead.,” he said. The child was born to the couple July 13 this year. “Following the incident, the police rushed to the spot and asked the girl’s parents to give a complaint, besides handover the body of the infant to police for autopsy, but they refused and stated that they are not interested in lodging of an FIR. The baby has apparently died of drowning,” said Inspector Barra Harmeet Singh. Meanwhile, panic prevailed in the area and residents complained that they are facing a lot of hardships due to stray dogs. “In the last one year we have had several instances of dog bites. The apathy is that no one is ready to take responsibility for stray dogs. There have been multiple complaints, but nothing has been done. With today’s incident, locals are a scared lot and not allowing their little ones to come out of their houses. A permanent solution needs to come for this problem before more such cases happen,” said Vicky, a local.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/stray-dog-drags-away-baby-dumps-it-into-water-filled-pit/articleshow/77514020.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||PI accepts plaint against minister, shunted in hours||Nagpur: Within a few hours after he accepted complaint against energy minister and others in connection with a man’s suicide over Rs40,000 electricity bill, senior inspector Dipak Sakhre was on Tuesday removed as in-charge of Yashodhara Nagar police station. He has been shunted to traffic branch of the police. Shocked over inflated power bill, one Leeladhar Gaidhane, who worked at a petrol pump, had set himself on fire at his Pahune Layout residence in Yashodhara Nagar on August 8. The victim’s wife, accompanied by Vidarbha Rajya Andolan Samiti (VRAS) members, had on Tuesday afternoon lodged a complaint with Yashodhara Nagar police against energy minister Nitin Raut, secretary of the concerned ministry and officials of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) holding them responsible for Leeladhar’s suicide. The victim’s wife claimed that Leeladhar, working on a salary of Rs6,000, was perturbed over the exorbitant bill which he was unable to pay. Soon thereafter, police brass swung into action and the transfer order landed at Sakhre’s desk at around 7.30pm. Additional CP Nilesh Bharne said Sakhre’s transfer was an administrative decision related to law and order and not any particular case. “There were serious law and order issues cropping up and other factors were also taken into consideration before signing the transfer order. There was no political interference,” he said. Sources said there were several complaints against Sakhre. “A group clash over erecting flagpole had taken place recently apart from other issues,” said a senior official. When TOI contacted Sakhre for his version, he opted to toe the line of his seniors. VRAS representative Ram Neole, who had taken up the issue of suicide over inflated electricity bill, sounded shocked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pi-accepts-plaint-against-minister-shunted-in-hours/articleshow/77514021.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 13, 2020||Nashik||Real estate sector gets installment option from KMC||Nashik: The ailing real estate sector has been provided with a relief by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) towards payment of development and premium additional premium Floor Space Index (FSI) charges in three installments. The civic body has taken this initiative following drop in revenue through various taxes from the town planning department during the first four months of the current financial year due to Covid-19 outbreak. Earlier, the builders had to pay the money for development and for additional premium FSI charges while submitting the building plans. “But now we have decided to give them the option of paying the money in three installments,” a civic official said. The standing committee of the NMC has also given its approval to the proposal. Accordingly, builders will have to pay 30% of the charges while submission of the building plan, 40% after completion of the plinth and remaining 30% while obtaining building completion certificates (BCC). The town planning department of the civic body earns revenue through various taxes like building permission fees, lay-out fees, hardship premiums, development charges and fees through unauthorized constructions like closure of balcony, plinth settlement, among others. Around 60% of the total revenue comes from development and additional premium FSI charges. The NMC has collected around Rs 37 crore till August 10 in current financial year 2020-21 through various taxes of town planning department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/real-estate-sector-gets-installment-option-from-kmc/articleshow/77511329.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 13, 2020||Lucknow||Three dead as car rams into parked truck on Agra-Lucknow expressway||AGRA: Three persons died when the car in which they were travelling rammed into a parked truck near milestone 29 on Agra-Lucknow Expressway on Wednesday afternoon. Another passenger who sustained serious injuries was admitted to the SN Medical College in Agra. The four were travelling in a Maruti 800 car from Hardoi to Agra when the accident occurred. According to police, the deceased were identified as 60-year-old Rammohan Dixit and his 55-year-old wife Guddi Devi, both residents of Hardoi district. Ramu, 25, who also died in the accident, was a resident of Sitapur district. The injured passenger was identified as 20-year-old Puskar Dixit, nephew of Rammohan. The car rammed straight into the truck from behind, locals said. Police were informed. The three passengers, including the driver, died on the spot. Police had to use gas cutter to remove the bodies from the mangled remains. The injured was rushed to a hospital in an ambulance. Fatehabad circle officer Vikas Jaiswal said, “The three passengers along with the driver were on way from Hardoi to their relatives' house in Kalindi Vihar, Agra. Their relatives have been informed about the accident, and the bodies sent for postmortem. The injured passenger was admitted to the SN Medical College. He is in a critical condition." Fatehabad station house officer Pradeep Kumar said, “It seems that the accident took place as the driver fell asleep. Hardoi and Sitapur police have been informed about the accident."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-dead-as-car-rams-into-parked-truck-on-agra-lko-expressway/articleshow/77517876.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 13, 2020||Agra||Three dead as car rams into parked truck on Agra-Lucknow expressway||AGRA: Three persons died when the car in which they were travelling rammed into a parked truck near milestone 29 on Agra-Lucknow Expressway on Wednesday afternoon. Another passenger who sustained serious injuries was admitted to the SN Medical College in Agra. The four were travelling in a Maruti 800 car from Hardoi to Agra when the accident occurred. According to police, the deceased were identified as 60-year-old Rammohan Dixit and his 55-year-old wife Guddi Devi, both residents of Hardoi district. Ramu, 25, who also died in the accident, was a resident of Sitapur district. The injured passenger was identified as 20-year-old Puskar Dixit, nephew of Rammohan. The car rammed straight into the truck from behind, locals said. Police were informed. The three passengers, including the driver, died on the spot. Police had to use gas cutter to remove the bodies from the mangled remains. The injured was rushed to a hospital in an ambulance. Fatehabad circle officer Vikas Jaiswal said, “The three passengers along with the driver were on way from Hardoi to their relatives' house in Kalindi Vihar, Agra. Their relatives have been informed about the accident, and the bodies sent for postmortem. The injured passenger was admitted to the SN Medical College. He is in a critical condition." Fatehabad station house officer Pradeep Kumar said, “It seems that the accident took place as the driver fell asleep. Hardoi and Sitapur police have been informed about the accident."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-dead-as-car-rams-into-parked-truck-on-agra-lko-expressway/articleshow/77511635.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||Std XI admissions: 37k register online so far for CAP||Nagpur: For the Std XI admissions in city, by Wednesday just over 37,000 students had registered online for the Common Admission Process (CAP). Admissions to state board affiliated junior colleges within Nagpur city can only be done through CAP. Students have time till August 22 to fill and submit the online forms which are called as “Part-1” and “Part-2”. Till August 22, colleges will give admission under the ‘Round Zero’. This round is only for quota seats available with colleges. So seats under management, in-house and minority quotas will be filled during this round. For quota admissions, students need to fill and submit their Part-1 and Part-2 form online and take the printout of application form. Students need to submit the scanned copy of their quota admission application form to the “desired junior college” through the communication medium provided by the respective junior colleges. These colleges will declare the merit list for quota admission at college level. From August 23 — 25, regular admissions under Round-1 will be held. Provisional general merit list will be displayed and students can submit objection/correction requests online. On August 30, allocation list for regular round-1 admissions will be displayed. Students can check this online. From August 31 to September 3, students have to confirm online their admission in the allotted junior college. Students who have been allotted to first preference, have to mandatorily take admission in the allotted college. If such students fail to take admissions, they will be blocked for further regular rounds and will be considered during special round at the end only. If students wish to cancel a confirmed admission, they can request concerned college for the same. But such students will be restricted for further regular rounds and will be considered during special round only.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/std-xi-admissions-37k-register-online-so-far-for-cap/articleshow/77513012.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 13, 2020||Nashik||Real estate sector gets installment option from NMC||NASHIK: The ailing real estate sector has been provided with a relief by the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) towards payment of development and premium additional premium Floor Space Index (FSI) charges in three installments. The civic body has taken this initiative following drop in revenue through various taxes from the town planning department during the first four months of the current financial year due to Covid-19 outbreak. Earlier, the builders had to pay the money for development and for additional premium FSI charges while submitting the building plans. “But now we have decided to give them the option of paying the money in three installments,” a civic official said. The standing committee of the NMC has also given its approval to the proposal. Accordingly, builders will have to pay 30% of the charges while submission of the building plan, 40% after completion of the plinth and remaining 30% while obtaining building completion certificates (BCC). The town planning department of the civic body earns revenue through various taxes like building permission fees, lay-out fees, hardship premiums, development charges and fees through unauthorized constructions like closure of balcony, plinth settlement, among others. Around 60% of the total revenue comes from development and additional premium FSI charges. The NMC has collected around Rs 37 crore till August 10 in current financial year 2020-21 through various taxes of town planning department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/real-estate-sector-gets-installment-option-from-kmc/articleshow/77513005.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||24 prisoners among 154 to test positive in Amravati||Amravati: Twenty-four inmates of Amravati Central Jail were among the 154 who tested positive on Wednesday to take the district’s count to 3,391. Wednesday’s spike was the highest reported on a single-day by the district since lockdown in March last. It beat the previous high of 146 reported on August 2. The day also saw a 50-year-old woman from Wadali and a 57-year-old male from Samarth Colony, Morshi, succumbing to Covid today to take the district’s death toll to 92. The day also saw 149 patients getting discharge that took the number of recovered patients to 2,203. The month of August is proving to be explosive for the district as it has reported 1,234 cases in 12 days only, recording 100-plus spike on six days. The rural belt reported 44 cases today to take its count to 850. Warud tehsil reported nine cases from Malkheda to take its count to 48. Paratwada reported six to take its count to 40 while Achalpur reported four to take its count to 51. Three cases each came from Daryapur and Walgaon that took their respective count to 46 and 22. Two cases each came from Chikhaldara, Morshi, Teosa, Anjangaon Surji and Rahatgaon that took their respective patient count to five, 51, 29, 44 and nine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/24-prisoners-among-154-to-test-positive-in-amravati/articleshow/77514065.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Trichy||Jail warden, 31, of Puzhal prison killed in accident in Trichy||Trichy: A 31-year-old male warden of Puzhal Prison-II in Chennai was killed in a road accident in Trichy on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as K Mayakrishnan in Chennai and was a resident of Mela Anuppanadi in Madurai. On Tuesday evening, Mayakrishnan was travelling on his two-wheeler from Pudukottai to Trichy main road at Subramaniapuram, when he lost control over the vehicle and hit the centre median opposite to the police quarters around 6 pm. He sustained injuries on his chin and right knee. He was brought to Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy. The doctors examined him and declared him brought dead. Traffic south investigation wing led by its inspector Sindhunathi took up the investigation and revealed that he was riding the bike in rash and negligent manner, which led to the fatal accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/jail-warden-31-of-puzhal-prison-killed-in-accident-in-trichy/articleshow/77514033.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||Bajaj Nagar PS cop in ACB net||Nagpur: The sleuths of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) have booked a police constable from Bajaj Nagar police station for demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs50,000. The constable identified as Praful Pawar had demanded the bribe for not registering an offence against the complainant. ACB sources said a man had borrowed Rs12,000 from a moneylender by mortgaging his motorcycle. Despite repaying the principal amount along with interest thereon, the moneylender was not returning the mortgaged motorcycle. The man somehow managed to take the motorcycle back. Angry over this, the moneylender informed a senior official from Bajaj Nagar police station to book the complainant for “forcibly” taking the bike. Pawar later approached the borrower and demanded Rs50,000 and also threatened to implicate him in a case of vehicle theft. The borrower then lodged a complaint with ACB and accordingly a trap was laid and Pawar was caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bajaj-nagar-ps-cop-in-acb-net/articleshow/77513028.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chennai||Scientists find seaweed off Tamil Nadu coast has unique scent||CHENNAI: Some of the top luxury fashion brands in the world have used seaweed, among a few other marine sources, as an ingredient to make handmade limited edition colognes that could make its wearer smell like the ocean. But researchers say very few species in regions like the Baltic, Pacific and Atlantic were studied for its potential as fragrance in the beauty industry. Indian researchers who dived into the shallow waters in Gulf of Mannar for an underwater survey found that a red seaweed, which otherwise is known for its anticancer and antibacterial properties, could be a potential natural ‘base note’ for perfumes replacing synthetic ones. A team from National Centre for Coastal Research (NCCR), a lab under the ministry of earth sciences, found Portieria Hornemannii, a red seaweed, growing on dead corals to have a pungent fragrance, due to the presence of certain chlorinated compounds, that would appeal to perfume connoisseurs. NCCR director M V Ramana Murthy said the findings are part of their work in documenting the resources in the Gulf of Mannar and the impact of climate change in this biologically rich, ecologically sensitive and protected region. “Once we document and understand the present status of the resources in the region, the best approach would be for all research labs to work with the state government and come up with a plan, based on scientific inputs, that can benefit the health of the ecosystem, conserve the resources while also harness in a sustainable manner for societal application benefitting the stakeholders like the local fishermen,” he said. The research team found the algae in the coral crest of three of the 21 islands in the region- Hare, Manoli and Manoliputti. The species was found to be growing on dead corals in the shallow reef area or on live branching corals like Acropora sp. They were also found to be entangled with other seaweeds like Turninaria sp. NCCR scientist T Shanmugaraj said they began studying the properties and the applications of seaweed as it has for long been a source of livelihood for the locals who plucked them. They, however, never knew its potential and value in the market. For long, the locals and the forest authorities have been at loggerheads as plucking seaweed is considered illegal and in conflict with conservation efforts. “Macroalgae or seaweed is dominant in the Gulf of Mannar compared to Kutch or Lakshadweep region. This is the first time this particular species has been studied for its fragrance,” he said. According to the TN forest department, there are 181 seaweed species in the region. Back in the lab, researchers said an analysis found that the source of the fragrance was the presence of chlorinated compounds in the algae. Previous studies have shown that the fragrance from marine algae is due to the presence of volatile chemical compounds. However, further study is required to establish the actual chemical components responsible for the fragrance, the researchers said. The fragrance from raw seaweed persisted for a few days at room temperature. Distilled water released the scent after samples of the algae were placed for a few weeks. Similarly, when they were boiled in coconut oil, the oil released the scent. Given its potential, the researchers suggest the species could be a ‘base note’, one of the three scents in a perfume sensed after application, which constitutes 10-20% in perfumes. "We are now studying other species including brown and green algae," Shanmugaraj said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/scientists-find-seaweed-off-tn-coast-has-unique-scent/articleshow/77513099.cms||U Tejonmayam
August 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Amid Covid pandemic, city fears dengue onslaught||Ludhiana: Even as the city is struggling yet to come to terms with the crisis triggered by coronavirus, the residents now fear the spread of dengue and other such diseases, as proper fogging of mosquito-prone spots has not been done by the civic body till now, they claim.Although the municipal corporation has initiated the fogging exercise, both residents and councillors dubbed it as eyewash. They said currently, fogging is being with only big machines, whereas pressing small machines into operation is a must, as big ones cannot enter the congested areas.Fogging started last month, that too when the residents and councillors raised a hue and cry. At the moment 14 big machines are being used, while 95 small machines are lying idle. Leader of the opposition in the corporation’s house and senior Akali Dal councillor Harbhajan Dang said, “With big machines, fogging takes place once in a week or a fortnight, which is not sufficient, as these days intensive fogging is required.” He said the people complain about mosquito menace, but small machines are not being sent to the congested lanes. He said he would raise this matter with mayor Balkar Sandhu, so that dengue could be controlled timely. BJP senior councillor Sunita Rani said, “In my ward, most of the areas are congested and fogging took place in the outer areas of the ward only. The residents are troubled with mosquitoes and they are afraid of the spread of dengue.” She said the authorities are not paying attention towards the problem and in case dengue strikes, the situation would go out of control. Congress councillor Parvinder Lapran also said fogging is being done properly in his ward with big machines only, which does not touch the actual mosquito breeding grounds, which can lead to spread of dengue and malaria. He said he was in quarantine for the past 10 days, as his father had tested positive, but now he would take up the matter with the officials concerned.K K Goel, a resident of Civil City, said, “Fogging is an issue of debate, because I don’t think the way it is done every year it brings any respite to the residents. Every year dengue cases are reported in the city.” He said civic officials get fogging done on papers only and this year, his area has not seen any fogging at all. Despite repeated attempts, medical officer health Dr Vipul Malhotra could not be contacted for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/amid-covid-pandemic-city-fears-dengue-onslaught/articleshow/77511684.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Trichy||Gokulashtami: Case against VHP men for breaking norms||Trichy: Six functionaries of the VHP, BJP and RSS and 39 others, including 18 women, who had organised Gokulashtami festival at a marriage hall in Srirangam, by involving 12 children and violating the lockdown norms on Tuesday, were booked by the police. The owner, in-charge and watchman of Mangala Mahal on Nelson Road were among those booked.A police officer said the organisers did not obtain police permission for conducting the function. Further, the officer said that the police had insisted them not to involve children considering their safety, but they went ahead. They were booked under sections of the IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act, Tamil Nadu Public health Act, Disaster management Act for unlawful assembly, disobeying the curfew order, acting in a negligent manner to spread infectious disease during the Covid-19 pandemic. Section 75 of nd Juvenile Justice (JJ) Act was also slapped against them for exposing the children at the event and putting them at the risk of being infected. Social gatherings in the name of organising events by political parties and conducting religious festivals continue to be a menace at the time of Covid-19 pandemic. On August 7, more than 1,200 DMK functionaries and cadres violated the lockdown norms in 57 places in the city by observing the death anniversary of former DMK president M Karunanidhi. Cases were booked against them. On August 5, BJP, VHP and Hindu outfits distributed sweets to people in 17 places to celebrate the Bhumi Pujan for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/gokulashtami-case-against-vhp-men-for-breaking-norms/articleshow/77514058.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: ‘Set up isolation units for Covid-19 suspect patients’||KOLKATA: The state health department has asked every hospital to have isolation wards where patients, who are also Covid-19 suspects, can be treated before their Covid test report arrives. Once their report arrives, hospitals and nursing homes should not discharge them without assured admission to a Covid hospital. The latest advisory from Swasthya Bhawan on Wednesday came amid complaints by families of several patients alleging that hospitals were refusing admission without a Covid report. There have also been incidents where patients admitted to the isolation wards are asked to leave for a Covid hospital as soon as the report confirmed coronavirus infection. “We have heard of cases where a patient’s condition was serious, requiring medical care before the Covid report was out,” said a senior health department official. The protocol monitoring team that has been regularly visiting hospitals issued the advisory after it came across such cases. “Every hospital has been advised to arrange isolation wards for suspected Covid-19 patients and stabilize them before transferring them to a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. A referral case summary should be attached during transfer of the patients,” said the advisory on Wednesday. There have been numerous cases of patients dying in the ambulance while families kept hopping from one hospital to another. Administrators of private facilities said that no hospital would refuse a patient if they have the means and beds to treat the patient. “All private hospitals are under tremendous pressure for beds and shortage of manpower,” a private hospital official said. The father of a PR professional was allegedly refused admission by a few hospitals some days ago even as the patient was gasping for air. She alleged that two big hospitals cited lack of isolation ICU beds and refused admission without a Covid test report. By the time she managed to get a bed at a small nursing home, her father’s condition had deteriorated. Though the patient tested negative for Covid he is still in a critical condition. “There should be a place where people needing emergency medical attention get care till the Covid report arrives,” she said. Health officials, however, said that this is not the first time that hospitals have been asked to set up isolation wards for suspected cases. “But it seems that some hospitals are yet to implement the same or are not abiding by the directives,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/set-up-isolation-units-for-cov-suspect-patients/articleshow/77513048.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||First 4 charter flights to Kolkata unlikely to take off||KOLKATA: The first set of charter flights that were to bring back Kolkatans stranded in the Gulf have been cancelled in the absence of approval from the authorities. The cancellations have left families anxiously waiting for repatriation to the city in the lurch with no clarity on when they can take a flight back home. Sources in the travel trade industry said all four charter flights — which were announced after the state government issued a revised SOP on international flight operations — were cancelled in the absence of a no-objection certificate. The flights were scheduled on August 13 (Dubai), 14 (Abu Dhabi), 15 (Sharjah) and 18 (Muscat). Repatriation flights during the pandemic require the nod of the Indian embassy in the country of origin, external affairs ministry and state government. A state government official said it had not cancelled any NOC, but did not clarify if an NOC had been issued to any of these flights. The lack of information on why the flights — the first batch in several months — would not be able to operate even after the revised SOP issued by the state government left Indians hailing from Bengal frustrated in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Sharjah and Muscat. While Indians from other parts of the country have been able to board Vande Bharat flights and return, absence of flights to Kolkata has stranded them. When the state government issued a revised SOP on international flights on August 6, stating that it would allow only chartered flights that carried passengers who had tested negative shortly prior to departure, it had given hopes despite higher fares. With the flight cancellations, its despair again. While IndiGo was to operate the three flights originating in UAE, Air Oman was to operate from Muscat. “We aren’t sure about the reason behind the cancellations. There has been a fresh requisition for a flight from Cambodia on August 16,” said an IndiGo official. Passengers booked on the flight to Kolkata from Muscat said they had been informed by Bahwan Travels, the company that had booked the charter, that the flight had not been issued an NOC by the Bengal government. The news of the cancellations arrived hours after the travel trade industry wrote to home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, thanking the government for allowing international flights. Letters sent by Airlines Operators’ Committee (AOC) that represents all carriers operating in Kolkata and two travel agents’ forums — Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI) and Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) — also proposed rapid antigen test (RAT) for passengers flying into Kolkata to identify and isolate those who have Covid-19. RAT was suggested as a way forward to end the impassé on flights from Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad.The ban is in place till August 31. AOC, TAFI and TAAI have urged the government to allow flights while putting checks in place to detect passengers carrying the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/first-4-charter-flights-unlikely-to-take-off/articleshow/77513034.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Exodus of labourers hits dog sterilization project||Ludhiana: The stray dog sterilization project has come to a halt in the absence of labourers.The firm hired by the municipal corporation for the project is now arranging workers from other states. But as it is taking time, the work has taken a hit. The MC officials said workers had gone back home following the lockdown. “We will have to wait for another week for things to come on track. In the meanwhile, dogs that have been operated upon are being looked after,” they added.After lockdown, the stray dog sterilization work was started again ward-wise. Officials had said that after completing the project in one ward, they would move to the other.MC senior veterinary officer Dr Harbans Singh Dhalla said, “We had to stop catching dogs as labour is not available. Some of the workers left earlier and some are leaving now. In the absence of trained dog catchers, it is difficult to continue with the project. The firm will arrange workers by next week and then the work will resume on the double. The firm is handing a similar project in other cities like Bangalore and Indore. It plans to bring labourers from Indore. The civic body’s contract with the firm will end in December. For one dog, the MC pays it Rs 990. As the Animal Welfare Board of India has fixed Rs 1,400 per dog, the rate for dog sterilization will increase when a new firm is hired.Meanwhile, two buildings are being constructed near animal birth control centre to house dogs. While the MC is constructing one building, the other is being funded under Smart City mission. The MC’s building is nearly complete, but is yet to be handed over to veterinary officers. And the second building’s inside work is far from over. These buildings will help augment the animal birth control programme.As of now, less than 20 dogs are sterilized in a day. As the buildings get ready, the number will increase to at least 50.Officials said the buildings would be ready by year-end.This animal birth control programme was started with an aim to control growing population of stray dogs. Even as more than 40,000 canines have been sterilized to date since 2015, stray dog menace continues to hound Ludhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/exodus-of-labourers-hits-dog-sterilization-project/articleshow/77511690.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nashik||4,017 active cases across Aurangabad district||Aurangabad: With the addition of 108 new patients on Wednesday, the total number of Covid-19 cases across Aurangabad district has gone up to 17,412. According to a health official, 87 out of the 108 new cases were reported from the areas under the jurisdiction of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). “The number of active cases across the district stands at 4,017. These patients are being treated at different Covid treatment facilities across the district. So far, 12,833 patients have recovered from the contagion and got discharged,” he said. “The district has recorded 562 deaths including four that were reported at the Covid-19 treatment facility at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) here on Wednesday,” he added. The administration has pointed out that not only the congested city areas, but the rural areas have also registered a spike in the number of positive cases. On Wednesday, as many as 21 new cases were reported in the rural areas. “The four patients who died at GMCH included a 59-year-old woman from Khadkeshwar, a 62-year-old man from Shastrinagar (Sillod), a 55-year-old man from Ranjangaon Jaibhavan Chowk and a 70-year-old man from Padnapur in Jalna,” an official from the GMCH said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4017-active-cases-across-aurangabad-district/articleshow/77510555.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Bhopal||Govt to rejig district collectors, orders to come after I-Day||Bhopal: After transfer of senior IAS officers, the government would now change district collectors of over least 12 districts. The second administrative surgery would take place soon. Decisions on the names of new collectors are almost final and the orders are likely to be issued soon after Independence Day. On Monday, the state government reshuffled eight top IAS officers, including two additional chief secretary rank officials. In its nearly 150-day tenure, BJP government has changed around 20 district collectors, including the district collector of Bhopal and Indore. The by-elections, scheduled in 27 assembly segments of MP, would be a factor in deciding the district collectors, apart from performance of officers in tackling the corona crisis. The ministers would also have a say in collectors of their constituencies and districts. The cabinet expansion of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan-led government was held on July 2, and portfolios were allotted on July 13, but the ministers have not been made in-charge of the districts yet. Earlier, it was believed that district collectors would be changed after the ministers are made in-charge of the districts. Government sources pointed out that the process to allot districts to ministers and changing district collectors got delayed. There were also reports that the transfer file of IAS officers was sent to the chief minister when he was in hospital where he was being treated for Covid-19 infection. Apart from district collectors, the charge of a few secretary and deputy secretary rank officials in the secretariat would also be changed. Responsibility would also be changed of officials in boards and corporations. The government has not been aggressive in changing district collectors due to the corona crisis so far, though major changes were done at the secretariat level and mid-level changes were made in the field postings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-to-rejig-district-collectors-orders-to-come-after-i-day/articleshow/77513062.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nashik||ACB arrests talathi in Padegaon||Aurangabad: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Wednesday arrested a talathi for accepting a bribe of Rs 5,000 from an army jawan for issuing a 7/12 extract of a land the latter had bought in the name of his wife. After receiving the complaint, the ACB team — led by inspector Umesh Thite — waited for 22 days for laying the successful trap. “After arresting the talathi, Uday Kulkarni, we have also initiated a search at his house. We will present the talathi in court on Thursday, seeking his custody,” an ACB official said. Superintendent of police (ACB) Arvind Chawria said the army jawan was made to make several rounds of the talathi’s office on one or the other pretext, before the demand for the bribe was made. “Angered over being harassed for the sake of extracting bribe, the 38-year old jawan reached out to the ACB office and lodged a complaint,” he said. Accordingly, a team was sent for verification and the demand for money was confirmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/acb-arrests-talathi-in-padegaon/articleshow/77510604.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta University colleges reap benefits of past decision to shift to e-admission||KOLKATA: Over 150-year-old Calcutta University, which went into a tech-tonic shift a couple of years ago to prevent political interference in the admission process, is reaping dividends during the pandemic. With social distancing rules in place, gathering of any kind is prohibited to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus. As a result, the government has made it mandatory for all educational institutes to conduct admissions to undergraduate courses online so that students do not have to visit the individual institutes. Close to 160 colleges affiliated to CU had migrated to the online admission system two years ago, albeit some grudgingly, because some institutes could not conduct entrance exams because of the shift, while others felt it was an attempt to curtail their independence. But now that the online infrastructure is up and running, principals of various colleges seemed relieved that their institutes did not face any difficulty in conducting admissions, the procedure of which started on August 10. “In hindsight, it seems like a blessing that the colleges completely shifted to the online admission system. Students visited the colleges only after they secured admission,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, president of All Bengal Principals’ Council. “Had the institutes not shifted online, they would have faced with a huge task of going online now.” Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College principal Atashi Karpha said, “Even our staff are now trained in handling the online admission procedure. Candidates can access all information on the college’s website.” In 2017, the state government instructed colleges to move their admission procedure online after complaints poured in that unscrupulous union members extorted money from candidates, promising them seats in subjects of their choice. In 2018 and 2019, the entire process was shifted online.  The time and effort invested in migrating from offline to online was now proving beneficial. “There is a perception that CU is not too prompt in embracing technology, but it is one of the very few universities in the country, where every affiliated college is holding online admission. Even in other big cities, students had to visit institutes to get their testimonials verified even till last year,” said a university official associated with admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-colleges-reap-benefits-of-past-decision-to-shift-to-e-admission/articleshow/77513066.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Corona warriors will be honoured in low-key I-Day event||LUDHIANA: The district administration will honour corona warriors at the Independence Day event – which will be a low-key affair this year – in Guru Nanak Stadium. Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said, “A simple event will mark the Independence Day celebrations. There will only be salute by a contingent and no marchpast. The National Anthem will be sung and the National Flag will be hoisted after which the chief guest, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, will address the function.” “After that, the National Anthem will be sung again. The programme will conclude in 15 to 20 minutes. No cultural event will be organized and there will be no participation of children,” the DC added. The area where the function will be held will be sanitized and all participants will wear masks. Ludhiana police commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal said, “Normally, 11 to 20 platoons of cops participate in marchpast and guard of honour. But this year, only one platoon of 27 policemen will present the guard of honour. There will be no parade inspection by the chief guest. We will have a full-dress rehearsal for the function on Thursday.” Additional deputy commissioner (general) Amarjit Singh Bains said no awardees were being called for the event. Residents said the step was in keeping with the times. “Earlier, slew of functions would mark the celebrations. With marchpast, guard of honour and cultural programmes lined up for the day, there would be much enthusiasm among participants and visitors. However, in view of the present circumstances, the authorities have taken the right decision of keeping it simple,” said Narinder Singh, a resident of Pakhowal Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/corona-warriors-will-be-honoured-in-low-key-i-day-event/articleshow/77511758.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 13, 2020||Chennai||J Jayalalithaa's heirs to wait longer to argue Veda Nilayam case||CHENNAI: Former chief minister Jayalalithaa’s legal heirs – niece J Deepa and nephew J Deepak – have to wait for one more week to argue in the Madras high court the legality of Tamil Nadu government’s bid to take over their aunt’s Poes Garden house, as a division bench adjourned the hearing to next week. Since the plea moved by Deepak alone was listed for hearing along with the case in which they were declared as legal heirs, a division bench of Justice Vineet Kothari and Justice Krishnan Ramaswamy chose to wait till the other petition moved by Deepa is also tagged and listed. “We were informed that only the plea made by one of the legal heirs Deepak has been listed for hearing today and that the single judge has also referred another similar plea moved by the petitioner’s sister Deepa to the same bench. Therefore, we deem it appropriate to wait for a week so that Deepa’s plea is also tagged along,” the bench said. As to the request made by Deepak’s counsel S L Sidersanam to refer the matter to the bench headed by Justice N Kirubakaran which declared them as legal heirs, the court said, “We are hearing this matter as it has been posted before us as per the directions of the Chief Justice.” “But we will also try to ascertain whether this matters which has to be heard by a single judge requires hearing by a division bench as it would deny the parties the chance for an intra court appeal,” the bench added. Earlier, Deepak while relying on the order issued by the court directing them to form a public trust and allot some properties of the former chief minister for charity submitted that the ‘family’ has intentions to allot the Veda Nilayam for the purpose. Therefore, permitting the state to acquire the property would be detrimental to the orders passed by the high court, he argued. On July 16, Justice N Anand Venkatesh refused to hear the plea and referred the matter to the chief justice to be posted before an appropriate division bench.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jaya-heirs-to-wait-longer-to-argue-veda-nilayam-case/articleshow/77513092.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Angoda Lokka case: CB-CID gets 3-day custody of three accused||COIMBATORE: Chief judicial magistrate (in-charge) P Srikumar on Wednesday granted police custody of three people arrested in connection with the death of a man suspected to be Sri Lankan kingpin Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka for three days. The crime branch-CID had submitted a petition on Friday seeking custody of Amani Thanji, 27, from Colombo, Sivakami Sundari, 36, from Madurai and S Dyaneswaran, 32, of Erode, for seven days. They were arrested for hiding the identity of Lokka and fabricating documents to obtain an Aadhaar card for him in the name of Pradeep Sigh. Thanji, who was lodged in Chennai’s Puzhal prison, Dyaneswaran from the Perundari sub-jail and Sivakami from the Coimbatore Central Jail were produced before the court. Pointing out that police had recovered three hospital receipts from Lokka’s house and Rs 1.40 lakh from Dyaneswaran’s house, the prosecution sought police custody. The magistrate granted custody and directed CB-CID personnel to produce the accused before the court on August 15. The personnel took the trio to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for health check-up before taking them into custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-lokka-case-accused-in-cb-cid-custody/articleshow/77513081.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Bareilly||Strangled by wire trap, tigress dies painful death sans food, water for 10 days||Bareilly: For nearly 10 days, a tigress in the Dudhwa reserve had been trudging along with a nylon wire trap painfully enmeshed in her neck. She went without food or water all those days, dropping dead on the edge of the forest two days ago. Her autopsy report that came in on Wednesday said her stomach was empty, faecal sample hard and body dehydrated. “There were maggots in the wounds from the wire that cut into her neck,” Anil Patel, deputy director of the buffer areas of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, told TOI. “She had not eaten or had any water because of the wires.” Forest officials do not know how or where she was ensnared. Nylon wire traps are often set for wild boars, killed illegally by those living on the edges of the forest areas. “She seems to have freed herself of the trap but couldn’t get rid of the rope tied tightly around her neck,” Patel said. She wandered off to a village under the Jatpura beat of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve’s Mailani forest range. “The tigress was standing close to a villager who was busy cutting grass. Another farmer spotted her and was alarmed. But she could only make it a few steps ahead before she collapsed,” Patel said. Villagers informed forest officials and her autopsy was conducted on Tuesday night by a panel of three doctors from the forest range and the Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly. At the place where she was found, there was a flurry of activity. Metal detectors scanning the area to find evidence of poaching attempts, the principal chief conservators of forest for wildlife Sunil Pandey and eco-tourism Sanjay Srivastava inspecting the village. By Wednesday, an FIR had been registered against 12 Hardua villagers for poaching — those who had allegedly laid the trap. “Five have been arrested,” Patel said. Director of the reserve Sanjay Pathak said search is on for the rest of people “involved” in the tiger’s death. The state, which has a tiger population of 173, had lost four tigers this year. This one is the fifth. ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/strangled-by-wire-trap-tigress-dies-painful-death-sans-food-water-for-10-days/articleshow/77510606.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 13, 2020||Madurai||High court sets aside acquittal of three in granite quarrying case||Madurai: A single judge of the Madras high court on Wednesday set aside the order of the Melur judicial magistrate (JM) court acquitting three people in an illegal granite quarrying case in Madurai district. Justice B Pugalendhi remitted the case to Madurai principal sessions court, a special court constituted under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, to decide the matter. The judge said that attempts were made by representatives of PRP Exports and PRP Granites to intimidate the court to get away from a batch of cases related to illegal granite quarryingThe judge directed the collector to appear within two months before the trial court which would decide the case after hearing both sides, on its own merits and in accordance with law, within two months thereafter. The judge also expunged the observations made by the Melur JM against the then district collector Anshul Mishra, who was the complainant, and against the special public prosecutors.The court observed that the then collector had approved complaints against illegal granite quarrying against the firm on July 4, 2013. After collecting necessary documents, the special public prosecutor presented the complaints before JM court on July 18 2013. In between, on July 6, 2013, the collector was transferred and posted as joint commissioner of income tax. The judge observed that the JM while dismissing the complaints in 2016 on the ground that the complainant had not appeared for hearing for two years, had also made certain observations against the then collector as well as special public prosecutors that the complaints were filed ante-dated after his transfer and they have committed an offence.However, Justice B Pugalendhi observed that the collector acted diligently as per law but has been slapped with allegations of perjury without basis and driven to the extent of defending himself, by engaging a private counsel. Though he filed these complaints in his official capacity as a collector, it is unfortunate that even the state did not come to his rescue. The petitioner’s grievance is that certain wild allegations were made against him for having discharged his duty without hearing him. The judge said though there is no complicated legal issue involved in these cases, they had been pending for three years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/high-court-sets-aside-acquittal-of-three-in-granite-quarrying-case/articleshow/77514093.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for murdering son||Coimbatore: Police arrested a 65-year-old Annur resident on Wednesday for murdering his 39-year-old son.Police identified the deceased as V Palanisamy, who was working as a driver. “He was the eldest son of N Velusamy of Masagoundenchettipalayam. Palanisamy, a father of two, used to quarrel with his father under the influence of alcohol. He reached the home drunk on Tuesday evening and attacked Velusamy in front of their neighbours. A humiliated Velusamy left the house and returned around 1am with an axe, using which he killed Palanisamy,” a police officer said.The Annur police arrested Velusamy under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. He was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-murdering-son/articleshow/77513097.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Revised power tariff by end of August, but no public hearing||NEW DELHI: Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) is likely to revise power tariff in the capital by the end of August. However, there will be no public hearing before the revision due to Covid-19, though suggestions and objections from various stakeholders have been received between March 20 and June 30. DERC chairperson S S Chauhan said the order would hopefully come by the end of this month and would be available on the commission’s website, derc.gov.in. Last year, DERC announced the new power tariff in July and for the fifth consecutive year, there was no hike. According to a government source, a tariff hike is unlikely this year too. The announcement has always been preceded by a public hearing, which is attended not only by resident welfare associations but also representatives of discoms, industry bodies and traders. This is the first time that the tariff will be finalised without any public hearing. Saurabh Gandhi, secretary of United Residents of Delhi, an umbrella body of RWAs, said that despite the pandemic, the commission could have held a public hearing through other means. “There are many other procedures,” Gandhi said. The commission recently started case hearings through videoconferencing. “I have been actively taking part in these hearings since 2010 and apart from hearings, you can’t enter the office otherwise. As per the Electricity Act, the commission has the power to announce the tariff in the rarest of rare case but the process should be there,” he said. There are videoconferencing applications that allow up to 100 people to be present online in a conference at the same time, Gandhi pointed out. “Not more than 200 people attended these public hearings and it could have been done in separate slots or over two days.” “We wanted to raise the issue of fixed charges this time. We send suggestions and objections by email but that does not allow us to learn about different points raised by others,” Gandhi said.  For the lockdown period, various RWAs have demanded a waiver in the fixed charges levied on every bill based on the sanctioned load of a household. Due to the pandemic lockdown, the discoms have demanded over Rs 2,000 crore more than last year’s aggregate revenue requirement, which is the revenue required to meet the cost of the licensed business for a financial year and has to be allowed by DERC to be recovered through tariff and charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/revised-power-tariff-by-end-of-aug-but-no-public-hearing/articleshow/77513101.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Madurai||HC asks Theni JM to check if docus of Neet candidate submitted||Madurai: Madras high court on Wednesday directed the court registry to send a letter to the Theni judicial magistrate (JM) to ascertain as to whether any certificates pertaining to a Neet student, were produced before the JM court by the Theni district CB-CID officials.Justice R Pongiappan passed the order while hearing the plea moved by the student, who was involved in Neet impersonation, seeking to return his original certificates for him to pursue his college education in an arts and science college at Chennai.Earlier, during the course of hearing, the additional public prosecutor submitted that the investigation agency had not recovered any documents from the petitioner during the investigation. He further submitted that the dean of the Theni Government Medical College had produced the documents relating to the petitioner and the same were produced before the JM court.The case of the prosecution is that the petitioner, a resident of Chennai had obtained a medical seat in Theni Government Medical College in 2019. The petitioner, who was arrayed as first accused in the case was arrested and subsequently released on bail.The petitioner sought to return his Class X marksheet, Class XII marksheet, transfer and community certificates as he wanted to pursue an undergraduate course in Chennai.The case was adjourned to August 25 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-asks-theni-jm-to-check-if-docus-of-neet-candidate-submitted/articleshow/77514102.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Escaped murder accused nabbed||Coimbatore: Two days after a 30-year-old murder accused managed to escape from the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), where he was undergoing treatment for psychiatric problems, the city police nabbed him in the early morning hours of Wednesday. It was his second escape from police custody in less than a week that too from CMCH.A native of Balangir district in Odisha, N Hem Sagar Naik was arrested on April 12 for bludgeoning his friend Kamaldhar Sahu, 30, to death with a stone and hiding his body on April 8. After committing the crime, he had gone into hiding.A police officer said the two were staying in a garment company quarters in Palladam. Two days after the murder, the Palladam police recovered the decomposed body, which was eaten by stray dogs, near Kavundampalayam in their jurisdiction limits. Subsequently, Naik was arrested and lodged in the Coimbatore Central Prison.After Naik developed psychiatric problems, prison authorities admitted him to CMCH on August 3. Six days later (on August 9), he managed to escape from the psychiatric ward of the hospital. Doctors alerted the Race Course police, who launched a search and found him near Avinashi road flyover the same day.Naik was then booked under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), produced before a judicial magistrate and lodged in prison.On Sunday evening, he was again admitted to CMCH, from where he managed to escape in the early morning hours of Monday, the official said. “We formed three special teams to trace him. The teams visited his previous workplaces and met his friends. Based on a tip, we arrested him from one of the previous workplaces in the city in the early hours of Wednesday.”During the investigation, it was revealed that he had taken an auto to his hideout and obtained a few thousands of rupees from his brother in Odisha through Google Pay account of the auto driver. “He also changed hair style to hide his identity,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/escaped-murder-accused-nabbed/articleshow/77513106.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Death tally at 194 as 7 of district succumb to virus||LUDHIANA: Seven Ludhianvis, including three women, died of Covid-19 on Wednesday, when 243 patients from the district and 12 from outside tested positive here. The health department said a 47-year-old man of Sheikhupura, who had pulmonary problem; a 58-year-old man of Janta Nagar, who had diabetes and hypertension; a woman, 66, of Preet Nagar, Model Town, who suffered from diabetes, hypertension, depression and obesity; and a 65-year-old man of Rahon Road, who was a diabetic and heart patient died at city hospitals. The casualties at civil hospital, Ludhiana, included a 60-year-old man of Tandhari; a 70-year-old woman of Vishwakarma Chowk and a woman, 49, of Gurmail Road, who had diabetes and hypertension The department said the district toll tally now stood at 194 and that of outsiders at 48. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said till date 75,103 suspected cases have been tested for Covid-19 in Ludhiana. He added that of the pending reports received on the day, 141 were positive. Of them, 140 cases belonged to the district and one to Moga. Of the 114 positive reports received from private hospitals and a laboratory, 103 were from Ludhiana, two each from Moga, Jalandhar and Sangrur and one each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Fazilka and Haryana. The 243 positive patients of the district include 80 from flu corner who had influenza-like illness, 56 positive cases’ contacts, 25 from OPD, eight cops, nine healthcare workers, five domestic and international travelers, nine pregnant women, 49 though tracing process and two severe acute respiratory infection cases. With this, the case count of Ludhiana has climbed to 5,767 and 659 patients from outside the district have tested positive here so far. The civil surgeon said 1,017 samples were sent for testing on Wednesday. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 1,699 active cases. To date, 26,378 persons have been kept under home quarantine and the number of such persons was 5,104 at present. The number of recovered cases is 3,871.  “On Wednesday, 359 persons were sent for home quarantine,” the DC added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/death-tally-at-194-as-7-of-district-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/77511768.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Varanasi||UP CM Yogi Adityanath celebrates Janmashtami at Gorakhnath temple||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath offered Janmashtami prayers and celebrated Lord Krishna’s birth amid chant of Vedic hymns on Tuesday night at Gorakhnath temple. The Akhand Kirtan which started on Monday evening concluded on Tuesday. The entire temple campus was decorated with lights. A bhajan programme of popular singer Rakesh Srivastav started around 8pm and continued for half an hour after celebrations of Lord Krishna’s birth at midnight, said temple manager Dwarika Tiwari. At midnight, CM Yogi carried the idol of baby Krishna and rocked the cradle after placing new-born Lord Krishna (Nand Gopal) in it. Head pujari Kamalnath, head purohit Acharya Ramanuj Tripathi and temple manager Dwarika Tiwari also offered prayers to Lord Krishna and rocked the cradle. The singing of Krishna bhajans resumed after prayers and continued for half an hour. Bal Krishna Sajja competition was not organized this year due to Covid protocol curbs. On Wednesday morning, CM Yogi offered prayers and took blessings of Guru Gorakshnath, Mahant Digvijaynath and Mahant Avaidyanath and then served the cows and spent some time at the Gaushala in the temple campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-yogi-celebrates-janmashtami-at-gorakhnath-temple/articleshow/77510624.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nashik||Pandemic halts live kidney donation too||Aurangabad: The donation of kidneys from close family members to patients in need, known as live donation, has been also halted in Aurangabad due to the outbreak of Covid-19 The necessary process is routed through the dean of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), who heads the authorisation panel for such planned renal transplantation. GMCH dean Dr Kanan Yelikar said surgeons at large were not willing to carry out live kidney transplant due to risk associated with Covid outbreak. “The patients needing renal transplant can survive on dialysis process, also. Therefore, major private hospitals are not ready to take any risk currently,” she said. Yelikar said no proposal was pending before authorisation panel. Dr Sudhir Kulkarni , the president of ZTCC, Marathwada, said no case of live kidney donation was moved to authorisation panel at GMCH. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pandemic-halts-live-kidney-donation-too/articleshow/77510639.cms||Prasad Joshi
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||College gets Rs 14L to upgrade laboratory||Coimbatore: The All India Council of Technical Education has granted Rs 14 lakh to the Hindusthan Institute of Technology to upgrade its aeronautical engineering lab under the modernization and removal of obsolescence scheme.K P Dhanabalakrishnan, head, department of aeronautical engineering, Hindusthan Institute of Technology, said they have been sanctioned the fund to purchase a flight simulator, which would give hands-on experience on what goes on in the cockpit of an aircraft and help students understand its fundamentals.“It would help enhance skill sets of students in cockpit management, decision making during critical manoeuvres and major malfunction of engine and other systems,” he said. According to him, they had applied for the grant in December 2019.Last academic year, the department had got Rs 11 lakh under the same scheme to purchase and install a supersonic wind tunnel, which would help study pressure distributions in various conditions, said C Natarajan, college principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/college-gets-rs-14l-to-upgrade-laboratory/articleshow/77513117.cms||---
August 13, 2020||India||With 47,000+ deaths, India at No. 4 on Covid toll tally||NEW DELHI: India overtook Britain on Wednesday to emerge as the country with the fourth-highest number of Covid fatalities in the world. With the second-highest single-day tally of 934 fresh deaths recorded on Wednesday, the total number of casualties crossed the 47,000-mark to 47,065. India has climbed to the number four position — behind US, Brazil and Mexico — 13 days after it overtook Italy to emerge as the fifth worst-affected country in terms of total Covid casualties. Britain’s casualties, according to worldometer, as on Wednesday night India time stood at 46,706. However, India’s case fatality rate of 2 is much lower than that of the other countries, particularly the UK which has the highest CFR of 14.9. Similarly, India’s deaths per million stand at 34, which is much lower than the figure of other countries, which is in the range of 400 to 700. At 688, the UK has the highest deaths per million, followed by the US where the figure stands at 508. Of the total 47,065 fatalities, 10,551 or 22% were recorded in August alone, highlighting the rapid increase in daily death figures in the last few days. India also registered its second highest single-day peak at 64,610 fresh cases, taking the country’s caseload to 23,91,650. The record daily peak was registered on August 8 with 65,410 fresh cases. On the positive side, 16,90,097 people have recovered from the virus. Maharashtra reported its single highest daily cases and deaths at 12,712 and 344, respectively. The state’s caseload reached 5,48,313 while the cumulative toll is 18,650. The state also registered the highest number of discharges in a single day at 13,408. Total discharges in Mumbai have crossed the one-lakh mark. Tamil Nadu added 119 deaths and 5,871 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative toll to 5,278 and the case tally to 3,14,520. Another state to register deaths in triple digits was Karnataka, where 113 people died, taking the state’s cumulative toll past the 3,500-mark to 3,510. Karnataka also recorded its highest single-day peak with 7,883 people testing positive. Odisha with 1,876 fresh cases and Puducherry with 481 also recorded their single-day peaks. Another southern state to record high casualties on Wednesday was Andhra Pradesh, where 93 people died, taking the state’s toll to 2,296. As many as 9,597 patients tested positive for the virus. Even though the daily fresh cases have come down below the 10,000-mark in the last three days, the number of deaths continues to be on the higher side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-47000-deaths-india-at-no-4-on-covid-toll-tally/articleshow/77515157.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Part-time BE, BTech courses now open for unemployed diploma holders too||Coimbatore: Part-time BE and BTech courses would be offered for unemployed diploma holders from this year. Until last year, the 3.5-year degree programme was offered only for working diploma holders, said representatives of Coimbatore Institute of Technology (CIT), which is the secretarial centre for the part-time BE/BTech admissions.However, to be eligible, the candidates must possess at least two-year work experience and an engineering diploma in the same branch that they are applying for the part-time course.S Elango, associate professor, CIT, said they had requested the state to open the programme for unemployed diploma holders in view of the pandemic situation and the higher education department had given its consent for the same. He is also the coordinator for the part-time BE/BTech admissions. “The candidates should have obtained diplomas in engineering from polytechnic colleges under the department of technical education. There is no age limit for the part-time courses. They could either be working now or should have at least two years’ work experience.”While the All India Council of Technical Education regulations say the candidates must be working at a company within 120km of the college, it would not be applicable for now and they could apply in any college, Elango said.Part-time courses are offered at nine government and aided engineering colleges in the state - Government College of Technology, PSG College of Technolog, and Coimbatore Institute of Technology in Coimbatore; Government College of Engineering in Salem; Government College of Engineering in Tirunelveli; Alagappa Chettiar Government College of Engineering and Technology in Karaikudi; Thanthai Periyar Government Institute of Technology in Vellore; Government College of Engineering in Bargur; and Thiagarajar College of Engineering in Madurai.This year, the admissions and counselling for the 1,465 seats across the nine colleges would be held online, said Elango. “Last year, only 35% of the seats were filled. This year, with the relaxation on the employment criteria, we hope to see more candidates.”V Selladurai, CIT principal, said part-time candidates would have to undergo theory and practical sessions just like regular engineering candidates. “This would help them explore better career prospects or promotions in their existing jobs.”The online application process was activated on Monday. One could log on to www.ptbe-tnea.com for the same. The last date for applying is August 30. The application status would be published on September 10, and ranking would be announced on September 17. The online counselling would be held from September 19 for special reservation and teacher quota, and from September 23 to October 9, for general category. For details, call 94869 77757, 422-2574071 and 422-2574072. Extn: 460. Streams that are available under the part-time BE/BTech courses are civil, mechanical, textile, electrical & electronics, electronics & communication and computer science engineering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/part-time-be-btech-courses-now-open-for-unemployed-diploma-holders-too/articleshow/77513126.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Madurai||Anti-poaching watcher trampled to death by elephant in Tenkasi||Tenkasi: Anti-poaching watcher Muthuraj from Courtallam forest range was trampled to death by an elephant on Wednesday.Muthuraj was part of a forest team involved in chasing an elephant, which has been wandering in agricultural land located adjacent to forest area for the past one week. Based on complaints from villagers, a team was swung into action to drive the pachyderm back into the forest area. While the team returned from the day’s work on Wednesday, Muthuraj did not. A team went searching for him found him dead near Five Falls at around 7pm. A forest team is camping at the spot in order to retrieve the dead body. However, with the elephant was still wandering in the locality, the team is waiting for an opportunity, forest officials said. Muthuraj is a native of Nannagaram near Tenkasi. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/anti-poaching-watcher-trampled-to-death-by-elephant-in-tenkasi/articleshow/77514116.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: IRS officer turns ‘pad woman’ amid corona crisis||NEW DELHI: An IRS officer, Aman Preet, turned into a “pad woman” for about 10 lakh women from 17 states of the country who had no access to sanitary pads during the lockdown. With neighbourhood shops closed, many girls and women found it difficult to buy the pads. Aman Preet relentlessly worked towards improving the standard of sanitation for the women and reached out to them with the help of various social organisations, NGOs and good Samaritans. Working in Delhi as a joint commissioner of income tax, the 2010-batch officer earlier found out that almost 50 per cent of the women were not using sanitary pads. With the support of her batchmates, friends and Sangini Saheli trust, she was subsequently able to distribute around 12 lakh sanitary pads across India. “Taking care of personal and menstrual hygiene is a key factor in the fight against the novel coronavirus,” says Aman Preet who was born and brought up in Ludhiana, Punjab. Aman Preet has also been an integral part of the Covid response team constituted by Income Tax officers to help the needy department staff and persons related to them in case of medical and other emergencies. Read this story in Bengali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/irs-officer-turns-pad-woman-amid-corona-crisis/articleshow/77513130.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Pune||75% of PMR’s home isolation Covid cases from PMC limits||PUNE: As many as 75% of the home-quarantined Covid-19 patients in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) are in the Pune municipal limits, district health office data has revealed. There are 9,456 patients in home quarantine in PMR, of whom 7,117 are in the Pune municipal limits, followed by 1,763 cases in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits. “The PMC has been allowing asymptomatic patients to opt for home isolation as per the guidelines of the Union government and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The health department staffers keep in touch with the patients and take their regular follow ups. If they develop any symptoms, they are shifted to hospitals,” Sanjeev Wavare, a senior official of PMC’s health department, said. He said the majority of those opting for home quarantine were living in housing societies. Home isolation requests from the residents of densely populated areas and slums are less. But if any patient from these locations fulfils the requirements for isolation like separate room and toilet, PMC can consider these requests as well, Wavare said. Medical experts too said more patients were being allowed home care in PMC areas as the caseload in the municipal limits was way more than that on other areas, including PCMC limits. “Besides, cases were earlier concentrated in the dense areas like Peths and slums, which is not the case any more. This allowed people to opt for home case as they have the separate room as well as toilet and bathroom at home,”a medical expert said. PCMC additional commissioner Santosh Patil told TOI, “The actual number of active patients opting for home isolation is higher, but it is yet to be updated. The data could be showing around 1,763 patients. But, as per our knowledge, around 3,500 active patients have availed the facility.” He said they had set up a central call centre to keep a tab on the health parameters of the patients in home isolation. Less than 1% of the total patients, who opted for home isolation, had to be shifted to the medical facilities due to health issues. However, most of the patients did not develop any symptoms during their isolation period and recovered successfully. The number of such recovered patients is around 7,500, Patil added. As for total cases, the tally has crossed 1.15 lakh-mark in the PMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/75-of-pmrs-home-isolation-covid-cases-from-pmc-limits/articleshow/77514113.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Schools tighten tech watch as mid-term exams start||KOLKATA: As mid-term exams start at city schools, institutes, such as The Heritage School, Julien Day Group of Schools, Birla Bharati School and The Newtown School, are coming up with secure browser technology, remote proctoring and own software to conduct online exams as well as to keep an eye on students. Birla Bharati School is uploading question papers on Google Classroom and students are writing tests on Zoom. The kids have to sit in front of cameras so that teachers can keep a watch and also, the individual device’s audio has to be kept on so that any prompting by parents is audible. Multiple teachers are being assigned for invigilation. “After writing tests, students are uploading answer scripts on the platform. We give 45 minutes for reading and writing. Question papers are typed on a word document and converted to PDF so that it can’t be copied or changed ,” said Birla Bharati School principal Apala Datta. TimesViewThe system, and the stakeholders (institution managements, teachers and students), will have to get used to the new normal. The first set of examinations will be critical in setting out the path for the immediate future.At The Newtown School, founder-director Sunil Agarwal said the institute was holding exams on a proctored platform. “It’s a technology under which one can have access to camera and device. Images are captured at frequent interval and can be analysed later. Also, examinees can’t open multiple windows as page shifts are recorded. The exams are held on a dedicated portal,” he said. The Heritage School principal Seema Sapru said they had finished the exams by August 10. “The tests were divided into different formats. We didn’t want children to appear for a lengthy test to avoid connectivity issues. Some papers were subjective and some were objective. The exams were separated by short breaks. Also, once the answers were written, they were auto-corrected and the evaluation was done immediately,” Sapru said. She added two invigilators were assigned for every 15 kids and that they remote proctored. “We trust students. The laptops used by the kids are fitted with cameras. They move them around to show there is no book or anyone else in the room. Some parents also volunteered to proctor the tests,” she said. For all four Julien Day Schools in Ganganagar, Kalyani, Howrah and Kolkata, Ganganagar principal Bobby Baxter said, “An app has been developed where an exam module has been built for MCQ exams. The subjective module is being developed. Students have to download the app for exams. If a kid tries to open another page or website, it can detected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-tighten-tech-watch-as-mid-term-exams-start/articleshow/77513127.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP: DMK, Left doing injustice to TN students||Coimbatore: BJP state vice-president P Kanagasabapathy has slammed the opposition parties in Tamil Nadu for posing a hurdle for the Centre’s new education policy.“The DMK and left parties are doing a great injustice to the children of Tamil Nadu by opposing the three-language formula proposed in the new education policy,” he told reporters at Pollachi on Wednesday. When pointed out that the ruling AIADMK had also opposed the three-language formula, Kanagasabapathy defended saying the state government was yet to take a final call and has formed a panel to study new education policy, before deciding on it.Kanagasabapathy alleged that Samacheer Kalvi implemented in Tamil Nadu was dragging the state backwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-dmk-left-doing-injustice-to-tn-students/articleshow/77513129.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Fire in CMCH ward triggers panic, no injuries reported||Coimbatore: A minor fire broke out near the influenza-like illness ward at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) around 11.40am on Wednesday, spreading panic among a few patients and their attenders, who ran out of their wards. CMCH authorities said no one was injured in the incident. The fire, which is suspected to have occurred due to short circuit, soon spread to the garbage outside the ward. However, CMCH staff managed to put out the fire in a few minutes themselves with fire extinguishers. The fire and rescue service personnel, meanwhile, brought the smoke under control and prevented it from enveloping the neighbourhood.CMCH resident medical officer Dr Ponmudi Sivan said, “Since the fire occurred in a small passage between the influenza-like illness ward and the old intensive care unit, patients were not affected.”A fire officer said they managed to bring the smoke under control in 15 minutes. “The reason for the fire is being investigated.”Fire services personnel and the hospital authorities suspect that the fire might have been triggered by high voltage. “The cables were in contact with some dry garbage bags. When high voltage passed through the cable, it could have led to a spark, which caused fire.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fire-in-cmch-ward-triggers-panic-no-injuries-reported/articleshow/77513131.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||23 test +ve for virus in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris logged 23 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the count to 990, of which 134 are active cases. At least four patients recovered and were discharged in the day, taking the total number of recovered patients to 853. The recovery rate in the district now stands at 86%.At least 21 new cases were contacts of earlier patients with travel history to Coimbatore, Mettupalayam, Madurai and Theni.Of the remaining two, one was an 81-year-old man from Namakkal who visited the Nilgiris. According to health officials, the case will be cross-notified to Namakkal district. The last one is a 52-year-old woman from Denadu village. She is a contact of a patent who is linked to T.Oranalli wedding cluster. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/23-test-ve-for-virus-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77513133.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Pune||Pune Knowledge Cluster to take up projects on ecology, health in region gets underway||PUNE: The Pune Knowledge Cluster (PKC) will embark on several centrally funded projects that will be milestone-based to help mitigate problems in Pune city and the region. This is among the first city-wide clusters approved on August 5 by the office of the principal scientific advisor to the Union government. Similar clusters for Hyderabad and Jodhpur were approved . The projects will have a turnaround deadline of three years, but there will be six-monthly and yearly reviews to assess their progress. The goal is to connect organisations with a high-level of expertise in diverse domains such as science and technology, innovation and entrepreneurship, in and around Pune. These include universities and colleges, research laboratories and national and state-level research and development establishments in Pune, and the leading industries based here. Some areas that several leading institutions in Pune will collaborate on include environment management, health, electric mobility, among others. Plans are to create a water grid for Pune. Similarly, there are plans to create an epidemiological database of Maharashtra to respond to Covid-19 like pandemic challenges. “There will be newness in approach and focus,” Ajit Kembhavi, principal investigator of PKC, said. The focus will be on short- and long-term innovative projects, development of policy framework and vision. “Some projects will be to better reflect the local ecology. For example,Pune has a lot of trees, almost one every person but there is need to improve quality. There is need to focus on native trees,” L S Sashidhara, co-principal investigator, PKC, said. IUCAA has been designated to facilitate the project, and the funding will be dealt with by the office of the its director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/knowledge-cluster-to-take-up-projects-on-ecology-health-in-region-gets-underway/articleshow/77514124.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||Medical students from West Bengal in Russia excited over ‘Sputnik V’ registration||KOLKATA: Students from Bengal, who had gone to study medicine in Moscow, are ecstatic after the news of Russia registering the world’s first virus vaccine, ‘Sputnik V’, hit headlines, albeit scepticism about the vaccine among many scientists. The students had returned to Kolkata on June 28 on a flight from Moscow that was part of the Vande Bharat Mission. In 2017, Bongoan’s Arnab Biswas had been admitted to Perm State Medical University. “My university is in Perm, around 1,479-km from Moscow. In our university, those interested in vaccine trials could register. I had also volunteered. As I came back to India, I couldn’t take part in it. I wish I was there now,” said Biswas. The 22-year-old has been in touch with his friends in Moscow. “In my university, I have heard that all doctors, teachers and volunteers of the nine hospitals will be given the vaccine from August 15. When China had reported the Covid cases, there wasn’t a single case in Russia for a month. The research for medicines had already started. In fact, when we had left for India, the first stage trial of the vaccine had been under-way. This is the day we were all waiting for. I hope Indians, too, get access to this vaccine,” he added. West Midnapur’s Akhilendu Karak, who had tweeted actor-politician Dev, asking him to facilitate their return to India, is thrilled with the news. An MBBS student at the Tver State Medical University in Moscow, Karak had kept track of the news regarding the vaccine even after returning home. “The probability of Russia registering a vaccine has been in the news for some months now. At this stage, it is very important for people to boost the immunity. This kind of a news is like a ray of hope. It will definitely make people optimistic. That, I’m sure, also helps in improving immunity.” Garden Reach resident Sanjukta Mitra, who is Karak’s classmate in Moscow, said, “Even if we leave India before the vaccine reaches here, we are assured that we can go to Moscow and get vaccinated. Though some people have been questioning the speed, at which the vaccine has been registered, I would ask them to be less sceptical. Scientists involved in this job will not be that irresponsible and are not doing this to harm people. Besides, one of the president Vladimir Putin’s daughters too has been inoculated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/med-students-from-bengal-in-russia-excited-over-sputnik-v-registration/articleshow/77513135.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||2 Covid deaths in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: Two Covid deaths were reported in the district on Wednesday. A 58-year-old man from Ambika Nagar in Darwha (tehsil HQ), and a 49-year-old man from Matha village in Kalamb tehsil died on August 12. This took the Covid toll of Yavatmal to 53. Including two deceased, 71 persons tested positive taking the total number of cases in district to 1,960. With 31 patients discharged on Wednesday, total 1,281 patients have recovered till date. Yavatmal has 626 patients under treatment at present. Yavatmal has conducted 30,662 tests till date, of which 921 reports are still pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/2-covid-deaths-in-yavatmal/articleshow/77514122.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kanpur||Jailed wife of slain lieutenant of Vikas Dubey is juvenile: Father||Kanpur: The jailed wife of a slain lieutenant of Vikas Dubey, who was booked under stringent IPC sections, including murder and criminal conspiracy is a juvenile, claimed her family in an affidavit before a special court in Kanpur Dehat. The woman, Khushi, who is behind bars for over a month, was married to gangster Vikas Dubey’s aide, Amar, just three days before the Bikru bloodbath. Amar was shot by UP Police in an encounter in Hamirpur, days before Vikas surrendered in Mahakal temple, Ujjain, reports Faiz.Siddiqui. On Wednesday, Khushi’s father Shyam Lal Tiwari submitted an affidavit before the special anti-dacoity court at Mati headquarters in Kanpur Dehat, pleading that Khushi be tried as a juvenile. Her lawyer, Shivakant Dikshit, told media persons that “Khushi’s age was 16 years and 11 months on the day of the Bikru incident. Her high school certificate has been enclosed in the affidavit, which shows she was born on August 21, 2003.” Khushi’s father alleged police implicated his minor daughter in the Bikru case. “She is not an adult and not mature enough to engineer an ambush with the gangster and his aides. We suspect police implicated her and even if my daughter committed a crime, police should treat her as juvenile and let the court decide,” he said. Khushi was married against the wishes of her father on June 29, three days before the Bikru carnage and was widowed just 9 days after her wedding. The family also alleged Khushi was innocent and had nothing to do with the Bikru ambush that left eight policemen dead. Government counsel Rajiv Porwal said, the judge sent Khushi’s file to the Juvenile Justice Board to ascertain her age. She was thrown behind bars on July 8, the day her husband, Amar Dubey, was shot by the Special Task Force. Amar was trying to flee to Madhya Pradesh, when he was intercepted by STF and killed. Two policemen also suffered gunshot wounds in the encounter. Congress leader Jitin Prasada had then tweeted — Khushi probably had no choice being married off to Amar and continues to suffer as a widow and facing police harassment. Get Vikas Dubey alive and expose the links and the rot in the system from top to bottom and justice prevails.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jailed-wife-of-slain-lieutenant-of-vikas-dubey-is-juvenile-father/articleshow/77514120.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 13, 2020||Madurai||Smallscale mobile phone retailers in a fix as bigger players hijack biz||Madurai: Though there is high demand for budget phones under Rs 10,000 in the wake of the pandemic, small-scale retailers are not able to cash in on the opportunity instead face shutdown as bigger players in the field pump in money and purchase them at higher price. At least 30 retailers have shut shops in the last couple of months, and many are under stress in Madurai city, said the mobile phone traders’ association.The number of budget phones available in the market is limited, but they are mostly purchased in bulk by bigger chain stores and traders, leaving small-scale retailers high and dry. Phones in the range of 10,000 to 30,000 are widely available but small-scale retailers do not have money to invest on them.Traders said that as budget phones have become scarce, big traders pump in money and purchase them at higher price. While phones are sold less than the MRP, now they are selling at higher price than MRP, they said.At a time when there is good number of inquiries from parents for the budget phones, traders could not capitalize on it. The phone is in high demand with schools continue online classes.A Sudarsan, a resident of Iravathanallur, said that although all varieties of phones are available online, he prefers to purchase from stores since he is not used to online shopping. Moreover, he does not know much on the specifications of phones to choose the right one, he said.A retailer from Anna Nagar, who recently shut his mobile phone shop said, “We kept our shop closed for four months due to lockdown. There was no income, but we had to pay the rent. I do not have much money to invest now. Even if I can arrange some payment, phones are not available at reasonable price to run the business,” he said.There are 280 small-scale phone retailers in the city and 200 more mobile phone recharge centres, who would not stock more than 10 to 20 phones.President of Madurai Mobile Traders Association S Jothi Basu said that many traders are now on the verge of leaving out of business. Only those, who can pump in money, can sustain. The association spoke to landlords in bringing down rents and saved a few traders from closing down shops, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/smallscale-mobile-phone-retailers-in-a-fix-as-bigger-players-hijack-biz/articleshow/77514121.cms||V Devanathan
August 13, 2020||Varanasi||Set up new 300-bed Covid hospital in Gorakhpur: Yogi||Gorakhpur: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath instructed officials in Gorakhpur to prepare a new 300-bed Covid hospital by August 30 at any cost. Yogi also directed officials to set up Covid hospitals in Maharajganj, Kushinagar and Deoria. CM Yogi visited BRD medical college and inspected the under construction 500-bed children hospital and treatment facilities for corona patients. Talking to reporters, CM Yogi said, “At present, more than 1.51 lakh beds are available for corona patients in the state. The patients without any symptoms are being allowed home quarantine. But if separate room and washroom are not available at home, patients should go to Covid hospital.” “Patients from many districts of East UP, Terai areas of Nepal, west Bihar come to Gorakhpur for treatment and so I have instructed officials to make a new 300 Covid-19 hospital at the children hospital in BRD Medical College,” he added. “I have given instructions to provide ventilators and all facilities and equipment at 100-bed TB hospital,” CM said. “Life of every citizen is important for the government and we’ll take all steps to save people. There is no shortage of facilities and medicines for treatment in the state. Under the guidance of PM Modi, the country has handled the Covid-19 pandemic challenge very effectively,” Yogi added. At present, 70,000 teams are making door to door surveys in the state to trace corona patients and more than one lakh swab samples are being tested daily. Due to huge number of tests, it is becoming easier to identify more corona patients, the CM said. Yogi instructed officials to also focus on training of health workers and paramedics in handling corona patients and protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/set-up-new-300-bed-covid-hospital-in-gorakhpur-yogi/articleshow/77510655.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Spend more DPDC funds in rural areas’||Aurangabad: BJP MLA from Gangapur Prashant Bamb has asked the guardian minister to spend most of the district planning development committee (DPDC) funds in rural areas. “Around 20% of the funds should be reserved for the fight against Covid-19 and the remaining amount should be spent on other civic activities,” Bamb said. In a representation sent to Desai, who is also the chairman of the DPDC, Bamb has pointed out that recently the civic body declared its annual budget layout of Rs 1,000 crore of which only Rs 6 crore was earmarked for the fight against the Covid-19. “The civic body should have made a Rs 200 crore provision for the fight against the contagion, instead it has earmarked Rs 6 crore. Since the rural population, mainly farmers, are engaged in farming activities, the administration should spend more in these areas. Initially, the pandemic was seen to be a city-centric phenomenon, but it has sneaked into the rural parts,” he said. “As the local self governments in the district were not l equipped enough to fight Covid-19, the authorities should focus in these areas and make the civic body increase provision for the fight,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/spend-more-dpdc-funds-in-rural-areas/articleshow/77510657.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Plea against reducing import duty on tea||Udhagamandalam: The United Planters’ Association of South India (UPASI) has made a request to the Union government that there should be no tweaking with the import duty of tea, which currently stands at 100%.Any move to reduce the import duty will be detrimental to the interests of tea growers and workers dependent on the agro industry, which is also a question of livelihood of the tea growers and workers, UPASI said in a press release.The statement was issued in the backdrop of reports that tea traders in the country have sought duty free import of tea, in the context of marginal increase in tea prices due to lower production.A L R M Nagappan, president, UPASI, said, “We strongly object any move to tinker with the import duty structure as it will be counter-productive for the tea growing sector with 2.12 lakh growers and 11.65 lakh workers”. According to the release, 50% of tea production in the country is by small growers. The Indian tea production till June was lower mainly due to the initial lock down measures. This has led to some increase in the prices since mid-June 2020, which was very much needed for the sustenance of this agro industry. However, due to the pandemic, exports from India i[Jan-May] and this quantity is available in the domestic market.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/plea-against-reducing-import-duty-on-tea/articleshow/77513137.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
August 13, 2020||Varanasi||Police action causes loss of over Rs 100cr for Mukhtar Ansari gang||Varanasi: The action initiated by police against jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari, especially since May 31, has resulted in the loss of over Rs 100 crore for him and his henchmen so far. It has not only caused dent to his economic empire but has also hit his armoury badly with over 70 arms surrendered following suspension or cancellation of arm licences. Talking to TOI on Tuesday, ADG Varanasi zone Brij Bhushan said, “The police is continuing is action against all organised gangs and gangsters but most of the men who came on its radar, especially in Mau, Ghazipur, Varanasi, Azamgarh and Jaunpur districts, had their links with Mukhtar.” After investigating and confirming that the wealth generated by Mukhtar’s henchmen have been generated through illegal activities, he said, police started initiating the process of confiscation under Gangster Act. Bushan said, the value of the properties of Mukhtar’s henchmen seized, government land freed from their possessions and constructions demolished was Rs 66 crore. The illegal sources of earning like extortion in the name of taxi stands, operating slaughter houses, monopoly in fish, coal and other trades was generating an income of Rs 41 crore per annum for this gang. Police have successfully hit all these sources of income, he added. Other major action had been taken in the cases of arms licences procured with false information, he said adding that 72 arms licences of Mukhtar’s close aides were cancelled or suspended while 71 arms have been surrendered so far. The series of major action against Mukhtar’s henchmen was started by Mau police in June when the police targeted the people strengthening Mukhtar’s economic empire by extorting money in the name of taxi stands and operating illegal slaughter house. After it, Mukhtar’s accomplices involved in illegal trade of fish started coming on the target of police in Mau, Varanasi and Jaunpur. According to SP Mau Anurag Arya, only in a period of a month (May 31 till June end) five FIRs were lodged against Mukhtar backed gangs in which 45 persons were active in the illegal trades like of fish, mining and extortion. Varanasi administration and police gave a shock to the fish trade mafia Mohd Salim, who maintained monopoly with Mukhtars patronage for past two decades and also sold banned species of Thai Mangur fearlessly. Similar action was initiated by Jaunpur police against fish trade mafia. All these Mukhtar back fish trade mafia extorted money from all trader on the sale of per kg of fish, said police. Officials at Mukhtars home turf in Ghazipur also kept noose tightening on the relatives and henchmen of Mukhtar, who is currently lodged Ropar jail in Punjab, in past two months. During their action illegally captured land and other properties of Rs 39.83 crores have been freed from the possession of Mukhtars close associates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/police-action-causes-loss-of-over-rs-100cr-for-mukhtar-ansari-gang/articleshow/77510683.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||Rabindranath Tagore, Mahatma Gandhi on Google e-show||KOLKATA: Google Arts and Culture will put up a virtual exhibition for the world to know some lesser known facets of the Indian freedom struggle two days before Independence Day. The exhibition that will go live at 10am on Thursday has a large section on Rabindranath Tagore, his brand of nationalism and the journey of Bharata Bhagya Vidhaata that was penned in 1905 and became the National Anthem in 1950. Victoria Memorial Hall has curated the rare and little known details about Tagore for the exhibition with the help of manuscripts and paintings from its reserves. The manuscripts of Geetashtak — a collection of eight songs that Tagore had written during his stay in Nuremberg and Munich in September 1926 — will show how these were originally written as poems and not songs. Amar Mukti Ganer Sure Ei Akashe was later revised to Amar Mukti Aloy Aloy Ei Akashe. Tagore’s letters to musicologist and musician Dilip Kumar Roy in 1924, where he shared his views on music and literature, will also be part of the show Bharata Bhagya Vidhata, the five stanza Bengali song originally written for Tattwabodhini Patrika, was sung publicly for the first time by Tagore himself at the 1911 session of the Indian National Congress. The first stanza became the National Anthem after Independence. Tagore had earlier translated it into English in 1919 and called it the ‘Morning Song of India’. Tagore’s grand nephew and musician Dinendranath helped him conceive the tune based on raga Alhaiya Bilawal, though Tagore is himself credited for it. Much later, the Hamburg Radio Symphony Orchestra created a harmonised score in 1942. Gandhi and Indian classical vocalists and musicians who shaped the freedom struggle in their unique ways will also be featured in the exhibition. Making of the Mahatma has been curated by the Museum of Art and Photography, Bangalore and will trace Gandhi’s life and Swadeshi through rare photographs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tagore-gandhi-on-google-e-show/articleshow/77513143.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 13, 2020||Madurai||Man, 40, who conned farmer and looted gold jewellery, held||Madurai: A 40-year-old man was arrested by the Natham police in Dindigul district on Wednesday for cheating a farmer of 10 sovereigns of gold jewellery after luring him with the promise of doubling the jewellery. Kumaresan from Malampatti in Trichy approached Malaisamy, 45, from Karaiyur near Natham two months ago. He introduced himself as a wizard and claimed that he has several magical powers. He claimed that he knew mantras to double gold jewellery in a month’s time. Lured by his claim, Malaisamy requested him to double his jewellery weighing 10 sovereigns. One month ago, Kumaresan went to Malaisamy’s house. After doing some puja, he chooses a place next to his house, where the jewellery was buried. He asked the farmer not to disturb the place for one month time. After one month, he can claim the jewellery, which would have doubled by the time. Malaisamy checked the place a few days back and was shocked to find the jewellery missing. He immediately approached the Natham police. A team traced the accused and arrested him. The jewellery was recovered from him. A detailed inquiry was carried out with Kumaresan to check whether he has cheated others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-40-who-conned-farmer-and-looted-gold-jewellery-held/articleshow/77514125.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Greenhouses await families affected by rain in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Families that are affected by the recent heavy rain in Kundha taluk in the Nilgiris will be relocated and provided with greenhouses as directed by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, said the district administration on Wednesday.Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “Affected families living in vulnerable areas will be relocated as per the CM’s recent orders. We are in the process of assessing the damage and the number of families that are eligible for greenhouses, and finalizing the location for relocating them.” After the final assessment, she said, a proposal would be sent to the government for sanction. “Greenhouses will be built within this financial year itself.”She said presently 1,253 people were housed in 15 relief camps that are spread across the four taluks in the district. “We are providing them zinc and vitamin tablets and face masks to help them keep Covid-19 at bay.”Pointing out that 30 houses were damaged partially in the rain at Indra Nagar near Belithala village in Kundha taluk, another district administration official said they had provided those families a compensation of Rs4,200 each. Meanwhile, the Nilgiris recorded an average rainfall of 25.45mm during the 24 hours that ended at 7am on Wednesday. Pandalur received 112mm rainfall, Devala 83mm, Avalanchi 75mm and Padanthorai 80mm.The collector said 120 state disaster response force personnel and another 42 national disaster response force personnel were stationed in the Nilgiris to meet any eventuality, as more rain is expected to lash the hill retreat in the coming days.According to her, at least 160 Tamil Nadu Electricity Board workers, 42 of them from Kodaikanal, are engaged in restoring electrical connections across the district.On Wednesday, Divya inspected the affected areas of Iruvayal, Rainbow Colony, Puliampara and Kozhikolli in Gudalur taluk, and a relief camp at Puliampara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/greenhouses-await-families-affected-by-rain-in-nilgiris/articleshow/77513142.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Madurai||Gram sabhas must be held on August 15, says NGO||Madurai: The government should take steps to conduct gram sabhas in villages on Independence Day this year without fail, or else it would affect the development of the villages and wastage of Rs 1.7 lakh crore funds allocated by the Centre, for the revival of livelihood in villages, an NGO, lawyers fraternity of Tamil Nadu has said. In a statement, coordinator of the fraternity, Santhanam said that special gram sabhas are held on January 26 (Republic Day), on May 1 (May Day), August 15 (Independence Day) and October 2 (Gandhi Jayanthi), every year. This year, it was conducted on January 26, but not in May due to the lockdown. But, it is a must that the gram sabhas are convened on August 15, to help people to discuss the economic loss that they have incurred due to the lockdown. People have been affected due to lack of markets for their agricultural produce, developmental activities in villages have been affected and solutions to these problems could be discussed only at the gram sabhas. He said that people are anticipating that the gram sabhas would be convened without delay to solve their problems. Stating that there are 12,524 gram panchayats in Tamil Nadu, he said that people in these villages depend on agriculture for their livelihood. The government’s lack of interest in conducting gram sabhas raises many questions. For instance, in the last gram sabha, villages in Thiruvarur district passed resolutions against the hydrocarbon project and those in Salem against the eight-lane highway project. Now, people are against the draft of the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), hence this seems to be a deliberate attempt to keep the peoples voices down, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gram-sabhas-must-be-held-on-august-15-says-ngo/articleshow/77514129.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kanpur||Indian Army felicitates Covid warriors at Jhansi Fort||Jhansi: The Indian Army felicitated officials of Nagar Nigam and the district hospital on Wednesday at the historical Jhansi Fort for their brave fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. A live band concert was also organised by the army units of Sudarshan Chakra Corps at the fort. The army band performed under the drizzling overcast sky in the lawns of Jhansi Fort, where the first war of independence was fought in 1857. The event was held as part of ‘Operation Namaste’ launched nationwide by the Indian Army to felicitate the Covid warriors. A number of senior officials from Nagar Nigam and district hospital were present, including municipal commissioner Avnish Rai, CMO Dr GK Nigam and city magistrate Salil Kumar Patel. More than 24 officials were felicitated at the Jhansi Fort by senior army officials. One of the army officials who did not wish to be identified, said, “The event, which is being held at several places across the country, is a prelude to the 74th Independence Day celebrations. Military bands are performing at the event to extend gratitude and appreciation towards the Covid warriors who havve been fighting steadfastly to stop the spread of Covid-19 in the country at the risk of their own lives. The Indian Army stands tall with all frontline Covid warriors and salutes their indomitable spirit and selfless service to the nation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/indian-army-felicitates-covid-warriors-at-jhansi-fort/articleshow/77514131.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Pune||Chakan industries body helps workers deal with stress via online counselling||PUNE: Several companies in Chakan are conducting special counselling sessions for their employees to help them deal with stress and other issues arising from Covid-19. Dilip Batwal, secretary, Federation of Chakan Industries, told TOI, “Many employees are going through stress due to salary cuts, job uncertainty etc. Most of them were at home for more than two months and are facing several issues. We have organised online counselling sessions for them.” A senior manager of an auto component firm said, “Financial instability due to zero increment and salary cuts are the main reasons for depression among workers. Paying home loan instalments and other expenses have become difficult and this has led to stress and depression.” “We are boosting their confidence by telling them that the situation will improve in the next few months,” said a senior executive of a private firm . Batwal said, “We have been urging the management to hold interactive sessions with their employees to understand their problems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chakan-industries-body-helps-workers-deal-with-stress-via-online-counselling/articleshow/77514128.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||District logs 294 new Covid cases||Coimbatore: The district recorded 294 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the count to 7,592, even as 212 patients were discharged. The active cases in the district now stands at 1,813, while 5,630 patients have recovered so far. The Covid-19 toll rose to 149 with the state including nine more deaths that occurred in the district in its bulletin. Neighbouring Tirupur, meanwhile, recorded 80 new cases and seven deaths. A city corporation official said 22 people from the fire and rescue services station at Vilankurichi were among the new cases. The civic body has closed down the facility. Officers there have now moved to another location. The police training quarters at Ramanathapuram also reported 12 more cases on Wednesday. On Tuesday too, as many had tested positive for the virus. However, the cases are yet to be included in the state bulletin. Majority of the new cases were spread across the city corporation limits. At least 11 people were tested positive for the virus at Vilankurichi and some of them were from Teachers Colony. The area has been seeing seven to 10 cases daily since Monday. RN Puram recorded 12 new cases, Anna Street in PN Pudur 12, Selvapuram 11, Town Hall seven and RS Puram, six. Of the nine deceased, three of them - a 48-year-old man, a 55-year-old man and a 50-year-old woman - were brought dead to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Monday and Tuesday. While they did not have any comorbidities, all the three had breathing difficulties. Another three, who were in their 50s, also didn’t have any comorbidities but they died days after hospitalization. Two of them - a 50-year-old man and a 58-year-old man - died of pneumonia more than a week after hospitalization. A 54-year-old woman, who was tested positive for the virus after she was hospitalized with a brain injury that was sustained in an accident, is also among the nine dead. She died three days after hospitalization. In Tirupur, on the other hand, four of the deceased had comorbidities. One of the deceased was a 24-year-old man. He was admitted to CMCH on July 31 and died of severe breathlessness and pneumonia caused by Covid-19 on Tuesday. This is the second patient in the early 20s to succumb to the virus in Tirupur. Earlier, a 22-year-old 108 ambulance attender had succumbed to the virus in June.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/district-logs-294-new-covid-cases/articleshow/77513171.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Delhi||How Delhi dug itself into a deep crisis||NEW DELHI: In an ongoing process, more than 20,000 illegal borewells have been detected in a joint drive being carried out by Delhi Jal Board and Delhi Pollution Control Committee and fines up to Rs 5 lakh per case imposed as environmental compensation. These only serve to underline the issue of fast depleting ground water resources in Delhi. The official report says around 6,000 of these have been sealed, with the largest number of violators in the North-West district, followed by South-West Delhi. The remaining 14,000 borewells are to be sealed over the next couple of months. Fines going up to Rs 5 lakh were imposed based on the groundwater table of the area and the amount of water already extracted from that site. While the dire predictions about Delhi’s “day zero”, or the day when it runs out of groundwater, in 2020 haven’t proved true, large parts of the capital are hydrologically overexploited areas. In various parts of Delhi, water is drawn from illegally bored wells to meet the 300 million gallons per day gap in demand and supply. DPCC officials reveal that residential apartments are also among the biggest violators, with many households supplementing tapped supplies with borewell product to remain within Delhi government’s 20,000 litres limit for free water. In some cases, people were also discovered packaging and selling the extracted water. “Many societies, even in posh areas, are engaging in the illegal practice of mixing water supplied by DJB with water extracted from borewells to avail the benefit of 20,000 litres free water scheme,” said a DPCC official. “But this added to water wastage because level of total dissolved solids in in water increased due to the use of raw groundwater, to remove which reverse osmosis was employed. RO normally uses up around four litres of raw water for every litres of potable water that is produced. A DJB report said that 44.5% of identified illegal water extractors belong to North-West district; 32.6% to South-West and 10.7% to West, with the other districts reporting fewer violations. The situation in the South-West district, containing Dwarka and Najafgarh belt with a high concentration of borewells, was found to be particularly alarming and the average ground water reading there was 19.7 metres below the ground. DPCC fined a house in Sangam Vihar Rs 5 lakh for using an illegal borewell, while an environmental compensation of Rs 2.5 lakh was levied on a unit that was extracting water and selling it as packaged water in north Delhi’s Jagatpur village. “The unit now stands sealed,” said a DPCC official, adding that sale of groundwater appeared to be a widespread practice. The official said that DJB had a prepared a list of possible violation sites and submitted it to DPCC for action to be taken. Among those who were found to be violating water extraction norms were residential societies that had installed bored wells. The official said that the drive against illegal extraction of groundwater will continue in the coming months. Stations in South district with worryingly deep water levels were Gadaipur near Mehrauli (63.1 metres below ground), Sultanpur (61.9), Bhati (54.1) and Asola (52.1). These can be compared with the better areas adjoining the Yamuna floodplain, such as Rajghat where water lies just 1.6 metres below the ground. A number of urban villages are better off and indicate that concretisation is impacting the recharge capacity. Rani Khera in North-West district water just 0.8 metres below the ground, while Deorala in South-West and Wazirabad in North district logged groundwater levels of 1.1 metres 1.4 metres, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-capital-dug-itself-into-a-deep-crisis/articleshow/77513139.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 13, 2020||Pune||Day’s cases go past recovery tally in Pune||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 2,997 cases on Wednesday, taking its patient tally to more than 1.15 lakh so far. Besides, 67 patients succumbed to the infection in the last 24 hours, pushing the region’s toll up to 2,619. Among the new the positive cases, as many as 1,584 were added in the Pune municipal limits, while 1,024 in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas. The rural and Cantonment areas together added 389 cases, the statement issued by the district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated. As many as 2,172 patients were discharged in PMR on Wednesday after they were declared cured. With this PMR’s tally of discharged patients stood at 86,817 till Wednesday evening. A report released by the district health office said 15,475 active patients were in various hospitals while 10,209 were in home isolation, taking the total count to 25,684. PMC health officials said 6,213 tests were conducted in the municipal limits on Wednesday. The civic administration has conducted over 3.38 lakh tests so far. A total of 735 patients were critical in PMC limits, of whom 445 patients were on ventilator support. Among the 67 fatalities, 28 were recorded in PMC limits, while 15 in PCMC areas and 26 in rural and Cantonment areas together. As per the available data, the youngest patients to succumb to the infection were a 45-year-old man from Vimannagar and a 45-year-old woman from Kondhwa. The oldest patient to die in teh last 24 hours was a 90-year-old man from Shivajinagar. When it comes to tests per million, Pune district has been conducting 51,375 tests as against state’s average of 20,731 and India’s average of 17,641.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-caseload-exceeds-recoveries-again-67-more-succumb-to-corona/articleshow/77514136.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 13, 2020||Madurai||Man, wife immolate selves, kids injured||Madurai: A 34-year-old woman and her husband committed suicide by setting themselves on fire due to a conjugal dispute between them in a village near Sedapatti on Tuesday. Their children suffered injuries when they tried to save them. The deceased were identified as J Kani and R Jayaraman, 34, from Allikundam village. Jayaraman was a driver cum owner of a truck. Having lost his livelihood during the lockdown and his vehicle developing a snag as it was inactive for a long period, he started consuming liquor regularly. And the couple had frequent quarrels. On Tuesday, after a quarrel, Kani doused herself with kerosene and set herself ablaze. Jayaraman poured the remaining kerosene on himself and set himself on fire in no time. Their children J Kavin, 15, and J Dharshini, 12, tried to save them. But their parents died a few hours later in a hospital. Kavin suffered some serious injuries and was shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. His sister was treated as an outpatient in Usilampatti government hospital. Based on a complaint from Kani’s father P Rajangam, a case was registered under CrPC section -174 (suspicious death) and an inquiry was carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-wife-immolate-selves-kids-injured/articleshow/77514132.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Bitter pill: Steroids making matters worse for diabetics||NEW DELHI: The use of steroids in Covid-19 patients should be limited to those suffering from moderate to severe symptoms. Asymptomatic or patients with milder symptoms shouldn’t be administered the drug, suggested a few doctors. Dr Anant Mohan, professor and head department of pulmonary critical care, AIIMS, said even in patients who must be given steroids, it was important to watch their blood sugar levels. “There are patients who need steroids; we are not saying that it shouldn’t be given. Our suggestion is to monitor blood glucose level closely, especially, in elderly and diabetic individuals. Increase in blood sugar levels can lead to ketoacidosis,” he said. Diabetic ketoacidosis is a serious complication. According to the American Diabetes Association, when the body cells don’t get the glucose needed for energy, it begins to burn fat, which produces ketones. “High level of ketones can poison the body.” Dr Ambrish Mithal, chairman and head of endocrinology and diabetes division, Max Healthcare, said he had been getting many diabetics struggling with the after-effects of Covid-19. “Steroid should not be given to asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms. In such cases, the body’s own immune response is able to fight the infection.” The doctors said most of the severe cases involved elderly people and those with comorbidities. “It is important to keep the pre-existing illnesses under control to reduce the risk of complication due to Covid,” said Dr Arup Basu, senior consultant, chest medicine department, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. Overweight, obese or diabetic patients were more prone to developing complications. “Obese people have a heightened inflammation in the body, which is further exacerbated by Covid-19, leading to increased risk of both morbidity and mortality,” said Dr Anoop Misra, chairman, Fortis C-Doc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bitter-pill-steroids-making-matters-worse-for-diabetics/articleshow/77513192.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 13, 2020||Pune||YCMH office superintendent dies of infection||Pimpri Chinchwad: Sainath Lakhe (57), the office superintendent of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation run-Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH), succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday at a private hospital in Akurdi. Lakhe had got infected in July and was treated at the YCMH, a designated Covid-19 treatment facility. He was discharged after his condition improved. But he later developed respiratory issues and was admitted to a private hospital. Rajendra Wabale, the dean of YCMH, told TOI that Lakhe, a diabetic, had comorbid conditions and hypertension. “He was admitted to the YCMH’s ICU for almost 15 days. After his condition improved and he tested negative, we shifted him to the non-Covid ICU for almost six days. After his discharge, he developed further complications, following which he was admitted to a private hospital,” Wabale said. He said till date 20 doctors and an equal number of nursing staff of the YCMH had tested Covid-19 positive. Most of them had recovered fully, he added. The number of positive cases in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits has crossed 30,000 mark and over 5,000 active cases are being treated in hospitals. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ycmh-office-superintendent-dies-of-infection/articleshow/77514146.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM launches 217 infrastructure projects worth Rs 5,000 crore||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Wednesday launched 217 road and bridge projects worth Rs 5,024 crore, including the 68.5km Dumri-Sarmera section of the much-awaited Bihta-Sarmera state highway, which will act as another bypass road on the south for Patna. The projects were launched via video-conferencing while maintaining social distancing norms from a road construction department (RCD) event held at ‘Nek Samvad’ hall at the CM’s official residence here. Another major RCD project inaugurated on Wednesday is the Rs 508 crore bridge at Bangara Ghat on Gandak river in Gopalganj district. The bridge remained in discussion in the political circles throughout the day as a small portion of one of its two approach roads collapsed due to pressure from flood waters hours before the CM opened the bridge for traffic, through remote via video conferencing. “I have been informed by RCD officials that the remaining part (Dumri-Bihta portion) of the Bihta-Sarmera state highway would be completed in the next few months, as certain obstacles on the remaining portion had already been removed,” the CM said. “Once the Bihta-Sarmera state highway, a dream project of CM Nitish Kumar, is completed, the heavy and loaded vehicles coming from Varanasi, Mohania and Ara would not need to touch Patna and they can go straight towards Mokama, Bhagalpur, Purnia and Assam by using the new state highways that would be used as another bypass road on the south of the state capital,” an RCD engineer told TOI on Wednesday. He said, the same state highway would later become part of the proposed Greater Patna Mahanagar ring road. The CM further asked the RCD and the information and IPRD officials to take all necessary steps to inform the new generation about the development works executed by his government in the past five years. “The new generation spends more time on social media and mobile phones. Majority of social media platforms are feeding them wrong and baseless information about many things. These young minds need to be given correct information. They are not aware what the condition of the roads in Bihar was before 2005,” Nitish said and asked RCD and IPRD officials to take visuals about the condition of roads and bridges before 2005 and visuals and photos of new roads and bridges constructed during our government and show them the difference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-launches-217-infra-projects-worth-rs-5k-cr/articleshow/77511811.cms||Madan Kumar
August 13, 2020||Madurai||1,446 more cases, 34 deaths in south TN; 9 die in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The southern districts recorded 1,446 new cases and 34 deaths on Wednesday taking the tally to 69,904, which included 13,194 active cases. Meanwhile the central region of the state recorded a mild dip in the number of fresh cases as it reported 544 cases on Wednesday taking the tally to 19,959, which included 5,005 active cases. The region also recorded nine deaths. Madurai saw a rise of 169 new cases, which is also the highest in the last ten days. With six deaths on Wednesday, the district toll has climbed to 303, the first district to cross the 300-mark in the south. Madurai district’s graph for the past ten days has been going up and down. Minister for revenue, disaster management and IT R B Udayakumar who spoke at a meeting said that cases were declining as the numbers were less than 100 many days. Monitoring officer for Covid-19 for Madurai Dr B Chandramohan said that 3,461 tests were done on Wednesday. The district was regularly conducting more than 3,000 tests. Virudhunagar recorded 292 cases on Wednesday, the highest in the region. Three people died of Covid-19 related issues in the district. Theni, which has been seeing the highest number of cases for the past one week, came second with 282 new cases. Tuticorin reported 156 new cases, Tirunelveli 137 and Kanyakumari 114. The number of cases in Dindigul has dipped to 40. Ramanathapuram reported 61 new cases and Sivaganga 92. Tenkasi was just short of 100 fresh cases, with 99. Tirunelveli reported nine deaths, the highest in the region taking the district toll to 99. Dindigul reported five deaths, Kanyakumari, four and Tenkasi and Virudhunagar three each. Two people from Tuticorin died of Covid-19 on Wednesday. Ramanathapuram and Sivaganga reported one death each, which took the total number of deaths in the southern districts to 1,111. In the central region, Trichy, Perambalur, Pudukottai districts recorded two deaths each, while one patient each died in Ariyalur, Karur and Tiruvarur districts. With the nine deaths, the toll has climbed to 249 on Wednesday. Trichy district continued to be on top with 79 deaths followed by Thanjavur with 55 deaths. Pudukottai reported 147 fresh cases, the highest in the region, taking the tally to 3,534 on Wednesday. Trichy again see a spike with 135 fresh cases, which took the toll to 5,386. Ariyalur recorded 65 fresh cases taking the tally to 1,497. In Nagappattinam, the number of fresh cases has jumped from 53 cases to 72 cases.Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Perambalur districts recorded a decline in the number of cases with 59, 7 and 19 respectively. Karur reported 40 cases on Wednesday. While 27 out of the total positive cases were reported in the district, rest was cross notified from other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1446-more-cases-34-deaths-in-south-tn-9-die-in-central-dists/articleshow/77514168.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Waiting list of organ recipients increases to 321 in Marathwada||Aurangabad: With the process of cadaver donation coming to a standstill due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the number of patients waiting for vital organs to get a new lease of life in Marathwada has surged to an all-time high of 321.While as many as 272 patients are waiting for kidneys, another 49 are in dire need of liver for survival. Sudhir Kulkarni, Aurangabad region president of Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), on Wednesday said that difficulties in arranging separate non-Covid staff and facilities as per central guidelines was proving to be a hurdle in facilitating cadaver donation. “As per new guidelines, doctors, paramedical staff, operation theatres and recovery units need to be separate for transplant and Covid patients. The dearth of required manpower and other resources has halted organ donation,” he said. Alok Srivastava, CEO of Bajaj Hospital, said it was a collective decision of all stakeholders, including patients, to defer organ donation in the current circumstances.Stating that cadaver donations have resumed in fewer numbers in metro cities in the country, including Mumbai, ZTCC authorities said they were adopting a wait-and-watch policy till the pandemic situation improves. As per official data, Marathwada has registered 25 cadaver donation since ZTCC formation, facilitating transplant of 80 vital organs—10 hearts, 23 livers and 47 kidneys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/waiting-list-of-organ-recipients-increases-to-321-in-marathwada/articleshow/77510709.cms||Prasad Joshi
August 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Tuberculosis tool, also used for Covid, ramps up re-tests of antigen negative patients||PUNE: With a turnaround time of less than an hour, a not-so-popular diagnostic tool for Covid-19 is proving to be a game-changer in cross-verifying the results of patients who have returned negative on the rapid antigen test. For the last two weeks or more, microbiologists at the state-run Sassoon general hospital here have been using the Cartridge Based Nucleic Acid Amplification Test (CBNAAT) — also known as GeneXpert — to re-test the nasal swab samples of critically-ill patients who were earlier found negative for Covid-19 on the rapid antigen test. The use of GeneXpert has helped the hospital to quickly segregate severely-ill patients as per their positive/negative status, thus reducing the patient load in the intensive care unit (ICU). GeneXpert has been widely used in India for the detection of multiple drug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) for the last five years or more. On April 10 this year, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) allowed the use of GeneXpert and its Indian variant, TrueNat, for the detection of Covid-19. However, despite being deployed at most government-run medical colleges and hospitals, it has been largely under-utilised for Covid-19, say experts. As per the ICMR guidelines, it is imperative to re-test patients found negative for Covid-19 on the antigen test. However, hospitals burdened with patients are hardly using the RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test for confirming results owing to its long turnaround time of 6-8 hours. “Unlike the RT-PCR test, the sample preparation in GeneXpert is automated and the results are available within an hour. With the surge in critically-ill patients, the tool is helping us quickly reconfirm their Covid-19 status and segregate them,” said a doctor at the hospital. Sassoon hospital has two GeneXpert machines which can together process 20 samples within an hour. “We are running an average of 50 samples of critical patients every day for reconfirming Covid-19 in them,” the doctor said. The hospital has been running an ICMR-approved RT-PCR laboratory for testing Covid-19 since March 23, since processing more than 43,000 samples. “The caseload has increased drastically since mid-July. We have been testing an average 1,200 samples using the RT-PCR test every day,” the doctor said. While the results of the rapid antigen test are available in less than half an hour, its accuracy rate is less than 55%. Hence, the ICMR has said that every symptomatic antigen-negative patient be retested on molecular (RT-PCR) for reconfirmation of Covid-19 status. Another doctor said, “RT-PCR is the gold standard for Covid-19 detection. But it requires a stringent bio-safety laboratory facility that will aid in effective sample and reagent preparation and the actual nucleic acid amplification testing by competent laboratory staff.” Sanjay Patil, state vice-president of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), said, “The long duration of the RT-PCR test can cause a delay in the detection of infected persons and thus prolong the transmissibility of the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tb-tool-also-used-for-covid-ramps-up-re-tests-of-antigen-ve-patients/articleshow/77514176.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 13, 2020||Madurai||Madurai man makes Ganesha idols using cow dung||Madurai: A man, who runs a cottage industry of products made of cow dung, has come up with the idea of making a Vinayaka idol of the same base and aromatic substances which will be eco-friendly and could be used for the Vinayaka Chathurthi festival this year. Kasithavam A, who runs an organization called Poovaragham-- to protect native cow breeds such as Pulliankulam, Kangyam, among others -- makes products using their dung. He said that there is a cow shed in Kadachanendhal on the outskirts of Madurai where there are many native breeds of cattle and he sources the cow dung from there. “I also buy it from farmers, who rear the native breeds,” he said. A bag of about 15 kg to 20 kg of dry cow dung costs Rs 150, he said. Though his main products include incense sticks (dhoop), vibhoodi and cup loban (sambrani), he said that he was always concerned about the pollutants during festivals due to use of chemicals in idols. Last year, he had tried his hand at making Ganesha idols with the cow dung base but it crumbled. However, he kept trying and this year he has mastered it and idols from six inches to nine inches in height would be ready for sale this festival, he added. In addition to the cow dung base, fragrant substances like benzoin resin, Tulsi leaves, turmeric, cardamom and vettiver are mixed with the powder so that the idols would also have a fragrance surrounding them, he said and added that the price of the idols will range from Rs 100 to Rs 450 based on the size.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-man-makes-ganesha-idols-using-cow-dung/articleshow/77514165.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kanpur||Jhansi Covid recovery rate surpasses that of country||Jhansi: Jhansi has surpassed the average national recovery rate of 68% as it recorded 79.93% Covid recovery rate on Wednesday. As many as 72 new positive cases out of the total 3,549 samples tested in a single day, and one Covid death were reported in the district on Wednesday. As per Jhansi DM Andra Vamsi, the district’s Covid tally has reached 2,890, of which 2,175 have been discharged till now including 87 discharged on Wednesday. Presently, active cases have reduced to 498. Of these, 47 are symptomatic—19 severe, 4 moderate and 24 mild. Number of Covid deaths reported so far is 82. CFR is 2.8. At present, 135 patients are in home isolation in the district. A meeting was held to evaluate the Covid situation at Vikas Bhawan on Wednesday under the supervision of MD, UP Jal Nigam, Vikas Gothanwal, who is also the nodal head of the district for Covid-19. During the meeting, he said that he was satisfied with the progress in surveillance being carried out by Nagar Nigam urban as well as rural areas. Gothanwal stressed on completing all the arrangements required for starting the plasma bank at Jhansi Medical College as soon as possible. He also enquired about the progress in contact tracing of Covid positive patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jhansi-covid-recovery-rate-surpasses-that-of-country/articleshow/77514157.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Dwarka residents made to pay for unplanned growth||NEW DELHI: Dwarka sub-city in South-West district has a history of water deficiency and has accordingly gone through numerous water-related agitations and civil litigations. Now hundreds of households have been served notices demanding environment compensation for illegal use of borewell water. Delhi Pollution Control Committee has sent show-cause notices to many group housing societies in Dwarka demanding an ‘interim’ environmental compensation of Rs 30,000 for using groundwater in an illegal manner. They need to respond within 15 days from the date the notice is issued. However, many societies told TOI that such notices were being issued without field inspections. TimesViewWater is a precious and limited resource. And the water under your land belongs not just to you but is a common resource. Illegal borewells are to that extent like stealing from the community. Inadequate regular water supply is one of the likely reasons for such a practice. But this doesn’t give anyone the right to steal and accumulate water at the cost of society. The drive is both just and justified.Dwarka’s water woes are symbolic of new colonies being created without proper consideration of their water needs. When the sub-city was being set up in the 1980s, Delhi Jal Board and DDA did not provision regular water supply or a supply infrastructure. The problem eased only in 2015 with the completion of the Dwarka water treatment plant. But resident complain that while borewells have been sealed since, water supply is still not adequate. “Earlier every society had to bore a well because there was no reliable water supply. Now most of the wells are closed. While arguing that DJB never promised water, DDA provided borewell water,” said Sudha Sinha, president, Federation of Dwarka Cooperative Group Housing Societies. “If societies get enough water, why will they use borewells?” Sinha revealed that around 80% of the 350 housing societies have received DPCC’s notice. “The pollution panel has sent the notices to everyone without any on-site inspections.” Sinha claimed that Dwarka had always faced the brunt of accusations over issues, such as structural safety, borewells and rainwater harvesting. “We met DPCC officials, who put the onus of inspection on DJB and the district authorities,” she disclosed. “We will submit our reply on Thursday.” The response will point out that most societies no longer use ground water and that neither DPCC nor DJB had carried out inspections to determine violations. Countering this, a DPCC official said, “Site inspections were carried out across the city, following which the notices were issued. The notices are being sent in compliance with a National Green Tribunal order on illegal borewells in the capital. An action-taken report is also being compiled.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dwarka-residents-made-to-pay-for-unplanned-growth/articleshow/77513141.cms||Paras Singh
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Two more fake call centres busted, nine held||KOLKATA: Barely 24 hours after history-sheeter Sk Vinod was arrested by Regent Park police for allegedly running an illegal call centre at Azadgarh, the detective department sleuths have busted two more fake call centres operating from Pratapaditya Road in Tollygunge and the other at the Metropolitan Cooperative Building, Pragati Maidan on Tuesday night. Nine people were arrested so far during the raids. Joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma said cops had raided the illegal call centre on Pratapaditya Road and nabbed five people, Sandip Kumar Show (35), Farad Rabbani (36), Md Izaz Khan (31), Md. Shoaib Yousuf (26) and Shanu Singh (24). Cops seized a Mercedes-Benz from the possession of Show, a resident of Deshpran Sashmal Road at Charu Market. Cops also recovered six laptops, one desktop, six mobiles, one hard disk, Rs 4,06,000 cash from them. During the raid at another call centre on the ground floor of Metropolitan Cooperative Housing Society, cops arrested four persons, Krishna Chowrasia (40), David Jaiswal (30), Rajendra Dwibedi (41) and Surajit Baisnab (26).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-more-fake-call-centres-busted-nine-held/articleshow/77513210.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Engg colleges to get permanent affiliation||Thiruvananthapuram: The statutes for APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University announced by the state government after a protracted delay has chalked out plans to grant permanent affiliation to institutions, subject to a set of rigorous conditions. Permanent affiliation was one of the major demands raised by the first generation self-financing engineering colleges as it was a major criterion for colleges to seek for central government funding. Despite some colleges winning favourable verdict from the high court, the university that came into being in 2014 had been denying permanent affiliation to them, citing the absence of university statutes for the denial. As per the conditions laid out in the statute published as an extraordinary gazette last week, engineering colleges should have got temporary affiliation for at least five engineering courses for a minimum of six years to become eligible for permanent affiliation. At least three batches of engineering graduates should have completed engineering courses. The statutes further stipulate that at least half of the students in three engineering batches should have completed the engineering courses within the course period. Such colleges should also have filled minimum 50% of its seats for three years in a row. The institutions seeking permanent affiliation will have to ensure that they follow the student-teacher ratio and academic qualification prescribed by AICTE. The statute envisages the setting up of interdisciplinary department modelled on premier institutions such as IITs. The schools to be set up by the varsity in the coming years are school of mechanical sciences and technology, school of building sciences and technology, school of electrical sciences and technology, school of communication sciences and technology, school of computer sciences and technology, school of interdisciplinary studies and research, school of basic sciences and humanities. The statute also envisages to set up an e-governance committee and a grievance redressal forum. The statutes stipulate that university should publish an examination manual, finance manual, e-governance manual and affiliation manual in six months after the notification of the statutes. It further says the varsity syndicate should prepare and publish a manual of the grievance redressal forum in six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/engg-colleges-to-get-permanent-affiliation/articleshow/77511853.cms||B S Anilkumar
August 13, 2020||Bhopal||Corona cases continue to surge in MP, 870 fresh cases||Bhopal: With 870 people testing positive on Wednesday, Madhya Pradesh Covid-19 tally reached 41604. According to the state health bulletin, released by the directorate of health services, 15 deaths were reported across the state. Bhopal reported 6 deaths, while 2 patients lost the battle with the virus in Gwalior. Indore, Jabalpur, Sagar, Mandsaur, Dewas, Vidisha and Raisen districts reported a death each. As of now, the pandemic has claimed 1048 lives in Madhya Pradesh. Fresh cases were reported from 48 districts, while deaths were reported from 9 districts on Wednesday. As per the state health bulletin, it was Indore district where maximum 169 positive cases were reported. Bhopal reported 91 new cases, followed by Jabalpur where 40 cases were reported. Of the 48 districts that reported fresh cases, 27 districts had 10 or more cases. Of the 20679 samples that were received on Wednesday, 4.2% tested positive. This positivity rate — the number of people found positive out of every 100 samples tested — of 4.2% is lower than that of overall average positivity rate of around 4.3% in the state. As of now, there were 9317 active cases in the state. On the brighter side, 643 people were discharged from hospitals across the state. Now, total number of patients, who have recovered, reached 31,239. In 52 districts, 3240 localities have been declared containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/corona-cases-continue-to-surge-in-mp-870-fresh-cases/articleshow/77511831.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Nurse ends life taking poison injection||Hyderabad: A 25-year-old nurse who was working with a private hospital died of suicide using poison on Tuesday evening under Market police station limits. Cops are investigating the cause of suicide. According to Market police, Soundarya was found unconscious by her room mates when they returned late on Tuesday evening. She was immediately rushed to hospital where she declared dead on arrival. Soundarya, a native of Nalgonda district, took the poison using an injection which was recovered from her room. While she did not leave any suicide note, police suspect that a relationship dispute with her boyfriend may have led her to end her life. Soundarya was staying at an accommodation which is right behind the hospital where she was working. Several employees from the hospital, including nurses, have been put up in the same building by the hospital. Police have registered a case under section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nurse-ends-life-taking-poison-injection/articleshow/77513269.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Four held for attacking auto driver||Hyderabad: Tension prevailed in the Chatrinaka area of Old City after an auto driver, who rammed into a two wheeler, was assaulted by locals. Police have arrested four persons over the incident and produced them in court. On Tuesday night, Syed Pasha — an auto driver — had called his friend to help tow his auto to a petrol pump as he had run out of LPG. On the way, the auto hit a motorcycle while passing through Jangamet. The matter was initially resolved but later while returning home, Pasha was allegedly waylaid in Chatrinaka where he and his friend were attacked by a group with stones due to which Pasha was injured. Members from two communities started gathering at the spot on knowing about the incident. Police rushed to the spot and moved Pasha to a hospital. “We have arrested four persons involved in the attack and investigation is underway,” said Chatrinaka SI, B Mahesh. The accused — B Gopi, B Srikanth, K Raghava and N Pavan — have been booked under IPC section 324 (causing grievous hurt).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-held-for-attacking-auto-driver/articleshow/77513305.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Man’s bid to loot ATM comes unstuck as cops arrive||Hyderabad: A man made a vain bid to open a Canara Bank ATM in the wee hours of Wednesday at Nacharam. At around 3 am, the accused entered the ATM centre and by using a few tools he tired to open the machine from various sides. However, he failed to lay his hands on the cash. Police said that after the accused tried to breach the machine, the bank authorities got an alert through the security sensors attached to the machine. Immediately, the bank authorities called Dial-100 and police reached the spot. By this time, the accused had given up on stealing the cash and had already left the place. However, in his effort to steal the cash, the man had damaged the teller machine. The accused was spotted on CCTV cameras as he was not wearing any mask and a handkerchief was seen hanging on his neck.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mans-bid-to-loot-atm-comes-unstuck-as-cops-arrive/articleshow/77513377.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Mother among six held for selling baby||Hyderabad: Six persons were arrested for allegedly selling a two-month-old baby boy for Rs 45,000. The main accused is the infant’s mother, who sold him off to neighbours to meet household expenses after her husband reportedly deserted her. Habeebnagar police arrested the infant’s mother Sk Zoya Khan (22), from Subhanpur in Nampally, Ayesha Jabeen (28), a housewife from Chanchalguda who purchased the boy, her mother Shameem Begum (50), Shameem’s sister Siraj Begum (51), and mediators Sk Mohammed (30), and his wife Tabassum (25). On August 11, Habeeb Nagar police received a complaint from Abdul Mujahed, 29, manager of Daruwala bar and restaurant in Subhanpura, Nampally, alleging that his wife had sold their two-month-old son to Mohammed and Tabassum Begum from their neighbourhood. Police took Zoya into custody. On questioning, she confessed that she sold her son. “On August 3, Mujahed quarrelled with her over a petty issue and went to his parent’s house in MS Makhta, leaving Zoya and their son at their house. Zoya became upset with the behaviour of Mujahed. As she did not have money to take care of herself and the baby, she decided to sell her son,” Habeeb Nagar inspector P Shiva Chandra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mother-among-six-held-for-selling-baby/articleshow/77513369.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Chinese national with hawala ‘link’ was earlier arrested for espionage||NEW DELHI: Luo Sang aka Charlie Peng, the Chinese national being questioned by the income-tax department in the Rs 1,000-crore hawala racket, was arrested in 2018 by Special Cell of Delhi Police on allegations of espionage and other related offences. TOI was the first to report about his arrest on September 21, 2018 following his suspicious visits to northeastern states and Himachal Pradesh, which ultimately led police to the hawala racket. The cops had seized Aadhaar cards and a passport from him. While the Aadhaar cards, with addresses of Dwarka in Delhi and Manipur, were made in the name of Charlie Peng, the passport was issued in Manipur in the name of Vanlalrinchhani Khawlhring. Peng, who was living in DLF Gurgaon, was running a company from a plush office in the same area. A Fortuner SUV, Rs 3.5 lakh in Indian currency, $2,000 and 22,000 in Thai currency were also seized. The probe revealed that Peng, born in 1978, illegally entered India from Nepal in 2014 and married a woman from Northeast India. During interrogation, he took the cops on a wild goose chase by cooking up stories ranging from him being a persecuted refugee from Tibet to being a convicted criminal from China on the run. He claimed to be a high-ranking Chinese army official. He finally confessed to being a trained spy and was arrested on September 13. Peng claimed that he had been tasked by his handlers in the Chinese security department to infiltrate the core group of the Dalai Lama and frequently visit Himachal Pradesh as a devotee. He was allegedly providing logistical support to Chinese embassy officials apart from covertly running shell firms and peddling money through hawala. His main task, Peng claimed, was to facilitate finances for Chinese entities. However, police could hardly find any evidence and he was charged with forgery, cheating and impersonation under Indian Penal Code and under the Passport Act, and got bail a year ago. He then allegedly set up new shell firms and came under the scanner of the income-tax department. Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) started investigations in this case after receiving inputs that a few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and hawala transactions through a series of shell entities. Raids revealed that at the behest of Chinese nationals, more than 40 bank accounts had been created in the name of dummy entities, which entered into credits of more than Rs 1,000 crore. Incriminating documents of hawala transactions and money laundering with active involvement of bank employees and chartered accountants have been found, a source claimed. Evidences of foreign hawala transactions involving Hong Kong and US dollars have also been unearthed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chinese-national-with-hawala-link-was-earlier-arrested-for-espionage/articleshow/77513148.cms||Raj Shekhar
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Man who dumped kid in drain after accident booked for murder in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A pickup van driver, who was arrested for allegedly running over a 10-year-old boy and throwing his body in a drain to avoid being nabbed, has now been booked for murder as well. The incident had taken place in east Delhi last month and the body was recovered after five days from a drain in Noida. The autopsy report of the child recently revealed that the child died due to drowning and not because of the accident injuries. The child was alive even after being knocked down by the van, doctors opined. “The life of the child could have been saved, but he was thrown in the drain alive. We have added the charge of murder in the existing case after the postmortem report was received,” said Jasmeet Singh, DCP (East). On July 5, 10-year-old Gaffar was playing outside his house in Mayur Vihar. A van driver identified as Madan Gopal was reversing his van when Gaffar was crushed under the wheels. Gopal put him in the van and fled. By midnight, Gaffar’s parents approached police after their child did not return home. During inquiry, one of the children told cops that he saw a man putting a bleeding Gaffar in his van. Gopal was arrested on July 7 and the body later found on July 9. Last week, the postmortem report revealed the cause of death as drowning. “The cause of death is asphyxia due to ante-mortem drowning,” the autopsy report stated. Gaffar’s father Jumaan told TOI: “I was informed by a doctor that my child was alive for at least a day. The accused could have taken him to a hospital, but he ensured that he died. He killed my son and should never be allowed to come out of jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-who-dumped-kid-in-drain-after-accident-booked-for-murder/articleshow/77513175.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||3 booked for posing as vigilance officials to blackmail hospital||HYDERABAD: Panjagutta police registered a case against the son of a Covid-19 patient and two of his associates for impersonating as vigilance and enforcement department officials to blackmail staff at a private hospital in a bid to evade bill payment. According to the complaint by consultant vascular surgeon Dr GV Praveen Kumar, the 45-year-old patient from Moosapet had initially approached the hospital on July 20 with complaints of viral pneumonia and right leg peripheral arterial occlusive disease. “The complainant told us that after admission, the patient had also tested positive for Covid-19,” Punjagutta SI, D Nagaraju said. The complaint claimed that after the hospital manager had counselled the patient’s son about the cost of treatment, the latter had agreed to it. The patient underwent successful treatment however when he was advised discharge, his son started avoiding hospital staff. “On August 3, Shiva entered the hospital along with two persons, Shravanthi Kasaram and Vijay Kumar. Posinga as vigilance officials, they entered isolation wards, took photos and videos, and threatened to post them on social media,” the SI said, adding that no arrests have been made so far. “Subsequently on August 8, the patient was discharged and Shiva started demanding the hospital return the Rs 1 lakh which he had already paid. He threatened that if his associates filed a complaint with health department, the hospital would lose its licence. Later, the hospital staff lodged a complaint after they came to know that these persons were not from vigilance department,” SI Nagaraju said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-booked-for-posing-as-vigilance-officials-to-blackmail-hospital/articleshow/77513351.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Trichy||Trust donates 50 smartphones for underprivileged students||Trichy: A voluntary organisation on Wednesday donated 50 smartphones to students of Cauvery College for Women in Trichy who could not attend online classes for not having access to the gadgets. The college had started online classes for its students from June 15 onwards. It soon realised that around 500 students of the college were not able to attend the online classes owing to not having access to smartphones or laptops.V Selvaraj, managing trustee of OPR Memorial charitable trust said he came to know about the students’ plight through news reports and shared the same among the members of the trust. A sum of Rs 4 lakh was collected for helping the students. “We bought 50 smartphones and handed it over to the college on Wednesday. We asked the college authorities to distribute it among deserving students so that they could make use of it,” he said. He said that the trust would try to help the remaining underprivileged students in the college. “While we could contribute only this much on a short notice, we will see if we can source used mobile phones to help the remaining students”, he said.Principal of the college, V Sujatha, said that the college is now preparing a list of meritorious students coming from under-privileged background to give the phones. “We are looking into various other options as well to source gadgets. Apart from the gadgets, we also need to see if the students have internet access. We are planning to find a solution to that as well.”, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trust-donates-50-smartphones-for-underprivileged-students/articleshow/77514137.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||DGP: Keeping close eye on social media||Hyderabad: Telangana DGP M Mahendar Reddy on Wednesday warned people not to post malicious content on social media. He said instructions have been given to all station house officers (SHOs) to register cases against those posting inappropriate content to disturb law and order. “As you are aware, a malicious social media post has led to mindless violence in Bangalore city resulting in loss of life and properties. Public are requested not to post and circulate any inappropriate content on social media which is likely to adversely affect public order and peace in society,” the DGP said. The DGP also mentioned that police were monitoring social media round the clock for malicious content circulated by anti-social elements. “I have instructed all SHOs and senior officers to register specific cases in every instance and initiate strong action against such offenders without fail,” the DGP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dgp-keeping-close-eye-on-social-media/articleshow/77513432.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||25-year-old woman dies of snake bite||Hyderabad: A 25-year-old housewife died on Wednesday after allegedly being bitten by a snake. The deceased was identified as Devamma, was a resident of Banjara colony in Hayathnagar. The incident occurred late on Tuesday night when she had gone out of the house. She was rushed to Osmania General Hospital (OGH) where she was declared dead on arrival. Police have registered a case of suspicious death and have started investigation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-year-old-woman-dies-of-snake-bite/articleshow/77513446.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rape survivor dies during treatment||HYDERABAD: Nearly a week after three people were arrested on charges of sexually assaulting a 14-year-old girl, the victim died while undergoing treatment at Niloufer Hospital on Wednesday. While the police are waiting for the post-mortem examination report to ascertain the cause of death, they said that the girl was extremely weak and could have died of ill health. Following her death, Jeedimetla police arrested two of her relatives — husbands of her cousin sisters — who she was living with, based on a complaint by the women and child welfare department (WCWD). “The duo have been booked under 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of IPC,” said Jeedimetla police inspector, Balaraju. The two were later granted bail to conduct the last rites of the teenager. On August 7, a donor of Maruthi orphanage along with its founder and an organisation member were arrested after the minor, who was staying at the orphanage till before the lockdown, accused the donor of repeated sexual assault. She was later sent to her cousins’ house from where she was shifted to her aunt’s house in Bowenpally. The assualt came to light after her aunt grew suspicious and questioned her. Subsequently, a zero-FIR was filed at the Bowenpally police station and the girl was shifted to Niloufer for treatment. The victim died while undergoing treatment around 1.30 am on Wednesday. According to her statement recorded last week, the girl was staying with her relatives in Jeedimetla after she was dropped off there by the orphanage during the lockdown. She alleged that the two relatives used to beat her up. “When we questioned them, they said that they would hit her when she created nuisance, but it was never life-threatening. The girl was limping since they got her from the orphanage but they did not take her to hospital for a check-up. We are waiting for PME report to know the exact cause of death,” said the Jeedimetla inspector. Following the minor’s death, WCWD has formed a high powered enquiry committee consisting of members of the state commission for protection of child rights, child welfare committee, women safety wing of Telangana police and the women’s commission to investigate the case and submit a preliminary report within a week. “A legal advisor has also been appointed. The department has shifted out the rest of the children from the orphanage and their registration has been suspended,” said a senior WCWD official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rape-survivor-dies-during-treatment/articleshow/77513239.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Doctor raises Covid scare to dodge police, arrested||HYDERABAD: A practising doctor at a prominent city hospital tried to rescue himself from arrest by telling Golconda police that he had contracted Covid-19. The doctor has been accused of cheating a woman by failing to keep his promise of marrying her. The police, taking a cautious approach in view of the pandemic, made the doctor undergo a coronavirus test. The result of the test came back negative following which he was arrested. The 38-year-old doctor has been in judicial remand for the past four days and is lodged in Chanchalguda jail. Golconda inspector K Chandra Sekhar Reddy told TOI that nearly a month back, the woman had amassed proof and approached police to file a case against the doctor. Since then, the accused had been evading police. “The accused told us that some of his family members had contracted the virus and he too may have been infected. To verify his claim, we made him undergo a test at a government hospital and the result was negative,” an investigator said. By this time, he had already moved an anticipatory bail application in court with Covid-19 as one of his reasons. However, the doctor’s case is not the only instance wherein an accused has cited the pandemic as grounds for bail. “Many accused in grave offences are referring to the virus while seeking bail. But till now, courts have not considered it,’’ additional public prosecutor K Pratap Reddy, who deals with Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/doc-raises-covid-scare-to-dodge-police-arrested/articleshow/77513255.cms||Srinath Vudali
August 13, 2020||Madurai||Schools pep up online classes with music, yoga||Madurai: Many private schools in the city have started introducing extra-curricular activities like music, dance, exercise, yoga, debate and games through online classes to help students stay motivated and have fun. Teachers feel that such activities would ensure students remain connected to school and don’t feel like missing out. “In our school, we have physical education classes online every day. We do simple exercises and our teacher gives us riddles too. Debate sessions are also conducted. Though it is the year of board exams for me, it is nice to see such fun activities also being held,” said R Archisha, a Class X student from a private school. Most of the private schools holding online classes are including physical education as a routine activity, bringing in whatever is possible through the online space, including indoor sports like chess and carrom. “Three days a week, we hold physical fitness education activities while on other days we have yoga and aerobics. Such physical activities that can be easily done at home greatly help the mental well-being of students. We have also started conducting extra-curricular fine arts classes like music and dance as well,” said Sujatha Guptan, director of academics of a private school in Kochadai. Schools are also holding many events or competitions like art and craft contests, debate, talent shows, riddle games, one-minute challenges, flameless cooking at home etc., while connecting with students online. Though it has not been the same as a classroom, teachers said they are trying to help students to not miss any fun of schooling or feel locked up in their homes. Even school assemblies, parent-teacher conference, school elections have all been moved to the digital space. “While studies are important, fun and creativity should not be lost in online classes. Even during my class, I keep some ten minutes for students to just have a fun interaction with me about what they do at home, share jokes, and have a laugh,” said R Lakshmi, an English teacher from a private school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-pep-up-online-classes-with-music-yoga/articleshow/77514170.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Man arrested for robbing retiree||Hyderabad: One person was arrested for committing burglary at a retired employee’s house in Narayanguda. Police had registered a case on Wednesday and arrested the accused, Alli Shiva Kumar, who had previously been involved cellphone theft case. The accused had broken into victim’s house and stole his laptop, speakers and other valuables from the cupboards. Kumar has been booked. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-robbing-retiree/articleshow/77513457.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Auto driver kills self in drunken state||Hyderabad: A 48-year-old auto driver ended his life while in an inebriated state on Wednesday under Hayathnagar limits. The deceased, Revalle Narsimha — a resident of Pasumamula in Hayathnagar hanged himself in his kitchen after consuming alcohol. Police did not manage to find any suicide note from the victim. Meanwhile, they have registered a case of suspicious death and have started their investigation. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-driver-kills-self-in-drunken-state/articleshow/77513478.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||CBI Hyderabad SP gets MHA medal||Hyderabad: CBI’s Hyderabad superintendent of police (SP) Cephas Kalyan Pakerla has been awarded the Union home minister’s medal for excellence in investigation for 2020. Kalyan is among 15 CBI officers to be awarded. The IPS officer is the chief investigation officer in the IMA Ponzi scheme in Karnataka in which a team headed by Kalyan made several prominent arrests. He is currently working with the CBI’s anti-corruption bureau in Hyderabad. The home ministry medal is aimed at promoting high professional standards in investigation of crimes by state police and central agencies. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-hyderabad-sp-gets-mha-medal/articleshow/77513409.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Companies turn to smart gadgets to ensure distancing norms||CHENNAI: Camera feeds and wearables are entering the shop floors of factories to help employees maintain social distancing. Take Hyundai’s factory in Sriperumbudur, where cameras keep an eye. “Our camera on the shop floor captures images and whenever there is a breach in social distancing, an instant beep message goes to the employee. We have several other non-intrusive apps where we monitor social distancing,” said Ganesh Mani, director-manufacturing, Hyundai Motor India Ltd. The shop floor has been reconfigured to ensure no two employees have their work spots within 1.5 metres. “There are several apps and tech options. We are considering an app, more with self-declaration like Aarogya Sethu to maintain employee details.” Wearable devices such as wristbands or smart ID cards have been introduced. These objects vibrate or beep whenever a factory worker breaches social distancing rules, and also transmit the relevant data to the cloud if permitted and required by the organization for analytics. The technology is normally used to locate workers, machines and materials on the factory floor, and ensure an optimal workflow for maximum productivity. In the current crisis, it has been adapted to fulfil a vital public health function. The vibrating wristband provides a clear signal to the worker, who may not have been aware of stepping too close. “Our digital teams have come out with an app which will help employees know dangerous zones,” said Satyakam Arya, MD & CEO, Diamler India, in a recent interaction with TOI. Daimler’s factory has a command centre which monitors staff and their movement, including if they are wearing masks, maintaining social distancing. A prototype of a wearable band is ready which will vibrate should two employees come within six feet. It informs the safety officer in charge and can help them identify the root cause of recurring patterns and problems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cos-turn-to-smart-gadgets-to-ensure-distancing-norms/articleshow/77513237.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
August 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Local Muslim youth saved me, says instigator’s mother||BENGALURU: “Had local Muslim youths not come to my rescue, I don’t think I would have been alive today,” Jayanthi R, mother of Naveen P who is accused of posting a derogatory post on Facebook, said on Wednesday. Jayanthi, a resident of Kaval Byrasandra, lives with her husband and family members 500 metres away from her younger brother, Congress MLA Akhand Srinivas Murthy’s residence. On Tuesday evening, the family members were watching TV while Naveen and his wife had gone out to buy groceries. “My daughter who lives in Vijayanagar had come to our house with her family after a person near their house tested positive for Covid-19. We’re watching a TV serial when suddenly a mob gathered in front of our home. At 8.30pm, the mob vandalised and set fire to bikes. I got all my children and grandchildren to go to the terrace from where they shifted to neighbouring houses.” Jayanthi stayed back as there were gold ornaments and valuables. “Though there was a lot of commotion outside, I did assume that the houses would not be attacked. Also, I was not aware that it was related to us. I tried to enquire with some of the men on the street, but they did not see anything. I had never seen these men in our area before. The situation was gradually worsening and I panicked. There was no way I could flee as there were hundreds of people on the streets burning cars and bikes,” she recalled. “At 10.30pm, four-five local Muslim youths came to my house and told me that the situation would worsen. They said I should immediately go with them. By then, the mob entered our compound. One person told the youths escorting me that they were doing injustice to their religion by protecting Naveen’s mother. The locals warned the mob that no woman or child should be touched,” she said. “I was literally carried across our compound to the next building. In less than a minute, our building was set on fire,” she said. According to Jayanthi, it was a well-planned attack that targeted only people associated with her brother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/instigators-mom-says-local-muslims-saved-her-from-being-lynched/articleshow/77511867.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 13, 2020||Bhopal||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan to launch ‘Sahyog se Suraksha Abhiyan’ on Independence Day||BHOPAL: Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan will launch the ‘Sahyog se Suraksha Abhiyan’ on August 15. The main theme of the campaign is “Sahyog aur samarthan se hi vijay, Corona Samapti ka drida nischay” (only cooperation and support can help us win, firm resolve to end Corona)”. Government departments, voluntary organizations, trade organizations, religious leaders and public representatives will take part extensively in the Sahyog se Suraksha Abhiyan. This campaign will be conducted in collaboration with all sections. The main objective of the campaign is to instill a sense of security among the common man through public awareness. The campaign will generate awareness among so that they learn to live with the problem of Corona infection. The health department will also make efforts to make people adopt safe practices. They will encourage communities to make preventive measures a part of their lifestyle. The goal is to maintain continuity of the campaign in order to make prevention from infection a general practice. In the campaign, efforts will be made to change people’s habits through simple and clear messages. Many times people are confused due to wrong and misleading information, efforts will be continuously to counter this and explain what is right to the people through various means so that people can get actual information. A time-bound programme has been set for campaign activities. Oath taking programmes will be organised during the campaign. Nodal officers have been appointed in the government departments associated with the campaign, to give pace to the activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-to-launch-sahyog-se-suraksha-abhiyan-on-i-day/articleshow/77511819.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru Literature Festival goes online, to start from August 14||MYSURU: The fourth edition of Mysuru Literature Festival will be held for three weeks from August 14 and eminent writers and authors will participate. The event is jointly organized by The Mysuru Literary Forum Charitable Trust and Mysuru Book Clubs – 2015. The literary event will be held virtually on every weekend from August 14 till September 5. Due to Covid-19, the festival will be held online where authors and artists will be joined virtually. This edition will have a wide range of authors and speakers including several well-known names like Amish Tripathi, Venu Rajamony, Amjad Ali Khan, Nandita Das, Vikram Kirloskar, Sagarika Ghose, Vasudhendra, Kavitha Lankesh, Aroon Raman, Dharmendra Kumar, and a host of Indian and international authors. MLF is curated by Shubha Sanjay Urs, chairperson of the Mysuru Literary Forum Charitable Trust. The book clubs have arranged successful book launches, author meets, and talks, in addition to conducting three exciting, well attended literature festivals held in 2017, 2018 and 2019. “The festivals create a platform where writers – established and aspiring, readers, students, and professionals engage in thought provoking discussions on literature. This year, all our efforts went towards extensively helping communities and hospitals with supplies and equipment for the pandemic,” Urs said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-literature-festival-goes-online-to-start-from-august-14/articleshow/77510914.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Man booked for slur on MBT leader||HYDERABAD: Dabeerpura police have registered against a history sheeter for allegedly threatening and using derogatory language against Majlis Bachao Tehreek (MBT) spokesperson Amjedullah Khan Khalid. On August 10, the MBT spokesperson had taken part in protest against the erection of a banner containing inflamatory content at Moazamjahi market cross roads. On the same night, GHMC and Begum Bazaar police had removed the banner. During the removal, Shivlal Yadav aka Laddu Yadav, a history sheeter under Shahinayathgunj police station had allegedly objected to the police’s actions and went on to threaten and use derogatory language against the MBT spokesperson. Yadav is also said to have created nuisance and circulated videos on social media which went viral and created controversy. Amjedullah Khan had filed a complaint against Laddu Yadav with Dabeerpura police upon which a case under IPC sections 294 (obscene acts in public place), 506 (criminal intimidation), and 504 (insult to provoke breach of peace) was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-booked-for-slur-on-mbt-leader/articleshow/77513326.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Flagging zeal: No Independence Day cheer at traffic signals||NEW DELHI: Every year, in the days approaching Independence Day, Karan would run to a car when the traffic light turned red and request the driver to buy an Indian flag or a small kite in national colours. “We didn’t get flags this time,” Karan said at the ITO crossing on Wednesday. “People stopped rolling down their car windows months ago for fear that we would pass on the Covid infection. If they do oblige us, we just ask them to spare some money for food rather than sell them the tricolour.” The Covid pandemic has certainly taken the cheer out of Independence Day week for street children, who earned some money by evoking people’s nationalistic sentiments. The suppliers of flags knew they could rely on these kids to hawk the national items at traffic signals if they got the right incentive. “Bhaiyya (the supplier) used to let us keep 30% of the money we got from the sale of flags,” said Chanchal, a street child at Pusa Road. “But this time he felt that they wouldn’t sell, so we didn’t get the stocks. And Bhaiyya is right. Who will buy flags from us this year?” Chanchal’s view was confirmed by some youngsters finding almost no takers for the saffron-white-green wares at IIT flyover and Connaught Place. The boy in CP, holding on to a bag containing a few flags, approached not only commuters, but also the regular shoppers. “Koi toh khareede!” he exclaimed in frustration as everyone turned him down. Factory workers, who usually worked overtime to meet the need for flags, had fewer orders to fulfil this year. “The demand wasn’t as high as normal because the wholesale agents knew there wouldn’t be too many buyers,” said Varun Basur, a worker at a warehouse in Sadar Bazar. He estimated that only half the usual stocks were created for Independence Day 2020. However, even the reduced workload was trying for the factories because of the lockdown-hit manpower. Factory owner Vikram Singh in Govindpuri not only had to deal with a decreased employee roster because “most went back home and are yet to return”, but also a big drop in demand. “Most of the big orders came from schools and colleges rather than offices,” said Singh. “But with no educational institution open, the demand from them is zero.” The monetary loss has affected factory worker Pinu Qureshi deeply. “I planned to buy a phone for my son for his online classes because the one we have right now is causing a lot of trouble, but I think with this sort of earnings, this will not be possible,” said Qureshi. For 30 years, Qureshi has made 2-3 lakh flags each Independence Day season. “This year, nothing has worked in our favour,” he mumbled. Meanwhile, the Khadi Gramodyog outlet in CP too has seen a dip in the sales of its hand-woven fabric flags. “We made a few flags on order, and some for general sale,” revealed a salesperson, “but we haven’t seen a good response this time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/flagging-zeal-no-i-day-cheer-at-traffic-signals/articleshow/77513265.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Ramesh Hospital ran Covid centre at another hotel, reveals probe||HYDERABAD: The Andhra Pradesh health department committee probing the Swarna Palace hotel fire accident has found that Dr Ramesh Hospitals had another unapproved Covid isolation centre at the Metropolitan Hotel near Benz Circle in Vijayawada. Further, the committee said that 21 of the 31 admitted patients at Swarna Palace tested negative for Covid-19 and only two of the 10 who died in Sunday’s mishap were positive for the virus. “Of the 10 dead, eight had tested negative. Many of them got admitted on the basis of CT scan reports,” said Krishna district collector A Md Imtiaz. The tests conducted on the victims of the Swarna Palace incident revealed that there are variations in the results from the CT scan and Covid-19 antigen test. In several cases, though the Covid-19 antigen test result was negative, medical diagnosis found infection in the lungs. Vijayawada police, investigating culpable homicide cases against the managements of Dr Ramesh Hospitals and Swarna Palace hotel, had so far arrested three hospital staff members. Police found several lapses like lack of fire NOC, no second exit, lack of emergency equipment at the accident site. The state government has appointed two inquiry committees to investigate the case. The report of the fire department is yet to be submitted. Meanwhile, efforts to contact Dr Potineni Ramesh proved futile once again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ramesh-hosp-ran-covid-centre-at-another-hotel-reveals-probe/articleshow/77513254.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 13, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Covid crisis induces reverse migration to govt schools||TRICHY: Government schools in Trichy district have been witnessing a steady stream of parents seeking admission for their wards to classes I, VI and IX this year in what is seen as a kind of “reverse migration”. The Covid-induced lockdown and economic distress have sparked a rethinking among parents about shelling out high fees in private schools when many government schools possess matching infrastructure if not better. Headmistress of the government middle school at Pirattiyur, K Asha Devi, said at least 150 parents with students had approached them for admission for various classes in the last two months. English being the medium of education in the school and it being well-equipped in terms of facilities, parents find it a better option to admit their wards there in the present circumstances. “I didn’t know that Pirattiyur school has English medium. The coaching too is better according to parents who are sending their children there,” says S Vasuki of Ramji Nagar, who has two children. “I have decided to pull out my daughter in class IV at a private school to Pirattiyur school. This year my son is also going to class I. We were planning to send him to a private school, but are opting for government school,” she said. A large section of parents had shifted their children to private schools a few years ago for ensuring quality English medium education at a cost. Many government schools were badly hit by this exodus and teachers had to use their persuasion skills a lot to get them back to government schools. M Murugesan, another parent, has decided to get his five-year-old daughter admitted to corporation primary school in Edaimalaipattipudur. He says he may not be able to afford the Rs 15,000 fee charged by a private school. Assistant teacher H Pushpalatha from corporation primary school Edaimalaipattipudur said that many parents have so far expressed willingness to admit their children to their school. She said it isn’t just the financial condition that is driving parents to government schools. “We are trying to ensure quality and allround development of students,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-crisis-induces-reverse-migration-to-govt-schools/articleshow/77514159.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 13, 2020||Chennai||Touch-free: A post-Covid reboot for IT parks in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: IT parks in the state are preparing for a post Covid-19 world with a workplace that will be touch-free. Planning to introduce high-end Internet of Things (IoT) features, which in normal times would take at least five years to set up, these parks are going the extra mile, despite the high cost, to envelop themselves in a protective cocoon. To be introduced in everything from entry points to toilets, the proposed features are aimed at boosting employee confidence. People returning to the workplace will experience the change from the entrance where they will be monitored through automatic scanners and isolated in a quarantined room in case they have high body temperature. They will then move to the bank of lifts that can be operated through mobile phones after QR code is scanned and the required floor number screen.  People are encouraged to use staircases for lower floors such flashes on the screen. They can also swipe proximity cards from a distance to facilitate automatic opening of doors, while sensors in water dispensers will help draw water into disposable cups. In toilets, the partition will extend till the toe level; and wash basins and tables in food courts will also be partitioned.  Indialand Tech Park at Coimbatore has already implemented such features. “Various steps including non-touch access control and elevators have improved the safety of employees and increased confidence among users,” Salai Kumaran, CEO, Indialand Group said. About 40% of the employees now work from the IT park, while the rest function from honme. IT Parks and IT SEZs in and around Chennai, together offering about 60 million sq ft of office space, are following suit, planning options such as motorised revolving doors and proximity cards synchronized with lifts. It will require at least ₹1 lakh to upgrade each lift with such features. Ajith Kumar Chordia, managing director of city-based Olympia Group, said several ideas were in the pipeline as part of the attempt to make IT spaces secure for employees. “But, it will involve a huge cost,” he added. R Murugesan, managing director of ARAM Realty who was associated with developing an IT SEZ on GST Road, said that the outbreak of the Coronavirus had advanced the introduction of IoT features at multiple levels in office space verticals. “Our IT parks will offer features matching international cities soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/touch-free-a-post-covid-reboot-for-it-parks/articleshow/77513243.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
August 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Don’t have PUC? Keep Rs 10,000 ready||NEW DELHI: Don’t have a valid Pollution Under Control (PUC) certificate for your vehicle? Be prepared to pay a fine of Rs 10,000 next time you hit the road. Delhi government’s transport department has started a special drive against polluting vehicles and most of the challans have been issued for not carrying PUC certificates. “We have deployed 40 teams across Delhi to check and penalise polluting vehicles and the focus is on the 13 pollution hotspots identified by Delhi Pollution Control Committee, including Anand Vihar, RK Puram, Jahangirpuri, Vivek Vihar, Mayapuri etc,” a transport department official said. “At these hotspots, joint teams of our enforcement wing personnel, DPCC officials and Delhi Traffic Police personnel are also collecting diesel and petrol samples from vehicles to check adulteration and impurities,” he added. The amended Motor Vehicles Act, which came into effect from September 1, 2019 in Delhi, hiked the fine for not carrying a valid PUC certificate from Rs 1,000 to Rs 10,000. The ten-fold hike had resulted in a sudden rush at the nearly 1,000 PUC centres in Delhi and the transport department had issued as many as 14 lakh PUC certificates in that month itself. The union ministry of road transport and highways has extended the validity of all transport documents like driving license, fitness, permits, registration etc. that have expired since February 1 to September 30, 2020. Delhi’s transport department officials, however, said that no such exemptions are being granted to vehicles with expired PUC certificates. “Vehicle owners should not be under the impression that they would be spared for not having a valid PUC certificate. They should get their vehicles checked on time at any nearby PUC centre,” he said. “Vehicles need to have valid PUC certificates or their owners should be prepared to pay a penalty,” he added. “We are mainly targeting vehicles that are visibly polluting or don’t have valid PUC certificates, apart from other violations. Our personnel have handheld e-challans that are linked to servers and we can get all details of any vehicle on the spot,” he said, adding that more than 100 challans have been issued just for not carrying PUC certificates since Tuesday. “In July, we had penalised 610 vehicles for not carrying PUC certificates,” the official said. PUC centres in Delhi were reopened in May as part of Unlock-1, but they received negligible number of vehicles for inspection. The number of vehicles checked at these centres in June was 5.2 lakh, out of which about 5 lakh vehicles passed the test. In July, only around 4 lakh vehicles got PUC checks and hence, the transport department is taking strict measures to ensure compliance. Watch Delhi: Be prepared to pay Rs 10,000 fine, if you don’t have a valid PUC certificate||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dont-have-puc-keep-rs-10k-ready/articleshow/77513180.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 13, 2020||Patna||Covid cases cross 90,000-mark, 3,741 new cases reported in Bihar||PATNA: Covid-19 cases crossed the 90,000-mark on Wednesday, with 3,741 testing positive for the virus in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 90,553. The state also registered nine more deaths, raising the toll to 474. With 60,068 recoveries, active cases now stand at 30,009 in Bihar. In the past 24 hours, 3,029 people have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 66% and 92,414 samples were tested in the state, according to data shared by the health department. On Wednesday, maximum cases were registered in Patna with 529 people testing positive for Covid-19, taking the district’s tally so far to 14,980. However, with 11,616 recoveries and 91 deaths, active cases in the state capital stand at 3,273. Other districts which reported large number of cases are Begusarai (254), Katihar (200), Saharsa (175), East Champaran (169), Madhubani (169), Muzaffarpur (160), Saran (148), Rohtas (140), Purnia (124), Gaya (107) and Vaishali (97). The department also reported one death each from Begusarai, Bhagalpur, Jehanabad, Madhubani, Patna, Samastipur, Supaul and Arwal. As per information shared by the NMCH administration, two deaths were reported there on Wednesday. The hospital’s epidemiologist-cum-nodal in charge (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh, said one of the deceased was a 63-year-old man from Mahavir lane in Patna and had a history of hypertension. Another was a 62-year-old man from Laxmipur in Mahua, who died of cardiac arrest. Two deaths were also reported from AIIMS-Patna. The two deceased were a 60-year-old man from Bankmen Colony in Hajipur and a 42-year-old man from Rajapur village in Begusarai. Keeping in mind the increase in Covid-19 cases and the need for plasma therapy, the health department has decided to start this facility at Mahavir Cancer Sansthan from August 16. Sources said Jai Prabha hospital and JLNMCH are also in the pipeline for the facility. The department will also cap the prices being charged by private hospitals in treating Covid-19 patients. When asked whether a panel will be formed to assess this issue, principal secretary (health), Pratyaya Amrit said, “I am seized with the matter.” Amrit said a letter in this regard has come from the Centre asking to fix prices charged by private hospitals. “We cannot let them (private hospitals) fleece people. You will get the results soon,” Amrit added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-cases-cross-90k-mark-3741-new-cases-reported-in-state/articleshow/77511848.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Farmer ends life in Sangli, blames private money lenders||KOLHAPUR: Narayan Pralhad Waghmare, a farmer from Miraj taluka of Sangli district, committed suicide on Tuesday as private money lenders were allegedly harassing. He left behind a suicide note blaming two men, against whom an offence has been registered. Miraj police said that Waghmare, who also used to run a shop in the village, ended his life by hanging himself at his residence using a nylon rope. Narayan is survived by his father, wife, a son and a married daughter. After Narayan’s death, his brother Anil lodged a police complaint stating that Narayan was being harassed by the two men from whom he had taken money to purchase one-acre land and a borewell. Preliminary investigation has revealed that two men were asking Narayana to pay even after he had paid the interest and principal amount to them. Anil has told the police that his brother was under stress as he left that he would never be able to repay the two men. Based on the complaint and the suicide note, Miraj police have registered an offence against two men, who are from nearby villages - for abetting the suicide and Maharashtra Private Money Lending (Regulation) Act. Miraj police said that both the suspects were absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/farmer-ends-life-in-sangli-blames-pvt-money-lenders/articleshow/77510733.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Family forced to change 12 houses in a year||CHENNAI: In the past one year, R Thangavel has changed 12 houses because the landlords didn’t want their autistic son around them. “My son gets restless and screams a lot. The owners also lived nearby. Hence I can’t blame them,” said Thangavel, who has now been asked to move out of his current residence in Malayambakkam, for the same reason. “I’ve been living around this locality for decades, but now word has spread about my son and people are hesitant to rent me a room,” he said. Thangavel, a 70-year-old daily wager, lives in a one-room house with his wife Parvathy and their 35-year-old son Anand who was diagnosed with autism when young. The past one year, said Parvathy, has been traumatic for the family. “A few months ago, we took him to a doctor who said that he needs to be institutionalised or we need to hire a therapist. We cannot afford what they ask for. There should be some other way out,” she said. Parvathy said the lockdown worsened his condition and he would scream and cry for hours. Every time they tried to take him on the terrace or outside the gate, a few people would pass nasty comments and ask the parents to keep him at home. “Every time they comment, it agitates him and a few try to get into fights with him,” said Thangavel. Thangavel isn’t the only one. Several parents with children with learning difficulties have had similar experiences. “Nobody was willing to rent out a house to us because my son is disabled. I lived at a friend’s place for over a year until I bought a house of my own. It is extremely difficult for families with mentally ill children to find a house,” said Saloni Khanna, a single mother of a 16-year-old. Countries like the United States, France, Germany, and the United Kingdom have assisted living and permanent housing facilities for adults with mental illness and for those who are dependent on their families. They also have group homes where the residents pay whatever income they draw and are provided round-the-clock care. They are provided vocational and life skill training . Kalpana Rao, principal of Vidya Sagar School for Special Children, said it was important to create awareness about such disabilities and get community support. “Family and community involvement is a must in these scenarios. Once that is in place, half the issue is sorted and life becomes easy for parents too,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/family-forced-to-change-12-houses-in-a-year/articleshow/77513252.cms||Aditi R
August 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Close shave for constable after flat break-in||PUNE: High drama, akin to a Bollywood movie plot, prevailed in Karvenagar after two armed burglars broke into a flat in the early hours of Wednesday, resulting in an almost deadly scuffle between them and the police and the recovery of valuables worth Rs 1.2 lakh. The incident, which occurred at Sairam Villa society, came to light around 2.45am after a resident, Shrikant Kamble, heard some unusual sounds from his neighbour Abasaheb Nalawade’s flat. Since Nalawade had gone to his native village and there was nobody in the flat, he became curious and peeped out from the keyhole of his apartment. “I saw a masked man in the passage and immediately called up my friend Rahul Pawar, who alerted the Warje Malwadi police,” Kamble said. Soon after receiving the alert, constable Saddam Shaikh with marshals Firoz Shaikh and Balasaheb Bahirat reached the spot. “There was complete darkness in the passages,” the constable said, adding when the two marshals started climbing the stairs, one of the suspects attacked them with a sharp weapon. However, they dodged the weapon. As soon as the constable reached the flat, the other burglar ran towards the balcony to flee the spot. He, however, caught the burglar, after which he turned around and stabbed him with a sharp weapon. “Thankfully, I had kept my wallet under my shirt. It sustained the blow and I escaped unharmed,” he said. By now, senior inspector senior inspector Machhindra Pandit too had reached the spot. “We have recovered stolen valuables worth Rs 1.2 lakh from the suspects, Sagarsingh Junni (27) of Hadapsar and Jalsingh Junni (35) of Shivajinagar,” Pandit said. He said the suspects have been booked under Section 307 (murder) and other sections of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/close-shave-for-constable-after-flat-break-in/articleshow/77514184.cms||Mihir Tanksale
August 13, 2020||Trichy||119 deaths, 5,871 new Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 119 deaths and 5,871 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, which took the cumulative toll to 5,278 and the case tally to 3,14,520. There were 52,929 people under treatment compared to 52,810 on Tuesday. Death rates continue to remain high -- in Madurai it was 2.5%, in Chennai 2.1% and in Coimbatore 2%. While most cases and deaths continue to be reported from the northern districts followed by the 10 southern districts, cases were rising steadily in the western zone. Of the casualties, four people were ‘brought dead’ and a dozen of them had no comorbidities. Chennai, the worst affected district, reported 993 cases and 20 deaths. The adjacent districts had 1,217 cases – Chengalpet (439), Tiruvallur (407) and Kancheepuram (371). This took the tally in the Chennai region to 2,210 cases. In the past 24 hours, the region reported 42 deaths, including 11 in Tiruvallur – the second highest in the state after Chennai. The seven other northern districts together reported 942 fresh cases and 13 deaths. Cuddalore (339), Ranipet (252), Tiruvannamalai (123) reported cases in three digits. The active cases in the Chennai region stood at 20,447, 38% of the total active cases in the state. Together, all the 11 northern districts have 55% (29,538) of active cases in the state. The 10 southern districts reported 1,446 cases and 34 deaths. Virudhunagar recorded 292 cases followed by Theni (282), Madurai (169), Tuticorin (157) Tirunelveli (137), Kanyakumari (117), Tenkasi (99) and Sivaganga (92). Tirunelveli reported nine deaths, Madurai six and Dindigul five. There were 13,194 active cases in the districts. The central districts reported fewer cases and deaths compared to west Tamil Nadu. While there were 544 cases in the central zone, the western region reported 715 cases. Coimbatore reported 294 cases, Salem 217, Pudukkottai 147 and Trichy 135. Coimbatore collector P Rajamani, who recently recovered from Covid-19, said despite aggressive screening and testing, most fresh cases were being reported from the corporation limits. At the end of the day, while 69,697 people were tested, 5,633 were discharged, taking the total number of people recovered to 2,56,313.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/119-deaths-5871-new-covid-19-cases-across-tn/articleshow/77515436.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||119 deaths, 5,871 new Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 119 deaths and 5,871 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, which took the cumulative toll to 5,278 and the case tally to 3,14,520. There were 52,929 people under treatment compared to 52,810 on Tuesday. Death rates continue to remain high -- in Madurai it was 2.5%, in Chennai 2.1% and in Coimbatore 2%. While most cases and deaths continue to be reported from the northern districts followed by the 10 southern districts, cases were rising steadily in the western zone. Of the casualties, four people were ‘brought dead’ and a dozen of them had no comorbidities. Chennai, the worst affected district, reported 993 cases and 20 deaths. The adjacent districts had 1,217 cases – Chengalpet (439), Tiruvallur (407) and Kancheepuram (371). This took the tally in the Chennai region to 2,210 cases. In the past 24 hours, the region reported 42 deaths, including 11 in Tiruvallur – the second highest in the state after Chennai. The seven other northern districts together reported 942 fresh cases and 13 deaths. Cuddalore (339), Ranipet (252), Tiruvannamalai (123) reported cases in three digits. The active cases in the Chennai region stood at 20,447, 38% of the total active cases in the state. Together, all the 11 northern districts have 55% (29,538) of active cases in the state. The 10 southern districts reported 1,446 cases and 34 deaths. Virudhunagar recorded 292 cases followed by Theni (282), Madurai (169), Tuticorin (157) Tirunelveli (137), Kanyakumari (117), Tenkasi (99) and Sivaganga (92). Tirunelveli reported nine deaths, Madurai six and Dindigul five. There were 13,194 active cases in the districts. The central districts reported fewer cases and deaths compared to west Tamil Nadu. While there were 544 cases in the central zone, the western region reported 715 cases. Coimbatore reported 294 cases, Salem 217, Pudukkottai 147 and Trichy 135. Coimbatore collector P Rajamani, who recently recovered from Covid-19, said despite aggressive screening and testing, most fresh cases were being reported from the corporation limits. At the end of the day, while 69,697 people were tested, 5,633 were discharged, taking the total number of people recovered to 2,56,313.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/119-deaths-5871-new-covid-19-cases-across-tn/articleshow/77515434.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chennai||119 deaths, 5,871 new Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 119 deaths and 5,871 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, which took the cumulative toll to 5,278 and the case tally to 3,14,520. There were 52,929 people under treatment compared to 52,810 on Tuesday. Death rates continue to remain high -- in Madurai it was 2.5%, in Chennai 2.1% and in Coimbatore 2%. While most cases and deaths continue to be reported from the northern districts followed by the 10 southern districts, cases were rising steadily in the western zone. Of the casualties, four people were ‘brought dead’ and a dozen of them had no comorbidities. Chennai, the worst affected district, reported 993 cases and 20 deaths. The adjacent districts had 1,217 cases – Chengalpet (439), Tiruvallur (407) and Kancheepuram (371). This took the tally in the Chennai region to 2,210 cases. In the past 24 hours, the region reported 42 deaths, including 11 in Tiruvallur – the second highest in the state after Chennai. The seven other northern districts together reported 942 fresh cases and 13 deaths. Cuddalore (339), Ranipet (252), Tiruvannamalai (123) reported cases in three digits. The active cases in the Chennai region stood at 20,447, 38% of the total active cases in the state. Together, all the 11 northern districts have 55% (29,538) of active cases in the state. The 10 southern districts reported 1,446 cases and 34 deaths. Virudhunagar recorded 292 cases followed by Theni (282), Madurai (169), Tuticorin (157) Tirunelveli (137), Kanyakumari (117), Tenkasi (99) and Sivaganga (92). Tirunelveli reported nine deaths, Madurai six and Dindigul five. There were 13,194 active cases in the districts. The central districts reported fewer cases and deaths compared to west Tamil Nadu. While there were 544 cases in the central zone, the western region reported 715 cases. Coimbatore reported 294 cases, Salem 217, Pudukkottai 147 and Trichy 135. Coimbatore collector P Rajamani, who recently recovered from Covid-19, said despite aggressive screening and testing, most fresh cases were being reported from the corporation limits. At the end of the day, while 69,697 people were tested, 5,633 were discharged, taking the total number of people recovered to 2,56,313.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/119-deaths-5871-new-covid-19-cases-across-tn/articleshow/77513258.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Salem||119 deaths, 5,871 new Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 119 deaths and 5,871 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, which took the cumulative toll to 5,278 and the case tally to 3,14,520. There were 52,929 people under treatment compared to 52,810 on Tuesday. Death rates continue to remain high -- in Madurai it was 2.5%, in Chennai 2.1% and in Coimbatore 2%. While most cases and deaths continue to be reported from the northern districts followed by the 10 southern districts, cases were rising steadily in the western zone. Of the casualties, four people were ‘brought dead’ and a dozen of them had no comorbidities. Chennai, the worst affected district, reported 993 cases and 20 deaths. The adjacent districts had 1,217 cases – Chengalpet (439), Tiruvallur (407) and Kancheepuram (371). This took the tally in the Chennai region to 2,210 cases. In the past 24 hours, the region reported 42 deaths, including 11 in Tiruvallur – the second highest in the state after Chennai. The seven other northern districts together reported 942 fresh cases and 13 deaths. Cuddalore (339), Ranipet (252), Tiruvannamalai (123) reported cases in three digits. The active cases in the Chennai region stood at 20,447, 38% of the total active cases in the state. Together, all the 11 northern districts have 55% (29,538) of active cases in the state. The 10 southern districts reported 1,446 cases and 34 deaths. Virudhunagar recorded 292 cases followed by Theni (282), Madurai (169), Tuticorin (157) Tirunelveli (137), Kanyakumari (117), Tenkasi (99) and Sivaganga (92). Tirunelveli reported nine deaths, Madurai six and Dindigul five. There were 13,194 active cases in the districts. The central districts reported fewer cases and deaths compared to west Tamil Nadu. While there were 544 cases in the central zone, the western region reported 715 cases. Coimbatore reported 294 cases, Salem 217, Pudukkottai 147 and Trichy 135. Coimbatore collector P Rajamani, who recently recovered from Covid-19, said despite aggressive screening and testing, most fresh cases were being reported from the corporation limits. At the end of the day, while 69,697 people were tested, 5,633 were discharged, taking the total number of people recovered to 2,56,313.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/119-deaths-5871-new-covid-19-cases-across-tn/articleshow/77515437.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Bhopal||Working out without fear: Gyms open with 6-ft distance, oximeters and more||Bhopal: A day after the district administration issued guidelines for opening gyms, several fitness centres reopened in the state capital on Wednesday. Biggest challenge for the gym owners is to ensure the members follow the 6-feet distance directive. Most of the gym owners said the gym halls are too small to accommodate the machines and equipment maintaining such a distance and therefore, gyms could not be opened on Wednesday. As per the guidelines, the gym owners were asked to file an affidavit mentioning that they would strictly adhere to Covid norms. “As it was the first day, the number of visitors were negligible. We are informing our members to start attending work out sessions,” said Satish Kumar, owner of a gym at Bittan Market. About the guidelines he said, “We were expecting the guidelines to be strict. We have opened our gym only after completing the required facilities.” Other gyms have also opened in the state capital but majority of them have restricted to start calling the members from Thursday. A gym owner, Pankaj said, “We have got all permissions from the SDM. We were in a position to open the gym on Wednesday but members were not informed. Due to this, we will start our gym from Thursday.” Mohd Tariq, another owner of a gym in Koh-e-Fiza locality, said, “I think every gym owner was dying to open their gyms. Majority of them took permissions on Wednesday. However, several of them found it better to start the gym properly from Thursday. I have done all kinds of cleaning and other work today and opening my set-up tomorrow.” Few owners could not open their gyms due to limited space. “Most of our machines had to be moved out to adhere to the 6-feet distance guideline. We are hoping to open gym in a day or two,” said a gym owner. Any failure in following guidelines will invite a 15-day shutdown of the gym. Gym owners are asked to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the union government recently. According to the guidelines, gym owners have to specify in the affidavit the available accommodation in the gym. For a visitor, gym owner has to reserve a 4 square meter space. Spa, sauna and steam bath are not allowed to open in the gym. Gym owners have to maintain a register of every individual visiting the gym.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/working-out-without-fear-gyms-open-with-6-ft-distance-oximeters-and-more/articleshow/77511861.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 13, 2020||Patna||Petrol pump manager shot at, robbed of Rs 6.86 lakh in Patna||PATNA: Unidentified criminals shot at a petrol pump manager and looted Rs6.86 lakh from him near Zero Mile under Ramkrishna Nagar police station in Patna on Wednesday. The injured Munna Rai (40), along with another staff, had parked his bike around 10.30am and was about to enter the Union Bank of India branch to deposit the cash of Sonali petrol pump when criminals shot at him and fled with the cash, City SP (east) Jitendra Kumar said. “Munna received a gunshot injury in his thigh and is undergoing treatment at a nearby private hospital,” he said. The SP said the criminals had probably been following the employees from the petrol pump itself. He said police had got some CCTV camera footages of the suspects and were working to ascertain their identities. Kumar said though only one empty cartridge was recovered from the spot, police came to know that criminals had fired several rounds during the incident. “The money was collected from sales on Tuesday,” he added. Meanwhile, Bihar Petroleum Dealers’ Association general secretary Bijendra Sinha said they have become a soft target for criminals. “The bank is less than a kilometre away from the petrol pump whose manager was shot at and looted on Wednesday,” he said. “Though we have been asked to get security cover from the police station concerned, but practically it is impossible as there are multiple petrol pumps under one police station,” he said. Sinha said it would be better to develop some mechanism that money from all pumps under one police station is collected and police escort it to a bank. “There is no option for us but to continue depositing money as until oil companies are paid, they won’t deliver us fuel,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/petrol-pump-manager-shot-at-robbed-of-rs6-86l-in-patna/articleshow/77511878.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 13, 2020||Pune||Khadakwasla full, 18.6 TMC storage in four lifeline dams||PUNE: The August showers have brought the much needed relief with the water storage in the Khadakwasla dam reaching its full capacity of 1.97 TMC on Wednesday for the first time this rainy season. The collective stock in the four dams supplying water to the city increased to 18.6 TMC (64%). This is more than the city’s annual demand of 15 TMC. Barely a fortnight ago, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the irrigation department were mulling over starting alternate-day water supply in the city because the dams had then less than 10 TMC water. The decision on water cuts was, however, postponed to after the end of the Ganesh festival in September. Water from the Khadakwasla dam was released at the rate of 428 cusecs into the Mutha after the reservoir attained its full storage. The four dams in the Khadakwasla irrigation circle have added about 9 TMC water since the beginning of August. On July 31, the collective stock was around 9.8 TMC. PMC officials said they would continue to monitor the water levels in the dams for the next few days, as the reservoirs have reported a good increase in the storage in the past two weeks. An official said the city might not face water cuts if the similar situation continued. The four dams now have a collective capacity of 29.15 TMC water, of which about 15 TMC is used by the city. Watch Water released from Khadakwasla dam, as reservoir overflows||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/khadakwasla-full-18-6-tmc-storage-in-four-lifeline-dams/articleshow/77514187.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 13, 2020||Mumbai||Two malaria victims had Covid too, BMC in a fix over labelling deaths||MUMBAI: The city’s first two malaria victims of the year had tested positive for Covid-19 as well. The presence of dual diseases in the deceased has put the civic body in a quandary and prompted it to seek the state’s opinion on whether to label them as malaria or Covid-19 deaths. After a year of zero malaria deaths, the city had reported two casualties in the past few weeks. Malaria cases have also doubled between June and July. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) norms state death in an individual with a Covid-positive report should be counted as a coronavirus death. In this case, though, the civic body has called these deaths as suspected malaria for now, and is awaiting an evaluation by the death audit committee. “During monsoon, we had expected to see such deaths, and guidelines are needed to report such fatalities where both diseases could be present. We will wait to see what the clinical experts have to say here in terms of the attributable cause of death,” said Dr Daksha Shah, BMC’s deputy executive health officer.  She added fatalities where the cause of death is evidently not Covid but the individual had a positive report have been categorized under ‘other causes’. Mumbai has nearly 300 deaths in that category. Doctors, meanwhile, said the presentation, transmission and even progression of Covid and malaria in patients is quite distinct. Physician Dr Hemant Thacker said of the six malaria patients undergoing treatment under him, one has tested positive for Covid as well. “In my opinion, Covid is mostly coincidental. Also, malaria is caused by a parasite that attacks blood cells, whereas Covid is a viral infection and affects respiratory and endothelial cells. They really have no scientific reason for coexistence,” he said. “The complications caused by the diseases too are varied,” said Thacker. Physician Dr Pratit Samdani, who too has treated several combinations of Covid and malaria, has a word of caution though. “The D-dimer (blood test to check for serious blood clots) could be high in malaria patients too like in Covid. While in Covid, we would start them on blood thinners, in malaria we should strictly refrain from doing so,” he said. State officials said they have developed treatment guidelines for the combination of Covid and dengue. “We were yet to see the joint presentation of malaria and Covid, but we will look into this now,” said Dr Mahendra Jagtap, state entomologist. So far, the state has only laid down guidelines for carrying out mosquito-control measures in containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-malaria-victims-had-covid-too-bmc-in-a-fix-over-labelling-deaths/articleshow/77513439.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 13, 2020||Madurai||119 deaths, 5,871 new Covid-19 cases across Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 119 deaths and 5,871 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, which took the cumulative toll to 5,278 and the case tally to 3,14,520. There were 52,929 people under treatment compared to 52,810 on Tuesday. Death rates continue to remain high -- in Madurai it was 2.5%, in Chennai 2.1% and in Coimbatore 2%. While most cases and deaths continue to be reported from the northern districts followed by the 10 southern districts, cases were rising steadily in the western zone. Of the casualties, four people were ‘brought dead’ and a dozen of them had no comorbidities. Chennai, the worst affected district, reported 993 cases and 20 deaths. The adjacent districts had 1,217 cases – Chengalpet (439), Tiruvallur (407) and Kancheepuram (371). This took the tally in the Chennai region to 2,210 cases. In the past 24 hours, the region reported 42 deaths, including 11 in Tiruvallur – the second highest in the state after Chennai. The seven other northern districts together reported 942 fresh cases and 13 deaths. Cuddalore (339), Ranipet (252), Tiruvannamalai (123) reported cases in three digits. The active cases in the Chennai region stood at 20,447, 38% of the total active cases in the state. Together, all the 11 northern districts have 55% (29,538) of active cases in the state. The 10 southern districts reported 1,446 cases and 34 deaths. Virudhunagar recorded 292 cases followed by Theni (282), Madurai (169), Tuticorin (157) Tirunelveli (137), Kanyakumari (117), Tenkasi (99) and Sivaganga (92). Tirunelveli reported nine deaths, Madurai six and Dindigul five. There were 13,194 active cases in the districts. The central districts reported fewer cases and deaths compared to west Tamil Nadu. While there were 544 cases in the central zone, the western region reported 715 cases. Coimbatore reported 294 cases, Salem 217, Pudukkottai 147 and Trichy 135. Coimbatore collector P Rajamani, who recently recovered from Covid-19, said despite aggressive screening and testing, most fresh cases were being reported from the corporation limits. At the end of the day, while 69,697 people were tested, 5,633 were discharged, taking the total number of people recovered to 2,56,313.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/119-deaths-5871-new-covid-19-cases-across-tn/articleshow/77515435.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Online photo helps police identify body||PUNE: A circulating photograph of a man, who was found dead at an isolated spot on the Chakan-Shikhrapur Road on Tuesday afternoon, helped police ascertain his identity within a few hours. The residents and Shikrapur police on Tuesday found a dead man on Chakan-Shikrapur Road. The police did not find any cell phone, identity card to establish his identity. The police shifted the body to a hospital and registered a case of accidental death. The police found a small photograph of the man in his pocket and took a snap of it circulated the photograph on an Internet-based messaging service and within a few hours, the deceased man’s family members rushed to the police station. The police said the cause of the death was not yet known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/online-photo-helps-police-identify-body/articleshow/77514189.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Pune||API put under suspension, another cop dismissed||Pune: An assistant police inspector (API) was suspended and a constable was dismissed from service on Wednesday, a day after the state anti-corruption bureau arrested them in a bribe demand case on Tuesday. Superintendent of police, Pune rural, Sandip Patil issued the dismissal and suspension orders on Wednesday evening. He stated in the orders that the arrested duo — assistant inspector Arjun Keshavv Ghodepatil (38), who was in charge of the Narayangaon police station, and constable Dharmatma Karbhari Hande, posted with the special branch, had maligned the image of the police and had violated the discipline of the force by demanding the bribe from a suspect. He also instituted a departmental inquiry against Ghodepatil for further legal procedure. The state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) had on Tuesday night arrested assistant inspector Ghodepatil and constable Hande for demanding Rs5 lakh from a suspect involved in a kidnapping case. According to the ACB, Hande had demanded the bribe from the suspect on August 5 on behalf of Ghodepatil for filing chargesheet without conducting proper investigation and also for not arresting the two other suspects in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/api-put-under-suspension-another-cop-dismissed/articleshow/77514188.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||YSR Cheyutha to help 23 lakh women||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Wednesday launched YSR Cheyutha scheme, extending financial assistance of 75,000 to each beneficiary over the next four years. Over 23 lakh women from the SC, ST, BC and minority communities and in the age group of 45 to 60 years are set to get 18,750 per year. This would cost the government 4,687 core annually. It has tied up with a few private companies to help the women invest this money under the sustainable livelihood programme. The chief minister on the day interacted with the beneficiaries from his Tadepalli camp office through video conference. He said, “The YSR Cheyutha is an answer to several problems. We have, moreover, gone one step ahead by not only providing financial aid but also by opening up opportunities for entrepreneurship, starting from small grocery stores to dairy and food processing units, and we are also helping them get bank loans for their endeavours.” The beneficiaries will have full freedom on how they would like to spend the annual amount. For those who want to invest the money, village volunteers will come to the beneficiaries with a two-page letter to take their consent and the state has a business model ready for them. The state has signed MoUs with ITC, Proctor & Gamble, HUL, Amul and Reliance, besides banks, to help women who start small or medium business units. In the coming days there would be MoUs with more major business houses that will create more business opportunities. These companies will supply their products at the price they are supplying to their agents or even for less so that the women entrepreneurs can profit, he said. SERP (Society for Elimination of Rural Poverty) and Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) will coordinate in the process. During the interaction, the beneficiaries thanked the chief minister for launching the scheme during the current challenging time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ysr-cheyutha-to-help-23l-women/articleshow/77513295.cms||Gopi Dara
August 13, 2020||Bhopal||MP: BJP, Congress spar over poster portraying ‘Kamal Nath as Arjun’||BHOPAL: A digital poster of Congress leader and former chief minister Kamal Nath, portraying him as ‘Vikas ka Arjun’ (Arjun of development) from the great epic Mahabharata went viral on social media sites on the occasion of Krishna Janmashtami on Wednesday. The poster stirred a war of words between Congress and the ruling BJP with state home minister Narottam Mishra taking a dig at the ‘soft-Hindutva’ approach of the opposition. He said Congress has turned opportunistic and is trying to take political benefits from the Hindu festivals. “Kabhi Sunder Kand karte hain, kabhi darbar sajate hain, kuchh log aise hain jo halaat dekhkar bazaar lagate hain,” (Sometimes they recite Sunder Kand, and sometimes decorates Krishna Darbar (court). There are people who set their market by gauging the political) situation),” said Mishra on the poster politics. Commenting on Nath’s ‘Arjun avtar’, the BJP minister said, “Arjun was never like Nath, who has reduced the Congress army to rubble. The condition of Congress is pitiable.” On Congress’s plan for the upcoming bypolls where it plans to appoint an army of 15,000 workers on each assembly seat, Mishra retorted, “Do Congress have 20,000 workers in Madhya Pradesh. When they have no followers, how will they appoint 15,000 workers on a single seat.” The poster, which was circulated by Congress state secretary Rakesh Singh Yadav, showcased Nath as the saviour of the party. It depicts Nath as skilled archer Arjun, who is extending Janmashtami greetings to the public. It also depicts Lord Krishna in a Virat Swaroop (Great One), who is the guiding force. BJP has turned offensive since Nath held celebrations on the bhoomi pujan of the Ram temple construction in Ayodhya and held recitations of the ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ and ‘Sunder Kand’ last week. On Janmashtami, the PCC president has also extended greetings to the public with a note, “Lord Krishna’s life inspires struggle against injustice and oppression”. Congress leaders said that through the poster they have made clear that no matter how large BJP is, Congress will emerge victorious. “No matter how large the Kaurava army was, the battle was won by the Pandavas. People will reject those who change parties in the bypolls,” said Congress state media coordinator, Narendra Saluja. Former minister Sajjan Singh Verma said, “Home minister Mishra’s statement on Lord Krishna is shameful and his remarks that Congress has set up a market of gods is condemnable. This is highly insulting and he should immediately apologise for his remarks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-cong-spar-over-poster-portraying-nath-as-arjun/articleshow/77511875.cms||Rajendra Sharma
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||New cop SOP in corona times||Kolkata: Lalbazar has prepared a comprehensive standard operating procedure (SOP) for cops to deal with the pandemic. Unlike in the past when orders had been restricted only to handling outsiders at police stations and managing the barracks, this 30-page long SOP covers every aspect of policing, including the law and order duties, VIP duty, specific raids, movement with the accused after arrest and handing over of official documents. “We have prepared the SOP to cover all aspects of practical problems faced by cops. This has been prepared after a wide counselling involving junior officers, doctors and virologists. The document should come in handy for every occasion,” said a joint CP at Lalbazar. Kolkata Police have had over 1,600 Covid cases so far while nine personnel died of Covid-19. Several divisions like North and Southwest (Behala) have made many changes at the police stations like setting up specific cubicles for visitors, anti-spit glass partitions and separate changing room for those coming from outside. Almost every police station has set up temporary barracks to maintain social distancing at the old police barracks. Among the ideas propagated are simple like sanitizing entry and exit gates with bleaching powder, sodium hypochlorite and phenyl. Those at the reception have been asked to stock up extra face masks for guests. The new ideas include not allowing visitors to touch any sliding door (it is to be kept open), removing visitors with cough and fever to safe homes and segregating the parking of police vehicles from the public. The senior officers are coming up with specific short term solutions too. Take the case of north division. After several inspector level officers were infected with Covid and many others fell ill, the division has booked hotels and community centres that would serve as temporary barracks. About 50% of the barracks’ workforce has been asked to move to such temporary accomodations. At Behala, where a few cases have been reported from the barracks, cops have set up a separate quarantine centre at Taratala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-cop-sop-in-corona-times/articleshow/77513325.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||AP witnesses 9,600 fresh Covid-19 cases||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh recorded 9,597 new cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative tally to 2,54,146 while the toll reached 2,296 with 93 deaths. About 6,600 Covid-19 patients were discharged from various treating facilities on Wednesday. There are currently 90,425 active cases with 1,64,425 cumulative recoveries. The recovery rate further improved to 63% with the fresh discharges. Even though the number of daily new cases seems to have stabilised in the last one week, the number of deaths continued to be on the higher side. The overall mortality rate currently stood at 0.9%. Kurnool crossed the 30,000 case milestone on Wednesday to become the second district to achieve such a grim feat. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-witnesses-9600-fresh-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77513324.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara: Water storage in dams goes up||Kolhapur: Spells of heavy rainfall in the past one week have helped in increasing the water level of dams across Satara district. According to official data, the live storage of Chandoli dam is 86%, while Koyna, the biggest dam in western Maharashtra, has 72 % water storage — 72 TMC water as against its capacity of 105 TMC. An irrigation department official said that water storage in the dam has increased by 30 TMC during the ongoing monsoon. Seven other major dams, including Dhom, Kanher, Urmodi, Tarli, Neera Deoghar, Bhatgar and Veer, have more than 60 % water storage. Veer and Urmodi dams have 94% and 86% water storage .tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-water-storage-in-dams-goes-up/articleshow/77510770.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kochi||Covid curbs put fresh challenges to KEAM||Covid-19 pandemic seems to have hit Kerala engineering and pharmacy entrance examination (KEAM) in more than on way. The state government conducted the entrance test on July 16 braving all odds and criticisms. But now, authorities are finding it difficult to carry out the scanning of answer booklets at the desired speed due to Covid restrictions. A team of around 25 people in the office of the commissioner for entrance examinations carry out the duties in connection with the conduct of the examination and its valuation. The OMR-based answer booklets are evaluated using high-end scanners. Generally, one or two technicians of a Delhi-based company, which has been awarded the annual maintenance contract, would camp in the office of the entrance commissioner during the scanning process. This time, at least 2.5 lakh answer booklets have to be evaluated. Since it’s a massive scanning process, technical glitches are bound to happen. Usually, technicians from New Delhi would be available at the CEE office, providing assistance throughout the process. However, the scanning hit an unexpected glitch this time as health authorities insisted that technicians coming from New Delhi should go on quarantine before they step into the entrance commissioner’s office. As a result, many of the technicians are not ready to come to Kerala for the work and the ones who finally come are forced to spent time in hotel rooms. “The company sends technicians for short visits that last for a maximum of seven days. They come with Covid-negative certificates, but are not allowed to get into the CEE office. As a result, the machines and its parts are taken to the technicians at the hotel room for repair or replacement. This process has considerably slowed down the evaluation process,’’ sources in the office of CEE said. However, commissioner for entrance examinations A Geetha said her office staff were working hard to complete the evaluation at the earliest. “Despite several hiccups, the entrance results would be ready by the end of August,’’ she said. The final list is prepared once the candidates enter their Plus Two marks on the CEE website and the normalisation of marks obtained by students from streams are carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-curbs-bring-new-hurdles-for-keam-evaluation/articleshow/77522226.cms||B S Anilkumar
August 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid curbs put fresh challenges to KEAM||Covid-19 pandemic seems to have hit Kerala engineering and pharmacy entrance examination (KEAM) in more than on way. The state government conducted the entrance test on July 16 braving all odds and criticisms. But now, authorities are finding it difficult to carry out the scanning of answer booklets at the desired speed due to Covid restrictions. A team of around 25 people in the office of the commissioner for entrance examinations carry out the duties in connection with the conduct of the examination and its valuation. The OMR-based answer booklets are evaluated using high-end scanners. Generally, one or two technicians of a Delhi-based company, which has been awarded the annual maintenance contract, would camp in the office of the entrance commissioner during the scanning process. This time, at least 2.5 lakh answer booklets have to be evaluated. Since it’s a massive scanning process, technical glitches are bound to happen. Usually, technicians from New Delhi would be available at the CEE office, providing assistance throughout the process. However, the scanning hit an unexpected glitch this time as health authorities insisted that technicians coming from New Delhi should go on quarantine before they step into the entrance commissioner’s office. As a result, many of the technicians are not ready to come to Kerala for the work and the ones who finally come are forced to spent time in hotel rooms. “The company sends technicians for short visits that last for a maximum of seven days. They come with Covid-negative certificates, but are not allowed to get into the CEE office. As a result, the machines and its parts are taken to the technicians at the hotel room for repair or replacement. This process has considerably slowed down the evaluation process,’’ sources in the office of CEE said. However, commissioner for entrance examinations A Geetha said her office staff were working hard to complete the evaluation at the earliest. “Despite several hiccups, the entrance results would be ready by the end of August,’’ she said. The final list is prepared once the candidates enter their Plus Two marks on the CEE website and the normalisation of marks obtained by students from streams are carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-curbs-bring-new-hurdles-for-keam-evaluation/articleshow/77511936.cms||B S Anilkumar
August 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: ACP Shivaji Pawar gets minister’s medal||PUNE: Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Shivaji Pawar, the Pune police’s investigating officer in the Elgar Parishad case till it was transferred last year to the National Investigation Agency, has been named among the 121 winners of the “Union Home minister’s medal for excellence in investigation”, declared on Wednesday ahead of the Independence Day. Pawar did extensive work on the investigation part of the Elgar Parishad case that involved unravelling of what the police claimed as an alleged Maoist plot to execute “anti-national” activities, for which the stringent UAPA provisions were invoked in the case. Pawar is currently holding the charge of the economic offences wing (EOW). He is heading another high-profile case involving jailed developer D S Kulkarni, and his kin and company officials in a multi-crore investment fraud by the DSK group of companies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/acp-pawar-gets-ministers-medal/articleshow/77514198.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Pune||Duo rob gas agency staffer in Pune||PUNE: Two men riding a scooter intercepted a tempo carrying LPG gas cylinders and robbed its driver of cash and cellphone, collectively worth Rs24,500, in Ramtekdi industrial area at Wanowrie on July 12. The complaint was registered by the tempo driver on Tuesday. Vishwajeet Jagtap, assistant inspector, Wanowrie police, said, “The driver was on way to an HP gas agency when the duo roughed him up and robbed him before speeding away on their scooter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-rob-gas-agency-staffer/articleshow/77514192.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kolhapur||765 cases in Kolhapur dist||Kolhapur: The district reported 765 fresh Covid-19 patients and 18 deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 12,278 and the death toll rose to 341. The number of active cases stands at 6,947. The district administration has ordered private hospitals to provide the government approved chart of rates for treatments to facilitate self-auditing of bills issued by private hospitals. Sangli district reported 280 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of patients to 5,270, 11 deaths have been reported on Wednesday. The death toll stands at 176. Seven mill operators assured to set up covid care centre of 100-bed capacity each in a meeting with district collect Abhijeet Chaudhary. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/765-cases-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/77510784.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Lecturers with fake PhD to face criminal action||ROHTAK: Days after the Haryana department of higher education (DHE) sought verification of PhD degrees of government college lecturers in the state following complaints in this regard, the department has formed a committee headed by a senior HCS official to proceed with criminal action against the errant teachers. As per the decision, action would also be taken against the officer in charge of verification for hiding or suppressing facts related to the fake degrees acquired by lecturers. Confirming the move, DHE director general Ajit Balaji Joshi said a complaint had been received against 500 lecturers working in government colleges in the state and directions were given to the principals of their respective colleges to verify the degrees of accused lecturers. A committee has been constituted now under additional director-rank officer (HCS) Dinesh Yadav to initiate criminal proceedings against the defaulting lecturers, he said. Following a complaint that several lecturers had obtained fake PhD degrees from private universities outside the state without actually fulfilling the UGC norms, the DHE had written to the principals of government colleges to submit a report within a month’s time after investigating the authenticity of the degrees under the scanner. Complainant and RTI activist Kartar Singh said he had lodged a complaint with the DHE against such lecturers. The game of selling of degrees by private universities can be curbed only after a proper investigation, he said. Commenting on the trend, S P S Dahiya, retired professor and former registrar of Maharshi Dayanand University, said PhD degrees awarded by private universities are scandalous. These universities do not have regular, experienced teachers to be appointed as guides and entrance exams are a sham, he said. “One can buy a Ph.d for three to four lakhs from these private universities. Even the UGC is aware of the scandal, but nobody is willing to bell the cat because big politicians own these teaching shops known as private universities,” he added. As per the UGC norms, a candidate should either be NET qualified or PhD degree holder to be eligible to apply for lecturer jobs in universities or colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fake-phd-holder-lecturers-to-face-criminal-action/articleshow/77513301.cms||Sat Singh
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Implement apex court verdict on SYL canal: Haryana deputy CM||AMRITSAR: Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said here on Wednesday that the Supreme Court verdict on the Satluj-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal should be implemented. He was here to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple, along with his family members, on Wednesday. Later talking to mediapersons, Dushyant said Haryana was committed to bringing water through the SYL. He also expressed concern over the depleting groundwater and suggested that Indian river waters going to Pakistan must be stopped, which could instead fulfil the water requirements of the Indian states. In reply to a question over illicit liquor, he said the Haryana government had always acted with an iron fist against the bootleggers. He said during the Covid-19 lockdown, as many as 1,250 FIRs were registered against illegal liquor traders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sc-verdict-on-syl-canal-should-be-implemented/articleshow/77513355.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Police action for breaking isolation rules||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has decided to file police complaints against those patients, who are not following home isolation guidelines . Currently, over 350 patients are in home isolation. Nikhil More, nodal officer and deputy commissioner of KMC, said, “We have asked our teams to keep strict vigil on the homes of these patients. They should not move outside their house and rooms. Our staff will be at their service anytime they call for any kind of emergency.” He said they will face police complaint if the civic staff finds that the patients are not following home isolation. The civic body is taking an undertaking from patients with pre-symptoms or mild symptoms that they would be following home isolation guidelines strictly.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/police-action-for-breaking-isolation-rules/articleshow/77510800.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Pune||Wireman electrocuted in Sangvi||Pune: A 32-year-old MSEDCL wireman was electrocuted while checking a fault in a transformer at Famous Chowk in Sangvi on Friday. Police have identified the wireman as Hanumant Bhise of Pimple Gurav. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wireman-electrocuted-in-sangvi/articleshow/77493318.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Convict out on parole in net, second within 48 hours||PUNE: Crime branch officers on Tuesday arrested seven men, including a convict recently released from the Yerawada central jail on an emergency parole in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, and foiled their plan to rob a jewellery store on Magarapatta Road. This was the second instance within 48 hours of police arresting a convict indulging in criminal activity after being released from jail on an emergency parole following the outbreak of Covid-19. On Tuesday afternoon, crime branch officers raided flat number 406 of the Daffodils Society’s ‘B’ wing and seized two country-made pistols, a rifle, two sickles, nine bullets and two vehicles, including a four-wheeler, from the seven persons. Five of these arrested men were criminals on record, including the convict, Vishal, alias Janglya Shyam Satpute. Senior crime branch inspector Rajendra Mokashi told TOI, “They were planning to rob a jewellery store on Magarpatta Road. A police team, led by sub-inspector Kiran Adagale, raided the flat, arrested them and recovered the weapons, ammunition and vehicles, collectively worth over Rs14.8 lakh.” Satpute and his accomplice, Akash Sapkal, are accused in the murder of criminal on police records Kunal Pol. He was shot dead on November 13, 2013. Satpute was released on parole 15 days ago. Sapkal is out on bail since 2014. “Three others, Pankaj Gaikwad, Raju Sharan and Ganesh Kunjir are criminals on record. Hrishikesh Pawar and Rameshwar Kajale have no criminal antecedents. All of them will be in police custody till August 19,” Mokashi said. The officer said investigation revealed that Sunil Bhonsle, a landowner in Magarpatta City, was the owner of the flat. Satpute had taken the flat on rent from Bhonsle by providing a fake identity. But there was no rental agreement between the two parties. On Sunday, crime branch officers had arrested a convict out on an emergency parole and his accomplice for robbing a private hospital’s ward boy of his cellphone and cash, totally worth over Rs8,000, at Ramwadi on the pretext of offering him a lift on the night of August 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/convict-out-on-parole-in-net-second-within-48-hrs/articleshow/77514201.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 13, 2020||Patna||Sushant Singh Rajput’s kin send legal notice to Sanjay Raut||PATNA: BJP MLA and Sushant Singh Rajput’s cousin, Niraj Kumar Singh Bablu, has sent a legal notice to Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut seeking an apology for his alleged derogatory remarks against the late actor’s father KK Singh.  Sushant’s cousin represents the Chhatapur assembly seat from Supaul. Raut, in his weekly Sunday column in ‘Saamna’, had alleged that Sushant’s father had married for the second time so the actor was not happy and did not have a good relation with him. Sushant had allegedly committed suicide at his Mumbai residence on June 14. Singh’s counsel Birendra Kumar Jha ‘Anish’ told TOI over phone on Wednesday that the notice was sent to Raut on Tuesday in which he had been asked to apologise. “He has been granted a timeframe of 48 hours to apologise after receipt of the notice served via email,” he said. Watch Sushant Singh Rajput death case: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut slapped with legal notice by actor's kin for controversial remarks on KK Singh's second marriage||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sushants-kin-send-legal-notice-to-raut/articleshow/77511949.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||New Vizag top cop has handled Nirav Modi case||VISAKHAPATNAM: Manish Kumar Sinha, the new police commissioner of Visakhapatnam, has dealt with several high-profile cases in his career, including that of fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi. Sinha made headlines in 2018 after he filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court against Rakesh Asthana, then second-in-command in CBI, claiming he was transferred from the central investigating agency to change the course of the probe and help Asthana. Sinha even named national security adviser Ajit Doval and a former Union minister in his affidavit, wherein he urged the apex court to fix a timeline for wrapping up investigations in high-profile cases. He was also assigned the task of probing important cases such as the PNB scam involving Nirav Modi. Then CBI director Alok Verma had directed him to investigate a corruption case against Asthana when he was a DIG in CBI. The appointment of the 2000 batch IPS officer, known for his sincerity, is seen as a move to maintain law and order in Visakhapatnam, proposed to be the executive capital. Late on Tuesday night, the government replaced 1995 batch IPS officer Rajeev Kumar Meena, an ADG rank officer, with the IG rank officer. Sinha, Asthana and Arun Kumar Sharma were transferred by the central government in January 2019. Sinha came to his parent AP cadre in September the same year. He also had a brief stint as state intelligence IG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-vizag-top-cop-has-handled-nirav-modi-case/articleshow/77513364.cms||Siva G
August 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Pandemic puts the brakes on Ganesh Puja festivities||VIJAYAWADA/VISAKHAPATNAM/TIRUPATI: Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations this year are expected to go the way of all festivals since March — a low-key, sombre affair. While many organisers have planned smaller celebrations, several have decided to give the festival a miss this year. “We used to sell at least 150 large idols every year and festival committees would book the idols two months in advance. But the situation has changed now and we have received only five orders till date. We have stopped finishing work on large idols and are focusing on small ones,” said Guru Ramji, a plaster-of-paris idol sculptor from Kanuru in Vijayawada. Vijayawada city police have said no large-scale celebrations will be permitted this year and Unlock 3.0 guidelines will be strictly implemented. Authorities at the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) will make arrangements for immersion at river ghats downstream of the Prakasam barrage. However, in Visakhapatnam, city police are yet to announce clear directives for celebrations. Most organisers claimed that they are uncertain if police would grant permissions to organise community pujas. If permissions are granted, preparations will be made on a small scale, they said. “Even if permission is sought at the last moment we have to order a small idol and organise the puja on a small scale. This year there won’t be a huge footfall of devotees. So, our focus in not on pomp and show, we just want to organise a small puja to ensure that our tradition of 35 years is not broken,” said P Uma Maheswara Rao, a puja oprganiser from Gopalapatnam in Visakhapatnam, the state’s most popular Ganesh Chaturthi venue. On Thursday, TOI visited some artisans’ workshops in Visakhapatnam – one at the Dairy Firm crossing on National Highway (NH)-16 and the other at Lawson’s Bay on Beach Road. While takers for Ganesh idols at the first workshop are few, the second workshop has been shut down. “Every year, we start making the idols two months before the puja and start receiving contacts at least 25 to 30 days before the day of the puja. We sold around 82 idols last year. However, this year, we have made around 40 idols. But even 10 days before the puja we have not received a single contact,” said Heeralal Ram, an artisan from Jodhpur. “Never in my life has there been such a dull Ganesh Chaturthi. Rather, I would say, any disaster in the past could not hit the sale of idols. We have not received any order so we have decided to stop our workshop completely,” said Ramu Srinivas, the owner of Lawson’s Bay workshop. Meanwhile, in Tirupati, member of the Ganesh Utsav Committee – the sole organisers of the festival in the city — recently met the superintendent of police, requesting permission to construct a pandal and to allow a procession during the immersion ceremony. However, Tirupati SP Avula Ramesh Reddy denied permission. “We will just organise the rituals on a small scale,” Samanchi Srinivas, Ganesh Utsav Committee, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pandemic-puts-the-brakes-on-ganesh-puja-festivities/articleshow/77511958.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Dehradun||Teenage boy accuses senior IPS officer of brutal assault inside police chowki, probe ordered||Dehradun: An IPS officer of the rank of additional director general (ADG) in Uttarakhand Police has been accused of calling a teenage boy to a police chowki in Dehradun and mercilessly beating him up and burning his hand with a cigarette. As per the complaint submitted by the boy’s family in Uttarakhand Police headquarters, their son was friends with the daughter of the senior cop, which, according to the victim, antagonised the officer, who called him at a police chowki on August 10 and beat him brutally with the help of four other police personnel. “The ADG-rank officer called me at Bindal police chowki on August 10 afternoon saying that he needs some help regarding a personal matter. On reaching there, he started slapping and beating me mercilessly. He then along with other police personnel stationed at the police chowki took my clothes off and burnt me with a cigarette. He also threatened me with dire consequences if I told someone outside about the incident,” said the boy in his complaint. Soon after the incident, the family took the boy, who is over 18-years-old, to the community health centre (CHC) in Premnagar for medical examination, which confirmed assault by three to four people. The medical report also mentions multiple abrasions below both ears, buttocks and cigarette burn marks on the right hand. Acting on the written complaint, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dehradun has been asked to conduct a detailed probe in the matter. SSP Dehradun, meanwhile, handed over the enquiry to superintendent of police (SP) City Shweta Choubey and sought a report within three days. In a late night development on Tuesday, the senior IPS officer in question also submitted a counter complaint against the boy, accusing him of sexual harassment and seeking action against him. Speaking to TOI, the concerned senior police officer refuted all the allegations levelled against him and said, "I didn't call the boy. In fact, he called on my number. He was indulging in social media stalking of my daughter and was regularly bullying her. I have stated all facts in my complaint given to the police." Speaking about the matter, Ashok Kumar, director general (DG) law and order, said, “We have ordered a detailed probe in complaints filed by both parties. Further action would be taken based on the enquiry findings. Currently, these are mere allegations.” When contacted, the father of the boy told TOI, “My son was brutally beaten inside the police chowki. Even if I presume that my son was at fault, that didn’t give the police officer any power to call him and brutally assault him. He should have informed me or taken a lawful course. I fear for my family’s life as he is a senior police officer and we are common people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/teenage-boy-accuses-senior-ips-officer-of-brutal-assault-inside-police-chowki-probe-ordered/articleshow/77510807.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana to see protests for next 3 days||CHANDIGARH: With the Congress party and several other unions and associations announcing a series of protests over various issues, Haryana is set to see rallies and demonstrations in the coming days, especially over the next three days. Starting with protests by the opposition party on Thursday, this spell of agitations will end with demonstrations by the Haryana Roadways employees on August 20. The Congress leaders, MLAs and office-bearers of different units of the party, led by leader of the opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and HPCC president and former Union minister Kumari Selja, will protest against the alleged inaction by the government in liquor scam, registries scam, paddy scam, etc. On Friday, the 1983 sacked physical training instructors (PTIs) will organise a Jail Bharo Andolan. Keeping in view their protests, the Haryana Roadways employees have deferred their protests to August 20. Their leader Sarban Singh Punia said the protests, which are to be held to express resentment over the pending demands, have been deferred due to the protest by PTI teachers. Meanwhile, the Haryana unit of Bhartiya Kisan Union headed by Gurnam Singh Chaduni also announced to protest on August 15, the Independence Day. Farmer organisations have been protesting to press for their demands to withdraw the proposed agriculture ordinances passed by the Union government and fixing of MSP on the comprehensive cost (C2) formula. They have announced to wear black badges during the protest and show black flags to dignitaries. Meanwhile, the Haryana Police claimed to have made elaborate arrangements to ensure law and order during the protests. “Protest is their right and we are monitoring the situation to ensure that law and order remains under control,’’ said officials at the police headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-to-see-protests-for-next-3-days/articleshow/77513368.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Kerala man reunites with family after 17 yrs, was in shelter home||Rajahmundry: A 41-year-old man from Palakkad, Kerala was reunited with his family on Wednesday after a wait of 17 years. Rameshan, who has schizophrenia, had left Palakkad in 2003. Over the next 19 years, he wandered across southern India as a destitute. When the lockdown was imposed in March, he was in Rajahmundry in East Godavari district. Police shifted him to a shelter home as part of a special drive. At the home, counselling sessions for migrant workers were held by a team under the East Godavari District Mental Health Programme. It was here that the DMHP team diagnosed Rameshan with schizophrenia. Over the course of counselling sessions, it emerged that Rameshan was from Palakkad. Dr Vasu, psychiatrist and Dr Sudarshini, clinical psychologist with the DMHP contacted the district mental health centre in Palakkad, where officials recognised Rameshan as having received treatment in the past. The centre in Palakkad got in touch with Rameshan’s family and his sister contacted him on a video call and identified him. Due to the lockdown, however, the shelter home was unable to send Rameshan back to Kerala. During this period, an NGO Swarnanadhra, provided him with accommodation and the DMHP team monitored his health every day. On August 11, with the help of district collector Muralidhar Reddy and joint collector G Lakshmisha, Rameshan left for Kerala. He arrived home on Wednesday morning and reunited with his father and sister. Talking to TOI, Dr Sudarshini said an overwhelmed Rameshan called her after reuniting with his family. The experience, she said, has been one of the positive impacts of the lockdown||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kerala-man-reunites-with-family-after-17-yrs-was-in-shelter-home/articleshow/77513406.cms||Samson Raj
August 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Konkan, parts of Maha likely to receive intense rain: IMD||Kolhapur: A low pressure belt is likely to form over the north of Bay of Bengal thatwill trigger intense rainfall over North Konkan, parts of northand central Maharashtra from Thursday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.On Wednesday, Kolhapur district reported 30.2 mm rainfall — highest in centralMaharashtra region. The dams in the district have attained 80% to 100% water level. Kolhapur is going to receive moderate rainfall till August 15, however, on the next day, there will be heavy to very heavy rainfall in the district, as per IMD Mumbai’s forecast.K S Hosalikar, deputy director of IMD, Mumbai, said, “The conditions are most favourable now for the formation of the low pressure belt in north of Bay of Bengal.The rains will be intense in Mumbai, Thane, Palghar, Dhule, Pune and in ghat sections of South Maharashtra.”Marathwada region will remain dry, while rest will have very heavy to moderate rainfall. In the current season, Marathwada has received excess rainfall while the rainfall is deficient in some districts of Vidharbha region. Speaking on the floods last year, Hosalikar, said, “There was deep depression near to cyclonic condition. It had sustained for some days which led to heavy rainfall in Kolhapur and Sangli districts. This year, the wind behaviour is different.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/konkan-parts-of-maha-likely-to-receive-intense-rain-imd/articleshow/77510815.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Shripad Naik, wife test +ve for Covid-19, in home isolation||PANAJI: Union minister of state for defence and Ayush minister Shripad Naik and his wife, Vijaya, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. They are home quarantined. Naik tweeted that he had taken a Covid-19 test and was asymptomatically positive. “My vitals are within normal limits and I have opted for home isolation,” his tweet read. He has appealed to those who have met him in the last few days to get tested and take the required precautions. His eldest son Sidhesh told TOI that Naik’s condition was stable and there was nothing to worry about. The Union minister had recently returned from Delhi. “Everyone in the family has undergone the Covid test. The reports of all other members are negative,” he added. Naik stays in Ribandar, around 4km from Panaji. A lot of cases of Covid-19 have been detected in Ribandar after a spurt in infection was witnessed in Panaji. The capital’s total active cases inched closer to 150 on Wednesday. The fatalities in the state have shot up this month taking the death toll to 89. Last month too, the Ayush minister had undergone a Covid test after a neighbour had tested positive, but the result was negative. During and post-lockdown period, Naik was active in the state, but a few days ago had asked people not to visit his home in view of the rise in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ayush-minister-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77514212.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||TN mounts vigil on ‘mystery seed parcels’||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu seed certification department has stepped up vigil on seed outlets in the state in the wake of a central government alert about “mystery seed parcels” surfacing in various locations across the globe. The Centre had said in a communication to state agriculture departments on August 6 to be vigilant about “suspicious seed parcels,” after several such unsolicited parcels were received by farmers in the US, Canada, UK, New Zealand and European countries. The Centre has warned that thousands of shipments have been reported from across the world and the seeds could be a threat to biodiversity. Based on the Centre’s communication, officials of TN Directorate of Seed Certification had asked deputy directors and seed inspectors to inspect seed selling points across the state. Subsequently, from August 7, 15 deputy directors and 70 seed inspectors of the enforcement wing of the directorate started inspecting seed selling points in all districts to find whether the mystery seeds have made their way here. “We have inspected a total of 1,766 selling points across the state. So far, no such seeds have been found,’’ said M Subbiah, director of seed certification and organic certification. The officials did not come across any instance of such mystery parcels either. Apart from inspections, the officials are also interacting with farmers and public to create awareness on the mystery seeds. According to global media reports, the mystery parcels were surfacing as early as April bearing the proper postal address of the receiver raising suspicion over data breach as well. The sender’s address ranged from China, inviting a swift denial from the country that the parcels did not originate there. USDA termed it as a ‘brushing scam’, where e-commerce sites create fake orders to boost ratings for a product. It also termed it ‘agricultural smuggling.’ The US Department of Agriculture (USDA) identified seeds of species like mustard and few more crops and had warned farmers not to sow them. USDA had cautioned that the seeds could be that of invasive species and an attempt to spread pathogens. The countries have launched investigations to find out the origin of the mystery parcels, but there has been little progress. Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICMR) has said it has sought inputs from global agriculture research bodies on the phenomenon. The Union agriculture ministry had said that such seeds are threat to biodiversity and has asked the state agriculture departments, agri universities, seed research institutes and seed corporations to be vigilant. Subbiah said that there are 11,282 licensed seed selling points in TN.. The officials routinely inspect these places to weed out substandard or unauthorized seeds. Now that the issue has surfaced, officials would be inspecting all the selling points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-mounts-vigil-on-mystery-seed-parcels/articleshow/77513373.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Fishing resumes in dist||Thiruvananthapuram: With the return of favourable weather, fishing activities resumed in the district on Wednesday. The activities resumed around 3pm with the fishermen from Poonthura and Valiyathura regions launching their boats into the sea from Vizhinjam fishing harbour. They are expected to return by Thursday or Friday. District collector Navjot Khosa said even though existing restrictions on fishing were extended till Saturday in the wake of a warning issued by the IMD which predicted strong waves along state’s coast, the curbs were lifted after the latter withdrew their warning hours later. The collector said the fishermen are advised to follow the guidelines issued on August 5. As per the guidelines, fishing activities will be allowed only from Vizhinjam harbour. Fishing can be done on six days in a week. Three days (Monday, Wednesday and Saturday) are reserved for fishermen of Vizhinjam region. Those from the region between Poonthura and Veli can use the harbour for two days (Thursday and Friday). Only one day is allowed for fishermen from the region between Chovvara and Pozhiyoor. The fishermen from Pozhiyoor and Pulluvila regions had expressed their dissent over the limited time allowed for them. “It is the harbour-management committee that decides the schedule after taking into account various factors. Only one day was allotted to fishermen from Chovvara to Pozhiyoor because they have relatively calm shore where landing of boats is possible even if the weather is a little rough,’’ the collector said, adding a meeting will be held on Sunday to review the conditions. The current SOP (standard operating procedures) will be changed if weather improves, Khosa said. Meanwhile, more relaxations were granted to coastal areas that continue to remain as critical-containment zones. Fuel stations and shops selling essential commodities here can function from 7am to 3pm. Sub-registrar offices and scheduled banks can function with 50% staff on all working days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fishing-resumes-in-dist/articleshow/77511986.cms||---
August 13, 2020||India||Doc on oxygen support risks life to save man||Surat: The entire staff of a Covid-19 ICU of a Surat hospital were left speechless when a Covid positive doctor being treated there removed his ventilator and intubated a critically-ill elderly patient without wasting even a split second. Dr Sanket Mehta, an anaesthetist, saved the life of 71-year-old Dinesh Purani, who required urgent intubation for ventilator support. According to doctors, intubation of a collapsed patient has to be done within three minutes or else it could damage the brain permanently. The incident took place on August 9. Talking to TOI, BAPS Hospital CEO Dr Parshottam Koradia said, "Intubating critically-ill patients is the job of an anaesthetist. Our own anaesthetist could have taken 15-20 minutes to reach the ICU after wearing the PPE kit. In the meantime, Dr Mehta removed his high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) - oxygen support - and intubated the patient."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/doc-on-oxygen-support-risks-life-to-save-man/articleshow/77515169.cms||Melvyn Reggie Thomas
August 13, 2020||Kanpur||Chief secy removes CMS, Kanshiram hosp during surprise inspection of command centre||Kanpur: The chief medical superintendent of Kanshiram Hospital, a Covid care unit in Kanpur, was shunted out late Tuesday during a surprise inspection of the command control room by chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, who was camping in the city. Dr Dinesh Sachan was appointed chief medical superintendent (CMS) in place of Dr S K Pandey, who was removed for dereliction of duty while treating corona patients. Pandey, however, will continue to work in the hospital. The chief secretary made a random call on a number written in the complaint register at the command control centre late Tuesday and a woman who picked the call apprised him about how her husband was in a critical condition at Kanshiram Hospital, but was not being shifted to a LLR hospital despite repeated pleas. The chief secretary promised prompt action and directed Dr R P Yadav, additional director medical health, to remove the CMS of Kanshiram hospital, which was wracked by controversies over the week after several patients and attendants cried apathy by doctors. “Remove such careless officials and seek explanation from them, the CS said. Later, Dr Sudhir Bobde, divisional commissioner, confirmed that Dr Pandey had been removed. After inspection of the command control room, Tiwari held a meeting with officials and told them to take all necessary steps measure to check the spread of corona in the city. Increase 300 beds in L-3 hospitals and purchase ventilators and other equipment for which the state government has already sanctioned a sum of Rs 5 crore, he said. Earlier, the chief medical officer informed that Level-3 hospitals have around 250 beds. Contact people as soon as they test positive, inquire about their condition and whether they want to get admitted in any hospital or want home isolation if they are asymptomatic and have required facilities at home, Tewari said. The chief secretary also directed officials to increase the number of private hospitals for treatment of corona patients and improve facilities in government hospitals. He told the CMO to present the requirement of staff, doctors, nurses and beds and told him to inspect all hospitals and ensure there are no shortcomings. Contact daily patients of home isolation. Secretary medical education Amit Gupta, mayor Pramila Pandey, divisional commissioner Dr Sudhir M Bobde, and district officials were present in the meeting. After inspection of the command control room convened a meeting with officials and said to take every measure to check the spread of corona in the city. Enhance around 300 beds in L- 3 hospitals and purchase ventilators and other equipment .The state government had already sanctioned a sum of Rs 5 crore for it. Even then if there was any problem then get that removed through the divisional commissioner. Earlier the chief medical officer informed that at present level – 3 hospital had around 250 bed facility.The chief secretary immediately ordered to enhance 300 more beds. Contact with patients as soon as his medical report is received.Ask him about his condition and also whether he wants to go for home isolation or get admitted in any hospital.Home isolation facility should not be given to the patients of serious nature. Mayor Pramila Pandey,Dr Sudhir M Bobde divisional commissioner, Amit Gupta secretary medical education and district officials were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/chief-secy-removes-cms-kanshiram-hosp-during-surprise-inspection-of-command-centre/articleshow/77514203.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Trichy||10 more who attended Mayiladuthurai public hearing test positive||Nagapattinam: Apart from two MPs and an MLA, around ten people including six employees of the collector’s office and their primary contacts who participated in the public hearing held at Mayiladuthurai on July 30 have tested positive for Covid-19. The meeting was led by the commissioner of revenue administration K Phanindra Reddy to seek public opinion on the formation of Mayiladuthurai district by carving out of Nagapattinam. Health officials have begun testing primary contacts of the six employees.However, sources said no attempts were made to track the other participants of the meeting including farmers, local functionaries of political parties, social activists and the general public numbering around 150. The district collector had earlier told TOI that 90 people including him, minister O S Manian and police officials who participated had tested negative. He said they had formed teams to trace the people who contacted the officials, political leaders and officials. Now, six people including two staff members of the collector office and district revenue officer’s dabethar have tested positive. It may be noted that Poompuhar’s AIADMK MLA S Pavunraj had also tested positive after participating in the meeting. District epidemiologist Dr Liyakath Ali said two of his family members among his contacts had tested negative.When asked whether any efforts were made to trace the participants of the meeting, Ali said, “We could easily trace the officials and their primary and secondary contacts, but it was not possible in the case of the participants as there were no details about them. However, before the commencement of the meeting, we sent out several people who accompanied the speakers and regulated the participants. We are trying to trace them as much as we can”. The district collector was not available for comment despite efforts to contact him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/10-more-who-attended-mayiladuthurai-public-hearing-test-positive/articleshow/77514205.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 13, 2020||Goa||Goa govt revises base land rate after 5 years||PANAJI: The revenue department on Tuesday modified the minimum land rates. The new prices, which are in the range of Rs 100 to Rs 1,000 per sq m, will come into effect from August 17 and will be applicable till March 31, 2021, giving additional revenue to the government by way of stamp duty. Stating that the revision has come after more than five years, a senior official said that the proposed hike in base land price is minimal and much below the actual land rate in various parts of the state. “It is a mere ritual,” he said. The new land rates are applicable to S1 zone and up to an area of 1,000sqm, depending upon the zone and area involved. TOI had first reported that the state government is likely to revise the fair value of land by 20% under the Goa Stamp (Determination of True Market Value of Property) Rules, 2003, in January. A senior official said in 2016-17, then chief minister Manohar Parrikar had tried to increase the base land rate substantially vis-à-vis the actual rate. But the move was thwarted by the builders’ lobby, he said. A former revenue minister was also not in favour of raising base land rates as it would have led to an increase in the registration fee charged by the government, the official said. Areas within taluka have been categorised as urban, developing, rural and coastal. For areas under the developing and rural category, the proposed rise in base land rate is between Rs 100 and 200 per sqm. The officer said that in Mopa in Pernem taluka, where the international greenfield airport is coming up, the existing base rate is Rs 500 per sqm while the new proposed base rate is Rs 600sqm. However, since the time the international greenfield airport project took shape the rate of land in these have gone up even though most parts were acquired by the government. “Some have sold their land for over Rs 5,000 per sqm. However, it has not reflected on paper,” the official said. The situation is no different in other parts of the state. For instance, in certain wards in Panaji, the proposed rate is Rs 6,000 when in reality the price is much higher, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-revises-base-land-rate-after-5-years/articleshow/77514236.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Krishna dist crosses 11,000 Covid-19 cases||VIJAYAWADA: The number of Covid-19 positive cases in Krishna district crossed the 11,000-mark on Wednesday. The district registered 335 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 11,115. Active cases at present stand at 3,907, while 6,991 patients have recovered. On Wednesday, the district reported two deaths. The death toll stands at 217. Despite containment measures, the virus is rapidly spreading in rural areas of the district. A large number of cases have been reported from Machilipatnam, Nuzividu and Gudivada revenue divisions. Most of the cases registered here have been from rural areas and efforts are underway to trace primary and secondary contacts of positive patients. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz along with Nuzividu legislator Meka Pratap Apparao on Wednesday inaugurated a Covid Care Centre at IIIT Nuzividu. “We are providing necessary care for all Covid-19 patients. Rest, medication and good diet can help in the speedy recovery of Covid-19 patients,” Imtiaz said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/krishna-dist-crosses-11000-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77511984.cms||Venu Lanka
August 13, 2020||Kanpur||Chief secretary removes CMS, Kanshiram hosp during inspection of command centre||Kanpur: The chief medical superintendent of Kanshiram Hospital, a Covid care unit in Kanpur, was shunted out late Tuesday during a surprise inspection of the command control room by chief secretary Rajendra Kumar Tiwari, who was camping in the city. Dr Dinesh Sachan was appointed chief medical superintendent (CMS) in place of Dr S K Pandey, who was removed for dereliction of duty while treating corona patients. Pandey, however, will continue to work in the hospital. The chief secretary made a random call on a number written in the complaint register at the command control centre late Tuesday and a woman who picked the call apprised him about how her husband was in a critical condition at Kanshiram Hospital, but was not being shifted to a LLR hospital despite repeated pleas. The chief secretary promised prompt action and directed Dr R P Yadav, additional director medical health, to remove the CMS of Kanshiram hospital, which was wracked by controversies over the week after several patients and attendants cried apathy by doctors. “Remove such careless officials and seek explanation from them, the CS said. Later, Dr Sudhir Bobde, divisional commissioner, confirmed that Dr Pandey had been removed. After inspection of the command control room, Tiwari held a meeting with officials and told them to take all necessary steps measure to check the spread of corona in the city. Increase 300 beds in L-3 hospitals and purchase ventilators and other equipment for which the state government has already sanctioned a sum of Rs 5 crore, he said. Earlier, the chief medical officer informed that Level-3 hospitals have around 250 beds. Contact people as soon as they test positive, inquire about their condition and whether they want to get admitted in any hospital or want home isolation if they are asymptomatic and have required facilities at home, Tewari said. The chief secretary also directed officials to increase the number of private hospitals for treatment of corona patients and improve facilities in government hospitals. He told the CMO to present the requirement of staff, doctors, nurses and beds and told him to inspect all hospitals and ensure there are no shortcomings. Contact daily patients of home isolation. Secretary medical education Amit Gupta, mayor Pramila Pandey, divisional commissioner Dr Sudhir M Bobde, and district officials were present in the meeting. After inspection of the command control room convened a meeting with officials and said to take every measure to check the spread of corona in the city. Enhance around 300 beds in L- 3 hospitals and purchase ventilators and other equipment .The state government had already sanctioned a sum of Rs 5 crore for it. Even then if there was any problem then get that removed through the divisional commissioner. Earlier the chief medical officer informed that at present level – 3 hospital had around 250 bed facility.The chief secretary immediately ordered to enhance 300 more beds. Contact with patients as soon as his medical report is received.Ask him about his condition and also whether he wants to go for home isolation or get admitted in any hospital.Home isolation facility should not be given to the patients of serious nature. Mayor Pramila Pandey,Dr Sudhir M Bobde divisional commissioner, Amit Gupta secretary medical education and district officials were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/chief-secretary-removes-cms-kanshiram-hosp-during-inspection-of-command-centre/articleshow/77514232.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Another inspector indicted in Haryana liquor scam||CHANDIGARH: In the liquor scam, Sonipat police have indicted another inspector and former SHO of Khakhoda police station for negligence into stocking of liquor seized by the CM flying squad. Earlier, inspector Jasbir Singh, who had been sacked, had been indicted in the scam. Sources said inspector Arun Kumar had already been suspended and facing probe after the registration of a case. Sources said in 2008, the CM flying squad had seized seven truckloads of smuggled IMFL from Bhupender Singh, the mastermind and kingpin of liquor scam. In March 2019, Arun Kumar had taken over as SHO of Khakhoda police station. During his tenure, he alleged shifted seized liquor to the godown owned by Bhupender. While shifting the stocks, Arun Kumar neither informed his seniors, judicial authorities nor the excise department. It is further alleged that during the lockdown, the same liquor was stolen and sold in public along with other smuggled stocks. During a departmental probe, the then DSP in-charge denied any knowledge of the step taken by Arun Kumar. Notably, Arun Kumar along with sacked inspector Jasbir Singh, ASI Jaipal Singh were named in the FIR. Since Arun had joined the police probe as well as departmental probe, he was not arrested by SIT. SIT had however issued a chargesheet against him. Sources said DSP Ravinder Kumar has forwarded his probe report on Arun Kumar to SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa for further action. Besides kingpin Bhupender and sacked inspector Jasbir, SIT has arrested four more persons into the case. At the same time, the special enquiry team (SET), constituted by Haryana home minister Anil Vij, has submitted its report too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/another-inspector-indicted-in-haryana-liquor-scam/articleshow/77513379.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Micro, small firms raise concerns over new rules of power supply code||Coimbatore: Micro and small industrialists from the city have raised concerns over the conditions accompanying the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulation Commission’s (TNERC) amendment of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code, which increases the limit of power that consumers can use in the low tension (LT) category from 112kW to 150kW. While industrialists said it was their demand to increase the limit of LT connections from 112kW to 150kW, the state has laid conditions in its gazette notification which seems to dissuade them from availing the opportunity. A Siva Shanmughakumar, a coordinator of Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia), said the notification states if a consumer avails the option to draw 150kW, each kW would be charged Rs 350, as fixed/demand charges, as that for a high tension connection. “So the minimum demand charge for 150kW comes up to around Rs 50,000. When compared to the charges we have been paying now, which is around Rs 8,500, this is huge,” he said. The notification also states that for upgrading to 150kW, the consumers must provide space in their premises to place transformers. Micro and small units which operate in 10cents or 20cents of land cannot afford to provide this space, he said. “Now the transformers are outside our premises. Such conditions would cause problems to micro and small industrial units and foundries,” he said. He added that a necessary amendment has come with conditions which seem to dissuade them from availing it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/micro-small-firms-raise-concerns-over-new-rules-of-power-supply-code/articleshow/77513400.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Antigen tests for all residents||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has decided to conduct rapid antigen test all residents from micro-containment zones in the city.The decision was taken on Wednesday after the authorities found that around 90% of the 3,500 odd Covid-19 cases in the city were within the family and neighbours of existing patients. Also, the KMC has decided follow strict containment strategy under which no one in the micro-containment zone will be allowed to move out till the testing is not done.Nikhil More, nodal officer and deputy commissioner, said, “There is no local transmission. Maximum Covid-19 cases are from around seven pockets. There are around 87 active containment zones and we have adopted micro-containment strategy to avoid spread.” The rapid antigen test will be carried out in all the seven hotspots. “Those with symptoms, their swabs will be tested by RT-PCR compulsory. No one will be allowed to move out or move in these zones,” he added.So far, 72 citizens, mostly elderly, have succumbed to the contagion. The authorities claimed most of the deceased were taken to the hospital late. They could have been saved if they had received medical care immediately after developing symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/antigen-tests-for-all-residents/articleshow/77510840.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Uncertainty haunts Open School students in Telangana||HYDERABAD: With admission dates fast approaching and no results in hand, the future of around 78,000 students of Telangana Open School Society (TOSS) has been left hanging in balance. While all the students — both class 10 and class 12 — were declared pass on July 24, as they could not appear for the examinations amid the pandemic, the society is yet to release their marks memos. Even their hall tickets have not been issued. Without these documents, students say, they will be unable to apply for higher studies, admissions for which will open shortly. “We have been waiting for our results from the last week of July. Right now, we don’t even know our hall ticket numbers. As results are not released, we don’t have marks memos. Without these details, we can’t apply for admissions,” Md Abdul Sarfaraz, a CEC student who wants to pursue BA, told TOI. According to official sources, degree admissions are likely to begin from August 20. The degree admission notification might be finalised once the government gets a nod from the high court on the CET schedule. The Inter admissions are likely to commence from September 1. “There is no communication from the society about when the results will be out. I don’t even know whether I can apply for degree admissions without having a marks memo. They should immediately announce the results and upload marksheets,” said Md Salman, an Intermediate second year student. TOSS officials said the results of class 10 and class 12 will be announced in two to three days. “Internally, we are generating hall ticket numbers and students will get their results in the next three days,” TOSS director, S Venkateswara Sharma said. He said that students will have all the required data handy before Degree Online Services, Telangana (DOST) or Intermediate admissions commence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uncertainty-haunts-open-school-students/articleshow/77513419.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 13, 2020||Amritsar||Navjot Kaur writes to PM for farm loan waiver||AMRITSAR: Former chief parliamentary secretary Navjot Kaur Sidhu, wife of estranged former Punjab cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for loan waiver to farmers with less than five acre land holding. In a letter written to Modi, a copy of which was released to media on Wednesday, she said that rising cost, dip in income and increased incidences of indebtedness among small and marginal farmers manifested in spate of suicides over the year. “I believe it is the responsibility of the Union government to waive farm loans,” she wrote. Sources here feel the letter was Kaur’s attempt to break ice with the BJP top leadership and mend ties. She further wrote that small farmers who had less than five acres of land should also be given free power or subsidised power to give them more access to the irrigation facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/navjot-kaur-writes-to-pm-for-farm-loan-waiver/articleshow/77513412.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Goa||Goa eases setting up of mobile towers||PANAJI: The state cabinet on Wednesday approved the Goa Telecom Infrastructure Policy 2020, which provides for a single window clearance by the PWD to install mobile towers in government and private properties. CM Pramod Sawant said that mobile towers will be set up in government-owned land on priority. He said only an NOC from the property owner will be needed to permit mobile tower installation in private property. Sawant said that this new policy will help improve internet connectivity across Goa for children currently attending classes online. “The salient feature is that areas have been divided into urban, semi-urban and rural and no permission from local bodies will be required to install mobile towers. The scheme will be under IT department, but the PWD will be the implementing agency. A one-time grant of Rs 50,000 will be given to local bodies. For urban areas, Rs 50,000 will be the monthly rent for operators of mobile service. In rural areas, Rs 25,000 will be the rent,” said Sawant. PWD and other departments will issue the permissions to set up the towers and cables without any delay. The policy is to streamline the process to grant permissions to set up the towers, he said. There are around 250 applications pending for setting up of towers, but now those applicants will have to submit their proposals afresh under the new policy, the chief minister said. “At present, if anyone wants to set up towers then we will give them permissions. We are not raising any infrastructure by spending government money. The media is highlighting how someone is climbing hills, someone is climbing trees and someone is sitting atop their house to get network coverage to attend online classes. Now, if we need to give them (the children) infrastructure then we will have to permit those who are willing to have the tower set up in their property,” Sawant said, reacting to a question on opposition to mobile towers in Goa in residential areas. He said that in the case of proposals to set up mobile towers in private properties, the PWD will examine the proposal if it is a congested residential area and then decide accordingly. “We will prioritise setting up of towers in government properties first,” said Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-eases-setting-up-of-mobile-towers/articleshow/77514250.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Salem||Salem dist logs 217 new Covid cases, 3 deaths||Salem: Salem district logged 217 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases past 5,000 cases to 5,170. Of this, 1,404 were active cases. Of the 217 cases, 140 were from the Salem municipal corporation (SMC) limits, 21 from Attur, 12 from Pethanaickenpalayam, nine from Edappadi, eight from Omalur, four each from Veerapandi, Panamarathupatty, Vazhapadi, three each from Magudanchavadi, Kadayampatty, two each from Thalaivasal, Ayothiyapattinam and Sankari and one from Tharamangalam. Two women aged 78 and 68 and an 86-year-old man died at the Salem Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital on Wednesday. With this, the death toll stood at 61. All the three patients were suffering with comorbid conditions like diabetic and heart related ailments. The Salem corporation has directed the health department officials to test shopowners as they were regularly meeting people. “We have asked shopowners to fumigate their shops regularly and warned of police case against shopowners who fail to follow the instruction,” SMC commissioner R Sadheesh said. Compared to the past few days, Krishnagiri district reported fall in new cases, adding only six cases on Wednesday. The district has 402 active cases. Erode district saw 49 new cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 1,164 cases, of which, 419 were active cases. Namakkal district added 32 new cases on Wednesday. The district has 293 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-dist-logs-217-new-covid-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/77513414.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Puducherry||Pudukottai woman cop selected for Centre’s medal for investigation||Trichy: Inspector M Kavitha, 42, of the all women police station (AWPS) in Keeranur of Pudukottai district, has been selected for the Union home ministry’s medal for excellence in investigation. The police officer is currently investigating the sexual assault of an 11-year-old boy with learning difficulties. While expressing confidence at getting the accused the strictest punishment for the crime, she said she was happy at having got the honour. The medal of excellence, constituted in 2018, aims at recognizing and encouraging police personnel efficient in criminal investigation. Kavitha is among the 121 across the country and among the six from Tamil Nadu to be selected for the medal. Along with Kavitha, four inspectors-G Jansi Rani, A Ponnammal, C Chandrakala, A Kala- and sub inspector D Vinoth have also been selected for receiving the medal from the state. Inspector A Kannan has been selected from Puducherry to receive the medal this year. Kavitha joined the police service as a Grade – II constable in 2000 and was promoted as inspector in 2016. Over the last four years she has ensured conviction of the accused in over 11 Pocso cases. In the past year alone, the accused in four Pocso cases that she investigated were convicted. In two of those cases, the accused were awarded life sentences. Kavitha said that she would prefer spending more time with students in schools and colleges to create awareness of emerging crimes and about the Pocso Act. “Awareness creation would help in bringing the crime rate down. It helps the youngsters stay alert and learning about the strict punishment for crimes may help in dissuading from them committing crimes,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pudukottai-woman-cop-selected-for-centres-medal-for-investigation/articleshow/77523375.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Trichy||Pudukottai woman cop selected for Centre’s medal for investigation||Trichy: Inspector M Kavitha, 42, of the all women police station (AWPS) in Keeranur of Pudukottai district, has been selected for the Union home ministry’s medal for excellence in investigation. The police officer is currently investigating the sexual assault of an 11-year-old boy with learning difficulties. While expressing confidence at getting the accused the strictest punishment for the crime, she said she was happy at having got the honour. The medal of excellence, constituted in 2018, aims at recognizing and encouraging police personnel efficient in criminal investigation. Kavitha is among the 121 across the country and among the six from Tamil Nadu to be selected for the medal. Along with Kavitha, four inspectors-G Jansi Rani, A Ponnammal, C Chandrakala, A Kala- and sub inspector D Vinoth have also been selected for receiving the medal from the state. Inspector A Kannan has been selected from Puducherry to receive the medal this year. Kavitha joined the police service as a Grade – II constable in 2000 and was promoted as inspector in 2016. Over the last four years she has ensured conviction of the accused in over 11 Pocso cases. In the past year alone, the accused in four Pocso cases that she investigated were convicted. In two of those cases, the accused were awarded life sentences. Kavitha said that she would prefer spending more time with students in schools and colleges to create awareness of emerging crimes and about the Pocso Act. “Awareness creation would help in bringing the crime rate down. It helps the youngsters stay alert and learning about the strict punishment for crimes may help in dissuading from them committing crimes,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pudukottai-woman-cop-selected-for-centres-medal-for-investigation/articleshow/77514211.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Dist team to take pragmaticapproach to isolate contacts||Thiruvananthapuram: With positive cases repeatedly being reported through local transmission in hospitals, shopping complexes, textiles and super markets, the district health wing and administration are going for pragmatic, liberal measures in terms of containment and isolation of contacts. Simultaneous confirmation of positive cases in places where people gather in large numbers often result in a lengthy trail of contacts posing two major challenges in terms of contact tracing and fixing area of containment. Following the recent instance in which five staff of a retail chain tested positive at Sreekaryam, the health wing had to consider various options. The contact list in addition to high risk contacts was apparently very long with customers, dealers and suppliers who visited the place over the past 10 days. While mandatory 14-day quarantine period was suggested for people who were confirmed to have come in direct, close contact with staff who were tested positive, a similar decision couldn’t be taken for others. There were contacts numbering more than 1,000 and putting all of them under quarantine for 14 days seemed impractical. Hence, health wing has decided not to go for such measures. Although there was another suggestion from health team to declare containment zones within 1 km of the shopping centre in all directions, there were questions regarding lack of clarity in determining exact contacts who should be isolated and areas from where they came from. The area where shopping centre is located is adjacent to three wards and pinpointing contacts and area of residence seemed another hectic task. District medical officer K S Shinu said it is no longer possible to put all contacts under quarantine or to lock down an entire area. “We are now taking a balanced approach. It’s time people took precautions and acted with responsibility. Just because a few persons test positive in a place which records a large gathering, all of them cannot be regarded as contacts and can’t be put under quarantine. High-risk contacts will be monitored closely for symptoms and to prevent spread of infection. The same thing applies for fixing containment zones as well,” the DMO said, adding that the practice of shutting down entire establishments following two or three persons testing positive won’t be viable anymore. Earlier, the district administration had to give an explanation after it published a list of shops saying those who had visited the shops should report after positive cases had been confirmed. It turned out that many shops in the list had not been functional during the time period specified by the district administration. Officials with contact tracing team are likely to be asked to narrow down the line of contacts; especially focusing on close contacts considering the need for public to learn to live with Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/dist-team-to-take-pragmaticapproach-to-isolate-contacts/articleshow/77512071.cms||Aswin J Kumar
August 13, 2020||Erode||Water to be released from Bhavanisagar from Aug 14||Erode: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday ordered PWD officials to release water from the Bhavanisagar dam from August 14 onwards. Initially, about 500 cusecs of water will be released. It will be increased to 2,300 cusecs gradually based on the requirement. About 1.03 lakh acre of land across Erode, Tirupur and Karur districts will benefit from the dam’s water. The present water storage level at the dam is 101.18 ft, while the inflow has been measured at 3,422 cusecs. Palaniswami in a press statement mentioned that Lower Bhavani primary canal will get water from ‘odd’ numbered sluice gates and Chennasamudram canal will get water from ‘even’ numbered gates. “Water will be released in a gap of regular intervals for six times for 120 days starting from August 14,” he said, adding that the farmers should make use of the water properly. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/water-to-be-released-from-bhavanisagar-from-aug-14/articleshow/77513425.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 1.2L worth of liquor seized in Krishna||Vijayawada: Cops intercepted a truck during a vehicle check and seized 52 liquor bottles worth Rs 1.26 lakh at Akumarru area in Guduru mandal in Krishna district on Wednesday. A person was also arrested. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-1-2l-worth-of-liquor-seized-in-krishna/articleshow/77513415.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||Covid-positive senior citizen found dead outside building||Kolkata: A 73-year-old Covid positive patient, who was in home isolation, along with a couple of other family members, who too, had tested positive since the last week of July, was found dead early on Tuesday morning. The man was found lying in front of his Narkeldanga Main Road residence at Phoolbagan in a pool of blood at 6.15am. He was found right below his second-floor flat. The victim, a senior official at a ceramic company headquartered at the AJC Bose Road, was due to go for a second Covid test in a day or two. Cops said he was seen going to the terrace of the five-storey building by taking the lift around 5.30am. “In all probability, he had either fallen off from the terrace or committed suicide,” said DC (ESD) Ajoy Prasad. The senior police officer, however, said that until the post-mortem report was available, a final decision can never be reached. Thus police are also keeping the homicide angle open. The local police said the nature of the fall indicates the accidental angle the most. “The opinions of forensic experts will be crucial,” said an officer. Police sources said another person, who had gone to the terrace looking for the victim sometime later, did not find the senior citizen there. “Ideally, he should not have gone upstairs as he is in isolation. Hence, we believe that he had been there on purpose,” said cops, who said the probe is taking more time as they need to be careful with the family members, who are Covid patients. Various sources close to the victim told cops that the senior citizen had invested around Rs 2 crore in a property located close to Bengal Chemical, using up all his life’s savings. But the deceased was not getting possession of the same.  “It is possible the victim was worried that due to his age he might never shift to his dream flat. But so far, we have not located any suicide note,” explained an officer. The victim is survived by his wife and two sons and a daughter, who lives in Roorkee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-positive-senior-citizen-found-dead-outside-building/articleshow/77513428.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad bizman offers to help bring back 116 stuck in Bangladesh||HYDERABAD: A young entrepreneur from Hyderabad has come forward to pay for a chartered flight to bring back 116 Indians stuck in Bangladesh because of the Covid-19 situation. Prasanna Kumar (22) has taken up the matter with the Indian high commission in Bangladesh. “I am ready to arrange a chartered flight for all the 116 people stranded there,” he says. When some of the Indians stuck in Dhaka contacted him after chancing upon his work during the lockdown to help people, he responded. “One main problem is that their visas have expired as they had gone there on a visit visa. Except for a couple of them who have relatives, the rest have been managing to stay in rented premises for the last few months,” Prasanna told TOI. Prasanna, who runs an IT company in Bengaluru, came across a tweet from Soumi Das, which read “Please help us. My mom is going into depression. She’s not talking to anyone. Help us. We want to go home.” The request was made to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, actor Sonu Sood, Prasanna, among others. Prasanna responded immediately. Through his NGO ‘Every Pulse Foundation,’ he has been helping the needy persons. What began as a small initiative to help the underprivileged children by paying their school fee so that they can study, the NGO soon expanded its work. Those who need blood transfusion have also got help. More than 4,000 have benefited in the last two-and-a-half years. A resident of Malkajgiri, Prasanna describes himself as a ‘twice failed entrepreneur’ before he successfully launched his venture in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-bizman-offers-to-help-bring-back-116-stuck-in-bangladesh/articleshow/77513421.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt can’t exercise control over apartment societies: HC||HYDERABAD: In an order giving freedom to flat owners to form their own cooperative societies for their needs, Justice K Lakshman of the Telangana high court has ruled the state or its cooperative department cannot exercise control over them in registering societies or running them. The judge pronounced the order while hearing a plea by Sri Sri Kala Kuteer Apartment Owners Mutually Aided Cooperative Maintenance Society of Saraswati Nagar Colony near LB Nagar. The society’s chief promoter G Rami Reddy filed a petition challenging the decision of district cooperative officials in rejecting his plea for registration of the society under the Telangana Mutually Aided Cooperative Societies (TMACS) Act. He also found fault with the officials for insisting on registering the society under the Cooperative Act 1964. M Venkat Divakar, the counsel for the petitioner society, told the court the bye-laws of the society were in accordance with the aims and objectives of the TMACS Act. The judge, in his order, said the action was against the cooperative laws and the Apartments Act. “The society has an option to get registered under a particular statute, if there is more than one statute operating in the field,” he said. The state cannot impose any restriction or force the society to get itself registered under a particular statute. If any such restriction is imposed, it amounts to violation of fundamental right of a citizen guaranteed under Article 19 (1) (c) of the Constitution of India, is also contrary to Article 43B of the Constitution and is violation of the first basic cooperative principle that every action shall be as desired by its members voluntarily, the judge said, while dismissing an implead petition filed by another flat owner, who was opposing any relief to the petitioner society with a view to start another rival society. “It is for the members to choose one or more societies which according to them can cater to their needs,” the judge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-cant-exercise-control-over-apartment-societies-hc/articleshow/77513449.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||AP: Man murders his son over petty argument||VISAKHAPATNAM: An argument over a petty issue ended with a father killing his son in Satyanagar near Chinamushidivada area on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as 45-year-old G Jalaraju, who worked as a seaman in Mumbai, while the accused G Veerraju (70) is a retired trader. Police said Jalaraju had come to visit his wife and children in Visakhapatnam a few weeks ago. It is believed that the father-son relationship was strained and they often engaged in rows. While it has been alleged that Jalaraju neglected his parents, his wife has claimed that Veerraju and his wife used to often harass them for money. Police said, on Wednesday father and son had one of their rows when the former went to visit the latter’s house. During the argument, Veerraju in a fit of rage attacked his son with a hammer, killing him on the spot. A shocked Jalaraju’s wife then called the police. When the police arrived they found the body lying in a pool of blood and Veerraju confessed to his crime. Based on the complaint filed by the deceased’s family members, inspector of Gopalapatnam police station M Appa Rao registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-murders-his-son-over-petty-argument/articleshow/77513430.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||One contingent of RAF to represent Kolkata police on Independence Day||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Police top brass has decided to use a RAF contingent — now lodged at the Police Training School — for the Independence Day programme at Red Road. Though no quarantine facility has been prepared as RAF jawans stay in a secluded barrack, police said the 18-odd Kolkata policemen participating in this year’s low-key programme, have been asked to follow all social-distancing measures. “We are having just one contingent this time for a programme that has been cut short given the Covid pandemic. We usually have representation from every unit every year. This includes the armed police and the traffic police besides the Bengal police and even the special forces. But this time, we wish to take no chances,” explained an officer from the Kolkata armed police. The cops said that though there are some active Covid cases at Police training school, the numbers have reduced drastically. Even though the marching contingent will be a fraction of the usual numbers, the security of the area is not being compromised. “The VIPs will be on stage and we cannot be complacent. Enough security personnel will be on duty ,” said a joint CP at Lalbazar. Unlike the Delhi Police, Kolkata police are not putting up specific Covid advisories. “The number of invitees are limited. In addition, Nabanna has already spelled out the requirements,” said an officer. Everyone would adhere to social-distancing norms and wear masks, Nabanna officials had said earlier, As per the schedule so far, chief minister Mamata Banerjee would unfurl the national flag at Red Road and there would be the guard of honour. Vigil will be increased at all the 23 entry points to the city and vehicles will be checked thoroughly as part of the heightened security arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-contingent-of-raf-to-represent-kp-on-i-day/articleshow/77513450.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Man reunites with family after 17 years||RAJAHMUNDRY: A 41-year-old man from Palakkad, Kerala was reunited with his family on Wednesday after a wait of 17 years. Rameshan, who has schizophrenia, had left Palakkad in 2003. Over the next 19 years, he wandered across southern India as a destitute. When the lockdown was imposed in March, he was in Rajahmundry in East Godavari district. Police shifted him to a shelter home as part of a special drive. At the home, counselling sessions for migrant workers were held by a team under the East Godavari District Mental Health Programme (DMHP). It was here that the DMHP team diagnosed Rameshan with schizophrenia. Over the course of counselling sessions, it emerged that Rameshan was from Palakkad. Dr Vasu, psychiatrist and Dr Sudarshini, clinical psychologist with the DMHP contacted the district mental health centre in Palakkad, where officials recognised Rameshan as having received treatment in the past. The centre in Palakkad got in touch with Rameshan’s family and his sister contacted him on a video call and identified him. Due to the lockdown, the shelter home was unable to send Rameshan back to Kerala. During this period, an NGO Swarnanadhra, provided him with accommodation and the DMHP team monitored his health every day. On August 11, with the help of district collector Muralidhar Reddy and joint collector G Lakshmisha, Rameshan left for Kerala. He arrived home on Wednesday morning and reunited with his father and sister. Palakkad DMHP team will oversee his health. Talking to TOI, Dr Sudarshini said an overwhelmed Rameshan called her after reuniting with his family. The experience, she said, has been one of the positive impacts of the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-reunites-with-family-after-17-years/articleshow/77512080.cms||Samson Raj
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||With smaller syllabus modules, Eflu plans e-classes from August 24||HYDERABAD: From developing e-content to dividing the syllabus into smaller modules, the English and Foreign Languages University (Eflu) has a detailed plan in place to commence online classes for all undergraduate and postgraduate students from August 24. The university had constituted a seven member e-content committee which framed guidelines for online teaching. Keeping in mind courses, subjects, accessibility to internet and e-learning among students, Eflu’s e-content committee submitted a detailed plan to the vice-chancellor Suresh Kumar recently. The university has decided to adopt synchronous and asynchronous mode of learning under which part of syllabus will be covered through live classes and part of it will be taught through downloadable content. “We had to consider students who do not have devices and proper access to internet. Depending on the course, faculty members will engage students in four hours of learning every week of which two hours will be live interaction and two hours will be learning through e-content such as video/audio lectures, power-point presentations, study guides etc.,” said Prof M Hari Prasad, chairperson of the e-content committee. The university has divided the entire syllabus into modules and sub-modules for the August-December semester. “Each module will be taught for over four weeks. Each module shall consist of four sub-modules with clearly identified teaching goals. Once every module is completed, an internal test will be conducted to understand the student’s progress. At the end of all the modules, a term exam will be held,” said Prasad. Students will have to undertake self-assessment tests after every two weeks. They will also be engaged in group activities such as writing short summaries, group designing of posters, case studies, problem solving tasks and collaborative summaries. The university is currently in the process of helping its faculty members develop e-content for every subject. “Online teaching is not 24 hours teaching. And it is not a one-on-one with all the students all the time. State clear timelines when you’re available and when you’ll respond to emails/posts,” stated the guidelines issued by Eflu to all its faculty members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-smaller-syllabus-modules-eflu-plans-e-classes-from-august-24/articleshow/77513443.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Ward, village secretaries exams from Sept 20||Vijayawada: The state government will hold examinations to fill vacant ward and village secretary posts from September 20. Minister for panchayat raj Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and minister for municipal affairs Botcha Satyanarayana on Wednesday held a meeting with panchayat raj principal secretary Gopala Krishna Dwivedi and other officials and announced the schedule. Examinations will be conducted for one week starting from September 20 to fill in 16,208 vacant village and ward secretary posts. Altogether 10,63,168 candidates has applied for the written examination. Dwivedi, in a press release, said that they are taking necessary precautions in conducting the examinations. Around 5,000 centres have been finalised for the examinations and physical distance will be maintained, he said. “Around 4.5 lakh aspirants will attempt the examination on first day and we are taking measures to provide transport. Special focus is kept on filling vacant veterinary assistant posts,” Dwivedi said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ward-village-secretaries-exams-from-sept-20/articleshow/77512105.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||NSUI men make a bid to barge into Telangana CM’s residence||HYDERABAD: The police were caught off guard on Wednesday when the National Students Union of India (NSUI) tried to scale the barricades and barge into Pragathi Bhavan, the residence-cum-camp office of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, protesting against the tentative schedule announced by the state government to conduct all common entrance tests including EAMCET. Two days after the government announced the schedule, the student wing of the Congress party demanded cancellation of all entrances and final year exams until the pandemic is brought under control. Wearing PPE kits, the NSUI members led by its state president Balmaoori Venkat surprised the police when they suddenly got off a van and protested at Pragathi Bhavan. One of the protesters successfully scaled a barricade but was taken into custody along with other members. Though education minister P Sabitha Indra Reddy made it clear that exams would be conducted subject to the approval of the high court, NSUI members said the decision to announce a tentative schedule is itself an indication of the gross neglect and insensitivity of the government towards the health and lives of the students. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy attacked the state government for “not allowing anyone to raise a voice of dissent.” “It is anti-people to announce a tentative schedule of exams even when the case is pending in court,” he said. Venkat said the government cannot toy with lives of students. “There is an alarming increase in coronavirus cases. The government itself has stated community spread of the virus has started. Despite parents expressing fears about the safety of their children, the state government has come out with a tentative exams schedule on the pretext of following UGC guidelines,” he said. Venkat lashed out at the TRS government for the rapid spread of Covid-19. The union has given a call for rasta roko and dharnas on Thursday in protest against arrest of its members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nsui-men-make-a-bid-to-barge-into-cms-residence/articleshow/77513477.cms||Roushan Ali
August 13, 2020||Bhopal||Rapid test impact: 10 days on, positive cases graph steadies, but deaths increase in city||Bhopal: Ten days after the less sensitive rapid-antigen test was rolled out in Bhopal, the death rate in the city has increased while the percentage increase in positive cases has steadied in back to July levels, according to the health department bulletin. Sample this: rapid antigen test (RAT) was rolled out on August 2. Percentage increase in cases in Bhopal over a 10-day period was a high 41.9%. With the introduction of RAT, the percentage increase in Covid-19 positive cases for a 10-day average has declined to 20.1%. However, during the same period, number of deaths has increased to the highest levels in the pandemic. For a 10-day average, the death tally has increased by 26.1%. In other words, on July 22, the death toll stood at 184. Ten days after rapid antigen test was introduced, the tally has gone up to 232, as per official data. Health experts have warned about false negatives in the rapid antigen test. False negative is a test result which wrongly indicates that a particular condition or attribute is absent. “Reported rate of false negative results is as high as 50%, which is why antigen tests are not favoured by the USFDA as a single test for active infection,” said a senior AIIMS Bhopal consultant. Going by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, “All those who may have falsely tested negative with a rapid antigen test are to be retested with an RT-PCR test.” “This applies to those who are symptomatic,” said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari. However, neither the health department nor the district administration is revealing as to how many of the 15,000 plus people tested in Bhopal through RAT, later underwent RT-PCR. A retest through RT-PCR further delays time in false negative patients. Late presentation of cases has been cited by experts as a reason for high mortality rate. Bhopal has 10 laboratories to test for Covid-19 through RT-PCR. The government invested a significant amount on improving testing facility. However, the number of RT-PCR tests in Bhopal have declined to less than 70% of total tests in the last 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rapid-test-impact-10-days-on-positive-cases-graph-steadies-but-deaths-increase-in-city/articleshow/77512133.cms||Jamal Ayub
August 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Smart city projects get rolling in the capital||Thiruvananthapuram: Mayor K Sreekumar laid the foundation stone for the redevelopment of Putharikandam ground here on Wednesday. The project is being implemented by Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited. The design proposal includes an extended gateway, jogging track, landscaping, rain shelters, fountains, a tensile roofing over E K Nayanar memorial plaza and an open-air theatre. Renovation of compound wall, a theme park, illumination for walkers are the other components. Facilities like Wi-Fi hotspot, CCTV, emergency call box, public information display system will also be set up in the area. Public toilets outside the ground have already been re-developed using smart city funds. SCTL is also installing two drinking water kiosks within the ground. Meanwhile, ANERT has proposed to install an electric vehicle charger for electric rickshaws being operated by SCTL in the parking area outside the ground. The estimated overall cost of development of Putharikhandam ground is Rs.15.93cr. The project was awarded to the contractor in June. The work is expected to be completed by June 2021. The mayor will also inaugurate the newly-renovated anganwadi at Rajajinagar on Friday. The foundation stone for two other projects under smart city scheme; the multi-level car parking facility at Thampanoor and development of Ponnara Sreedhar park was also laid by Sreekumar on Tuesday. MLCP project is proposed on corporation land opposite Thampanoor railway station which was used as a pay-and-park facility. The 50 cents of land was primarily used as a two-wheeler parking as there was less space for manoeuvering four-wheelers. The project envisages creation of a G+4 storied smart parking system with a built-up area of 6,000sqm for parking 22 cars and around 400 bikes with EV charging system. The entry and exit to the building would be controlled using boom barriers and an entry pass would be issued to the driver. The parking fee would be computed as they exit premise and it can be made using cash or digital modes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/smart-city-projects-get-rolling-in-the-capital/articleshow/77512108.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Electoral rolls, IDs to be ready by January 2021||VIJAYAWADA: The Election Commission has started summary revision of electoral rolls and photo identification cards. State chief electoral officer K Vijayanad issued a statement announcing the schedule for the revision of the electoral rolls. The revision includes removal of discrepancies and reorganisation as well as fixation of boundaries of polling stations, which will have to be completed by October 31. This would follow the preparation of integrated draft rolls by November 15, the chief electoral officer said. The draft integrated electoral rolls will be published on November 16 and the electoral officers will take objections and make corrections, including deletions, till December 15, Vijayanand said. Once the draft electoral rolls are published, the state government will take up intensive campaign on the electoral rolls across the state and dispose the claims by January 14, 2021. The final list of voters would be published on January 15, 2021, the chief electoral officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/electoral-rolls-ids-to-be-ready-by-january-2021/articleshow/77513451.cms||---
August 13, 2020||India||ILO: 50% of youth hit by mental stress||NEW DELHI: Nearly one in two young people are possibly subject to anxiety or depression, while 17% are probably affected by it due to the impact of Covid-19, a survey conducted by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) showed on Wednesday. Since the outset of the pandemic, more than 70% of youth who study or combine study with work have been adversely affected by the closing of schools, universities and training centres, the survey showed. The Covid-19 crisis is having a devastating effect on the education and training of young people, it said. According to the report, ‘Youth and Covid-19: impacts on jobs, education, rights and mental well-being’ , 65% of young people reported having learned less since the beginning of the pandemic because of the transition from classroom to online and distance learning. Half of them believed their studies would be delayed and 9% thought that they might fail. Over 12,000 responses were received from 112 countries, with a large proportion coming from educated youth and those with internet access, the ILO said. The situation has been even worse for youth living in lower-income countries who have less access to the internet, a lack of equipment and sometimes a lack of space at home. This highlights large ‘digital divides’ between regions; while 65% of youth in high-income countries were taught classes via video-lectures, only 18% in low-income countries were able to keep studying online, the report said. “The pandemic is not only destroying their jobs and employment prospects, but also disrupting their education and training and having a serious impact on their mental well-being. We cannot let this happen,” said ILO director-general Guy Ryder. The reports says 38% of young people are uncertain of their career prospects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ilo-50-of-youth-hit-by-mental-stress/articleshow/77515176.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Finish irrigation projects, says CM||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy asked the water resources department to complete projects targeted for the year as per schedule. Though the officials said that Covid-19 has caused some delay in executing the works, the chief minister told them to evolve a method to execute the works against these hurdles. The chief minister held a review meeting with the officials of the water resources department on the on-going irrigation projects in the state, including the Rayalaseema lift irrigation schemes. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/finish-irrigation-projects-says-cm/articleshow/77512136.cms||Gopi Dara
August 13, 2020||Kolkata||Driving licence of 20-year-old suspended||Kolkata: The youth driving the sedan that had rammed into the guard rails at Red Road-Outram Road crossing minutes before the start of Independence Day parade rehearsals on Tuesday got his licence suspended and the car seized. According to cops, he won’t be driving anytime soon.  “The car has been seized and is awaiting a forensic study. After all the relevant investigations are over, the car owner can later claim it from the court. The youth’s licence has also been suspended for the time being. The case will go on trial,” said a senior officer of Kolkata Police.Aritra Sanyal, the 20-year-old youth involved in the Tuesday morning accident, is a journalism student in a reputable college in the city. The car is registered in the name of his mother and it is around two and half years old. Sanyal was arrested after he had violated traffic restrictions on Casuarina Road and Red Road and had first brushed past a police van stationed parallel to Red road, slipped dangerously between a gap of two parked vehicles with two policemen standing on either side before crashing into the guardrails. Luckily, no one was hurt. The youth was booked under IPC sections 279 (rash and negligent driving) and 427 (mischief amounting to damage of Rs 50). Both sections being bailable, he released on bail and produced before a city court on Tuesday. Cops, however, said, a thorough investigation will be carried out and a chargesheet will be submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/driving-licence-of-20-year-old-suspended/articleshow/77513481.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Pune||No headway in robbery case||PUNE: Police are yet to make any breakthrough in the armed robbery case at Nigdi Pradhikaran, two days after a 76-year-old woman was attacked in her flat and robbed of valuables worth Rs4.3 lakh on Monday night. Assistant inspector Laxman Sonawane of the Nigdi police said, “The woman told us that one of the masked robbers spoke in Marathi and the other in Hindi. She also told us that one of them called the other ‘Balya’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-headway-in-robbery-case/articleshow/77514256.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand govt likely to order SIT probe into two matters of alleged corruption||Dehradun: The state government is likely to order a probe by Special Investigation Team (SIT) in two high-profile cases of alleged corruption. Sources told TOI that the orders are likely to be issued in a day or two. When queried, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat said, “Be it a serving managing director or a retired official, if we receive a complaint, a probe will definitely be ordered.” Sources maintained that “the CM and the state government have stepped up the campaign against corruption and CM Rawat has himself conducted meetings with senior state officials to discuss such matters.” They also pointed out that CM Rawat has asked the senior state officials to look into matters, where authorities have been accused of misusing power for their gains. Speaking to TOI, the CM said, “Right from the very first day, we have kept our view and vision very clear. No act of corruption will be tolerated and we will not shy from initiating action against any individual irrespective of his status and post.” Previously, SIT probes have been ordered in half-a-dozen high-profile matters, including the NH-74 scam, SC/ST scholarship scam, and teacher recruitment scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-govt-likely-to-order-sit-probe-into-two-matters-of-alleged-corruption/articleshow/77510901.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur: Man thrashed as son marries woman from another caste||KOLHAPUR: A 52-year-old man was mercilessly beaten up by the family members of a woman who got married to his son against her parents’ wishes in Bhalwane village of Solapur district on Tuesday. Nine suspects have been arrested and a minor boy detained in the case. The Mangalwedha police in Solapur district said the woman’s relatives were opposed to the marriage because of caste difference and assaulted Damaji Sheb Barkade with sticks after tying him to a tree in front of villagers, who tried to stop the assault in vain. According to police, Barkade’s son and the woman from the same village had gone to the police station to inform about their plan to get married last week and fled from the village soon after. Assistant police inspector B N Burse told TOI that the suspects were produced before a local court, which remanded nine of them in five days of police custody and sent the minor to a remand home. “The suspects have been charged under IPC sections, including abduction, wrongful restraint, house trespass, criminal intimidation and violation of prohibitory orders,” said the officer. Burse said the suspects have also been booked under various sections of the Disaster Management Act, which is in force in Solapur district because of the coronavirus pandemic. Police said Barkade was allegedly abducted by the bride’s relatives from his house on Tuesday afternoon, taken to a public place in the village, tied to a tree and thrashed. After releasing Barkade, the mob allegedly chased him for about a kilometre and beat him up again, added police. Barkade was taken to a primary health centre, where he was administered preliminary treatment and discharged, said police. “The couple have got married but we cannot disclose their location for security reasons,” said a police officer. Senior police officers visited the village soon after learning about the assault and deployed security as the incident triggered tension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-thrashed-as-son-marries-woman-from-another-caste/articleshow/77510900.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||With low cost, it’s destination Germany for Hyderabad students||HYDERABAD: Uncertain over the financial viability of studying abroad after the pandemic, several students from the city are choosing to head to countries with lesser or no tuition fees. Among such countries, Germany is on many students’ priority list. Ram Charanteja Ravula, “As soon as I decided I wanted to study abroad, I started searching for countries where education was free. Germany seemed like a perfect fit.” Ravula has received offers from a few universities to pursue his MS in information and communication technology, but has not decided which one he will head to. Mechanical engineer Anirudh Suri has also decided to pursue his MS computation and engineering in Germany’s FAU Erlangen. “I opted for Germany because I can choose to work there or come back to India. If I choose to return, I can do so guilt-free as I am not paying anything to study there.” Tuition fees in Germany is between 400 and 600 euros (Rs 35,000 to Rs 52,000 per semester), much less than other countries such as the US. Students have to pay for their cost of living, which is under 600 euros a month, provided a student shares an apartment. Jeevan Reddy, chairman, Hope Overseas Education, said, “While there has been a dip in students travelling abroad in general, several of them have expressed interest in applying to colleges in Germany this year. The low cost of education is among the many reasons for this.” Germany is slowly emerging as a favourite for city students because of their penchant for engineering-related courses. “Germany offers very high quality of education. It is one of the best options for prospective engineers because it is a manufacturing hub,” says Sanjeev Rai, founder, Hyderabad Overseas Consultants. The German industry is known to work closely with educational institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-low-cost-its-destination-germany-for-city-students/articleshow/77513473.cms||Uttara Varma
August 13, 2020||Bareilly||Alleging harassment nurse attempts suicide, principal & 2 employees of private hops booked||Bareilly: The principal and two other staff of a private medical college in Shahjahanpur were booked on Wednesday after a 25-year-old nurse working there attempted suicide alleging mental harassment. Before jumping from the hostel room, the woman made a video in which she claimed the college administration has been putting pressure on her to do duty in a Covid-19 ward, but without proving her health insurance. She claimed that she was not given a salary hike also. She also went on to allege that when she refused to do the duty, she was threatened and denied food. The condition of the woman is stable. On their part, the college administration claimed that they follow all guidelines of government for employees who are deployed for Covid-19 duty. The college administration said the woman fell after she lost balance while she was sitting on the hostel's porch. Kalpana Srivastava, a resident of Lakhimpur Kheri district, was working as a staff nurse at a Covid-19 Level two medical college since December 17, 2019. After she attempted suicide on Tuesday, her mother gave a police complaint on Wednesday. In the police complaint, the woman’s mother said, “The college administration was mentally harassing my daughter since August 11 and they were pressuring her to do Covid-19 duty without following the guidelines of the government. She was denied food and was not allowed to go home after she refused to do the duty.” Superintendent of police (rural areas) Aparna Gautam said, “The nurse of a private medical college had uploaded a video and made allegations against the college administration. We have registered an FIR on the basis of the complaint given by the family.” An FIR has been lodged against college principal AK Shukla, and staff MS KG Pal and Dr Rakesh Arya under sections 342 (wrongful confinement) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC. College principal Prof (Colonel) Shukla said, “Our college provides all preventive items including PPE kits, face shield and sanitizer, to staff involved in Covid-19 duty. The duty room is air-conditioned and after duty is over, the staff is quarantined in another room with an attached washroom. Apart from salary, we pay additional Rs 2,500 to staff on 14-day duty, free food and send them on paid seven-day leave. Kalpana had given her resignation on August 10 and she fell on Tuesday around 3.15pm when she was sitting on the hostel's porch after she lost balance. The college administration is ensuring free treatment to Kalpana. As she has resigned, there is no pressure on her to do job here and we will clear her salary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/alleging-harassment-nurse-attempts-suicide-principal-2-employees-of-private-hops-booked/articleshow/77510928.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||UoH’s registration notification out||Hyderabad: UoH released semester registration notification for integrated post-graduate and post-graduate courses for July-December, 2020, amidst strong opposition from the students union. As per the notification issued by COE, all the ongoing students have to complete their semester registration through e-governance portal between August 17 and 29. Students have to clear their hostel dues and sign an undertaking that they will pay their semester registration fee during next semester or no dues process if they are unable to do so due to prevailing circumstances. “Because of the continuing rise in cases of Covid-19...students are advised to be at home. They will not return to the campus until further notice,” the note read. The students union has opposed this as they argue many students who don’t have devices or internet access will be unable to register. They demanded students who have been registered in previous semester to be automatically registered this semester. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uohs-registration-notification-out/articleshow/77513514.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Cop arrested with Rs 11 lakh in his car on Ajmer border||AJMER: The ACB on Tuesday midnight seized Rs 11,36,900 from the possession of sub-inspector Keser Singh Naruka from a toll tax booth on Ajmer-Nagaur border. Naruka was posted at Khemsar police station but was transferred to police lines in Nagaur on August 10. ACB also seized 21 bottles of booze from his car. On Wednesday, ACB sealed Naruka’s house in Ajmer. Another case under the Excise Act was registered against him at Thawala police station where the accused is in custody. There are several complaints pending against Naruka in the vigilance department of state police. According to officials, an ACB team was waiting at the toll tax booth of Thawala. Around 1am, Naruka’s car reached the booth where ACB officials asked him to cooperate but he denied. Search started on the orders of DSP Mahipal Choudhary and team found the cash from his possession in addition to 21 bottles of booze. “We asked him about the money but he was unable to provide any satisfactory answer,” said an official. Sources said former sarpanch of Khemsar Munnaram alleged Naruka for taking bribe of Rs 4.5 lakh in connection with an opium case. The DGP initiated vigilance inquiry after the complaint in the first week of this month and therefore Naruka was transferred to police lines on August 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cop-arrested-with-rs-11-lakh-in-his-car-on-ajmer-border/articleshow/77513454.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||30 cops in one station test +ve||Visakhapatnam: At least 30 police from Tuni Town police station in East Godavari district tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday and another eight cops are waiting for the results. Tuni police station, located on National Highway (NH)-16 has 52 cops of which 14 are away on deputation. Barricades in front of the police station have been set up and police are allowing only one complainant at a time. Some cops have been shifted from the subdivision to Tuni police station to receive public complaints. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/30-cops-in-one-station-test-ve/articleshow/77512169.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Durga Puja organizers collect clay from riverbanks amid virus threat||Bhubaneswar: Amid the uncertainty over Durga Puja celebrations owing to the pandemic, many puja committees of the twin cities on Wednesday brought clay from the riverbanks on the occasion of Nanda Utsav for making idols. There was, however, no procession as the government allowed only a few people to participate in the rituals to ensure that social distance is maintained. “Till now, the government has only allowed us to get the clay as per the rituals. We went to the Mahanadi river bank for that. There is no word on the construction of idols from the administration yet,” said Rabindra Narayan Bhanja, secretary, Ramgarh puja committee, Cuttack. In Bhubaneswar, members of Nayapalli Durga Puja Samiti and Saheed Nagar Durga Puja Samiti, among others, brought the clay from the banks of river Kuakhai on Janmastami on Tuesday. “Only four people from our committee went for the rituals with our president Sachidananda Rath performing the puja,” said Harish Prasad Rath, the treasurer of Saheed Nagar Durga Puja Samiti. The twin cities have over 170 puja committees each and they get the clay for Durga idol on different days like Janmastami, Nanda Utsav, Ganesh Puja, Radha Ashtami and on an auspicious day after Viswakarma Puja. The clay is collected from the banks of the Mahanadi, Kuakhai and Kathajodi. The Satyanagar Puja Committee, Bhubaneswar, will get the clay after Viswakarma Puja while the Mohammadia Bazar Puja Committee, Cuttack, will get it on Radha Ashtami. Currently, the puja organisers are gearing up for ghata or kalash puja. Also, this year puja is likely to be bereft of the glitter that comes with the light decorations, massive gates, theme pandals, meena bazar and cultural programmes owing to Covid-19. “People are reeling from huge financial crunch owing to the novel coronavirus. We cannot ask them for donations with so many jobs lost and businesses coming to a standstill,” said Pabitra Mohan Behera, president, Nayapalli Durga Puja Samiti. The office bearers of other puja committees also echoed similar views. They have also decided to conduct the festival with puja committee funds and voluntary donations from only members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/durga-puja-organizers-collect-clay-from-riverbanks-amid-virus-threat/articleshow/77512112.cms||Arunika Mohapatra
August 13, 2020||Varanasi||Body of ACMO swapped in BHU||Varanasi: An additional chief medical officer, who looked after all arrangements at Covid-19 facilities in the district, died of coronavirus infection on late Tuesday night. Later, in another shock for his family members, the Banaras Hindu University (BHU) hospital’s mortuary handed over them the body of another victim of the virus who belonged to Ghazipur, prompting the university to order a probe into the incident. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma admitted that the goof up occurred as tags containing personal details of the deceased were mistakenly exchanged. “As no complaint had been made by any of the aggrieved family, we have decided not to take any action for now,” he added. The ACMO, who held the responsibility of ensuring necessary arrangements at Covid facilities at all the hospitals in the district as well as medical staff quarantine, had fallen ill and was admitted to a private hospital a week ago. “The result of his initial Covid-19 test had come negative two days ago, but when his test was conducted again he was found positive,” confirmed district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma ,” adding, “he had been shifted to BHU hospital’s ICU where he breathed his last on Tuesday late night.” The DM said, “After it came to light that the bodies were exchanged, a report was sought from chief medical officer Dr VB Singh.” “The report contained that apart from the ACMO, one more Covid patient from Ghazipur had died after midnight on Tuesday and both the bodies were kept at BHU mortuary. Chief medical officer Dr VB Singh was present there to monitor the process of wrapper packing of the bodies as per Covid protocol.” “After the bodies were packed, the CMO left the mortuary after which no tagging was done while families of both the deceased had reached there to collect the bodies. The ACMO’s family was handed over the body of Ghazipur patient,” he added. When the ACMO’s family started cremation on a wooden pyre at Harishchandra Ghat, the family of Ghazipur patient reached there and apprised them of the mistake. The ACMO’s family removed the wrapper to see the face of the partially burnt body and realised the mistake committed by the BHU mortuary authorities. “Later, the Ghazipur patient’s family completed the last rites. The ACMO’s family reached BHU mortuary again to take his body,” said the DM adding, “the his body was cremated at the electric crematorium of Harishchandra Ghat.” Medical superintendent of Sir Sunderlal hospital BHU Prof SK Mathur said that the varsity administration has ordered a probe into the matter. “A three-member fact-finding committee has been formed to probe the incident and submit a report as to how the mistake took place. The course of action will be decided after getting the report,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/body-of-acmo-swapped-in-bhu/articleshow/77510909.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
August 13, 2020||Dehradun||HC lists PIL on ‘unlimited use of electricity by UPCL staff’ for hearing on Friday||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday listed the Public Interest Litigation (PIL) highlighting the “unlimited use of electricity virtually free of cost” by the employees of the agencies tasked with production, management, and distribution of the electricity for further hearing on Friday. The bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice NS Dhanik listed the case on Friday after the petitioners said that Uttarakhand Power Corporation Limited (UPCL) is not complying with the HC directions to install meters in all the residential units of their employees as well as to cap the usage of electricity by its officials. Senior advocate BP Nautiyal, the counsel appearing for the petitioner, told TOI that the court gave UPCL a few more days after its counsel asked for more time. “The UPCL has been telling the court for months that it is in the process of installing meters. However, still there are several homes where the meters do not work. The UPCL has been saying that it will file a detailed affidavit but has not done so as yet. Therefore, the court gave them two more days,” Nautiyal said. As reported by TOI earlier, the electricity bills of several high-ranking officials of UPCL ran into lakhs. These officials had not paid their dues for years. The court had directed the UPCL in March to file an affidavit furnishing details of the number of residences where they have installed the electricity meters and to specify the time-frame by when the rest of the homes will have functional meters. The corporation, however, has not filed the affidavit even after five months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-lists-pil-on-unlimited-use-of-electricity-by-upcl-staff-for-hearing-on-friday/articleshow/77510940.cms||Prashant Jha
August 13, 2020||Goa||12 Covid +ve from Altinho refuse to go to care centre||PANAJI: There was tension in the state capital as 12 residents of Altinho, who were tested positive for Covid-19, refused to go to the Covid care centre on Wednesday. The patients, who reside in a slum area near the Goa college of architecture, turned back the ambulance that was sent for them, officials said. Despite several pleas of the North Goa deputy collector, the patients refused to budge, Panaji mayor, Uday Madkaikar said, adding that the patients are in denial about the infection. “They are alleging that the Covid-19 positive test results are false and claim that nothing has happened to them,” Madkaikar said. Sources said that about 250-270 people reside in the area and were asked to undergo Covid-19 test after cases from Altinho started to increase. Of these, 40 have been tested positive so far. On Wednesday, 12 were tested positive. The Panaji police had earlier sealed the area as a precautionary measure. In Goa, asymptomatic patients that do not wish to recover at Covid-19 care centres have been allowed the option of home quarantine, subject to certain conditions being fulfilled. However, the 12 residents of the slum area cannot be granted this privilege since they don’t have individual toilets at home, an official said. “There are public toilets in the slum which are used by them. It is dangerous to let them continue using those since that will put the entire area at risk,” mayor said. The North Goa deputy collector and mayor are likely to revisit the area on Thursday to convince the patients again to admit themselves in the Covid care centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/12-covid-ve-from-altinho-refuse-to-go-to-care-centre/articleshow/77514272.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Class 8 student, teacher invent machine to scare away locusts||HYDERABAD: With the threat of locusts looming large, a Class 8 student of Zilla Parishad High School, Chandanapur, Ramagiri mandal in Peddapalli district, along with her science teacher, has invented what they have called a ‘locusts menace prevention machine’. Their invention was one among the three entries submitted by the Peddapalli district administration for competitions organised by the Telangana innovation cell for rural innovators. “With the device, monkeys and wild boars which destroy crops can also be kept at bay,” said science teacher T Sampath Kumar. Locusts also are driven away traditionally with sounds that are made. The idea for the device sprouted when the student, M Raajanjali, came with a problem to her teacher. Her parents sell vegetables and monkeys coming in their fields were destroying the crops.“We downloaded various noises, including those of animals, onto a chip from the internet. The chip has been inserted in a device to which is connected a sensor. If there is a movement of any animal within a range of seven meters, the sensor will detect and the sounds will start blaring,” Sampath Kumar told TOI, adding that loudspeakers will have to be fixed to the device. The invention was ‘field tested’ in the fields of the student and the marauding monkeys were too scared to enter the field when the device started making loud noises. Collector Bharathi Hollikeri said the device can be useful during the nights to prevent animals from entering the fields. It was made at a cost of Rs 1,200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/class-8-student-teacher-invent-machine-to-scare-away-locusts/articleshow/77513516.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 13, 2020||Amritsar||‘Punjab DGP saving SSP in hooch tragedy’||CHANDIGARH: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has asked Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta to explain to the people of Punjab why he was shielding Amritsar (rural) SSP Dhruv Dahiya, whose alleged failure to act on a complaint against the liquor mafia caused death of more than 100 persons during his stint as SSP of Tarn Taran. SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia claimed that the people of Tarn Taran district had been demanding suspension and registration of a case against Dahiya. “Citizens provided Dahiya with information about criminals manufacturing illicit liquor and even informed him about the registration numbers of vehicles used by the liquor mafia. However, Dahiya refused to act in the matter leading to the hooch tragedy,” he added. The SAD leader said his party had also brought these facts before the public and asked Punjab DGP to act in the matter. “But it seems the DGP has a special fondness for Dahiya and that is why he is not taking action against him. This is highly condemnable,” added Majithia. Majithia alleged that the role of the DGP was already under a cloud as far as the hooch tragedy was concerned. The SAD leader said after Dahiya’s transfer following the hooch tragedy, the Tarn Taran police had taken action on various complaints and raided an illicit liquor unit in which 31,500 litres of ‘lahan’ was recovered. “The hooch tragedy could have been avoided if Dahiya had acted on the complaints earlier. He is directly complicit in the crime and he should be booked, failing which we will start an agitation against DGP Dinkar Gupta for protecting the controversial police officer,” added Majithia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-dgp-saving-ssp-in-hooch-tragedy/articleshow/77515170.cms||---
August 13, 2020||India||The digital divide worsens for seniors||NEW DELHI: A survey carried out before the Covid-19 lockdown of 1,580 elderly persons across cities in eight states shows that 60% elders felt their children do not have time to help them become digitally literate. The HelpAge India analysis, released now, shows that the digital divide has only worsened through the pandemic. Using WhatsApp, net banking, online payment of utility bills and booking cabs figure among the top most digital learning requirements of the elderly. More than 90% senior citizens wanted to learn how to use WhatsApp, net banking, Paytm, booking cabs and pay utility bills. There were also elderly who wanted to make the most of the technology and also learn how to use Google Maps, create email accounts and use Skype. Elderly also shared their desire to learn how to clear mobile data, use social media, use phone camera and carry out web search. The survey was carried out in January in Delhi, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal, Uttarakhand and Telangana. Around 47% senior citizens learnt how to use digital devices on their own, followed by those who were taught by their sons (25%) and daughters (18%). Of the digital devices primarily used by seniors, 60% largely used smartphones. The survey findings have been corroborated with the experiences of elderly during the lockdown and the weeks thereafter. HelpAge India concludes that “already digitally challenged and struggling to keep up with fast paced technology, the onset of Covid-19 has only deepened the digital divide for elders”. Sonali Sharma, head of communications, digital literacy program at HelpAge India said, “Anxiety and loneliness are major problems faced by elderly in times such as this pandemic.” To respond to this need which has become most critical now, at a webinar on ‘Impact of the Digital Divide on India’s Elders - Digital Challenges in the New Normal’, HelpAge India and Nasscom Foundation announced that they will launch a program involving youth volunteers to empower the elderly through a digital curriculum where they will learn how to use smart phones, various applications and features like net banking, email, payment of utility bills and other functions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/the-digital-divide-worsens-for-seniors/articleshow/77515181.cms||Ambika Pandit
August 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Fire services personnel trained in aircraft rescue ops||Bhubaneswar: The state fire services personnel will soon be able to carry out rescue operations and other fire-related emergencies in an aircraft. Around 27 personnel of the state fire services have been trained in the operation of airport crash fire tender (ACFT) in case of a fire mishap at the airports or airstrips. ACFT is a specially-designed fire tender to carry out rescue and aircraft firefighting. A few days ago, the Biju Patnaik International Airport (BPIA) had procured two ACFTs of Rosenbaur-make. Of the 27 personnel, six are currently being trained to operate the Rosenbaur-ACFT, which is technically superior to the conventional aircraft crash tenders, a BPIA official said. The two ACFTs will be stationed at the Jeypore (Koraput district) and Utkela (Kalahandi district) airstrips, which are being developed under the Centre’s regional connectivity scheme or UDAN. Earlier, the BPIA had procured an ACFT made by Agni-Vijay. “Though bigger airports like the BPIA do have their own aircraft rescue and firefighting teams, we will deploy the personnel of the state fire services at the small airports,” state transport secretary Madhusudan Padhi said. The training included how to deal with fire during take-off and landing; evacuation of passengers; engine and undercarriage and interior fires. Two trainers, sent by the ACFT supplier, have been camping in the city for the past one week. Such a training to handle aircraft fire assumes significance as a trainer aircraft crashed and caught fire at the Birasala airstrip in Dhenkanal district on June 8, in which the chief trainer and a trainee pilot were killed. The state government is also planning to sign an agreement with the BPIA to carry out a joint rescue and firefighting work in case of emergencies at the city airport. “After the Kozhikode plane crash, we have discussed the feasibility of extending our assistance in the firefighting activities inside the airport area with BPIA officials. Though their firefighting team is the first responder to any crisis on the airport premises, our assistance will boost the rescue process,” a state fire service official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/fire-services-personnel-trained-in-aircraft-rescue-ops/articleshow/77512140.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||AP, Telangana go slow on telemetries despite insistence of KRMB||HYDERABAD: Both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, after being at loggerheads and accusing each other of drawing excess of water from Krishna river, have not shown the same interest in installing telemetries in Krishna basin. The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has been stressing on telemetries at various locations so that the warring on sharing of water and fights over drawal of water between the states can be minimised. Telemetries measure water utilisation and discharges. While 18 telemetries were proposed in phase I, 29 more were planned in phase II. Even after four years, phase I works are yet to be completed. Moreover, there are issues over sensors at some locations. For phase II telemetries at 29 locations, work has not been taken up by the KRMB as both the states have not released funds. As per the Centre’s guidelines, both the states have to share the expenses incurred on installing the telemetries.  “The KRMB got a telemetry installed at Pothireddypadu head regulator a couple years ago. But, it is not functional. The telemetry was tampered with by AP to fudge the water drawal data. Had it been functional now, water discharges and utilisation could have been measured,” a senior official of Telangana water resources department said. “The ratio of water sharing between Telangana and AP is 66:34 as per the agreement. We have been receiving complaints every year either from Telangana or AP alleging that the other state is drawing more than the allocated water,” officials in the KRMB said. Telangana has strongly objected to AP’s excess drawal of water from Pothireddypadu. AP’s plans to construct Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP) and draw additional water from the head regulator had upset T more. Initially, it was agreed that Telangana would bear the expenditure on installing telemetries on the Godavari and AP would do the same on the Krishna. With AP expressing its inability to bear the entire expenditure, Telangana released a part of the expenditure, sources said. “Since a majority of telemetries are in the jurisdiction of Telangana, the state has reportedly asked the KRMB to take water utilisation measurements in one go (both phase I and phase II) instead of taking up phase I now and phase II at a later stage,” a senior government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-t-go-slow-on-telemetries-despite-insistence-of-krmb/articleshow/77513620.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Woman accuses cop of rape in Alwar||ALWAR: A police constable of Raini police station in Alwar was sent to lines after a 32-year-old woman lodged a case of rape against him. According to the complainant, initially the cops had refused to register her case but she approached Alwar SP Tejaswini Gautam following which the FIR was lodged and investigation initiated. According to the woman, the accused constable started stalking her around three months following which he raped her and continued with the assault by threatening to upload her obscene videos online. “We have registered the case and started an investigation. The constable has also been sent to police lines till further enquiry. If found that the officials did not register the woman’s complainant earlier then strict action will be taken against them”, said the SP. When the woman had gone to Mahila police station to lodge the case, she alleged that she was not entertained and instead cops build pressure on her to reach a compromise. She also alleged that the cops threatened to make her video viral and did not register her case for 4-5 days till she approached senior officials. When she got tired of the prolonged assault, the woman told her family about it after which they decided to lodge a complaint. The woman also claimed that the 28-year-old accused constable also brought one of his colleagues to meet the complainant and attempted to pressurize her to have sexual relationship with him. The investigation has been handed over to SHO Rajgarh while DSP Laxmangarh has been given the task to probe into the other allegations of the woman about negligence on the police department’s part in failing to register her case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-accuses-cop-of-rape-in-alwar/articleshow/77513484.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Vijayawada||TDP functionary passes away||Tirupati: Noted industrialist from Kadapa district and TDP leader Palem Srikanth Reddy passed away while undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital in Hyderabad on Wednesday. Hailing from Thatimakulapalle village, he was the son of a retired High Court judge Justice P Chennakesava Reddy. Srikanth Reddy entered politics in 2009. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tdp-functionary-passes-away/articleshow/77512236.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 13, 2020||Pune||Schools, parents in Pune lock horns over fees payment||PUNE: Parents across the city have said that they are facing issues related to the fees charged by schools. Some parents feel that the school must charge only the tuition fee and utility fee must be deducted since students are not using any facilities. On the other hand, parents say that there should be a concession even in the school fee as many families have suffered loss of income and the number of school hours have reduced drastically. A parent, whose child goes to Orchids The International School Undri, said, “Last year, the school had given us a bifurcation of the fee, but this year, they have refused to do so. Probably, they are scared that we would ask questions about the need to pay fees for facilities provided by the school at a time when students aren’t using them. Also, without any notice, the school has denied access to online classes to students, who have not paid the fees. When governments have been telling school managements to consider the problems faced by parents, they are not even ready for a dialogue with the parents.” The school officials said they had met the parents in July and said that those providing proof of job loss or pay cuts via e-mails are being offered concessions. “Parents, while being appreciative of the school’s efforts during such time, are seemingly inconsiderate of the expenditure incurred in setting up and sustaining a whole new digital ecosystem,” said Rajeev Singh, city head — Pune, Orchids Group of Schools. A parent whose ward attends Pearl Drop School, Kondhwa, said, “If the teaching hours have reduced drastically, then why should we pay the full fee. Why should we pay for the term fee when there are no pen and paper exams scheduled? The fee must be curtailed in consultation with the Parent Teacher Association (PTA). But even the name of PTA members is not displayed anywhere. Since Friday, they have barred online classes of students who have not paid the fee and are also taking Rs900 over the MRP for books.” “We have been offering online education since June 1 and we respect all government notifications. However, we do not get any aid from the government and we have been paying full salaries of all teachers and janitors. Without the school fees, paying the salaries and EMIs is hard for a stand-alone school like mine. We are not a big chain of schools with huge cash reserves. The books cost extra because we get them from New Delhi and the GST needs to be paid on books. As opposed to other ICSE schools, our fee is very less. We have told genuine parents to write to us and we will give them concession, but we can’t announce a blanket waiver as it will affect our finances,” said Ishrat Auti, vice-president of Pearl Drops School.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-parents-lock-horns-over-fees-payment/articleshow/77513540.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Exempt teachers above 50 from attending school: Federation||Hyderabad: Government teachers, who are asked to report for duty from August 17, urged the state to exempt those above 50 years from attending schools and ensure diagnostic tests are covered under the Employees Health Scheme (EHS). They also want regular sanitization of government schools and the Covid-19 protocols to be followed in the premises. “Several teachers died of Covid-19. So, it is important that all schools are sanitized properly. Moreover, high risk individuals, especially those above 50 years of age and with comorbidities should be exempted from attending schools, if they make such a request,” said M Ravinder, president, Telangana Progressive Teachers’ Federation (TPTF). They said that about 30-40% of the teachers working in the government schools are aged above 50 years. They also want the Telangana government to conduct regular tests for teachers to check if they have contracted coronavirus and make sure that their health cards are valid for tests at both private and government hospitals. “Apart from the aged, exemption from attending duties should also be provided to those teaching staff working in rural areas and staying at the district headquarters as only few buses are plying. Further, the state should provide an additional budget of about Rs 7,000 to Rs 10,000 for each junior college to sanitize and maintain the premises,” said KS Rama Rao, president, Telangana Government Junior Colleges Principals Association. KS Rama Rao added that the Telangana government should also renew the contracts of guest and contract lecturers as only 15% of the total staff are regular employees. Telangana Government Junior Colleges Principals Association president also said that the state should hire non-teaching staff as many colleges don’t even have a peon. On August 10, the state government said that 50% of the teaching staff have to attend schools everyday starting from August 17 as digital classes for class 6 to class 10 are scheduled to begin on August 20. They also want the state to conduct regular tests for teachers to check if they have contracted coronavirus and make sure that their health cards are valid for tests at both private and government hospitals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exempt-teachers-above-50-from-attending-school-federation/articleshow/77513561.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha: Crime Branch pings Facebook for dead activist’s chat details||BHUBANESWAR: The state Crime Branch has moved Facebook seeking the chat details of noted social worker Aditya Dash, whose body was found along the railway track near the Lingaraj passenger halt, on July 7. The Crime Branch said Aditya’s wife Bidyashree knew his Facebook password and used to handle his profile. “We have written to the Facebook’s law enforcement response team in California and sought some documents under Section 91 of the CrPC as part of our investigation. We want to know the user registration details, along with the IP address and login details concerned, of Aditya’s Facebook account,” a Crime Branch official said. The probe agency wants to ascertain whether the Facebook account was created by Aditya. “Most of the posts put up a few days before his death were suicidal in nature. It need to be found out whether he himself shared the posts,” the official added. This apart, the Crime Branch has also sought the call detail records (CDRs) of Aditya’s two mobile phones. “We will examine his call data of the last 10 months. The call details of his wife, friends and volunteers of his NGO will also be scanned. We have filled up the customer application form to know the names and addresses of the callers. Our cyber experts are on the job of examining his laptop and mobile phones,” the official said. The investigating agency plans to use mobile or tower dump analysis to retrieve the deleted call logs, messages and chats from Aditya’s phones. The Crime Branch had on July 30 taken over the investigation into Aditya’s death from the Government Railway Police (GRP). The GRP, which had earlier suspected Aditya of having committed suicide by throwing himself in front of a moving train, subsequently registered a murder case after his family members and friends alleged that he was killed by anonymous persons, who had threatened him for taking out an anti-liquor campaign in the city a while ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/crime-branch-pings-fb-for-dead-activists-chat-details/articleshow/77512162.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
August 13, 2020||Pune||Mock tests for UG pupils, online MTech project exam||Pune: Students who have applied for the entrance examination in undergraduate and integrated postgraduate courses in Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) need to appear for mandatory mock tests on either August 13 or 14 between 10am and 6pm. The student needs to login with his or her cellphone, laptop, personal computer or tablet ensuring that the front camera is turned on at all times. “The actual entrance examination for the 15 undergraduate and integrated postgraduate courses will be held on August 16, between 8am and 8pm. The examination would be of one hour duration. Each question paper will contain 50 questions of two marks each. Each wrong answer would lead to deduction of 0.66 marks,” Uttam Chavan, deputy registrar, said. The result would be declared on August 18 while the admission merit list would be declared on August 21. Meanwhile, Savitribai Phule Pune University has decided to carry out the project/dissertation examination of Masters in Technology and Master’s in Engineering students through video conferencing mode. The examinations must be completed by August 31, an official from the exam department said. Attendance Rule  For the first semester of the academic year 2020-21, SPPU has decided to not make 75% attendance a must for students to be eligible for term-end examination.  Instead, the university has given powers to the affiliated college principal or department head to decide on required attendance at their own levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mock-tests-for-ug-pupils-online-mtech-project-exam/articleshow/77513556.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 13, 2020||Dehradun||Two killed, one hurt & another missing as SUV falls into river in Rudraprayag||Dehradun: Two persons were killed, one sustained injuries, and another one went missing after the SUV they were travelling in plunged into Mandakini river in Rudraprayag district of Uttarakhand on Wednesday. According to Rudraprayag police, two women, identified as Meenakshi Sajwaan and Alka Sajwaan, died in the accident, while the driver Rakesh Singh is still missing. The accident took place when the vehicle with four people onboard skidded off the road and fell into a 200-metre-deep gorge on Augustmuni road. The injured person had managed to jump out of the vehicle on time and was taken to a hospital by locals. Upon receiving information, a team of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) reached the spot and launched a search and rescue operation, which is still underway, according to SDRF officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-killed-one-hurt-another-missing-as-suv-falls-into-river-in-rudraprayag/articleshow/77510989.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Family of 5 hid inside toilet for 3 hours to escape mob||BENGALURU: Fearing for their lives, a family, including two boys aged four and six, hid inside a toilet in their home in Kavalbyrasandra for nearly three hours while a mob vandalised their house and vehicles on Tuesday night. At 7.30pm, A Robin, a washing machine mechanic, and Sharmila were at the first floor of their home on 7th Cross in Nagamma Layout when they saw over 100 men attacking the house of their neighbour Naveen, whose derogatory post led to the violence. They have been residing on lease since December on the first floor of the adjoining building which belongs to Naveen’s brother Harsha. “People were shouting that the MLA’s relative resides on the top floor of our building and rushed towards us. That’s when my wife, mother, two children and I locked ourselves inside our tiny bathroom,” Robin recalled. His aunt Malarmathi, who stays across the road, could only watch the horrific moments from her window as the rioters dragged out Sharmila’s scooter and set it ablaze. Harsha’s car was already up in flames. “I gathered my guts and begged them to spare the scooter as we are all poor people who are just tenants in the building. But the men threatened to set me on fire,” Malarmathi said. The mob kept swelling in numbers and some men entered the couple’s home after breaking open the door. “The mob toppled our fridge, broke the furniture and desecrated our puja space. After they left, our aunty came running to our home. That is when we got out of the bathroom. My elder son had vomited and collapsed in fear,” Sharmila said. The rioters ransacked the neighbour’s home as well. They allegedly took away gold, cash and other valuables from these homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/family-of-five-hid-inside-bathroom-for-three-hours-to-escape-mob/articleshow/77512661.cms||Petlee Peter
August 13, 2020||Noida||In 80% of Noida Covid-19 cases, mild or no symptoms||GREATER NOIDA: When the health department carried out a review of Covid-19 cases in the district, it found that a high number of infected people have shown either mild or no symptoms. Officials said that around 20% of active patients in the district have sought treatment at Level-2 or Level-3 facilities while nearly 80% of those who tested positive are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. Meanwhile, a majority of Covid patients have been allowed to quarantine themselves at home while only the ones needing intensive care or oxygen treatment are being admitted to the government facilities. Chief medical officer (CMO) Deepak Kumar Ohri said, “Home quarantine has helped us scale up testing. Earlier, a lot of people did not come forward to be tested. They were worried about spending 14 days away from family in the government facility. Now, a majority of the active patients quarantine themselves at home.” Currently, the district administration is operating one L2 and two L3 facilities. Out of the 857 active patients in the district on Tuesday, 184 were housed in the three facilities (Child PGI hospital, GIMS and Sharda hospital). Only 35 individuals among 184 required intensive care or ventilator support. The trend has been the same for the past one month, added officials and 80 to 85% of the active patients are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. As many as 370 patients who had separate washrooms and required resources were allowed to stay at home while the remaining 303 (the majority being single persons, students, bachelors or those from economically poor background) were either asked to spend 10 days in quarantine at a paid facility or the two government-run L1 facilities. Ohri said that people from an economically poor background, elders who have no caretakers, government employees who stay in hostels or quarters away from the family are kept at Greater Noida-based GIIMS or Tata hospital in Sector 125. “We are not allowing single persons to quarantine at home. In case of complications, it becomes difficult for the person to call up the integrated control room to access emergency health services. Also, it is difficult to manage medicines, vegetables, groceries without stepping out. Neighbours also stay away from Covid patients and hence nobody is there to help in times of emergency,” said Ohri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/in-80-of-noida-cases-mild-or-no-symptoms/articleshow/77514257.cms||Shalabh
August 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: False news over police refusing to accept complaint lit the fire||BENGALURU: The genesis of Tuesday night’s riots in a section of Bengaluru was in a small meeting of local minority community members in Kavalbyrasandra area. The agenda pertained to a derogatory Facebook post by a relative of local MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy and the members decided to take up the matter with the lawmaker and the jurisdictional police. The group was miffed that Naveen, the Congress legislator’s nephew, sounded jubilant that the bhumi puja was conducted for the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. That was a few days previously and Naveen’s post on Tuesday, a slur against their faith, was the last straw. The community leaders, including some local SDPI activists, decided to press for action against him. Police said a general feeling of insecurity was building among minorities in the locality, especially after the recent developments in Ayodhya. “Had Naveen been a common man, his posts would not have attracted much attention,” an investigating officer said. “Since he is a nephew of an MLA, it angered people. Moreover, Naveen was accused of cheating several local residents on the pretext of jobs, land deals, government tenders and pilgrimage to Mecca.” A group comprising SDPI activists, headed to Srinivasamurthy’s house, while another went to KG Halli police station. “We did not reject a complaint against Naveen,” KG Halli police said. “We only told the group to wait for senior officers to arrive as it was a cybercrime and a sensitive issue. But they wanted Naveen to be arrested immediately. We explained that wasn’t possible without proper evidence. We assured them of action against, but they refused to listen.” Word quickly spread that the police were refusing to act. “False news that we were not accepting the complaint ignited the trouble,” police sources said. There were only about 25 personnel at KG Halli police station when they received a call that a furious mob was barging into a house, dragging out occupants and beating them up. Normally, at least 50-60 personnel are on duty at any given time, but owing to Covid-19, the average strength has fallen to 40. “First, we thought it was property dispute,” an officer said. “Two constables reached the spot and soon a Hoysala patrol vehicle joined them. We were informed about the mob which was growing. A 50-year-old woman was among inmates of the house that was attacked. It was clear we had a riot on our hands. Immediately, a message went out on the wireless.” Around the same time, messages of violence outside the MLA’s house in Kavalbyrasandra too began blaring from wireless sets. “Most of the personnel rushed to the troubled spots,” a cop said. Within a couple of hours, the mob turned its fury on KG Halli police station. There were only 10 personnel, including two women constables, in the station. Another mob had laid siege to DJ Halli station, about 3km away. The mobs locked the gates of the stations and set police vehicles on fire and that set the tone for the night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/false-news-over-police-refusing-to-accept-complaint-lit-the-fire/articleshow/77511779.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 13, 2020||Pune||20 buses to ply from Pune airport to Hinjewadi & Hadapsar||PUNE: A total of 20 air-conditioned PMPML buses are soon set to ply to and from the airport on two routes — 15 to Hinjewadi and five to Hadapsar — at 20-minute intervals in each direction, once the transport body gets the permission to start regular operations. “The time table and rate charts are yet to be finalized but the airport and the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) authorities have taken the joint decision of setting up information boards, displaying the schedule and fares, at designated spots on airport premises to aid passengers willing to avail the bus service,” PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap told TOI. Traffic manager Anant Waghmare of the PMPML said, “Buses going to Hinjewadi will touch upon the railway station, Pune Municipal Corporation area, Shivajinagar, Aundh and Wakad. Those en route to Hadapsar will cross the Kharadi Bypass and Magarpatta.” A source at the Pune airport said, “Discussions with the PMPML are ongoing. We feel that buses will help ease passenger commute. Currently there is a space crunch at the airport in terms of parking. Congestion is likely on the airport premises till the completion of the under-construction multi-level car parking. Thus, the more people use public transport, the better.” A large number of IT professionals reside in both Hinjewadi and Hadapsar. “We are mainly targeting the IT crowd as many of them are frequent flyers. The airport bus service should succeed if we are disciplined about the timings and the consistency of service,” the official said. “We feel that the revival of airport services will spur a demand for buses. A large number of cabs and autorickshaws are still not in operation, which could prove to be an advantage for us,” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/20-buses-to-ply-from-airport-to-hinjewadi-hadapsar/articleshow/77513558.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: One more held for gangrape of minor mute girl in Dausa||JAIPUR: Dausa police arrested one more accused in the gangrape of a hearing and speech impaired minor girl. Till now cops have arrested four persons in the matter while teams have been sent to various locations to trace others. Dausa ASP Anil Chauhan said, “We have arrested the fourth accused and are looking for another one. Our team is searching in various locations to trace him. We will catch him soon as all the accused are locals and from the same village according to the rape survivor.” The 17-year-old hearing and speech impaired girl was gangraped allegedly by five persons in Dausa’s Lalsot police station area on August 4. According to information, the accused kidnapped the girl around 11 am and dumped her back in the village around 5 pm during which time they kept calling others to rape her. Through sources, cops found that two accused took her and raped her near a temple and then called others to take advantage of the situation. The girl’s mother had gone out of the village and returned on August 6 after which she realised that something was amiss. Getting any information from the child was difficult for cops due to the challenges which the minor was facing but she still gave the names of the accused. “The accused mostly worked as labourers and we are questioning the ones arrested by us to get the location of the others as well. While the five accused raped the girl, there were others also who were involved in the crime and we will catch them as well”, added the official. A case of gangrape, abduction as well as under POCSO Act has been registered. The minor’s medical examination was done and doctors claimed that fortunately she did not suffer any major injuries, claimed officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/one-more-held-for-gangrape-of-minor-mute-girl-in-dausa/articleshow/77513498.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Young make up bulk of cases: BMC||Bhubaneswar: Youths between the age of 19 and 45 constitute 57% of the total Covid-19 positive cases in the capital city. This goes to show that a vast majority of the infected ones between July 1 and August 9 are those youths who are going out to work, says a BMC study. The age break-up data of the Covid-infected people revealed that only a minuscule of the positives cases (20) are those of people above 80 years of age. The health experts view the two contrasts in terms of demography and habits. Of the 3,597 positive cases till August 9, altogether 2083 are youths. Their recovery rate is also impressive with 1,249 getting discharged from the hospitals. Of the infected youths, 834 are active cases. Ashok Mohapatra, vice-chancellor, SOA University and former director of AIIMS (Bhubaneswar), said, “From the demographic standpoint, of the total population in the city, 50% are youths. Apart from the demographic interpretation, there is one more reason and that is the adherence to the norms of maintaining a social distance and wearing of masks is less among youths resulting in exposure and more cases. If this trend continues, the city will report less fatality as they can recover faster than the rest unless there they have other health complications.” He added that the city hasn’t reported any deaths so far between the age group of 19 and 45. Being a capital city, Bhubaneswar has a diverse population. It boasts of a hardcore mobile working-class, floating youth population, which comes to the city for different assignments, static working class who have to go to office every day and return and then the youth labour force engaged in factories, construction sites, drivers of taxi aggregators and food suppliers. Noted city-based doctor Manoj Sahu said if there are five members in a family and one among them is youth, it is obvious that he will go out to buy essentials at this juncture. Apart from the regular working-class youths, who are exposed because of the nature of their work, including household as they have to go to the market to buy the essential items. Secondly, youths have a tendency to sit in groups and indulge in idle talk. In such a situation, where there are more asymptomatic cases, youngsters are caught unawares if they come in contact with a positive person from among their friends, Sahu reasoned. Of the 20 deaths till August 9, 12 are between the ages of 55 and 80 and above 80. Three are between the ages of 46 and 55, the BMC data revealed. Till August 9, there are 140 positive cases of people between 60 and 80 years, and 20 cases of those above 80 years. Of the total 3,597 Covid positive cases, 1,193 are local infection, which account for 33% of the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/young-make-up-bulk-of-cases-bmc/articleshow/77512232.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Diabetes a key factor in rise of Covid-19 fatalities||MANGALURU: That the diabetic strain in one’s blood is likely to increase the chances of a patient succumbing to the pandemic is a point that has been reiterated again and again. It is to this end that doctors have stressed the need to adopt a diet that is low on carbohydrates, which, in addition to keeping one’s blood sugar low, enhances one’s immunity. Data from the Dakshina Kannada health and family welfare department indicates that among those who have succumbed to Covid-19 in the district, a considerable number had diabetes. Between July 17 and July 31, as many as 92 fell prey to the pandemic, among whom 31 – 33.7% – had diabetes, the data indicates. Among other problems, an imbalanced diet can lead to diabetes, chronic lung, and pulmonary disorders, hypertension and obesity, said Dr Sandeep Samethadka Nayak, a physician of internal medicine in California, United States of America. “These inherent diseases weaken the immune system of the human body, as a result of which the defences against the novel coronavirus will be vulnerable right at the outset. So, there is a higher chance of viral infection-related inflammation acting on pre-existing chronic inflammation and the subsequent cytokine – a chemical secreted by the body’s immunity system – surge can further damage the organs,” he added. Dr Nayak, however, said that, despite the lack of opportunity to carry out clinical trials on the effect diet has on Covid-19 patients, a study conducted in China showed that improved glycemic control – intake of carbohydrates – had resulted in a corresponding improvement in the condition of Covid-19 patients with pre-existing type-2 diabetes. “This indicates that a low-carbohydrate diet keeps the body’s defences strong in its fight against Covid-19,” he said. The number of people in India with diabetes is pegged at around 77 million, while 135 million are thought to be obese. The large number of people with such co-morbidities has added to the problems in arresting the transmission of the novel coronavirus. “A preventive and participative nutrition programme that promotes reduced intake of carbohydrates needs to be pushed by policymakers. The diet prescribed by the Karnataka government is high on carbohydrates and low on proteins, which could be detrimental to the health of Covid-19 patients,” said Dr Nayak. Dakshina Kannada district health officer Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that people with the aforementioned co-morbidities and those aged above 60 were classified as being ‘high risk’, who were more susceptible to contracting the Covid-19 infection, and urged them against stepping out of their homes unnecessarily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/diabetes-a-key-factor-in-rise-of-covid-19-fatalities/articleshow/77511826.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 13, 2020||Mysuru||Woman, owner foil burglary bid at jewellery store||CHIKKAMAGALURU: In a display of startling alacrity and courage, a woman thwarted an armed robber from burgling the jewellery store she worked at in Chikkamagaluru on Wednesday. The episode, the whole of which was recorded on closed circuit television camera, shows the woman, with the assistance of her employer, preventing the robber from decamping with the loot. The knife or sword that the robber had with him, along with the bag he had stashed the stolen valuables in, he left at the store after failing to fend off the woman and fled. The owner of the store, however, said that three articles of jewellery cumulatively worth Rs 1 lakh were missing. The incident occurred around 12.30pm, around which time the burglar in question entered the jewellery store in Sringeri town, brandishing a long and sharp weapon. Too shocked, three of the women employees could do little more than watch as the burglar entered the display area and started rifling the drawers containing the jewels. When he had stuffed his bag with jewellery worth lakhs of rupees, and was on the point of fleeing, another woman who worked at the store made bold, and attacked him with a chair. The owner of the store then joined her in preventing the burglar’s escape. The robber could not defend himself from the assault by two individuals, and fled on the bike had arrived in. Sringeri police confirmed to TOI that a case had been registered in connection with the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/woman-owner-foil-burglary-bid-at-jewellery-store/articleshow/77511565.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hubballi||Mentally-challenged man reunited with family after 4 years||BALLARI: It was mutual relief and joy that marked the reunion of 26-year-old Venkatesh with his family, from which he had been separated for four years on Wednesday. Venkatesh, who is suffering from a mental illness, had been missing since 2016. A resident of V Nagalpur in Ballari district, Venkatesh found himself, rather inexplicably, in Malda, West Bengal. Acting in collaboration with a non-governmental organisation (NGO), officials of the Ballari district administration were able to get Venkatesh back to his home and reunited with his family. Members of the NGO had found Venkatesh roaming and staying on the roads of Malda, and was rescued two weeks ago. “We were intimated by volunteers with the NGO that they had found Venkatesh, who had reportedly injured his leg two weeks ago. When I learnt that he was from Ballari, I assured the NGO of ensuring his return home,” Ballari deputy commissioner SS Nakul told TOI. Nakul said that, once Venkatesh was fit enough, the district administration booked him a flight to Bengaluru. “We arranged for a vehicle that would bring Venkatesh from Bengaluru to his village. His family members travelled in that vehicle to receive him in Bengaluru and returned to Ballari,” he added. Venktesh’s elder brother Nagappa, along with Aravind N, a relative, expressed their gratitude to the officials of the district administration for helping find his estranged brother. “We had filed a ‘missing person’ complaint at the Gadenur police station. We searched for him everywhere but could not find him. The NGO volunteers called Toranagallu police station when they learnt that Venkatesh was from there,” the duo said. Nagappa said Venkatesh had a congenital mental defect, and had probably left home when there was no one around. “He would have lost his way, and must have boarded a lorry that took him to Malda. We are very happy he is back with us now. We will never leave him alone henceforth,” Nagappa said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mentally-challenged-man-reunited-with-family-after-4-years/articleshow/77512143.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
August 13, 2020||Hubballi||Civic agency told to submit report on illegal layouts in Hubballi-Dharwad by August 20||HUBBALLI: The Hubballi-Dharwad Urban Development Authority (HUDA) has decided to end the menace of illegal layouts in the twin cities. All officials have been asked to submit the detailed survey report on the action taken on illegal layouts in Hubballi-Dharwad before August 20. HUDA chairman has instructed all officers to conduct a survey effectively and submit the report. HUDA chairman Nagesh Kalaburgi, who assumed office in May, had instructed the officials to conduct a survey of illegal layouts, as a the result of which the authorities conducted a survey and identified 57 layouts as illegal and also initiated action against them. Fearing action, owners of many illegal layouts sought some time to produce their documents, after which the action was temporarily kept on hold. Nagesh Kalaburgi, chairman, HUDA, said, “When we initiated action against 57 illegal layouts in Hubballi-Dharwad, more than 42 layout owners sought time and requested for some time. But after submitting application, no one has furnished documents of their layouts. “Now we have decided to initiate stern action, before that once again officials have been asked to conduct a survey and submit the detailed survey report before August 20. After getting a detailed survey report, stern action will be initiated after completing all legal and technical formalities”, he added. According to sources the authorities have decided to initiate action against the misuse of the CA sites allotted to the NGOs, various organizations and others. Till date the HUDA has sanctioned and allotted nearly 359 CA sites in Hubballi-Dharwad. Umesh D, a social activist, said this is a great move by the HUDA that it has decided to initiate stern action against illegal layouts in Hubballi-Dharwad. There are many illegal layouts, because of which the poor and middle class people are facing a lot of problems, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/civic-agency-told-to-submit-report-on-illegal-layouts-in-hubballi-dharwad-by-august-20/articleshow/77512419.cms||J Abbas Mulla
August 13, 2020||Goa||In CM’s constituency, 11-day ‘simple’ community Ganesh celebrations||Bicholim: While most community Ganeshotsav committees in the state will celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi for just 1.5 days in wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, the Sakhali sarvajanik Ganeshotsav mandal in chief minister Pramod Sawant’s constituency has decided on a ‘simple’ 11-day celebration. At a recently held special meeting, committee president Shailendra Kanekar proposed that Ganesh celebrations be held over 11 days to coincide with the 40th anniversary of the mandal’s establishment. Committee members unanimously decided that social distancing norms and other rules laid down by the government would be strictly followed. They also said that apart from worship of the idol by a priest and a limited number of people, no entertainment programmes would be held. Sources, however, said the decision on the duration of celebrations would be altered if the government makes a 1.5-day celebration compulsory for all sarvajanik Ganeshotsav mandals. Sakhali, which is part of Bicholim taluka, has reported more Covid-19 cases than the Mayem and Bicholim constituencies, both of which also lie in the same taluka. As of Wednesday, the Sakhali community health centre (CHC) reported 93 active cases, while the Mayem and Bicholim CHCs reported 64 and 14 active cases respectively. Meanwhile, the Karapur sarvajanik Ganeshotsav mandal in Bicholim taluka has decided to host celebrations for 1.5 days only. The committee has even decided not to erect a special pandal and to worship the idol in the existing shed at Karapur tisk instead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-cms-constituency-11-day-simple-community-ganesh-celebrations/articleshow/77514277.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Man kills father over illicit relationship with his wife in Alwar||ALWAR: A 32-year-old man beat his 60-year-old father to death for allegedly having illicit relationship with his daughter-in-law, in Alwar’s Mundawar police station area. The accused, Pradeep Yadav, thrashed his father Ram Singh on Tuesday night, when the latter was asleep on the terrace of their house. “We received information that Ram Singh’s body was found on the terrace of his house in a bloodied state and when we reached there, we found that the victim had succumbed to his injuries while the son was missing from the house. The accused had used the disc which is fitted in electric poles to kill his own father,” said an official of Mundawar police station. According to the preliminary investigation, it was found that the deceased and the accused’s wife were allegedly involved in an illicit relationship, which Pradeep found out about when he returned home to find the duo in a compromising position. Elaborating further, the official said, “A day prior to the murder, the accused found his wife and father in a compromising position following which he started planning the murder. The neighbours also informed us about the illicit relationship and we started suspecting that Pradeep was behind the murder.” While the accused had absconded, cops started looking for him and activated the local sources to trace him. On the night of the murder, the accused had climbed the terrace without letting anyone know about it, where he beat up his father and left him for the dead. “We started looking for the accused and put his mobile on surveillance. Through sources, we found out about his likely location and arrested him while he was trying to flee to another village. We will question him further and gather more evidence in the matter,” said the official. A case under IPC Section 302 (murder) was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-kills-father-over-illicit-relationship-with-his-wife/articleshow/77513526.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mall employees struggle to reach their workplace||PUNE: Somesh Chandekar, an employee of an apparel store at Kumar Pacific Mall near Golibar Maidan, has been struggling to reach his workplace on time over the past few days. Chandekar from Dhayari does not have a personal vehicle and can’t afford an autorickshaw or a cab to go to work. “I fail to understand the logic behind not allowing the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) buses to ply for people going to work. What will people like us do? I have to be on duty at 10am. Commuting has been a major struggle for me since the mall has reopened.” TimesViewThe district administration and the civic authorities should consider resuming limited bus service for people working in non-essential sectors, strictly maintaining the social distance norms. Many of them have suffered economically because of the pandemic and do not have personal vehicles. Against this backdrop, buses would help these people save some money spent on commuting to the workplace in cabs or autorickshaws.Many working in malls or shopping complexes in different areas echoed Chandekar. “We have been lucky not to lose jobs, but our salaries have been halved. With social distancing norms in place, we have to be in the shop at least two hours before it opens. I work at Phoenix Market City and live in Hadapsar. I travelled by bus earlier, but now I am really struggling. My friends cannot help me every day. The buses have to start or people like us will start losing jobs,” said another employee of a store. The PMPML officials had earlier claimed that they were ready with a plan to start buses in Pune and Pimpri Chnchwad civic limits but were awaiting permission from the higher authorities. “At present, more than 250 buses are operating only for those involved in essential services,” a PMPML official said. A group of employees working at different stores at the Amanora Mall said they had planned to book two autorickshaws for ferrying them. “Four of us have same working hours. The plan is to book two autorickshaws and split the ,” until the buses start. Even then we shall end up paying a big amountone of them said, requesting anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mall-employees-struggle-to-reach-their-workplace/articleshow/77513563.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: Poisonous food leaves one dead, four ill||KOTA: One member of a family died and four others were critically ill after consuming dal bati churma in Kota on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as 22-year-old Arif. Police said prima facie, the incident took place due to consumption of poisonous food, however, investigations are on. According to police, the five members, including two males and three females, fell ill on Tuesday night after having dal bati churma. They were rushed to MBS Hospital and were discharged around midnight. But, their health again deteriorated and on Wednesday morning Arif died at home. Other members were again rushed to the hospital, police said. The family members have been identified as Guddi, the mother, and her four children Arif (22), Muskan (19), Sonam (17) and Arman (14).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/poisonous-food-leaves-1-dead-4-ill/articleshow/77513548.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Dehradun||Set up expert panel for disaster-prone regions: Harish Rawat||Pithoragarh: Harish Rawat, former chief minister of Uttarakhand, on Wednesday asked the incumbent state government to set up an expert committee for the disaster-prone higher Himalayan region in the state. During his visit to Pithoragarh, ex-CM Rawat said that the committee should review the situation and provide suggestions to mitigate the impact of calamities and suggest ways for rescue operations during emergency situations. Rawat has come to the district to meet the affected locals of disaster-hit areas. “Kedarnath deluge was the biggest tragedy Uttarakhand has ever seen. The incumbent government must take lessons and draft a comprehensive plan to secure the people of the hills. A panel, consisting of environmentalists, geologists, and public representatives, should be set up to come up with a strategy to mitigate the impacts of disasters in ecologically-sensitive areas,” said Rawat. He added that many villages of the district should be rehabilitated as landslides have caused damages here. “Government officers should visit these areas for first hand information and make proper plans. More than 300 villages in hills are prone to disasters. Also, more forest land should not be damaged,” suggested Rawat. On Wednesday, Kumaon commissioner Arvind Singh Hayanki visited the disaster-affected area of Munsyari and Dharchula. At Dhapa village, he assured people that the geological survey of the village has been completed and a plan for rehabilitation will be made soon. Hayanki also visited camps in Munsyari. Notably, at least 17 persons have died in landslides in these areas so far this year. Some have also gone missing in rain-related incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/set-up-expert-panel-for-disaster-prone-regions-harish-rawat/articleshow/77511010.cms||Prem Punetha
August 13, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-R launches short-term courses on AI & Machine Learning, Data Science||Roorkee: Indian Institute of Technology in Roorkee (IIT-R) has partnered with Coursera, an online learning platform, to launch two new online programs for global learners on Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), and Data Science. The courses are to be started from early next year. According to the institute authorities, both courses are six-month-long and any student or professional can get enrolled for them. “This partnership will help us reach out to a global audience of students and professionals aspiring for quality teaching in these sought after areas,” said Professor AK Chaturvedi, IIT-R director. Coursera, a California-based digital educational platform which runs over 4300 courses, provides its services to leading varsities and industries across the globe. IIT-R is reported to be the first IIT taking services from Coursera. “Partnering with IIT-R is an illustrious opportunity for us as it is one of India’s top most and oldest engineering institutes,” said Jeff Maggioncalda, CEO of Coursera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-launches-short-term-courses-on-ai-machine-learning-data-science/articleshow/77511018.cms||Tapan Susheel
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Five-year-old raped by drunk youth in Baran||KOTA: A 19-year-old youth under inebriated condition raped a 5-year-old girl inside a Maabadi Kendra in Beta village under Shahabad police station of Baran district on Tuesday evening.  The minor survivor has sustained critical injures and was referred to Jay Kay Lon Hospital in Kota where she is undergoing medical treatment after surgery. The accused in the matter has been detained and is yet to be arrested after interrogation is over. A 5-year-old girl of Sahariya tribal community had gone for defecation in open on Tuesday around 5pm near Maabadi Kendra, situated in a deserted area in Beta village, where the 19-year-old youth, who was consuming liquor in an open field, noticed the girl, SHO at Shahabad police station Hariprasad Rana said.  Noticing that no one had accompanied the minor girl, the accused youth, who also belongs to Sahariya tribal community, forcibly took the girl inside Maabadi Kendra and raped her there, he added. It was raining on Tuesday evening at the time of the crime, he added. When the minor returned home crying and bleeding and narrated her ordeal to her mother, the family members rushed to the police station to lodge a case of rape against the accused youth, the SHO said. On the report, the accused youth, whose name, the SHO avoided to disclose, was booked for rape under sections of IPC and the Pocso Act on Tuesday night. The medical examination was conducted upon the victim and the application for recording her statements before the magistrate was submitted on Wednesday, the SHO said. The minor survivor was profusely bleeding and she sustained critical injuries in the crime, DSP and circle officer (CO), Shahabad Kajodmal said and added she was on Tuesday night rushed to Baran district hospital from where she was referred to Jay Kay Lon hospital in Kota late in the night. The minor is in a critical condition, however one surgery was conducted upon her on Wednesday afternoon and two more surgeries are to be conducted upon her, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/five-year-old-raped-by-drunk-youth-in-baran/articleshow/77513552.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Cash and staff crunch cripple testing, contact cases rise by 53% in 22 days||KOCHI: There has been a steep spike in locally transmitted Covid-19 positive cases in the district. According to a cluster report released by the health department on Tuesday, the commercial capital of the state recorded 53% increase of local transmission cases in 22 days, between July 10 and 31. The proportion of locally acquired cases in July was 74.5%, which was 50% more than cases reported between May 4 and July 9. Meanwhile, the state average stood at 59.3%. As per previous cluster report, locally acquired cases in Ernakulam was 21.5%. However, health officials said, though there has that a steep rise in contact cases, it doesn’t mean there’s a drop in imported cases. “Testing among travellers isn’t as rampant as it used to be during the initial stages of the outbreak. They are just placed under quarantine. Currently, only symptomatic travellers are being tested. While we focused on imported cases during the initial days, local people moved around resulting infection spread. Positivity rate among travellers has decreased as they are not being tested on massive scale. The same has increased in local residents as we increased testing among them,” said the officer. Meanwhile, officials do not deny the fact that fund crunch has affected widespread testing. “Covid-19 test is expensive. We also don’t have enough manpower to conduct tests even if we install new PCR machines. It takes four days to get results. If the department pools in medical staff from periphery for testing more swabs, the work in the periphery will be disrupted. The department has identified medical staff to be roped in when PVS hospital would be opened for treating Covid-19 patients. We will open it only when the desperate situation arises. If we appoint the staff now, we will have to pay them salary. At present, we are testing only primary contacts and those with symptoms in the secondary list,” said the official. Health experts, however, say the rise in local transmission cases in district is only the reflection of the situation across the state. “Currently, 120 patients who are asymptomatic are under home care in Ernakulam. Many private hospitals aren’t yet ready to admit positive cases. Also, patients who are tested positive while under treatment at their hospitals, should not be transferred to Covid hospitals. Though many private hospitals have started conducting antigen testing, many are waiting for kits despite giving orders long back. Since the district does not have enough PCR machines, we rely more on antigen tests,” said Dr Junaid Rahman, former president of IMA, Ernakulam chapter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cash-staff-crunch-cripple-testingcontact-cases-rise-by-53-in-22-days/articleshow/77512318.cms||T C Sreemol
August 13, 2020||Pune||Pune municipal corporation forbids roadside stalls from selling Ganesh idols||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will not permit setting up of stalls along the roadside to sell Ganapati idols. The decision was taken on Wednesday during a meeting of civic officials chaired by mayor Murlidhar Mohol. Every year, the PMC grants permissions to around 2500 stalls that sell about 4 lakh idols. “Footpaths and roads should not be occupied to set up the stalls. The civic administration should provide space for stall owners at open grounds,” said Mohol. The PMC issues guidelines for setting up the stalls each year. Apart from designated places across the municipal areas, stalls are allowed at road junctions and by the roadside. “This year, the civic administration has planned not to allow stalls on roads to avoid crowding. We want to ensure that physical distancing is maintained during the festival period. It will be tough to follow the norms set up by the government to control the spread of the virus,” said a senior PMC official. He said that those setting up stalls will have to adhere to strict rules, like using masks, hand gloves as well as sanitizers. As per PMC officials, the projections of various authorities and research institutes were also taken into consideration before taking the decision. The projected positive cases will be around 1.6 lakh by August-end with around 67,000 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-forbids-roadside-stalls-from-selling-ganesh-idols/articleshow/77513570.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chennai||Lockdown forces Nilgiris heritage hunters to pause||Chennai: A year ago, when they began to trace the British administration’s footprint in the Nilgiris and Coimbatore between 1850 and 1970, little did the five-member team, led by K Ramesh Kumar, know that a pandemic would be a stumbling block to their initiative. Recording the familiar and investigating the forgotten people and places, the idea is to digitally document the cultural heritage of the region through drawings, paintings of British artists, old photographs of tribes and their habitations and the Nilgiris mountain railway. The team could digitise more than 3,000 images, but it is yet to finish the preliminary survey of more than 20 places, which was the second part of the project. "We have surveyed 15 places in the Nilgiris, Coimbatore and a small portion of the Yercaud hill station but were unable to complete the survey due to the lockdown," said Ramesh Kumar, who heads the photo archives of the French Institute of Pondicherry. The team was supposed to finish the digitisation and survey by the end of July. "Even though it’s a preliminary survey, it takes a lot of time. The project was going on well, and we documented rare photographs, sketches and paintings from people and institutions. We lost more than six months in between. Now, we don’t know how long we need to wait to complete the project," said Kumar. Funded by the British Library, the project delves into the minutest details. "Many have documented and surveyed the Nilgiris and its colonial history. Ours is a different approach. We archive everything, from old portraits to the famous Pasteur Institute of India, a pioneer involved in the production of antirabies vaccine and DPT group of vaccines," he said. The team has documented the Madras Presidency monumental collections, handwritten documents of the planters’ associations, vintage portraits of tea estate bungalows, royal family portraits and documents of early 20th century schools, churches and institutions. "The idea of this project is to identify the rare documents through an intensive survey," said Kumar. An old photo album of the United Planters’ Association of Southern India (UPASI) stands testimony to the exclusivity of the project. In 1893, 13 district planting associations assembled in the Mayo Hall, Bangalore, formed the association. While the members of the team wait it out, Kumar is trying to study the material that they have collected. "There is a lot to study. Even though I am upset that we couldn’t complete the project on time due to the lockdown, these months helped us do our homework better. We hope we can resume work soon," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-forces-nilgiris-heritage-hunters-to-pause/articleshow/77515191.cms||M T Saju
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Travel agent held, fake visas seized||Hyderabad: A 40-year-old repeat offender was nabbed by Task Force sleuths of south zone and four fake Indian passports, several fake visas and fake job offer letters were recovered. Sikander Khan, a travel agent from Kalapather, was cheating gullible youngsters by assuring them of foreign jobs by taking commissions of Rs 50,000 to Rs 70,000 from each of them. He was arrested four times for visa fraud cases in Falaknuma, RGI Airport, Shamshabad and Kalapather police stations. After he gets released from the jail, he would start his con job again by collecting huge sums of money from youngsters with a promise to send them abroad. Two cases have already been registered against the accused, one at Kalapather and another at Chandrayangutta police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/travel-agent-held-fake-visas-seized/articleshow/77513606.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Regularise sanitation staff, Telangana HC tells municipal corporation||HYDERABAD: Severely reprimanding GHMC for giving a short shrift to its outsourced sanitation workers and staff despite them waging a relentless battle against Covid-19, Telangana high court has directed the civic body to regularise their services. The court further told GHMC to pay them on a par with regular staff till they are regularised. This verdict came as a shot in the arm for more than 17,000 sanitation workers, supervisors, entomology field workers, superior field workers, field supervisors and superior field assistants, who were getting paltry wages despite discharging the same job as that of regular staff. Making it clear that this was no way to build Hyderabad as a global city, Justice MS Ramachandra Rao pronounced the judgment and gave GHMC two months’ time to regularise the services. The petition was filed by G Srinivasachary and 97 workers. The judge gave no option of discontinuing services of any worker in the meantime. “You (GHMC) have to continue them in service with the required payscale,” he said, while denouncing the practice of outsourcing in areas where work is permanent. Coming down heavily on GHMC for refusing to regularise the services on the ground that they are not its employees, the judge, citing various Supreme Court orders, said removal of the ‘deceptive outsource veil’ would expose GHMC as the principal employer because all these workers were directly working for GHMC. Petitioners’ counsel Chikkudu Prabhakar told TOI that there are 17,900 outsourced employees working with GHMC sanitation wing in various capacities and that more than 11,000 of them have been working for more than 10 years. Taking GHMC to task for exploiting such a large pool of workers labouring in an essential service, Justice Rao said: “The outsourcing system adopted by GHMC is a sham and a ruse to avoid extending to these workers their genuine service entitlements. The presence of an outsourcing contractor has to be done away with and workers should have been directly engaged by the GHMC. They are also entitled to be considered for regularisation of their services.” Their work during the pandemic in cleaning and sanitising infected containment zones and public places was laudable, the judge said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/regularise-sanitation-staff-hc-tells-municipal-corpn/articleshow/77513586.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Now, adventure tourism in Mewar to attract visitors||UDAIPUR: Udaipur attracts tourists from around the world with its scenic beauty, lakes, hills and forests. Now, to woo the guests visiting Udaipur and Kumbalgarh fort to Rajsamand, the department of tourism and district administration are all set to commence paragliding activities there. The department is collaborating with a Jodhpur-based aerial adventure sports company which will conduct paragliding sessions for adventure lovers during weekends initially. “We hope to create a tourist circuit Udaipur-Kumbalgarh-Rajsamand to attract visitors and get them hooked to the scenic beauty here, we are launching the sport on weekend basis initially,” said Shikha Saxena, deputy director, tourism. Rajsamand would be promoted for its adventure sports activities where people can experience their passion for flying. Trials have been held successfully and the activity would be launched from Friday onwards. “Anyone from six years onwards up to the age of 84, can paraglide without any previous experience. Passengers would sit in the front having 360 degrees bird-like view flying above the picturesque Rajsamand Lake from a height of 700 to 1,000 feet depending on the wind condition,” Samarth Sharma from Sky Ventures said. Looking at the pandemic conditions, the joy rides timing has been limited. Flyers can enjoy these rides from 7.30am to 11am and 4pm to 6pm on Saturdays and Sundays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/now-adventure-tourism-in-mewar-to-attract-visitors/articleshow/77513559.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Dehradun||In 24 hours, Uttarakhand records 439 fresh cases, four deaths||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand reported 439 fresh Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Wednesday. With this, the total number of cases surged to 10,886 and the death toll mounted to 140 in the state. All the four deaths were reported from AIIMS Rishikesh and the death summary of the victims cited comorbidities along with Covid-19. “The maximum of 139 cases were reported from Haridwar, followed by 119 cases from Udham Singh Nagar, 82 from Dehradun, 28 from Nainital, 21 from Chamoli, 17 from Tehri, 12 from Champawat, seven from Pithoragarh, five from Pauri, and three cases each from Almora, Rudraprayag, and Bageshwar districts,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Meanwhile, according to reports, more than 200 people admitted at the quarantine centre built in Pantnagar University (Udham Singh Nagar) staged a protest against “bad quality food” and “poor cleanliness” and refused to have food till the administration took cognisance. In another such incident on the day in Udham Singh Nagar, staffers of a unit associated with SIDCUL, who are serving their quarantine period at a hotel, staged a protest against bad quality food. According to sources, the officials held talks with the protestors and managed to pacify them. Talking to TOI, Dr DS Panchpal, chief medical officer (CMO) of Udham Singh Nagar, rubbished the claims of poor food and sanitation. “I have personally met the patients serving quarantine at Pantnagar University. It was just some miscommunication. We were told that 100 people would come here but 130 suspected cases arrived. This is why there was a delay in the serving of food. The matter is resolved now,” he said, while adding that he has no knowledge of the other protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-24-hrs-uttarakhand-records-439-fresh-cases-four-deaths/articleshow/77511044.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 13, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Was molested by a PHC employee, says woman||GHAZIABAD: A 25-year-old woman has alleged that she was molested by a staff at a primary healthcare centre (PHC) in Khoda colony where she had gone for treatment on Wednesday. The woman had come from Lucknow, where she lives with her husband, to visit her parents in Khoda for Rakshabandhan. In the complaint, she said that she was experiencing throat ache and had gone to the health centre to get it checked. The accused was alone at the facility and told her that he has to test her for Covid before consultation. He locked the door and started misbehaving with her, she alleged. “Once the accused locked the gate, he asked the woman to undress herself and when she opposed, the man tried to hold her hands. Somehow, the woman escaped from the spot,” the complaint said. Bablu Kumar, the woman’s neighbour said that on Wednesday, patients were sent back from the PHC as the doctor wasn’t in. The woman came home and narrated the incident to her mother. The two then informed the police and went to the PHC but found it locked. “Around 1 pm, the woman and her mother stood outside the health centre and started screaming. The woman’s mothers complained that the compounder of the hospital has molested her daughter,” Kumar said. Anshu Jain, circle officer, Indirapuram said, “Action will be taken after police records the statement of the woman. We have detained the accused.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/was-molested-by-a-phc-employee-says-woman/articleshow/77514275.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
August 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Muslim youths form human chain to protect temple from rioters in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Amid all the rioting on late Tuesday night, took place an extraordinary act of harmony when a group of Muslims formed a human chain to protect the Hanuman temple in RT Nagar. The temple is located close to Pulakeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivasmurthy’s office-cum-residence which was set on fire by the mob. When the rioters turned towards the temple, a few men quickly formed a human chain around it and prevented them from targeting it. The video captured by an unknown person went viral on social media. Kaval Byrasandra resident K Shivappa told TOI that at 9pm, over 100 men vandalised the MLA’s home opposite the temple. “I could see vehicles burning and suddenly, some men shouted something by pointing towards the temple. When they started running towards it, a group of men stopped them.” The temple was locked but lights outside were burning. “Some elders in the group forced the boys who attempted to climb the gate to return,” he added. Ahmed, another resident, said more men were rushing by hurling abuses against the MLA. “But this group stood strong and prevented anyone from scaling the gate of the temple,” he added. On Wednesday morning, many devotees visited the temple after the video was circulated widely on the social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/muslim-youths-form-human-chain-to-protect-temple-from-rioters/articleshow/77511809.cms||Petlee Peter
August 13, 2020||India||HC issues notice to Centre on contempt plea||NEW DELHI: The Delhi HC has asked the Centre why it should not be hauled up for contempt of court for alleged “wilful disobedience” of its order to ensure the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification of 2020 is published in all the 22 languages in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution within 10 days from June 30. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva on Tuesday issued notice to the environment ministry and sought its response to the contempt plea filed by environmental conservationist Vikrant Tongad by August 17. In his plea, Tongad said despite high court order, the ministry remains in “deliberate defiance” as it neither published the translated versions of the draft EIA, nor did it seek more time from the court to do so. Appearing for Tongad, advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan said the HC, by its June 30 order, had also extended till August 11 the date for giving comments or objections to the draft EIA and, for this purpose, it had asked the ministry to publish the translated versions to enable public to respond to the same. The draft EIA-2020, according to the plea, provides for post facto approval of projects and does away with public consultation in some cases. The court had on June 30 said looking at the far-reaching consequences of the public consultation process for which the draft notification has been published, “we are of the view that it would be in aid of effective dissemination of the proposed notification if arrangements are made for its translation into other languages as well, at least those mentioned in the Eighth Schedule to the Constitution”. The translation may be undertaken by the Centre itself or with the assistance of the state governments, where applicable, it said. “Such translations should also be published through the website of the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, Government of India, as well as on websites of environment ministries of all states within 10 days from today,” the court had noted on June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-issues-notice-to-centre-on-contempt-plea/articleshow/77515192.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Noida||84 found Covid-19 positive in Noida, 100 in Ghaziabad||NOIDA: As many as 84 people tested positive for Covid-19 in GB Nagar on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 6,182. According to the state report, there are 862 active cases in the district and 43 people have died due to the virus. The administration released a new list of 289 containment zones. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad reported 100 new cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 6,099. One death was added to the toll that stands at 66 now. Currently, there are 998 active cases in Ghaziabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/84-found-positive-in-noida-100-in-gzb/articleshow/77514280.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Four private hospitals have started treating Covid patients’||PANAJI: Four private hospitals in the state — Manipal Hospital, Dona Paula, SMRC, Vasco, Apollo Hospital, Margao, and Healthway Hospital, Old Goa — have started admitting and treating Covid-positive patients. The second state-run Covid hospital, in Ponda, has also become operational, with 27 patients shifted there, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday. “The four private hospitals have come on board responding to our call to reserve 20 % of the ICU beds for covid patients, and have begun admitting Covid patients,” he said. He said that to streamline management of the two Covid facilities — the ESI hospital in Margao and the Ponda sub-district hospital — the state cabinet on Wednesday decided to hand over catering and housekeeping services to Sodexo and Ecoclean, respectively. “We will get some of the best facilities,” Sawant said. “Payment to them will depend on the number of patients. Additionally, there are four Covid care centres set up by industries by taking up private hotels, and they themselves are managing it. The government is not spending anything. Various IMA doctors are providing us with consultation with regards to home isolation and quarantine centres. For industrial Covid care centres too, IMA doctors are extending their help.” He also said that till date, 980 patients have opted for home quarantine, as they have the required facilities available at home. “IMA doctors are helping us in providing consultation to these patients,” he said. “To date, 41 persons have received plasma therapy. We are trying to provide it to even more persons. We have also drawn up the protocol for who can donate plasma. We appeal that as many persons as possible donate plasma.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/4-pvt-hosps-have-started-treating-covid-patients/articleshow/77514300.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: New Covid cases pose challenge to district||KOCHI: Even as the authorities are striving to contain the Covid spread in existing clusters, the threat of new clusters emerging looms large over other parts of the district. After Nellikuzhi in eastern parts of Ernakulam, Ayavana panchayat witnesses many contact cases. Most of the cases are related to Kalampoor market, which is famous for goat trade. The panchayat reported as many as 20 cases in the past one week itself. “Most of the 20 cases are related to goat traders and their family members. We had closed the market even before the central government imposed lockdown. But traders used to sell goats on roadside and by visiting houses, despite our strict warning against it. Violation of restrictions resulted in the current contact cases,” said panchayat president Roby Jose. The Kalampoor market used to witness trade of around 1,300 goats per day as people from across Kerala and other states would flock the market spread over an acre. District health officials said the cases from Ayavana hint at the possibility of the area becoming a cluster. “We are looking into the reason behind cases being reported from the panchayat. If the cases are scattered, we will declare it as a cluster and will look into the emergence of cases for a few days before declaring it,” said the official. Though Chellanam witnessed a decline in cases, new cases started to report recently. “It is in the third week that cases will be the peak in an area where more cases are reported. Then it will come down over a course of two months. That is what the statistics show. We imposed containment restrictions in the whole panchayat and residents were allowed to move inside. We could not implement micro containment as there is staff shortage in police force,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/new-cases-pose-challenge-to-dist/articleshow/77512325.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||I-Day special: MJ Market in new avatar with a touch of heritage||HYDERABAD: Come August 15, a refurbished Moazzam Jahi Market will greet old-timers, locals and shoppers. The restoration work was finally completed after two years. MAUD secretary Arvind Kumar, who was tasked with its restoration, tweeted: “It Aug 15th!! Renovated #MJMarket will be opened for us all (sic).” Officials say the plan is to eventually turn the market into a gateway for the Old City and make it as a cultural hub. Shrinivas G Sulge, conservation architect, who was involved in the restoration of the majestic structure, said they slogged through the lockdown and pandemic to bring back the old glory of the market. “Both the roof slabs and flooring have been restored to its original shape,” he said. The last phase of the project involved work on the meat market inside the complex. To ensure that the market wears its original heritage look, palm trees have been planted, ornamental railings have been affixed and main board signage restored. Now, only the furniture is to be installed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/i-day-spl-mj-market-in-new-avatar-with-a-touch-of-heritage/articleshow/77513625.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Mumbai||Konkan ST bus services get ‘poor response’||MUMBAI: There was a poor response to online reservations for state transport buses to Konkan between August 13-21. A senior official told TOI only 15 tickets were sold, and buses may be cancelled. “If we get two to three booking per bus, it will not be feasible to operate. We may cancel buses at the eleventh hour,” he said. Sources said no bus may be operated on Thursday unless there are more bookings in the morning. This is the last batch of buses leaving for Konkan for Ganpati festival. Those travelling till August 12 have to quarantine themselves at the destination for 10 days. From August 13, a negative Covid test report has to be submitted when boarding. An official from MSRTC headquarters said between August 6-11, 316 buses left for Konkan. “We expect 50 more to leave by Wednesday night,” he said. Compared to previous years, this was a poor response. There were only 11,000 bookings for onward and return journey, compared to over a lakh every year. Most going to Konkan took e-passes this year and travelled by private transport, sources said. For group bookings, only 50 buses were booked, which was not good, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/konkan-bus-services-get-poor-response/articleshow/77512747.cms||Somit Sen
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Govt English medium schools in Jaipur get good response||JAIPUR: The response from parents to admit their children in Mahatma Gandhi Government English Medium Schools was tremendous with most schools getting double the applications. The average number of seats in each school is 225. District education officer Ram Chandra Pilaniya said, “Admission forms are almost double this time. From classes I to V, we have 30 seats and from VI to VIII we have 35 seats in one classroom. Parents were lined up to get their wards admitted in the schools. Because of the pandemic, the number was affected, else the number of application forms would have been even higher.” Parents of lower income and middle-class families are keen on getting their wards admitted in the schools. A senior government official said he was getting a number of requests from parents to get their child admitted. “Requests are not coming from the wealthy people but from the people working for wealthy or established people like maids, drivers or cooks in their houses. So, the background of the people is still from lower middle class but their approach is through powerful people. However, this will not work, because lottery will be taken out on August 13, after which admissions will be given,” said the official. Till now, in Jaipur district, 8,232 applications have been received in 19 schools for 4,845 seats. If the number of students is more and there is enough space in the schools, administration can open another section to accommodate more children. Mahatma Gandhi Government English Medium Schools were opened in 167 blocks of the state last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-eng-medium-schools-in-jaipur-get-good-response/articleshow/77513571.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Dehradun||200-bed Covid-19 hospital opens in Haridwar||HARIDWAR: A 200-bed hospital dedicated to Covid-19 patients was opened in Haridwar on Wednesday. According to district magistrate C Ravishankar, a Covid-19 hospital in Haridwar had been long in planning and all the more necessitated by a growing number of coronavirus cases in the district (Haridwar has reported 2,300 cases of the novel coronavirus so far, of which 1,600 are currently active). On an average, Haridwar adds 100-150 cases to the state's tally every day, the DM said. The hospital came up at an out-of-use hospital building at Doodhadhari Baba Barfani Ashram. The industrial units of SIDCUL arranged for the building blocks, including beds, mattresses, lockers, IV stands, screens and other facilities. Lauding the concerted efforts of the industries, DM Ravishankar said, “The facility will be of immense help at this time, when the healthcare infrastructure is strained. While 200 beds are ready to use, efforts to add 300 more and turn it into a 500-bed facility are on. This hospital will ensure good care of coronavirus patients as there are ample number doctors and nurses here and they will be dedicated to only this institute. Mobilisation of resources will also be easier,” said the DM. According to Ravishankar, the industrial units would earlier have to spend around Rs 15,000 on an employee if they contracted Covid-19 and had to be sent into paid quarantine. “This hospital will save the industries a substantial amount,” the DM explained. SIDCUL regional manager G S Rawat, who did most of the ground work and coordination for the hospital, said, “The hospital was conceptualised by the DM. It took over two months to execute the plan. Among other things, it involved mobilizing support of already financially-drained industrial units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/200-bed-covid-19-hospital-opens-in-haridwar/articleshow/77511083.cms||Sheo S Jaiswal
August 13, 2020||Ghaziabad||84 found Covid-19 positive in Noida, 100 in Ghaziabad||NOIDA: As many as 84 people tested positive for Covid-19 in GB Nagar on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 6,182. According to the state report, there are 862 active cases in the district and 43 people have died due to the virus. The administration released a new list of 289 containment zones. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad reported 100 new cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 6,099. One death was added to the toll that stands at 66 now. Currently, there are 998 active cases in Ghaziabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/84-found-positive-in-noida-100-in-gzb/articleshow/77515594.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Food processing units to help farmers, youth: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Emphasising on the need for a food processing policy in the state, industries minister KT Rama Rao on Wednesday said there are abundant investment opportunities in Telangana as the state registered high numbers in agriculture production. The policies will help bolster rural economy and increase employment opportunities, said KTR. While presenting the draft food processing and logistics policies to the cabinet ministers, KTR said that the completion of irrigation projects and other measures introduced by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has helped increase the crop production. “Construction of new irrigation projects has resulted in increased cultivation area in the state, subsequently increasing production of crops. The completed projects like Kaleshwaram will help further increase agricultural production. There is a need to increase food processing capacity in the state,” he said. The minister said that by promoting the food processing sector, farmers in the state would grow economically which would also create employment opportunities for the youth. There would be special incentives for SC, ST, minorities and women at the food processing units, the minister said. KTR said that the necessary subsidies and incentives to develop the food processing industry in Telangana have been proposed. The incentives given in this sector in other states and countries have also been referred. He said the state was experiencing a water revolution and was in the process of witnessing another green revolution (agriculture), followed by the blue revolution (fisheries), the pink revolution (meat production) and the white revolution (milk). The minister highlighted that the crops being cultivated in every village, mandal and district are being mapped across the state for comprehensive information on agricultural operations. KTR took inputs from the cabinet ministers and stated that their suggestions would be taken into consideration while drafting the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/food-processing-units-to-help-farmers-youth-ktr/articleshow/77513630.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 13, 2020||Mysuru||Teenager among 11 Covid-19 fatalities in Mysuru||MYSURU: Mysuru has recorded the highest ever jump of Covid-19 cases of 544 in a single day on Wednesday. About 668 were discharged from Covid hospitals and Covid Care Centres. In all, eleven people died of Covid. One of them was a teenager and two others were aged 23 years. All three had respiratory illness and were admitted following breathlessness. A youth was a diabetic, according to the health bulletin. Mysuru has been seeing a rise in the number of Covid cases since two weeks and Wednesday’s figure was the highest ever since March. Total Covid tally has touched 8,467 in the district with a sudden spike in the number of cases. Authorities attribute it to an increase in the number of rapid antigen tests. 10 deaths in coastCoastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi combined to report 492 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, including 263 in Udupi district. On a truly ‘positive note’, the districts discharged 696 patients post treatment including 498 in Dakshina Kannada district. The districts also recorded 10 Covid related deaths with DK accounting for seven of those deaths, taking the total to 244 in DK and 69 in Udupi respectively. 255 cases in HassanHassan district registered 255 fresh cases on Wednesday, the highest in a day so far thus taking the tally to 3,986. The total active cases are 2,181 including 49 in ICU. Total discharges are 1,688 with 162 on the same day. Therewere six deaths reported on Wednesday, taking the toll to 116||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/teenager-among-11-covid-19-fatalities-in-mysuru/articleshow/77511668.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court quashes rape FIR as ‘survivor’ settles matter||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Tuesday quashed a two-month-old FIR for rape after the alleged survivor said she filed it in a “fit of rage’’ and soon “amicably settled’’ the matter, as investigations had not begun and the case would unduly burden “an already overburdened criminal justice system’’. HC considered a Supreme Court ruling which laid down guidelines on quashing and held the case fit the criteria. The case may not lead to conviction due to the compromise and with the “relationship being consensual’’, a bench of Justices R D Dhanuka and V G Bisht said it was inclined to quash the FIR. “Continuation of criminal case would put the accused to great oppression and prejudice and extreme injustice would be caused to him by not quashing the criminal case. There will be wastage of precious judicial time,’’ added the bench after hearing advocates Sandesh Patil for the accused, P A Gokhale for the woman and prosecutor J P Yagnik. The May 29 FIR said the accused was a junior in the same office and had given her emotional support when faced marital problems. It alleged she was “raped’’ in 2016 and in January 2020, promising marriage, and then in February on “a pretext of his ill-heath’’ when she visited him, later refusing to marry her. Patil said on June 5 she amicably settled the matter by filing an affidavit and consented to quashing the FIR. The prosecution said her consent made no difference and cited a 2019 SC ruling. The judgement said the guiding factor for quashing criminal cases would include factors to secure “ends of justice’’ and “prevent abuse of process of any court’’. SC had held such a power is not be exercised in prosecutions involving heinous and serious offences of mental depravity or offences like murder, rape and dacoity but said HC has to “examine if possibility of conviction is remote or cause the accused extreme injustice”. HC said the FIR has “made vague allegations of rape without her consent’’ and the woman had never earlier complained against him since 2016, and held that the “FIR nowhere shows she was coaxed to maintain physical intimacy every time on promise of marriage’’. Nor does it clearly point that he had any “fraudulent intention of not marrying’’ at the time of making such a promise, it said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-quashes-rape-fir-as-survivor-settles-matter/articleshow/77512749.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Waterlogged roads a headache for residents||JAIPUR: Tilak Nagar resident Shikha Jain was forced to return home to change clothes on a rainy Friday evening after a four-wheeler zoomed past and splashed water on her. “This isn’t the first time. I have to be very careful in monsoon while riding my scooter. All roads become waterlogged within a few minutes of rainfall and Jaipur is supposed to become a Smart City,” said Shikha. Majority of the residents have complained about choked drains and waterlogged roads. When it poured on Tuesday, half of the city faced waterlogging problems. Narain Singh Circle, Gandhi Circle, Tri Murti Cricle and almost the entire Walled City area roads were under knee-deep water. Prakash Sharma, a shopkeeper at Kishanpole market, said after 40 minutes of rain, the entire market was under water. “Verandas of the market and our shops were filled with water. Recently, Kishanpole market was renovated under Smart City project. Roads and verandas were repaired. Government had claimed that after the repairs, no waterlogging will occur,” said Sharma. The municipal corporation is receiving around 20 complaints of waterlogging daily at the flood control centre. From August 1 to 10, around 250 complaints have been filed for waterlogging. Sand bags were sent to areas where excessive waterlogging was reported. At many places, mud pumps are still working to flush out water. Officials at the municipal corporation, Jaipur, Greater and Heritage, said they were working to resolve the complaints as soon as possible. Lack of investment in draining and sewage systems in the city is one of the main causes for this problem. According to officials, sewage lines in the Walled City are around 50 years old. The population has increased but the lines have not changed. Proposal was sent to change it, but it may take another 50 years to execute it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/waterlogged-roads-a-headache-for-residents/articleshow/77513628.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Constable succumbs to Covid-19||Hyderabad: Another constable has succumbed to Covid-19 in Telangana. The 46-year-old cop with Saidabad police station passed away in Gandhi Hospital on Tuesday night within hours after he was brought there. He tested positive for Covid-19 on August 5 and was admitted to a private hospital in Malakpet on August 7. When his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to Gandhi Hospital at around 3 pm. His wife and daughter had also tested positive. While the daughter has recovered, his wife is undergoing treatment, a police official said. “He lost his son five years ago in a drowning incident. The constable was the sole bread earner,” said an officer. A resident of Meerpet, the cop had been working in Saidabad PS for the last 10 months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/constable-succumbs-to-covid-19/articleshow/77513634.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man hangs self on being called ‘crazy’ by wife||JAIPUR: A 24-year-old man hanged himself in Shyam Nagar police station area here allegedly after a tiff with his wife over the phone. During conversation, the wife apparently called him ‘crazy’ and taking offence to that he wrote a post on Facebook claiming that it was due to this reason that he was taking his own life. The deceased was identified as Ravi Kumar who worked as domestic help. Shyam Nagar SHO Santara Meena said, “The deceased hailed from Bihar and worked in Jaipur. His family stayed in his native village and on Tuesday afternoon, he hanged himself in his room.” According to officials, before taking his own life, Kumar wrote a post on social media. The SHO said, “It appears that the couple had a tiff during which his wife called him mad. He wrote on social media that the despite the fact that he loved his wife, he was very upset with her comment because of which he was killing himself. He used a cable wire to hang himself.” Before committing suicide, the deceased had cooked food at his employer’s house and even got his own tiffin back to his room. The official said, “Marital discord seems to be the only reason for the youth to take his life and we found no other suicide note apart from the one written on social media. His family is yet to arrive from Bihar and we will question them as well to find if there was any other issue which Kumar was battling due to which he took this extreme step.” The deceased’s body was kept in the mortuary and sample taken to test for Covid. His post-mortem will be done once his family reaches Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-hangs-self-on-being-called-crazy-by-wife/articleshow/77513595.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||NGT team to inspect Bhiwadi Industrial Area||ALWAR: A team of two scientists from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) inspected Bhiwadi Industrial Area in Alwar district.  After receiving constant complaints of polluted water released by factories in the industrial area, the team reached on Wednesday. The team will stay in Bhiwadi till August 15 and inspect all the factories and prepare a report. The water is being released by these factories, which was going down through the drains through the rain harvesting system. Due to this, the water becomes contaminated and is unfit to drink.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ngt-team-to-inspect-bhiwadi-industrial-area/articleshow/77513575.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||HKM-H marks festival with Covid-19 norms||Hyderabad: Krishna Janmashthami was celebrated across the city on Tuesday and Wednesay with many temples holding special pujas in strict adherence to the Covid-19 regulations. Grand celebrations were held on the first day of the two-day long Sri Krishna Janmashtami by Hare Krishna Movement–Hyderabad (HKM-H) at its Hare Krishna Golden Temple in Banjara Hills. Keeping in view the current Covid-19 situation and in adherence to the health department regulations, devotees were allowed only for general darshan. No offerings such as flowers or coconuts etc. were allowed and children and elders were restrained from entering the temple. “Devotees and visitors were allowed only for darshan in strict adherence to Covid-19 regulations issued by the government,” read a press release issued by HKM-H. Many temples broadcasted Janmashthami celebrations and special pujas online. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hkm-h-marks-festival-with-covid-19-norms/articleshow/77513631.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||City to get 50 theme parks soon||Hyderabad: A total of 50 theme parks will dot Hyderabad in the coming months. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has started floating tenders for the development of these lung spaces after Rs 123 crore was sanctioned for the project. Foundation for six such theme parks being developed by GHMC in LB Nagar zone (covering the eastern part of the city) was laid on Wednesday by mayor Bonthu Rammohan. “Park designs are inspired from lung spaces located in Delhi and Bengaluru. Yoga, walking track, open gyms and washrooms are some among many amenities,” said Rammohan. Works pertaining to the parks in AS Rao Nagar, Vasavi Enclave (Kushaiguda) and BN Reddy Nagar started on Wednesday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-to-get-50-theme-parks-soon/articleshow/77513635.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kochi||College hosts inspirational series for students||KOCHI: Student members of the innovation and entrepreneurship development cell (IEDC) of Government Model Engineering College (MEC), Thrikkakara hosted an IGTV and YouTube series titled ‘Womennovators’ with the aim of connecting home-bound students to the possibilities of youth entrepreneurship. Through the series, IEDC hosted an array of women entrepreneurs, who have become successful in their respective fields and arranged an interaction with the students to inspire them. Allen Joseph, CEO of the cell, said, “We focused on this series, telecast between May 20 and August 2, to inspire the community as well as to propagate an important message of breaking societal prejudices through celebrating the achievements of these amazing women and giving a sneak peek into their lives,” he said. Noha Al Khalqi, programs director of Millennium Campus Network, which is a United Nations academic impact affiliated fellowship programme, and Anubha Maneshwar, founder of the Girlscript Foundation and one among the Forbes Asia 30 under 30 social entrepreneurs, were among the speakers. They focused on Instagram and YouTube as the medium for the series and the guests were featured on Instagram page of IEDC MEC by putting up their digital posters as an Instagram story. The audience was given an opportunity to ask them questions through ‘ask a question’ feature. The types of questions revolved around the daily lives of these women entrepreneurs, their inspiration, professional life, contribution to society, and so on. It also discussed technical topics such as scholarships, art as well as social entrepreneurship. Guest speakers answered the questions through video messages which were subsequently broadcast on IGTV and YouTube handles of the cell. “IEDCMEC has been conducting online events and activities throughout the quarantine period to raise awareness and to give home-bound students opportunities to learn and hear from esteemed speakers,” said Niranjana, a core member of IEDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/college-hosts-inspirational-series-for-pupils/articleshow/77512339.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kochi||Pettimudy tragedy: Three more bodies recovered, toll at 55||IDUKKI: Three more bodies were recovered from the landslide area at Pettimudy near Munnar on Wednesday and the death toll has risen to 55. The recovered bodies are Sumathi (50), Lakshmanasree (9) and Nadiya (11). Following an improvement in weather conditions, the search operations got more impetus when they used drone camera to take aerial shots of the area, on Wednesday. “With the drone, we captured the shots of the river bank. The images showed that the river got diverted to different areas from the main course,” Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan said. He said that from Thursday, they would start sectorwise search on the river banks. The two bodies recovered on Wednesday were from Gravel Bank area of the river and another one was recovered on the way to Gravel Bank,” he said. According to their estimate, fifteen persons are still missing. “We will continue to search till we recover body of the last person. Of the missing, many are children. We suspect that some of the bodies were washed away by the river to Bhoothathankettu dam. It will be difficult to find the bodies from the dam,” said Prem Krishnan. “All parts of the landslide site have already been dug up with the help of earthmovers. If the weather improves, we will again use the assistance of sniffer dogs on Thursday and intensify parallel search in the area. We hope to find more bodies in the next couple of days,” he said. District collector H Dineshan said that the search operations were carried out as per Covid-19 protocol. Antigen tests were conducted on all those engaged in the search operations. The antigen tests found that two persons at the site tested positive and have been sent for home quarantine, said the collector. “Some people are spreading fake news that Covid-19 was spreading in the area. The district administration conducted antigen tests on all those engaged in search operations. Disinfection work in the area is being done daily. There is no cause for panic,” said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pettimudy-tragedy-3-more-bodies-recovered-toll-at-55/articleshow/77511163.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Forest officer kills self over harassment||HYDERABAD: A 32-year-old deputy forest range officer from Mohammedabad town in Mahbubnagar district allegedly committed suicide due to alleged domestic harassment on Wednesday.  The victim, Wahida Begum, 32, was deputy forest range officer of Mohammedabad area. According to Mahbubnagar police, Wahida consumed pesticide at her house in Mohammedabad on Wednesday afternoon and she was declared brought dead at Mahbubnagar government hospital. “There was no suicide note. Family members of Wahida alleged that she ended her life due to harassment from her husband, a clerk with the forest department,” Mahbubnagar Rural police said. A case was registered under Section 498-A and 306 of the IPC. No arrests have been made yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forest-officer-kills-self-over-harassment/articleshow/77513637.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||People rescued from rain-hit slum areas in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The flood control centres of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) received 97 complaints after downpour on Tuesday. A 30-member civil defence team rescued people from Jawahar Nagar slum area late in the night. Many people were stranded on their rooftop after water level rose in Tilla number 6. The civil defence teams rescued them. Similar situation was seen at Jagatpura Kacchi Basti and Bais Godown. Deputy controller of civil defence Manish Fauzdar said, “After four years such flood-like situation emerged at the Jawahar slum area. It is a low-lying area where people are living by encroaching the hill. People have constructed houses in deep areas where water got accumulated. Some people climbed the hill waiting for the water level to go down, but we convinced them to get out of there before it became too difficult.” The rescued people were put at Adarsh Nagar Govt School building. Jawahar Nagar slum area is situated on a forest land where thousands of people have settled illegally. Government is supposed to shift them, but the plan has not been implemented. Similarly, a motorcycle rider got stuck in heavy water at Jagatpura Kacchi Basti. Rescue team with ropes and machines rescued him. Mud pumps were installed at Jagatpura and Jawahar Nagar Kacchi Basti that are still functioning. According to the data provided by the JMC officials, till now 50,000 sand bags have been used in the monsoon. JMC have 13 mud pumps, but in Tuesday’s rainfall, they have to call a private contractor to supply four extra pumps. Complaints were received at the flood control station in Jaipur especially from Jhalana, Bajaj Nagar and Bais Godown areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/people-rescued-from-rain-hit-slum-areas-in-city/articleshow/77513632.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Udaipur||In a first in state, 10,000 seed balls dropped from drone in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: In an innovative approach to increase forest cover in the state, the forest department on Tuesday used a specialised drone for dropping seed balls in interior hilly areas at Sarveni Ven that falls under Salumber forest range of Udaipur district. The initiative was a part of the pilot project jointly taken up by the ministry of forest and environment Delhi and Rajasthan government where Udaipur has been chosen for experimenting the seed bombing technique. Some 10,000 seed balls containing seeds of indigenous varieties such as kher, kuntha, roz and baheda were dropped from a height of 100 metres in a 5-hectare earmarked area which has been protected by a four-metre boundary. A team of experts from Hyderabad, who conducted the trial, will monitor the growth of the seed balls for a year and if the seeds survive to grow into a thick vegetation, the project will be extended to high altitude forests. “Udaipur has been selected for the pilot project as there are hills more than 1500 metre high where plantation is really difficult. In an effort to replant forests that have suffered massive deforestation, we have experimented with spray seed fields from the sky in a comparatively lower hilly area in the first phase,” deputy conservator of forests Ajay Chittora told TOI. The technique is also called aerial reforestation and involves a drone dropping thousands of seed bombs. These seed bombs are balls of clay and earth packed with seeds inside. Effective coating of seeds with healthy growth catalysts like soil, cow dung, cow urine and compost increases the success of seed germination. Once they hit the ground, the seeds sprout and over time grow into a beautiful and lush forest. This method is particularly ecological because a variety of seeds can be packed into a single ball, allowing scientists to identify which species naturally tend to grow in a specific area without human intervention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/in-a-first-in-state-10k-seed-balls-dropped-from-drone-in-udaipur/articleshow/77513607.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Goa||More Covid positives due to higher testing: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday that Goa appeared to have a higher number of Covid-19 cases because the rate of testing in the state was the highest in the country. “Goa carries out the highest Covid testing in the country, with 90,000 per million,” he said. “Far behind us is Delhi, testing 65,000 persons per million.” Sawant said that if the state hadn’t been testing at this rate, it wouldn’t have found so many patients. “We worry about the people, and therefore we’re carrying out testing at this rate,” he said. The CM also said that the government is in the process of acquiring ECGs, CT scan machines and high inflow oxygen machines for the Covid hospitals to be able to better care for patients with comorbodities. He said that he has written to the Centre to sanction more funds for Goa for Covid management. “Till date, Rs 6 crore has been received from the Centre,” Sawant said, adding that the government is currently utilising funds from the chief minister’s Covid relief fund and the money provided by the Centre. “We appeal to industrialists and others to donate to the CM’s Covid relief fund,” he said. “Those with comorbid conditions are being provided the best treatment, in consultation with a team from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, headed by the dean,” he said. “We have taken the decision to revamp the two Covid hospitals.” Meanwhile, health minister Vishwajit Rane said that the government is planning a third Covid hospital at Hospicio, Margao, by shifting all its regular healthcare facilities to the South Goa district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-more-covid-positives-due-to-higher-testing/articleshow/77514309.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Shop owners usurping our benefits: Vendors||HYDERABAD: Street vendors are up in arms over benefits meant for them being passed on to others, including plumber and electricians. With the Centre and state government stepping in to help, vendors claim people with permanent shops are also being added as beneficiaries. “Street vendors are being identified through Town Vending Committee by survey who will be providing ID cards to them. However, officials are giving ID cards to non-street vendors as well,” Telangana Street Vendors and Hawkers’ Union president Venkat Mohan said . As per the Prime Minister Street Vendors’ Aatma Nirbhar Nidhi and the state government directives, they have to be provided Rs 10,000 loan at a low interest rate to cope with financial stress after the lockdown. “Street vendors are by definition only those people who sell merchandise or services in a street, lane, side-walk, footpath, pavement, public park or any other public place or private area from a temporary structure,” Mohan says. He cited the example of Goshamahal to suggest the survey was being done in an improper manner. Raising another troubling issue, National Association of Street Vendors of India-Greater Hyderabad general secretary James John said: “Most migrant street vendors have left for their villages. The survey to list the beneficiaries should have been carried out after they return.” Instead of carrying out a survey in a rush, if it had been done in a timely manner as intended after the Street Vendors Act was passed, the government would have had an accurate figure of how many affected people were there in the city, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shop-owners-usurping-our-benefits-vendors/articleshow/77513640.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||When there is no ban (forest), will there be a mukut (crown)?||State environment minister Aaditya Thackeray has written to the Centre requesting that Marki-Mangli block II not be made available for coal auctioning on August 18. The block is located near Mukutban village and on the wildlife corridor from Tadoba in Chandrapur district to Tipeshwar and Painganga in Yavatmal district, and Kawal in Telangana. Tigers have been residing in the block since at least a decade. As of today too, there are 4-5 tigers with cubs in Mukutban. The popular Avni, shot dead 2 years ago, was born in Mukutban and dispersed towards Pandharkawda which is full of honeycomb forests interspersed with agriculture fields. TOI’s Sunil Warrier, Vijay Pinjarkar and Ranjit Deshmukh survey the area to understand the perilsAnd then there was Mukutban, a village rolled up in mothballs and a forested area flourishing in the midst of unbridled heritage of biodiversity.Mukutban is pincoded to the Wani-Pandharkawda road in Yavatmal district. These two otherwise inconsiderable specks on the map of India produce coal, cotton and tur. Mukutban has a unique topographic richness of limestone on the left side of the crater-full pencil-moustache road and coal on the right.Running parallel to the road on either side are farmlands and beyond are the forests — not ones that can be romanticized. They are not protected areas like Tadoba, Pench or Tipeshwar tiger sanctuaries and reserves where thick overgrowth camouflages the sky. This is shrubby land, with native trees aplenty.Tigress Avni, aka T1, which made every other Indian an expert on wildlife, was born at Mukutban. Believed to have killed 13 humans, Avni migrated through these fragmented shrubby forests interspersed with farms and narrow roads to Pandharkawda, before falling to bullets 50 kms from Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary three years ago. Forest records show Avni’s forefathers have been Mukutban residents for eight-nine years. Today, its ‘close relatives’ have taken up permanent residence there.It is this Mukutban area that the Centre is putting up for auction on August 18 as part of its Atmanibhar Bharat Abhiyan. Mukutban lies in the coal-rich Marki-Mangli block II which is being showcased to private players. Block II falls on the right side of the road. On the left is Block III, abandoned for a few years now. Another two kilometres away is Birla Corporation Limited’s wholly owned subsidiary Reliance Cementation Company Private Limited (RCCPL). The unit has been granted additional forest land for limestone mining.The factory and mines are considerable specks that can cause huge harm to the wildlife landscape in the southern part of Maharashtra, bordering Telangana. The once-connected fragmented forests offer a protected route to dispersing tigers and other animals from Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve in Chandrapur district towards Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary in Yavatmal, and to Kawal Tiger Reserve in Telangana.Environmental activists, who see the big destruction picture, have questioned the rationale of digging up Mukutban for coal on two counts. First, it doesn’t match with the government’s stand on protecting tigers and, second, when the country is committed towards solar energy, what is the need for digging out more coal — the primary ingredient in power generation. On August 10, state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray wrote to the coal minister, asking him to reconsider the decision to auction Marki-Mangli II as it would "cause irreparable damage to the forest ecosystem and the wildlife depending on it"."Fragmented landscapes outside protected areas need to be managed as they are the main connecting corridors for tigers," says honorary wildlife warden of Yavatmal district Ramzan Virani.There are four coal blocks in Mukutban forest range, which falls in the Zari-Jamni tehsil of Pandharkawda division. Of this, Marki-Mangli I is still operational and has been allocated to a Nagpur-based company. II has now been listed for auction. Mining work had started in III and IV blocks but is now suspended. Blocks II, III and IV, originally allocated to Shree Virangana Steels Limited in 2005, were in the thick of controversy and hence withdrawn by the coal ministry for breach of trust.The Marki-Mangli block II, which is boxed in by tiger-bearing areas and farms on both sides, will encroach upon the forest area (compartment no.s 20B & 32A) in Bhendala and Saoli villages. It will also affect the Pawnar area which too has resident tigers. In 2005, mining was done on non-forest land in Block II. When the men and machines left, the abandoned mine turned into a perennial water body. "It acts as a water source for wildlife and farmers," says Shankar Gungunwar, who owns a 3.5-acre farm near the mine area.Men posted by Western Coalfields Limited to guard the unlifted coal are perched on a 10-foot high ramshackle machaan to protect themselves. "There are tigers in the adjoining forest," one of them said.Farmer Ramesh Barlawar recalls sighting a tigress with two sub-adult cubs along the dirt road between Marki-Mangli coal blocks II and III. It further connects with the forests towards Telangana.The sandy area is fertile and most farms are owned by the Perki, Yelmi and Reddy communities from Mukutban. The villagers say if mining is done, they will be forced to part with their land. "If a group of farmers adjoining our farm sells land for mines, we too will be forced to do so as mining will make our agriculture land unproductive. If we are paid between `15-25 lakh per acre, we will sell our land," says Diwakar Mandulwar.Virani, who is monitoring the fourth generation of tigers in Pandharkawda division, fears that land diversion due to human activities will disconnect corridors from each other and leave tigers directionless. "It will flare up man-animal conflict. Therefore, it is important to secure forest zones as well as adjoining private land to keep corridors alive," he says, adding that the environmental impact of just Mukutban alone cannot be considered. "It is essential to look into the entire Pandharkawda forest division."Humans understand land as fragmented and non-fragmented. "But for tigers, all of it is home. They avoid human presence and live successfully in such landscapes," adds Virani.A recent decision taken by the state government has further enhanced the need to protect the fragmented forests of Pandharkawda division. To the south of Tadoba lies the proposed Kanhargaon Sanctuary, a huge forest of 210 sq km. Tigers from Tadoba use Kanhargaon to move towards Tipeshwar and Kawal. "If these small forests are further broken up, tigers will encroach into human territory and chances of man-animal conflict will increase," says Virani.Founder of the NGO Eco-Pro Bandu Dhotre, who drew Thackeray’s attention to Marki-Mangli, raises a point: "Mukutban and other forested patches hold residential tigers moving towards Kawal and Painganga sanctuary (Yavatmal district). It is important to add genetic variations in the pool for sustenance of the species. Commercial activities like mines will impact tiger populations."Marki-Mangli II coal block is part of the tiger conservation plan (TCP) of Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) as it falls in the Tadoba-Tipeshwar tiger corridor. After TOI’s report on July 10, as per NTCA protocol, a SOP committee meeting was held on July 30 to examine issues related to Marki-Mangli II coal block."We have submitted a report to the chief wildlife warden on July 31, mentioning that not only is the block a contiguous patch having several dispersing tigers, but it also consists of resident breeding tigress population. Giving up forest land will lead to disturbance in the breeding behaviour of tigers and increase man-animal conflict," said Pandharkawda deputy conservator KM Abharna.Meanwhile, land diversion hurdles have halted RCCPL’s expansion plans, even though the previous BJP-Shiv Sena government fast-tracked the clearance and the company was allotted 467.50 acres of forest land for limestone mining on January 23, 2018. After Avni’s death, wildlifers had protested that tigers were being systematically ejected from their habitat. While investigating, the forest department stumbled upon Tadoba’s Tiger Conservation Plan which showed that the plant falls in the notified corridor. Moreover, in December 2014, Marki-Mangli block II was declared as inviolate by the Union environment ministry. The company will now have to obtain additional clearances from state and national wildlife boards. Forest surveys show the presence of four-five resident tigers including male, female and sub-adult cubs in the forest area proposed for diversion.Virani drives home the point that saving the tiger has additional benefits. "Tiger is the focus animal of the country. When you protect it, you are also protecting a wide variety of animals, insects, trees etc which are found in tiger-bearing areas. If the environmental impact of Mukutban is studied, it will surely reveal the monstrosity of the loss," he says.On an earlier plea by the state government, the Centre had to knock off the Bander coal block, in the buffer area of Tadoba, from the Atmanirbhar Abhiyan auction list. Maharashtra too has said no to the Railways’ proposal to broad-gauge the line running through Melghat Tiger Reserve. Marki-Mangli is the third time that the state is showing a green heart. Environmentalists hope that Aaditya Thackeray’s polite letter to coal minister Pralhad Joshi will give occasion for making it a hat-trick of green celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/when-there-is-no-ban-forest-will-there-be-a-mukut-crown/articleshow/77511165.cms||Sunil Warrier
August 13, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Farmers try new variety of pokkali||KOCHI: Pokkali rice cultivation in the district has been deeply hit by the pandemic-related lockdown this year. The paddy crop, which is usually cultivated from April 15 to November 15, is missing from fields this year. Only a few farmers in Chellanam and Kadamakudy are cultivating it. Interestingly, this year, this small group of farmers are cultivating a new variety Vyttila-11 which is a hybrid of Jyothi-8 and the traditional pokkali. “This was on farm trials in our station at Vyttila. We have given it to farmers for cultivating this season. However, because many of these places, including Chellanam, are containment zones, we haven’t been able to visit the farms and check out the crop,” said Dr A K Sreelatha, head of rice research station, Vyttila, KAU. Vyttila-11 is expected to give better yield of around five tonnes per hectare. “The difference between the two is that Chettiviruppu is tall and keeps growing taller when water level rises while Vyttila-11 is a dwarf variety. We have to see if it can withstand the increasing water levels in Chellanam. With fish farmers not pumping out water regularly, our crops get submerged. Agriculture department officials should take meter readings of three motors and petti-para installed for the purpose to see if the padashekaram officials are pumping out excess water,” said Francis Kalathunkal, general secretary, Pokkali samrakshna samithi who is also cultivating the crop there. Last year, the entire crop was destroyed in floods while seeds from the previous year did not sprout. This led to farmers trying out a new variety from RRS-Vyttila. Kalathunkal said while Keralites have been ignoring and neglecting this traditional crop, there is a demand for it in West Bengal. “I got a call from farmers in South 24 Parganas district in West Bengal who wanted to try out the salt-tolerant variety because of heavy seawater incursion into paddy fields after cyclone Amphan hit the state in May. "I sent around 5kg of Vyttila-11. If it succeeds there, more farmers would start cultivating it,” he added. He said every year, paddy farmers in Chellanam had to fight over cultivating pokkali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/farmers-try-new-variety-of-pokkali/articleshow/77512351.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Flats on smaller plots may get dearer||JAIPUR: Flats on smaller plots are set to get costlier in the state after the implementation of proposed Rajasthan (Urban Area) Building Regulation, 2020. According to the new rules draft proposal, a developer is only allowed to construct seven units (flats) on a plot size measuring up to 750sqm. This means the developer would construct five units lesser on a bigger plot size, if compared to the existing situation. At present, a small developer can construct 12 flats on a plot measuring between 350sqm and 500sqm. Vikas Sharma, a developer, says, “As there will be a cap to construct number of flats on a 750sqm plot, even on a 60-feet road, the costing will increase. Supposedly, a 4,000sqft area flat is constructed in a building, buyer will not be able to afford it. Moreover, it will also not be feasible for a builder to develop only seven units on such a big plot.” As per the 2011 rules, a developer is allowed to construct 6 units on a plot size measuring between 162 sqm to 225sqm. In all, eight units are allowed on a plot measuring 225sqm to 350sqm and 12 units can be constructed on plot measuring 350sqm to 500sqm. In 2017, rules were amended and construction of six units on 350sqm plot and 12 units on plot measuring between 350 and 500sqm was allowed. Before regulating the construction of residential apartments on small plots, the urban development and housing (UDH) department had invited suggestions and objections from residents. The last date for submission was August 12. Developer Rajesh Dukiya said, “We have given memorandum to the state to roll back the decision. This will hit our industry and thousands of labourers and other related businesses, which are associated with it. Moreover, common man will not be able to buy a house in good location.” To allow more construction on a plot, in the proposed bylaws, the height of the building under the under the high-rise category has been amended from 15 metres to 18 metres. The memorandum reads, “The common man will only get benefit of increasing the height, if the units are not increased on the basis of plot area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/flats-on-smaller-plots-may-get-dearer/articleshow/77513639.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: PHED not prepared to supply water in all highrises||JAIPUR: Multi-storey buildings are mushrooming across the city with lakhs of people residing in them. To meet the water demand, the Public Health and Engineering Department (PHED) will soon conduct a survey to upgrade the existing pipelines. However, residents of the buildings claimed that this would take another decade to complete and until then they will have to depend on tankers. Five years ago, PHED upgraded pipelines in Bani Park area where many housing societies have come up. Though officials claim all water problems have been resolved in Bani Park, the reality is different. Kamal Somani, president of Vinayak Apartments in Bani Park, said only 20% of supply had been fulfilled by PHED. “We got the connection five years ago but that is not enough. Majority of our water needs are fulfilled by groundwater. However, if the groundwater dries up, there will be trouble,” said Somani. PHED superintendent engineer Satish Jain said, “We are collecting data of the existing multi-storey buildings in the city and upcoming projects. Our lines at present are not equipped to supply water for highrises. We have to hire a private firm to conduct the survey that would include cost of the project, upgrade needed, number of existing multi-storey buildings and upcoming projects.” However, this survey will be conducted in areas where currently Bisalpur pipeline exists. In Jaipur Bagh and Kaalwar road, new societies are coming up without Bisalpur line connection and residents are worried. Meenakshi Acharya, resident of one of the multi-storey buildings at Jaipur Bagh questioned that when builders are given permission to construct, why isn’t water supply a necessity. “It will take another decade to get Bisalpur connection. Residents of our area fear if groundwater dries up, how are we supposed to manage? Moreover, there is not even proper drainage system in our society. Shouldn’t that be a pre-requirement of the government before giving permission to builders. The entire system has loopholes,” said Acharya. According to officials, their first priority is to upgrade pipelines in Tilak Nagar, Gurunanakpura, Adarsh Nagar where there are already existing high-rises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/phed-not-prepared-to-supply-water-in-all-highrises/articleshow/77513638.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records over 1,800 new Covid-19 cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 1,897 new Covid-19 cases and 9 deaths, taking the total number of cases so far in the state to 84,544. While 654 people have so far died from the virus, about 61,294 patients have recovered from the much-dreaded virus infection and 22,596 remain active cases. A total of 22,972 samples were tested on Wednesday, taking the total testing in the state to 6.65 lakh so far. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area saw an increase in numbers on Wednesday with 479 new cases being recorded, against 338 cases on Tuesday. Apart from GHMC, Medchal Malkajgiri saw the second-highest numbers with 172 new cases, Ranga Reddy recorded 162 cases, Sangareddy recorded 107 cases , and Warangal Urban, which recorded 87 cases. There are currently 65 containment zones in the GHMC areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-over-1800-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77513646.cms||---
August 13, 2020||India||Congress spokesman Rajiv Tyagi dies soon after TV debate||NEW DELHI: Congress spokesman and familiar TV face Rajiv Tyagi passed away on Wednesday following a massive heart attack, sending shock waves among colleagues who knew him as a combative defender of the party in debates. He will be cremated at Hindon crematorium on Thursday morning. Tyagi, 53, was in a TV discussion from his Ghaziabad residence in the evening and he is said to have collapsed immediately after the show. He was rushed to a nearby hospital where doctors tried to revive him but in vain. In a condolence message, Rahul Gandhi said in Tyagi’s passing, Congress had lost a “babbar sher”. कॉंग्रेस ने आज अपना एक बब्बर शेर खो दिया।राजीव त्यागी के कॉंग्रेस प्रेम व संघर्ष की प्रेरणा हमेशा याद रहेंगे।उ… https://t.co/RQSKietRqY— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1597246318000Priyanka Gandhi Vadra called Tyagi’s death a “personal loss”. भारतीय राष्ट्रीय कांग्रेस के प्रवक्ता श्री राजीव त्यागी जी की असामयिक मृत्यु मेरे लिए एक व्यक्तिगत दुःख है। हम सबके… https://t.co/5Hwbmuz30V— Priyanka Gandhi Vadra (@priyankagandhi) 1597244407000Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, Rahul and Priyanka spoke to Tyagi’s wife over the telephone and expressed their condolences. Read AlsoCongress leader and spokesperson Rajiv Tyagi dies after heart attackCongress leader Rajiv Tyagi passed away on Wednesday after a heart attack. He was 52. Tyagi suffered the attack soon after participating in a TV debate from his residence in Ghaziabad and fell unconscious, sources said. He was rushed to the Yashoda Hospital in Kaushambi, Ghaziabad, where doctorsTyagi is survived by his wife and two sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-spokesman-rajiv-tyagi-dies-soon-after-tv-debate/articleshow/77515206.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Shimla||Flash flood washes away bridge in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: A heavy flash flood in Cherang khud near Rispa village of Kinnaur district in Himachal Pradesh has snapped the road connectivity on the strategically important Hindustan-Tibet road, also known as NH-5. With a temporary steel bridge washed way, now the heavy vehicles, especially the trucks and Army convoys, cannot move beyond Akpa towards Pooh and Spiti valley of Lahaul-Spiti district. Light vehicles on the other hand can move beyond Akpa by using the suspension bridge. It was around 2am on Wednesday when Cherang was flooded by gushing water probably following a breach in a glacial dam or some accumulated water on the higher mountains. The flooding water washed away a portion of the link road connecting Rispa village with rest of Kinnaur district. Right below the link road, a temporary steel bridge on the Satluj, which was installed at the Tidong project near Akpa village for the movement of heavy vehicles, was also washed away. Three irrigation projects, including two minor and one major, have also been damaged. Sources said that light vehicles could move towards Pooh and Spiti through the suspension bridge but heavy vehicles would not be able to do so till the time another bridge was built or the existing bridge of the BRO, which is awaiting fitness clearance and has not been opened, is thrown open to traffic. When contacted, additional district magistrate, Pooh, Ashwani Kumar said road, water channels and bridge had been damaged in the sudden flash flood. He said the BRO had given an assurance of taking up the matter of opening of the new bridge with IIT Roorkee experts, who had done the survey of bridge to check its fitness. He said that as buses were stranded on both sides of the point where the bridge had been washed away in the flood, passengers could use the suspension bridge to cross it. He added that the BRO had also assured that in case the new bridge at Akpa was not put to use due to technical reasons, a bailey bridge would be consrtucted at the earliest. The additional district magistrate said that all departments were assessing the losses caused by the flash flood. He said that to transport the apple crop from Rispa village, one span was already working while another span would be installed at the earliest. Ashwani said that in the absence of road connectivity, residents of Rispa village would have to walk some 3-4km to reach the nearest vehicle point. He said that work on the damaged portion of the road too would be started soon while work to repair the damaged irrigation channels would be started from Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/flash-flood-washes-away-bridge/articleshow/77513641.cms||Anand Bodh
August 13, 2020||Shimla||Atal Tunnel renamed as ‘Atal Tunnel, Rohtang’||MANALI: Rohtang tunnel, which was renamed as Atal Tunnel in the memory of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on December 25, 2019, has been again renamed as “Atal Tunnel, Rohtang” in the wake of growing demand from the local residents. The ministry of defence (border roads), through a notification on Tuesday, renamed the tunnel. Defence ministry deputy secretary R K Kundi has asked the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) officials to take steps to complete the formalities, including changing the signages. Residents of both Manali and Lahaul always wanted to keep the name of the tunnel as Rohtang tunnel, as it runs under Rohtang. After the tunnel was renamed as Atal Tunnel last year as a tribute to the Vajpayee’s contribution to building the tunnel, residents still wanted it to be renamed as Atal Rohtang Tunnel. A large number of residents, including many IAS and IPS officials, had written to the Centre in this regard. In a letter to defence minister Rajnath Singh, the residents had written, “Heavy snowfall on Rohtang Pass used to cut off Lahaul from the rest of the world for months. This tunnel will not only have a strategic importance but it will also be of monumental significance for people of Lahaul valley, as it will provide all-weather connectivity. The tunnel should be renamed as Atal Rohtang Tunnel, as it is built below Rohtang Pass and initially was called Rohtang tunnel project. There are several legends and myths of Pandavas, Rishi Vyasa, Lord Shiva and the mythical king of western Tibet associated with Rohtang Pass. Rohtang has become a famous tourist destination. So, it will make a lot of sense to change the name of tunnel to Atal Rohtang Tunnel.” Meanwhile, the works inside the tunnel are in the final stages. Major work will end by August 15. Rajnath Singh’s visit to the tunnel in July had been cancelled at the last moment. He is now expected to visit this month. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to inaugurate the tunnel in September-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/atal-tunnel-renamed-as-atal-tunnel-rohtang/articleshow/77513661.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kochi||Estate layams in pitiable condition: Idukki collector||IDUKKI: The condition of the tea estate layams (cluster of workers’ quarters) in the district is terrible and the living conditions of the workers are very pitiable. The district collector H Dineshan will submit a detailed report on the conditions of layams to the government soon. “The workers staying in tea estate layams live in very poor conditions. The companies do not conduct maintenance or other services. Most layams are over 50 years old and not suitable for living,” Dineshan said. “As per primary estimate, over 10,000 people were staying in layams of Kannan Devan Hills Plantation (KDHP). The ownership of the layams are the name of companies, so the workers can’t conduct any maintenance work without permission from the company,” said the collector. “The pathetic condition of layams in Pettimudy caused them to be washed away immediately. State government distributed over 2 lakh homes under the Life mission housing project. But not a single estate worker family is eligible to apply for these homes as they have no land in their own names,” the collector added. “Hundreds of families stay in these narrow-spaced layams. Most of them have no basic facilities. The conditions of layams of other companies are worse,” said Dineshan. “I will collect the details on layams and people living there and submit a detailed report to the government soon,” said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/estate-layams-in-pitiable-condition-idukki-collector/articleshow/77511212.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab CM launches Rs 92-crore smartphone scheme for students||CHANDIGARH: The Congress government in Punjab on Wednesday launched its much-hyped Rs 92 crore ‘Punjab Smart Connect Scheme’ with chief minister Amarinder Singh handing over smartphones to six Class XII students in a symbolic gesture. Smartphones for students was a key poll promise of the Congress. The opposition parties have slammed the ruling party for the delay in its fulfillment and the decision to tweak the original conditions to bring down the number of beneficiaries. The smartphones were also distributed at 26 places by ministers, MLAs and others across the state. Each minister personally handed over 20 phones each in various districts to mark the launch of the scheme. The scheme, for which Rs 100 crore was allocated in the state budget for 2017-18, benefits 1,74,015 (87,395 boys and 86,620 girls) Class XII students of government schools in the first phase. It will be completed by November 2020. Most beneficiaries belonged to OBC and SC/ST categories – thus bridging a major divide that was obstructing these students from affordable access to online education. While 36,555 beneficiaries are OBC students, 94,832 are SC and 13 ST. The bulk of students – 1,11,857 — are from rural areas, and the remaining in urban government schools. Capt Amarinder launched the scheme on the auspicious occasion of Janmashtami and International Youth Day through video conferencing at the Secretariat this afternoon. He said people believe in the promises listed in the election manifesto and it was his duty to ensure the implementation of each one of them. Stating that he wanted Punjab’s students to be abreast with the latest technology which they can use effectively for their education, which leverages technology in a big way today, Amarinder said that in the present pandemic situation these phones had assumed more importance as they had become a necessity for education continuity. Gone are the days of chalks and boards, he said. Government schools, which had seen a major transformation over the past couple of years, needed to be supported through technological initiatives by the state government, he added. “The smartphones being distributed are good functional phones, which also look smart,” he said. Education minister Vijay Inder Singla said it would help government school students download course material and old papers etc to prepare for their Board exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amarinder-launches-rs-92-crore-smartphone-scheme-for-students/articleshow/77513675.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress: Why did TRS mins not resign in 2005||HYDERABAD: Congress has hit back at TRS, stating there were six ministers from the party in the YS Rajasekhara Reddy government in the undivided Andhra Pradesh in September 2005 when a government order was issued for expansion of Pothireddypadu head regulator from 11,500-odd cusecs to 44,000 cusecs. Referring to TRS ministers’ statements that TRS had gone to the SC against AP government’s irrigation projects to draw more water, AICC secretary and former MLA Ch Vamshichand Reddy said TRS was part of the YSR-led Congress government in 2005. “Why did TRS ministers in the state and KCR at Centre not resign immediately after government issued formal orders for expansion of the project if they were concerned about the river water interests of Telangana” Vamshichand Reddy questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-why-did-trs-mins-not-resign-in-05/articleshow/77513690.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Crop loans to be given to defaulter loanee as well||JAIPUR: The state’s cooperatives department will now be providing crop loans to 3.50 lakh defaulter laonee farmers as well. State cooperatives minister Udailal Anajana said, the farmers, who were ineligible for loan waiver, will also get crop loan at zero per cent interest. “All those farmers who were ineligible for loan waiver and had repaid their crop loan in time are being given crop loans. But, there were many farmers who were not ineligible for loan waiver and had repaid their loans late. They came under defaulter category. Such farmers will also be eligible for crop loans now,” said the minister. He said the farmers, who have not paid their crop loans yet, and their eligibility has expired, such farmers will now be able to take a crop loans after they pay up the defaulter amount and interest which is overdue. “This decision has been taken in the interest of farmers to give benefit of crop loan at zero per cent interest,” he said. Anjana said that crop loan amounting to Rs 7, 321 crore has been disbursed to 23.79 lakh farmers in the Kharif season crop loan starting from April 16. He said, crop loan is also being disbursed to about 3 lakh new farmers this year. For the Kharif season, crop loan will be disbursed till August 31. In the event of August Kranti Week, the farmers of Jaipur, agriculture experts, department officials will be enagaged in an online Kisan Sammelan programme through Google Meet app on August 14. During the session, issues related to the grievances and problems of the farmers will be discussed, on various schemes under agriculture department and the effectiveness of its implementation, how to improve farm production, implementation of crop insurance scheme, how to improve water harvesting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crop-loans-to-be-given-to-defaulter-loanee-as-well/articleshow/77513654.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||HC seeks info on staff in primary health centres||Shimla: The Himachal Pradesh high court has directed the state government to provide information about the availability of staff at all primary health centres (PHCs) of the state and also sought to know whether their working pattern is in accordance with the laid-down norms. Posting the matter for further hearing on August 19, a division bench of Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara directed the principal secretary (health) to remain present in the court on the next date. Hearing the matter on Tuesday, the division bench asked senior additional advocate general Ajay Vaidya to file particulars in respect of the staff strength in each PHC and their working pattern with reference to the Indian Public Health Standards Guidelines for Primary Health Centres, 2006, within a week. During the hearing on July 9, the court had directed the senior additional advocate general to furnish information on how many doctors are available and the standard staff strength required in each PHC in the state on the next date of hearing. In the July 16 hearing, additional chief secretary (health) R D Dhiman was present in the court and submitted that requisite steps were being taken regarding deputation of doctors in each PHC. However, in view of the Covid-19 situation, doctors from some PHCs had been deputed on Covid-19 duties, including sampling, testing and so on, he had told the court. He further submitted that in the PHCs, from where doctors have been shifted for Covid duties, steps were being taken to depute more doctors from the adjoining PHCs, where doctors are available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-seeks-info-on-staff-in-primary-health-centres/articleshow/77513687.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Kochi||Kochi-based artist wins US foundation grant||KOCHI: City-based artist Sidharthan, known for his environmentally themed art works, has been selected for a grant instituted by the US-based Pollock-Krasner Foundation. The $15,000 grant enables artists to create new work, purchase needed materials and pay for studio rent, as well as their personal expenses, according to the foundation website. One of the paintings by SidharthanThe foundation was established in 1985 through the generosity of Lee Krasner, considered one of the foremost abstract expressionist painters of the 20th century, and widow of American artist Jackson Pollock. Sidharthan, former head of department of RLV College, Tripunithura, was born in Kilimanoor in Thiruvananthapuram district and had been practising art in Kochi for the past 35 years. Sidharthan says he tries to picturise the natural ecosystem and strive to find new roots of understanding and cultural knowhow of the present day world. He is a former member of Kerala Lalithakala Akademi. He has exhibited several paintings in various cities in India and has received numerous awards including the State Award of the Kerala Lalithakala Akademi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/city-based-artist-wins-us-foundation-grant/articleshow/77512409.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Highest single-day Covid toll in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab yet again posted its single-day highest death toll as 39 more people succumbed to the virus which has claimed 675 lives till date. The constant rise in the number of deaths has pushed the mortality rate of the state to 2.5% against the national average of 2%. The virus claimed the lives of 13 people in Ludhiana. Six people lost their lives in Hoshiarpur while four people were killed in Patiala, three each in Amritsar, and Jalandhar and two each in Pathankot, Mohali and Gurdaspur. One death each was reported in Bathinda, Barnala, Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib. The death count is expected to rise as 18 patients in critical condition are on ventilator and 142 on oxygen support. A total of 1,020 positive cases were reported from all the 22 districts of the state, taking the overall tally of cases to 26,909. Of new cases, 680, which accounts for 66.53% of fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours, were from six districts. Ludhiana continued to report the highest number of cases from the last 16 days in running. Of the total cases, 229 were from Ludhiana alone. Of them, 56 were contacts of positive cases while in 44 cases the health teams failed to trace the transmission history. As many as 80 patients were found to be coinfected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Ludhiana was followed by Jalandhar which contributed 130 cases to the state’s tally. In Mohali 104 people were found to be infected with the virus. Amritsar reported 85 fresh cases while 70 cases were from Patiala and 62 from Barnala. In Gurdaspur 39 people were tested positive, 36 in Faridkot, 34 in Kapurthala, 29 in Pathankot, 27 in Pathankot, 24 in Ropar, 23 in Hoshiarpur and 22 each in Barnala, Sangrur and Bathinda. As many as 19 cases surfaced in Moga, 18 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 13 each in Fazilka and Nawanshahr, nine each from Tarn Taran and Muktsar and three from Mansa. Officials said as many as 422 people -- Ludhiana (190), Amritsar (17), Sangrur (24), Mohali (19), Hoshiarpur (2), Gurdaspur (28), Pathankot (12), Bathinda (57), Fatehgarh Sahib (7), Moga (10), Fazilka (10), Kapurthala (43) and Barnala (3) --were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged 17,212.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/highest-single-day-covid-toll-in-punjab/articleshow/77515210.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Amritsar||Highest single-day Covid toll in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab yet again posted its single-day highest death toll as 39 more people succumbed to the virus which has claimed 675 lives till date. The constant rise in the number of deaths has pushed the mortality rate of the state to 2.5% against the national average of 2%. The virus claimed the lives of 13 people in Ludhiana. Six people lost their lives in Hoshiarpur while four people were killed in Patiala, three each in Amritsar, and Jalandhar and two each in Pathankot, Mohali and Gurdaspur. One death each was reported in Bathinda, Barnala, Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib. The death count is expected to rise as 18 patients in critical condition are on ventilator and 142 on oxygen support. A total of 1,020 positive cases were reported from all the 22 districts of the state, taking the overall tally of cases to 26,909. Of new cases, 680, which accounts for 66.53% of fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours, were from six districts. Ludhiana continued to report the highest number of cases from the last 16 days in running. Of the total cases, 229 were from Ludhiana alone. Of them, 56 were contacts of positive cases while in 44 cases the health teams failed to trace the transmission history. As many as 80 patients were found to be coinfected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Ludhiana was followed by Jalandhar which contributed 130 cases to the state’s tally. In Mohali 104 people were found to be infected with the virus. Amritsar reported 85 fresh cases while 70 cases were from Patiala and 62 from Barnala. In Gurdaspur 39 people were tested positive, 36 in Faridkot, 34 in Kapurthala, 29 in Pathankot, 27 in Pathankot, 24 in Ropar, 23 in Hoshiarpur and 22 each in Barnala, Sangrur and Bathinda. As many as 19 cases surfaced in Moga, 18 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 13 each in Fazilka and Nawanshahr, nine each from Tarn Taran and Muktsar and three from Mansa. Officials said as many as 422 people -- Ludhiana (190), Amritsar (17), Sangrur (24), Mohali (19), Hoshiarpur (2), Gurdaspur (28), Pathankot (12), Bathinda (57), Fatehgarh Sahib (7), Moga (10), Fazilka (10), Kapurthala (43) and Barnala (3) --were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged 17,212.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/highest-single-day-covid-toll-in-punjab/articleshow/77515211.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Highest single-day Covid toll in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab yet again posted its single-day highest death toll as 39 more people succumbed to the virus which has claimed 675 lives till date. The constant rise in the number of deaths has pushed the mortality rate of the state to 2.5% against the national average of 2%. The virus claimed the lives of 13 people in Ludhiana. Six people lost their lives in Hoshiarpur while four people were killed in Patiala, three each in Amritsar, and Jalandhar and two each in Pathankot, Mohali and Gurdaspur. One death each was reported in Bathinda, Barnala, Sangrur and Fatehgarh Sahib. The death count is expected to rise as 18 patients in critical condition are on ventilator and 142 on oxygen support. A total of 1,020 positive cases were reported from all the 22 districts of the state, taking the overall tally of cases to 26,909. Of new cases, 680, which accounts for 66.53% of fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours, were from six districts. Ludhiana continued to report the highest number of cases from the last 16 days in running. Of the total cases, 229 were from Ludhiana alone. Of them, 56 were contacts of positive cases while in 44 cases the health teams failed to trace the transmission history. As many as 80 patients were found to be coinfected with influenza-like illness (ILI). Ludhiana was followed by Jalandhar which contributed 130 cases to the state’s tally. In Mohali 104 people were found to be infected with the virus. Amritsar reported 85 fresh cases while 70 cases were from Patiala and 62 from Barnala. In Gurdaspur 39 people were tested positive, 36 in Faridkot, 34 in Kapurthala, 29 in Pathankot, 27 in Pathankot, 24 in Ropar, 23 in Hoshiarpur and 22 each in Barnala, Sangrur and Bathinda. As many as 19 cases surfaced in Moga, 18 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 13 each in Fazilka and Nawanshahr, nine each from Tarn Taran and Muktsar and three from Mansa. Officials said as many as 422 people -- Ludhiana (190), Amritsar (17), Sangrur (24), Mohali (19), Hoshiarpur (2), Gurdaspur (28), Pathankot (12), Bathinda (57), Fatehgarh Sahib (7), Moga (10), Fazilka (10), Kapurthala (43) and Barnala (3) --were discharged after recovering, taking the tally of patients discharged 17,212.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/highest-single-day-covid-toll-in-punjab/articleshow/77515203.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Goa||Goa University not to hike fees for 2020-21||PANAJI: Goa University on Wednesday said that to ease the financial burden on parents during the pandemic, it has decided not to hike tuition and other fees for the year 2020-21. Fees for all on-campus programmes can be paid in instalments for the year and payment is to be made online. GU registrar YV Reddy said in a circular that students of second and subsequent years of the IMBA, MBA, MSc, MA, MCom and BA on-campus programmes can pay the fees in four instalments. The first instalment will have to be paid before the end of August. The second, third and final instalments will have to be paid in October and December 2020 and then in February of 2021, respectively. Students getting enrolled in first year of the programme in 2020-21 will pay the first instalment at the time of their registration for the programme and later in October and December 2020 and the final instalment in February 2021. The first instalment to be paid by first year students at the time of admission is just 1,341 for MA and MCom students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gu-not-to-hike-fees-for-2020-21/articleshow/77514322.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur regains top spot in Covid active cases||JAIPUR: Jaipur yet again topped the list of districts with highest number of Covid active cases surpassing Alwar. With 121 new infections, active cases in Pink City touched new high of 1,993, highest in the state. While the situation has slightly improved with 209 recoveries in Alwar, the number of active cases in the district now stands at 1,917. Apart from Jaipur and Alwar, two districts which currently have more than 1,000 active cases are Jodhpur (1,636) and Kota (1,622). Bhilwara with 231 recoveries tops the list. The district now has 400 active cases. It is a good sign that the number of active cases have been on the decline, though marginally. Active cases in the state currently stand at 13,630, down from Tuesday’s 13,677 and Monday’s 13,810. It is for 19 days in a row the state has reported more than 1,000 new infections daily. On Wednesday too, the state reported 1,213 new infections bringing the tally to 56,100. In the last 24 hours, 11 persons died taking the toll to 822 in the state. Kota reported two deaths taking its toll to 53, Pali reported two deaths taking its fatalities to 35, Tonk reported two deaths taking its casualties to five, Jalore reported three deaths taking its deaths to nine and Dausa reported its 5th fatality and Pratapgarh its fourth. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (193), Dholpur (177), Jaipur (121), Bikaner (115), Alwar (79), Kota (79), Bundi (78), Ajmer (60), Bharatpur (38), Udaipur (38), Jhalawar (34), Bhilwara (33), Nagaur (28), Jhunjhunu (26), Chittorgarh (17), Dungarpur (13), Rajsamand (13), Sawai Madhopur (10), Karauli (10), Sirohi (9), Barmer (8), Baran (7), Tonk (6), Pratapgarh (6), Sriganganagar (5), Sikar (5), Banswara (4) and Dausa (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-regains-top-spot-in-covid-active-cases/articleshow/77513709.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Building panchayat offices a daunting task ahead for Telangana||HYDERABAD: The government will require Rs 900 crore to construct office buildings for the 4,300 gram panchayats in the state. Of the 12,751 gram panchayats in Telangana, 4,300-odd panchayats are newly created and do not have office buildings. The gram sabhas and other formal meetings in these villages are being held mostly under trees or in the premises of the residence of sarpanch or other elected members. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has asked officials to identify land and prepare estimates for construction of these buildings in a phased manner. Officials said construction of about 500 to 1,000 buildings would be taken up every year depending upon the availability of funds. The construction of each building is likely to cost over Rs 20 lakh. Each of this building will have a huge hall so that gram sabhas can be held and its compound will have parking space for a tractor-cum-trolley. In a boost to state government’s plan, the central government has given green signal to utilise some of the funds from the finance commission and Rashtriya Gram Swaraj Abhiyan grants. The government of India has identified 60,000 villages (gram panchayats) in the country that do not have their own office buildings and has given permission to utilize left over grants from the finance commission and gram swaraj abhiyan funds. “At least 1,000 sq yards of land is required for construction of each gram panchayat office building. There would be one huge hall for meetings to be conducted and offices of sarpanch and other elected members. The computer and office records storage room would also be part of the building,” said a senior official of Panchayat Raj and Rural Development. The officials have started the process to identify lands owned by the government in villages. In addition to the construction of new office buildings for 4300-odd panchayats, repairs need to be carried out for a large number of existing panchayat office buildings. At least 1,000 sq yards of land is required for construction of gram panchayat office building. There will be one hall for meetings held and offices of sarpanch and other elected members||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/building-panchayat-offices-a-daunting-task-ahead-for-t/articleshow/77513719.cms||Roushan Ali
August 13, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh's Chamba medical college short of 40% doctors||CHAMBA: Pt Jawaharlal Nehru Government Medical College and Hospital in Chamba district of Himachal Pradesh is currently short of nearly 40% doctors, which can have a serious impact on the healthcare facilities in the hill district if the coronavirus cases continue to rise at the current rapid pace. Talking to TOI on Wednesday, principal of the college Dr P K Puri said there has been a sudden increase in Covid-19 cases over the past five to seven days in the district, while earlier, only off and on cases were reported. Currently, there are 143 active cases. “For now, we are somehow coping up with the situation, but if the surge in cases continues, then we are sure to feel the pinch of doctors’ shortage,” he said. “If we get a single Covid case, then all the contacts of the patient, including doctors and paramedical staff, have to be quarantined and in that situation, the strength gets further depleted.” Puri said despite giving special financial incentives, doctors are not willing to get posted here. He informed that other than the regular salary of contractual doctors, they are giving special incentives of Rs 50,000, Rs 35,000, Rs 20,000 and Rs 15,000 to professors, associate professors, assistant professors and senior resident doctors, respectively. Responding to what could be the reason behind the doctors staying away from this city, he said, “Chamba is one of the remote districts of HP. Besides, it is one among the aspirational districts of the country, which itself is a stigma. There are not good educational institutions (for the wards of doctors) in the city, besides other facilities.” Chamba is the only district from Himachal among the 115 such districts announced by the central government. Aspirational districts are considered backward on various parameters, including education, health, child and women care, agriculture, etc. President of Himachal Medical Officers Association Dr Dilbagh Thakur said Chamba medical college has 15-20 ventilators but few doctors to operate them. “Here, doctors have to live without families, as there are no good schools for children, restaurants or other facilities for family recreation.” Besides, Chamba also lacks proper connectivity, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/chamba-medical-college-short-of-40-docs/articleshow/77513698.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Pak court lets Sikh girl go with Muslim hubby||Amritsar: After spending nearly a year at Dar-ul-Aman, Lahore, Pakistan Sikh girl Jagjit Kaur alias Ayesha Bibi was allowed to go with her Muslim husband Muhammad Hassan, leaving her family disappointed. Her brother said they did not get justice. Jagjit Kaur, the daughter of a Nankana Sahib preacher, who was allegedly forced to embrace Islam and marry a Muslim man in August last year, told Lahore High Court that she did not want to go to back to her parental house. While talking to TOI over phone from Lahore on Wednesday, Muhammad Sultan Sheikh, counsel for Ayesha and her husband Muhammad Hassan, said that after hearing arguments of both sides and in light of evidence regarding the girl’s age -- her puberty test and records of National Database and Registration Authority which certified her to be of 20 years old — Justice Shehram Sarwar Chaudhary ordered the girl to be sent with her husband after recording her statement to this effect. "This is not justice, we were not even allowed to meet Jagjit," said her brother Manmohan Singh. He said they had pleaded for 5 minutes' time to talk to Jagjit, but the court didn’t allow it According to sources, Jagjit was brought from Dar-ul- Aman to Lahore High Court amid heavy security since police apprehended protests by Sikhs and Muslim groups which had gathered outside the court. Jagjit Kaur, daughter of Bhagwan Singh, a granthi at Gurdwara Tambu Sahib, Nankana Sahib, had embraced Islam in an Islamic seminary on August 28, 2019, and allegedly married her Muslim boyfriend Mohammad Hassan on the following day. Her parents had filed a police complaint alleging that Hassan had abducted Jagjit and forcibly married her after forcibly converting her. The conversion and marriage had caused an uproar in the holy city of Nankana Sahib, forcing the Pakistan Punjab governor Mohammad Sarwar to intervene ahead of the opening of Kartarpur corridor. The husband’s family had claimed that she had embraced Islam of her own accord. In January 2020, Mohammad Imran Ali Chishti, elder brother of Hassan, had led a group of Muslims to storm Gurdwara Nankana Sahib and threatened to wipe out Sikhs from Nankana Sahib. He was subsequently put behind bars. Sultan said that Ayesha Bibi would be sent with Hassan after Dar-ul-Aman receives the court’s orders. "Maybe Wednesday evening or Thursday she will go to her husband’s house," he added However, Manmohan said it could two days for Dar-ul-Aman to get the court’s order. He said the family would raise the issue at the international level to seek justice. On Wednesday evening, family members of Jagjit Kaur along with a handful of Sikhs of Nankana Sahib held a meeting at Gurudwara Nankana Sahib to conside their next step following the HC directive in the case. Manmohan said they would meet Pakistan Punjab’s governor Mohammed Sarwar to seek his support, and if they did not get any support they would observe August 14, Pakistan’s Independence Day, as Black Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pak-court-lets-sikh-girl-go-with-muslim-hubby/articleshow/77513728.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 13, 2020||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh to build 10,000 houses, aid floriculturists: CM Jai Ram Thakur||SHIMLA: Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that for the first time the state government had set a target of constructing 10,000 houses in the state under different housing schemes. He said that Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown had resulted in cumulative losses of about Rs 15.77 crore to the floriculturists of the state from March to May due to non-transportation of flowers. He said that keeping this in view, the government had decided to provide financial assistance and relief worth Rs 4 crore to the affected floriculturists. Interacting with the beneficiaries of various schemes of Seraj Vidhan Sabha area through video conferencing, Thakur said the state government had launched Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojna to save womenfolk from indoor pollution. He said that under this scheme, free LPG connections were being provided to the families left out from Ujjawala scheme started by the central government. He said that till date over 2.78 lakh free gas connections had been provided to families..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-to-build-10k-houses-aid-floriculturists-cm/articleshow/77513692.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nashik||NMC helps Covid patients save Rs27L||Nashik: The decision of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) to appoint auditors at 32 private hospitals to check the bills of Covid-19 patients has proved to be effective, helping over 350 patients collectively save an excess bill of Rs 27 lakh. A civic official said that appointing auditors has also helped in reducing the difference between actual and excess bills at the hospitals. “The number of complaints regarding overcharging at private hospitals has also come down,” he said. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game had decided to appoint auditors at each of the 32 major private hospitals after complaints related to overcharging were received. Game had issued a circular for scrutinising the hospital bills by an auditor appointed by the NMC and handing over the bills to patients only after the auditor’s approval. “Overcharging by private hospitals has almost come under control after the auditors were deployed. We want the private hospitals to charge as per the government guidelines,” the official said. 132 hospitals under scanner After deploying auditors at 32 major private hospitals, the NMC has now turned its focus on small private hospitals — having over 15 beds. The NMC has now deployed an auditor each at all the 137 small private hospitals that are providing treatment to both Covid and non-Covid patients to stop overcharging from the patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-helps-covid-patients-save-rs27l/articleshow/77511205.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||797 more +ve, take Haryana tally past 44,000; 3 succumb to virus||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s Covid-19 tally rose to 44,024 on Wednesday with an increase of 787 cases on Wednesday, while the recoveries surged to 36,694 as 612 patients were discharged, pushing the recovery rate to 83.35%. The day also witnessed three deaths — two in Faridabad and one in Gurugram — due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 503. Now, the state has 6,827 active patients, of whom 132 are on oxygen support and 24 on ventilators. At 113 new cases, Faridabad district continued to lead in the state. It was followed by Sirsa (100 cases), Gurugram (98), Ambala (65), Mahendragarh (60), Rewari (57), Rohtak (49), Fatehabad (40), Panchkula (36), Yamunanagar (36), Kurukshetra (33), Sonipat (31), Jhajjar (28), Bhiwani (27), Kaithal (15), Nuh (6) and Jind (3). Districts that did not report a single case included Panipat, Karnal, Hisar, Palwal and Charkhi Dadri. The highest number of recoveries were in Faridabad, 162. It was followed by Gurugram (82), Panchkula (69), Ambala (50), Rewari (41), Yamunanagar (40), and Kurukshetra (36).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/797-more-ve-take-haryana-tally-past-44000-3-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/77515208.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Paramedics to be felicitated for their work in Covid prevention on Independence Day||JAIPUR: Auxiliary Nurse Midwives (ANM) and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) will be felicitated for their exemplary work during Covid on Independence Day by Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC). Jaipur is among the worst Covid-hit districts of the state, which has reported highest number of 19 deaths. The ANMs and ASHA workers had conducted door-to-door survey in Jaipur’s Ramganj area, Shastri Nagar, Ghat Gate and other parts of the Walled City area. “The JMC has demanded names of the ANMs and ASHA workers who have done exemplary work for containing spread of Covid-19,” said a health department official. Nurses and ASHA workers have played key role in screening people across the state as they are conducting the door-to-door survey to find out people suffering from fever, cough or other symptoms of influenza. The official said despite of all risks involved in conducting screening, the nurses and ASHA workers showed a lot of courage and dedication. The nurses and ASHA workers remained at the frontline in areas which were covered under containment zones. In Ramganj only, health department had constituted 10,976 teams of ASHA workers and ANM, which conducted screening of 30.4 lakh people in three months from March till date. During the survey, 1.14 lakh people were found to be high risk due to co-morbid conditions. At the state level too, the health department has asked all the chief medical health officers to send names of nurses and paramedical staff who have worked exceptionally well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/paramedics-to-be-felicitated-for-their-work-in-covid-prevention-on-i-day/articleshow/77513720.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: ‘Protect kids orphaned in landslide’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala state commission for protection of child rights has asked the government to ensure protection to children who lost their parents and shelter in the landslides at Pettimudy. The commission chairman K V Manojkumar asked the district administration in Idukki to ensure that the children who survived the cataclysm are safe and are taken care of. He also wanted the district child welfare office to collect and report to the commission the details of children orphaned by the calamity. “According to reports, eight children died in the landslide and nine are still missing. Several children who lost their parents or shelter are said to be staying with their relatives nearby. District administration should ensure their safety and provide them with facilities and opportunities to continue their education,” the commission said. Meanwhile, four newly-appointed members of the commission assumed office on Wednesday. The new members are B Babita, Reni Antony, P P Syamala Devi and C Vijayakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/protect-kids-orphaned-in-landslide/articleshow/77511325.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Toppling the Ashok Gehlot government was not our intention: Suspended Congress member Vishvendra Singh||JAIPUR: Former minister and suspended Congress member Vishvendra Singh, who was part of the 18 MLAs in the Sachin Pilot camp, claimed that they never wanted to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. In an interview with TOI on Wednesday, he said they wanted an audience with the party high command. “We camped in Delhi for a long time since there was a delay by the high command to give us an audience to air our grievances. I am a Congressman and Ashok Gehlot is our leader,” he said. He also claimed that the purported audio conversation was an edited one in which he was speaking to a friend, not Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. Singh said the problem began since there was a disconnect between the party and the government. Pilot was party state president and deputy CM while he was senior vice-president and a cabinet minister. “We were both in the party and the government. But there was some kind of disconnect between the two which affected the fulfillment of promises made to the people during elections. We wanted to bring it to the notice of the high command,” said Singh, who objected to call their action as a rebellion. On the demand for a change of leadership, he said “There was no demand for a change of leadership. It is basically to make the Congress leadership aware of the problem. We wanted to meet the high command.” On allegations of hobnobbing with the BJP, he said, “If we were hobnobbing with the BJP, we would not be sitting in Jaipur today. We are in Jaipur, but if you ask me about other MLAs, I don’t know. Bhanwarlal Sharma came a day before and met CM. It means we were not in any camp as was being alleged.” Speaking about the two groups in the state Congress - one loyal to Gehlot and another to Pilot -, Singh claimed that “I don’t see any camp. Gehlot is the chief minister, leader of the family and third-time CM. We are here to support him. But constructive criticism should be taken in the right way.” Claiming that even though he was a suspended member of the Congress, his loyalty remained with the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/toppling-the-govt-was-not-our-intention-vishvendra-singh/articleshow/77513739.cms||Joychen Joseph
August 13, 2020||Goa||Rise in cases hits Margao civic body’s functioning||Margao: With several employees of the Margao Municipal Council (MMC) infected with Covid-19, chairperson of the civic body Pooja Naik on Wednesday appealed to people to avoid visiting the municipality until Saturday at least. Except for the birth and deaths section and the sanitation department, the rest of the municipality will have restricted access to the public. “I spoke to the director of municipal administration (DMA) and explained to him that as at least three confirmed cases have been detected among our staff, there has been scarce attendance of employees since the last 2-3 days,” Naik said. “It’s not that the municipality will be closed, but the entry to the public will be restricted, in the interest of the staff as well as the public,” she added. The Shadow Council for Margao has demanded that in view of the situation, all the employees of MMC be subjected to Covid-19 test. The South Goa police headquarters Margao has also been largely affected by the Covid outbreak with several policemen from the traffic, CID and the office of the Dy SP Margao testing positive for Covid-19 over the past few days. A fireman attached to the fire and emergency services had also tested positive recently though reports of all others who went for testing had come negative, sources said. Eight priests from the Clergy Home Margao, a residential facility for elderly priests, have tested positive for Covid, sources said. One has been hospitalised while the rest are self-isolating in the home. Four personal attendants and a kitchen staffer have also been tested positive. The entire area has been sanitised. Margao has been seeing 30 new cases of Covid 19 being detected on an average everyday for the past few days. On Wednesday 30 new cases were recorded in areas coming under the jurisdiction of the Margao urban health centre. The highest spike in cases was on Sunday when 49 new cases were detected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rise-in-cases-hits-margao-civic-bodys-functioning/articleshow/77514334.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nashik||153 Covid patients untraceable: NMC||Nashik: As many as 153 of the 253 patients who underwent coronavirus tests at a private laboratory and tested positive for the contagion are untraceable. This has been attributed to the negligence of private laboratories in recording inadequate addresses and contact numbers of those who underwent Covid-19 tests in the last 15 days. In view of this error, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has directed five of the total 13 private labs in the city to stop testing swabs of Covid suspects until they rectify their information and find out the residential addresses of those who are untraceable. The municipal corporation has also marked containment zones in the areas where Covid-19 patients were found. The are also in the process of tracing high and low risk contacts of positive patients. The addresses of patients are provided to the municipal corporation by the laboratories where Covid tests are undertaken. Health officials of the civic body said that the addresses and contact numbers of Covid positive patients were needed to seal the building they reside in and trace their high and low risk contacts. However, the most labs failed to record the required information, they said. Till date, only 100 of the recent 253 positive people have been traced out, said NMC officials. “We have directed these private laboratories to stop testing swabs of Covid-19 suspects until they rectify the information of untraceable positive patients,” said NMC officials. Earlier, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) had made the OTP system in private labs compulsory. As per the process, one time password (OTP) is generated on the cell phone of the person getting tested and only after providing the OTP, the throat swab samples is submitted, said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/153-covid-patients-untraceable-nmc/articleshow/77511229.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 13, 2020||Kochi||Techie who held online college fests bags ‘Pride of Nation’ award||Kochi: Sreenath Gopinath, the Kochi-based tech entrepreneur and artist who became popular by conducting online youth festivals for various college across the state during the lockdown, was presented with the ‘Pride of Nation’ award jointly instituted by Mumbai-based Bright India Foundation, the Edge magazine and Kriz media. The award is presented to individuals in recognition to their contribution to art, culture and society. Being an engineering graduate and former convener of Technos, which is the all Kerala engineering students association, Sreenath came up with the idea of conducting the fest online as the colleges will not be reopening any time soon due to the pandemic. He has coordinated online fest for nearly 20 colleges for free by sitting at his home using smartphone and laptops. He was approached by many colleges in other states like Tamil Nadu and Karnataka for help after the online fest became a hit with its speciality of near to nil expenditure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/techie-who-held-online-college-fests-bags-pride-of-nation-award/articleshow/77512429.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nashik||763 cases, 16 deaths in Nashik dist||Nashik: As many as 763 Covid-19 positive cases, including 484 from Nashik city, have been registered in Nashik district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of confirmed cases to 21,839. In addition, nine of the 16 people from the district who succumbed to Covid-19 infection were from the city alone. The death toll of the district now stands at 648, of which 371 are from the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/763-cases-16-deaths-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/77511220.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nashik||Farmers rejoice as dist receives steady rainfall||Nashik: Farmers across Nashik are quite upbeat after the district received steady rainfall on Wednesday with catchment areas of the dams getting the major share. “After Nashik district received heavy rainfall in the beginning of June owing to Nisarg cyclone, there was a lull for most of the time till beginning of August,” sources from India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Such was the case that the water levels in dams across the district recorded in the beginning of August were lower than the levels recorded in the month of May. “This is a good picture after the dry spell in the month of July,” Satish Patil, a farmer from Dindori, said. Dindori along with Trimbakeshwar and Igatpuri falls in the Western region of Nashik district and has received very less rainfall as compared to their monthly average. In comparison to them, talukas like Malegaon, Yeola, Nandgaon and Sinnar have received better rainfall. On Wednesday, Trimbakeshwar town received 43mm of rain, while the catchment area of Gautami Godavari Dam received 32 mm of rain. Meanwhile, the catchment area of Gangapur dam received 30 mm of rain. “This is bringing up a better picture for the district which has water levels far lower than the figures recorded in the corresponding period last year,” an official from the Water Resources Department (WRD) said, adding that they have already sent a letter asking people to cut down their water consumption drastically given the critical levels of water in the reservoirs. The Gangapur dam complex has 43% of water out of which Gangapur dam alone has 58% or 3282 million cubic feet of water. It was at 90% last year during the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-rejoice-as-dist-receives-steady-rainfall/articleshow/77511234.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Crisis now a closed chapter, says Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||JAISALMER: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said the crisis that emerged after Sachin Pilot raised a banner of revolt nearly a month ago was now a ‘closed chapter’. Gehlot gave a call to forget, forgive and move on in the interest of the country and state. With regard to Congress MLAs being upset over being lodged in hotels for a month, Gehlot told reporters, “It is natural for them to be upset. The way this episode happened, they had to stay in hotels... so it was natural to be upset.” He further said that they will be persuaded. Staying away from home, family and their constituency is difficult. “I have exhorted them that in the interest of the country, state, people of the state and for saving democracy, sometimes we have to bear,” he said. Without naming Pilot, he said, “Forget, forgive and move on in the interest of the country, state, and democracy, which is in danger. Our MLAs have extended their full support in the fight to save democracy. This fight will continue in the future too. People of the state gave us the mandate to form a government. It is our responsibility to maintain that trust and serve the people, give good governance and fight corona.” He said it is the victory of the people. “We got phone calls asking us not to worry even if it takes a month or two. People wanted victory of the government and stability,” he added. On the month-long stay in hotels, the CM said the mutual relations between the MLAs have improved a lot. “When you stay with each other for a month, the relations become good,” he said. Gehlot said he had recently shot a letter to all the MLAs, including opposition, asking them to listen to the voice of conscience and people to save democracy and stand with the truth. “I can say with confidence that this letter had a great impact. This was the reason that three planes were hired by the BJP to send its MLAs to Gujarat,” the CM said. Gehlot reiterated the allegation that the BJP was trying to topple his government and said it was fully ‘exposed’. “They taunted us for taking our MLAs to hotels. Now, what has forced them to put their MLAs in camp? They stand exposed. The entire game was theirs, there was a conspiracy to topple the government,” he added. However, it could not succeed in its game... ‘Satyamev Jayate’, he said. The BJP has in the past denied Gehlot’s allegations. With inputs from agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/crisis-now-a-closed-chapter-says-gehlot/articleshow/77513747.cms||Vimal Bhatia
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||Sachin Pilot’s honour intact in party: Pratap Singh Khachariyawas||JAISALMER: Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas on Wednesday said the high command will decide on Sachin Pilot’s future in the state unit. However, his honour will remain intact in the Congress party, he added. On enforcement directorate notice to him, Khachariyawas said that the central government is playing vendetta politics. His 80-year-old ill father has been served notice. He said he will reply to the ED notice. He said the ED can serve notices, but it has no standing as he does not work with any company and he is not a director in any business establishment. He has got nothing to with anybody. “The Centre has power and can send notices through ED, send someone to jail and take action on anybody. They can also send the income tax, but the way it is playing vendetta politics, it is wrong,” the transport minister said. ED sent notices to former CM Bhairon Singh Shekhawat’s brother Lakshman Singh. With regard to the ruckus in the MLAs’ meeting at Suryagarh hotel on Tuesday night, Khachariyawas said the resentment of MLAs is valid. The legislature party meeting is held so that anybody has can their mind out. As far as taking back Pilot as PCC chief and deputy CM, he said the high command will decide on the issue. However, AICC has not given any statement in this regard. “We will accept what the high command decides and will work together,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilots-honour-intact-in-party-khachariyawas/articleshow/77513750.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Taking cue from UP, Karnataka may seize rioters’ properties||BENGALURU/MANGALURU: The Karnataka government ordered a magisterial inquiry into the violence in parts of Bengaluru on Tuesday night. Deputy commissioner of Bengaluru Urban GN Shivamurthy as executive magistrate may inquire into the violence and submit a report within three months, sources said. Taking a cue from Yogi Adityanath’s government in Uttar Pradesh, the government plans to confiscate properties of all those involved in the violence and recover damages from them. Read AlsoBengaluru violence: How rioters launched guerrilla-like attack against copsThe events that unfolded on Tuesday night were something Bengaluru city police oldtimers hadn’t seen in a long time. For the youngsters it was a new experience.Home minister Basavaraj Bommai, who attended a meet convened by chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday, said a probe by CID or a Special Investigation Team were discussed. “Finally, the CM decided to ask the Bengaluru district magistrate to probe in accordance with guidelines of the National Human Rights Commission. This was done in the Mangaluru firing incident during ant-CAA protests last December,’’ he added. Read AlsoBengaluru violence: Local Muslim youth saved me, says instigator’s mother“Had local Muslim youths not come to my rescue, I don’t think I would have been alive today,” Jayanthi R, mother of Naveen P who is accused of posting a derogatory post on Facebook, said on Wednesday.Bommai said the government sought reports about political factors and the possibility of involvement of certain outfits. The situation was under control and they have sought the Centre’s assistance to deal with the fallout. The Union home ministry has dispatched six companies of Central Reserve Police Force, three each from Hyderabad and Chennai, he said Read AlsoBengaluru violence: False news over police refusing to accept complaint lit the fireThe genesis of Tuesday night’s riots in a section of Bengaluru was in a small meeting of local minority community members in Kavalbyrasandra area.He said orders have been given to initiate recovery of losses from those who have caused the damage. Police are going through CCTV footage of the area and have started detaining and arresting people based on evidence. “Once this is over, we’ll initiate recovery of damage to government properties from those involved in the violence. If they fail to pay money for losses, we’ll confiscate their properties as per the Supreme Court order,’’ he added. Read AlsoBengaluru: Three killed in police firing as mobs riot; MLA's kin held for Facebook postThree people were killed in police firing when mobs went berserk over an alleged inflammatory social-media post by a Congress MLA's relative in east Bengaluru late Tuesday night.Terming the violence a well-planned act, revenue minister R Ashoka said the perpetrators will be dealt with an iron hand and steps taken to ensure that such incidents do not recur. Read AlsoBengaluru violence: Family of 5 hid inside toilet for 3 hours to escape mobFearing for their lives, a family, including two boys aged four and six, hid inside a toilet in their home in Kavalbyrasandra for nearly three hours while a mob vandalised their house and vehicles on Tuesday night.After visiting the areas, he said Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy house was completely damaged and belongings, including saris and jewels, were looted and the rest set on fire. “It has to be investigated whether any anti-social elements from within the state and outside were involved,’’ he added. Watch Karnataka takes cue from UP, may seize rioters’ properties||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-government-orders-magisterial-inquiry-into-violence-in-bluru/articleshow/77511794.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Meerut||BJP district prez's murder: 2 accused held, cops say personal enmity led to killing||Meerut: Police in UP’s Baghpat on Wednesday arrested two persons suspected to be behind the murder of a former district president of BJP and claimed that the attack was carried out due to personal enmity. Sanjay Khokhar, BJP’s district president of Baghpat from 2016 to 2018 and currently a member of the district planning committee, was shot dead on Tuesday morning.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had expressed “shock and grief” over the killing and had directed the police to “crack the case within 24 hours.”IG of Meerut range, Praveen Tripathi, said, “We have arrested two persons and it has come to the light that personal enmity is the reason behind the murder. We have almost reached the point of cracking the case and we will do it soon.”Meanwhile, district police came under attack by the BJP leadership for its “inaction”. Baghpat MP Satypal Singh said that local police’s “inaction” led to the murder.BJP MLA Yogesh Dhama said, “I had been repeatedly telling police officers about probable attacks on important leaders. We gave inputs but we were not taken seriously. Now I will meet the chief minister for an inquiry into the matter.” Soon after the murder, Khokhar’s family had lodged an FIR against five persons. Of them, Ankush and Mayank Dangar were arrested on Wednesday.In his statement to the police, Manish, Khokhar’s son, said on Tuesday, “My father and brother Akshay had gone for a morning walk at 6:30am on Tuesday when five men came out of an agricultural field and shot my father who collapsed on the ground. My brother Akshay had to save his life and later told me the whole incident.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bjp-district-prezs-murder-2-accused-held-cops-say-personal-enmity-led-to-killing/articleshow/77511231.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 13, 2020||Nashik||doneSpurt in cases sparks fresh police warning||Nashik: The Nashik rural police have warned of strict action against people moving out of their homes unnecessarily without wearing masks or maintaining social distancing in Malegaon, given that the town has once again started witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases. Additional superintendent of police Sandeep Ghuge said, “So far we have booked around 4,000 people for leaving homes unnecessarily, not wearing masks and violating the social-distancing rule. In view of the recent spurt in cases in Malegaon West, it has been decided to take strict action against violators.” Police officers said that Malegaon, which was a hotspot a large number of Covid-19 cases, had come out of the crisis but new cases in Malegaon West and rural areas are a matter of concern. “The co-operation of citizens is extremely important to contain the spread of the disease. People cannot be complacent.” A large number of police personnel for bandobast in Malegaon had got infected from Covid-19 while three succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/donespurt-in-cases-sparks-fresh-police-warning/articleshow/77511245.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||400 Covid +ve deaths in dist: 100 in 141 days, 301 in 15 days||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 deaths in the district touched 400 on Wednesday. It took 141 days — from March 11 to July 29 — for the district to register first 100 deaths while 301 were recorded in the last 15 days — from July 29 to August 12.While district saw 126 deaths due to coronavirus till end of July, 274 deaths were registered in just 12 days of August.With 400 deaths from total positive cases of 12,485, the district’s case fatality rate (CFR) rose to 3.2%, which is higher than CFR of nation (1.98%) and slightly low than that of the state (3.42%). Among 30, Nagpur is 10th district in the state to witness 400 deaths.Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has increased number of tests to a great extent. Total 21 testing centres have been opened. The motive behind this is to detect the case early so that treatment can be provided from initial stage. Also, isolation of positive patient in time can help in containing spread of the disease.”Mundhe added, “Analysis of deaths reveal that 50-60% deceased were either brought dead, detected with Covid in critical stage or were admitted in hospital in serious condition. People should get tested as soon as they start developing symptoms or if they happen to come in contact with a positive person. It has also come to fore that patients first get treatment from private hospitals that do not inform the civic body. When the health deteriorates, the patients are referred to state government-run Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH).”Anusuya Kale-Chhabrani from NGO Together We Can said, “Private hospitals need to realize their responsibilities and follow the guidelines. Sample this: A 60-year-old comorbidity patient from an area near Police Line Takli was admitted in a private hospital at Kamptee after complaining of blockage of urine. He was asked to deposit Rs10,000 while admission. Then, the hospital asked him to get tested for Covid-19 the report of which came positive yesterday. It was mandatory for the hospital to ensure admission of patient in any DCH. Instead, the hospital sent the patient back home. It was only patient’s condition worsened that his relatives contacted helpline desk for admission in DCH,” she said.Chhabrani also said such cases leave chance of spread of the virus to relatives and other people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/400-covid-ve-deaths-in-dist-100-in-141-days-301-in-15-days/articleshow/77512433.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: DSGMC chief’s complaint over Facebook post on Darbar Sahib||CHANDIGARH: Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president Manjinder Singh Sirsa has filed a complaint before the Delhi Police against one Raghav Gautam and his Facebook followers for hurting religious beliefs by claiming to make a temple at Sri Harmandar Sahib in Amritsar. Sirsa filed a complaint with the North Avenue police station against Gautam and his Facebook followers on August 11. “One person, namely Raghav Gautam (RG) having e-mail address…and his followers were (sic) posted defamatory and insulted comments on his Facebook account about Sri Haramandir Sahib (the Darbar Sahib). Raghav Gautam (RG) stated ‘Harimandir became Harminder Sahib #MandirWahiBanayenge’ and ‘Golden Temple is next MandirWahiBanayenge’,” reads Sirsa’s complaint to the police. Sirsa added in his complaint, “The language used by Raghav Gautam (RG) and his followers for Sri Harmandir Sahib (the Darbar Sahib) and the way he has manipulated, distorted, false and hated comments about Sri Harmandir Sahib (the Darbar Sahib), if no action is taken against him, then the situation may go out of control and law and order disturbance problem can arise in the entire Sikh community.” Sirsa told TOI, “We will ensure that the Delhi Police registers FIR on our complaint since such people disturb peace in the society.” Sirsa has also marked copies of the complaint to Union home minister Amit Shah. The DSGMC president also submitted that his complaint needed immediate action in order to maintain peace and harmony among different communities as comments of Gautam and his Facebook followers were “consistently poisoning the population at large”. He demanded registration of an FIR against Gautam and his Facebook followers under the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act. Later, Gautam put up a video on his Facebook account apologising for hurting public sentiments unintentionally. He said he did not realise his comment would escalate to such a level. He added it was a sarcastic post and it could have been put across in a better manner. He said he had deleted it as soon as he came to know that he had hurt the feelings of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dsgmc-chiefs-plaint-over-fb-post-on-darbar-sahib/articleshow/77513752.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Hyderabad||31 booked for protest at CM’s house||HYDERABAD: Hours after protesting in front of Pragathi Bhavan, the official residence of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, 31 NSUI activists were booked in a criminal case by Punjagutta police on Wednesday evening After they were taken into custody, the local police brought the student activists to the police station, where they were booked under sections 341, 143 of IPC besides Epidemic Diseases Act and other relevant acts. Police however, denied the accusation that few of these students successfully breached the security near CM’s residence. Senior officials said that their force was already at Pragathi Bhavan since the CM was holding a meeting with his ministers. “The moment they got down from the DCM vehicle in which they came, the police caught them and took them into custody. All 31 were arrested,” ACP (Punjagutta) Thirupathanna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/31-booked-for-protest-at-cms-house/articleshow/77513762.cms||Srinath Vudali
August 13, 2020||Jodhpur||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot reaches Jodhpur, pays homage to Pak refugees found dead||JODHPUR : Chief minister Ashok Gehlot reached Jodhpur from Jaisalmer on Wednesday and paid homage to the 11 Pakistan refugees who were found dead under mysterious circumstances in their shack on a farm in Lodta village on Monday. He offered floral tributes to the deceased at Gangana, a settlement of Pakistan refugees on the outskirts of the city and expressed his condolences. He met the relatives of the deceased family and consoled them. Interacting with people, he assured them of every possible assistance and said police had been investigating the case. Agreeing to the demand of people of investigation, Gehlot said he was ready to get the matter investigated by any agency. “I am with you in this grief and understand your problems and issues. I know you all have come here because it was difficult in Pakistan. I wished that you live here happily and flourish,, Gehlot said. He also interacted with the president of Seemant Lok Sangthan Hindu, Singh Sodha, and gathered details about the issues afflicting the refugees. “There are a number of agents who harass them in connivance with local police, CID and others," said Sodha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cm-reaches-jodhpur-pays-homage-to-pak-refugees-found-dead/articleshow/77513751.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Meerut||Man arrested with smack worth Rs 25 lakh||MUZAFFARNAGAR: During a routine check on Wednesday, Shamli police arrested a man in possession of 250 grams of smack worth Rs 25 lakh. The man had earlier gone to jail for drug smuggling. Police have now set up a probe to arrest other members of his gang. According to sources, the incident happened in Kairana area of Shamli district, where police laid a trap following a tip-off, and arrested the accused, who was later identified as Intas, resident of Kairana. It was also revealed that he had been to jail in Haryana for the same crime several years ago, police said. According to Shamli SP Vineet Jaiswal, “Investigation into the matter is on. We’re trying to trace his links with other smugglers. Action will be taken accordingly.” Police sources said the accused used to bring drugs from Haryana and sell it at several places in the district. An officer of Kairna police station said, “Accused was booked under relevant sections and sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-arrested-with-smack-worth-rs-25-lakh/articleshow/77511250.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 13, 2020||Dehradun||Man booked in Dehradun for escaping institutional quarantine center||DEHRADUN: A 54-year-old man was booked by Dehradun Police on Wednesday for allegedly escaping an institutional quarantine centre in Premnagar area of Dehradun. The man, identified as Thirima Rishi, had been lodged at the centre along with 22 others, who had come to Uttarakhand from other states. He has been booked under sections 269(Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-booked-in-doon-for-escaping-institutional-quarantine-center/articleshow/77511256.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nashik||MSEDCL’s key infra work during lockdown||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has invested Rs 5.2 crore in infrastructure upgradation including setting up of new power substation and augmentation of power transformers in three distinct locations across Nashik zone during lockdown. The MSEDCL, through the Integrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS), carried out the augmentation of power transformers at three sub stations at Ambad and Panchak in Nashik Circle and Sut Girni in Ahmednagar, besides setting up of sub-division at Kokamthan in Ahmednagar district. There was a long pending demand for the upgradation of power supply in the areas of Ambad and Panchak at Nashik Road, an MSEDCL officer said. The power company augmented 5 mega volt ampere (MVA) transformer to 10 mva transformer at Ambad at Panchak in Nashik city and at Sut Girni in Ahmednagar district. Following similar footsteps, Aurangabad zone of MSEDCL accomplished key infrastructural work benefitting rural and industrial areas. MSEDCL public relations officer for Aurangabad zone Dnyaneshwar Ardad on Wednesday said that over 5,500 consumers from urban and rural areas would benefit from the works undertaken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msedcls-key-infra-work-during-lockdown/articleshow/77511254.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||50-year-old dies in accident||Visakhapatnam: A 50-year-old truck driver died in a road accident no NH-16 stretch near Kasimkota in Visakhapatnam district on Tuesday after his truck was hit by another truck when he suddenly pressed the brakes. The deceased has been identified as R Khalipa. Police have registered a case and investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/50-year-old-dies-in-accident/articleshow/77492285.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Allahabad||Soon, books for children with special needs to make lessons more interactive||Prayagraj: Children with intellectual disabilities will now be more comfortable in learning English as English Language Teaching Institute (ELTI) gets ready to roll out books specially designed for such students in primary classes. The move comes after directions from State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT). State Institute of Education and State Hindi Institute in Varanasi are also working on similar books. The team that worked on these books included academicians, doctors working in the field of intellectual disability and teachers experienced in teaching children with special needs. The team comprised head of AU’s Centre of Behavioural and Cognitive Sciences Bhoomika Kar, MLN Medical College’s Dr Chhijit Srivastava, expert from Asha Army School Manoj Kumar, Kendriya Vidyalaya’s (Old Cantonment branch) Vishnu Dhyan Tripathi and many others. “Such children usually have limitations in two areas. The first is intellectual functioning i.e. the ability to learn, reason, make decisions and solve problems. The second is adaptive behaviour which involves skills necessary to communicate, take care of oneself etc. These kids might also be diagnosed with other learning disabilities like dyslexia, dysgraphia, dyscalculia and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder,” said ELTI principal Skand Shukla. The books have been designed differently to focus on the special needs of such children. For instance, the pictures are colourful, while the text is in bigger fonts. Topics are presented in a way that they invoke a students’ curiosity. “These books also have formats to document a child’s case history into an individualised education programme,” he added. Shukla said that intellectual disability is a condition when one’s IQ level is less than 70 and the mental growth is slower than the person’s physical growth. “A child with an IQ over 50 can be educated by using special methods. Autism, attention deficit disorder and Down’s syndrome are some of the conditions related to intellectual disability.” “Contrary to popular belief, cerebral palsy is not always related to intellectual disability. Cerebral palsy is related to loss of control of muscles and movement. Some kids affected with cerebral palsy may be very intelligent,” Shukla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/soon-books-for-children-with-special-needs-to-make-lessons-more-interactive/articleshow/77511280.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chennai||Thousands yet to receive Rs 1k aid promised to disabled in June||Chennai: Thousands of the disabled in the city complained that they haven’t received the Rs 1,000 aid announced by the state government in June. Those who received the aid said they were made to travel to a nearby Greater Chennai Corporation ward office or government offices for the dole instead of the doorstep delivery promised by CM Edappadi K Palaniswami. K Murugan of KVK Kuppam in Ernavur said he and his friend travelled all the way to the Thiruvottiyur office, spending Rs 200 on the auto ride, despite the Covid-19 risk. After a long wait of two hours, no one bothered to give a clarification to the two regarding the dole. Murugan has three daughters and is struggling to meet his daily needs and medical expenses. Another disabled man hit hard by the lockdown is Arul James Brito, whose wife died last month. The curbs have prevented him from continuing his pushcart business. “News channels said thousands of people received the amount in Thiruvottiyur. But in reality not many got it. After protests, only 40 people in my area received the amount,” he said, adding that the negligence shown by authorities hurt them the most. S Namburjan of TN Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC) said Chennai, which doesn’t have village administrative officers, has deployed volunteers, who carry out door-to-door Covid surveys to distribute the fund. “There was a lot of confusion about the addresses,” he added. Officials from the state differently-abled welfare department said 40% of the beneficiaries received the amount and they have shared updated details with the corporation. In response, a senior corporation official said issues had been rectified. “We are targeting completion in a week’s time as it involves both door-to-door identification and disbursal of relief,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/thousands-yet-to-receive-rs-1k-aid-promised-to-disabled-in-june/articleshow/77507039.cms||Ram Sundaram
August 13, 2020||Nashik||Drop in number of dengue positive cases this year||Nashik: The number of dengue positive cases reported between July 1 and August 7 this year have dropped in comparison to the corresponding period last year. Last year, the city had only eight dengue cases by June end, but, there had been a sudden rise in the cases from July, one of the reasons being incessant rainfall in Nashik. Around 48 cases were reported in July and 20 in the first week of August last year. A total of 68 dengue cases were recorded between July 1 and August 7 last year. But, the number of dengue positive cases have dropped during the said period this year. The city has recorded only 16 dengue positive cases between July 1 and August 7 this year. Of these 16 cases, 14 were reported in July and two in the first week of August. “We had taken several measures right from the beginning of the monsoon considering the experience of last year,” said NMC officials. “We started fogging and spraying at large scale in the city. Moreover, we also destroyed mosquito breeding spots in the city. This has overall led to drop in dengue positive cases this year,” added officials. Meanwhile, NMC’s medical department has appealed to the residents to ensure that premises of schools, colleges, offices, houses, housing societies and apartments remain clean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/drop-in-number-of-dengue-positive-cases-this-year/articleshow/77511283.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fire breaks out at Dondaparthi||Visakhapatnam: A minor fire broke out at a cellar of a commercial establishment near Dondaparthi in Visakhapatnam early morning Tuesday. While some furniture in the cellar got gutted in the fire, fortunately, no casualties were reported. Fire service personnel rushed to the spot and doused the fire. A short circuit might have led to the incident, say sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fire-breaks-out-at-dondaparthi/articleshow/77492248.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Meerut||CCSU grants extra year to complete degrees pending due to Covid-19||MEERUT: In a sigh of relief for students, Chaudhary Charan Singh University has granted an extra year to complete degrees pending due to Covid-19. Earlier, students pursuing two-year-long courses were allowed to complete the degree within four years and those pursuing three-year-long courses were allowed to complete it within six years. However, a relaxation of an extra year has been given owing to the pandemic. In an official order released by CCSU, it has been decided that a relaxation of one year be given to those who were set to complete their degrees in June 2020 but could not appear for the exams due to Covid-19. The order further stated that students will have to pay an additional charge for the period as per the norms. “If the student completed the relaxation period of one year in June 2020, he will have to pay Rs 5,000. However, if the student completed the relaxation period of two years in June 2020, he will have to pay Rs 10,000. These students will be given a one-year relaxation to complete their exams and degrees,” read the official order. An online form regarding this can be filled on the university’s website by August 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ccsu-grants-extra-year-to-complete-degrees-pending-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/77511261.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||In Punjab, a call for women’s liberation||BARNALA: The 23rd death anniversary of teenage school girl from Mehal Kalan, who was killed after gang rape, was observed as Aurat Mukti Divas (women liberation day). Instead of a single mega event at Mehal Kalan, over 100 small programmes were held simultaneously at various places in Barnala, Mansa, Bathinda and Ludhiana districts on Wednesday where participants raised voice about crimes against women. In view of Covid-19 restrictions, the Kiranjit Katal Kand Virodhi Action Committee had decided against holding a big congregation like previous years. Kiranjit Kaur, then 17, studying in Class XII, was abducted on July 29, 1997 and her body, buried in the ground, was recovered on August 11. Her cremation, a day later, had attracted thousands of persons. The action committee formed to seek justice had been organising massive programme on August 12 for the last 22 years. Apart from Mehal Kalan, programmes to remember the teenage girl and renew the pledge to work for the safety and dignity of women were held in Barnala town and about two dozen villages of the district. Association for Democratic Rights (AFDR) held the commemoration programme at Mansa whereas smaller programmes were held at Ranghrial, Burj Rathi, Khiala Kalan villages in Mansa. In Ludhiana district, programmes were held at Galab Kalan, Bhamal, Swaddi Khurd, Malsian, Kamalpura, Binjal, Mullanpur, Hathoor, Deharka and Dhudkot villages. Tributes were paid to teenage girl by farm organisations at Gehri Buttar village in Bathinda. Action committee former convener Narain Dutt said the killing of the teenage girl after rape has given a new direction to the area in its various struggles for self-esteem. “The ghastly killing of the girl makes us stand up wherever any highhandedness is committed against girls. We want the slogan of women empowerment to become a reality. For that, we want to keep reminding people not to indulge in any highhandedness,” he said. “The action committee also held a virtual campaign on the social media for 11 days where two personalities spoke about crimes against women for an hour and hundreds of persons listened to that,” he said. Committee member Manjit Dhaner said as the crime against women are on the rise, the responsibility of activists has increased to work more vigorously. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/on-death-anniversary-of-rape-victim-punjab-vows-for-womens-liberation/articleshow/77513800.cms||Neel Kamal
August 13, 2020||Goa||Khariawada denotified as containment zone||Vasco: South Goa district magistrate Ajit Roy on Wednesday evening notified one micro containment zone at Khariawada while the whole of Khariawada was denotified as a containment zone. Ward no. 14 and ward no. 15 were partly put under containment zone on July 10, after 10 members of five families tested positive with the virus. The notification issued on Wednesday stated that the, “area covering the houses of Baladevi Verma to Joaquim Fernandes at Mormugao Municpal Council” is now a micro containment zone. The district magistrate also stated in the notification that 34 days have passed since the declaration of the area as a containment zone. He added that presently there are no active cases in the containment zone and since the area is considerably large, it causes a lot of hardship to the residents. Movement of public within the micro containment zone will be strictly prohibited by police personnel adequately deployed there, the notification stated. On Monday, Vasco MLA Carlos Almeida had held a meeting with Mormugao deputy collector Sachin Dessai along with few fishermen asking him to open the containment zone as many fishermen live there and they have to carry on with their business as fishing season has begun. On Sunday, Mangor Hill, consisting of municipal wards 11 and 17, was denotified and two micro-containment zones were formed here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/khariawada-denotified-as-containment-zone/articleshow/77514373.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 13, 2020||India||Shekhawat taunts Gehlot on charge of sedition||NEW DELHI: “What happened to the sedition case against me, Mr Gehlot?” asked an angry Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, Union water resources minister and Jodhpur MP, questioning the sudden dropping of all such charges against him and rebel Congress MLAs. The minister said CM Ashok Gehot must explain the “U-turn” as to how in a matter of weeks, sedition charges were invoked and dropped against a central minister and a host of MLAs. Fuming over “baseless” accusations of being party to a bid to topple the state government, Shekhawat said that the entire political crisis in Rajasthan was a drama scripted by the chief minister. “Case of sedition under Section 124A of IPC was slapped against an elected representative, who is holding a responsible position at the Centre. And the case is withdrawn after 15 days saying that section was not applicable. This is like you arrest a person and keep him in custody for one month and after that you withdraw the charge. This is the best example of mocking judiciary by sheer misuse of state machinery.” Shekhawat said there should be a thorough investigation about the origin of the tape on the basis of which the special operations group registered a sedition case against elected representatives. “The tape was circulated on social media. Media says it was given to them by the OSD of the chief minister, then cases were registered and later withdrawn. The whole incident smacks of a huge conspiracy. Who were the actual script writers of this drama must come out,” he said. The SOG of Rajasthan Police had served notice to Shekhawat for his alleged bid to destabilise the Gehlot-led government and directed him to record his statement. The recording itself refers to a “Gajendra Singh” without any clarity that it is Shekhawat. “The day (Sachin) Pilot left Jaipur, Congress members said it was their internal matter and they will sort it out. Then the allegations like ‘nakkara’, ‘nikamma’, followed by the return of MLAs. This whole drama was planned and executed to defame the Centre and BJP,” Shekhawat said. “The CM has the skill and magic of hurting his political rivals even from his own party. His aim was to oust his challengers in the party, defame BJP and take revenge for his son’s defeat. Only time will tell to what extent he has succeeded,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shekhawat-taunts-gehlot-on-charge-of-sedition/articleshow/77515217.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nashik||Zero Covid-19 case in Nashik Road central prison housing 2,700 inmates||Nashik: The state prisons department has lauded the efforts of the Nashik Road central jail authorities in ensuring that not even a single inmate has caught Covid-19 infection. The prison which houses 2,700 inmates is the second biggest facilities in the state. Deputy inspector general of police (prison), central region, Dilip Zalke visited the Nashik Road jail and took stock of the management. He said that despite being such a huge prison, the jail officials have taken utmost precautions to ensure that coronavirus infection does not step foot inside the premises. “The officials here have done an extremely commendable job,” Zalke said. Superintendent of the Nashik Road central jail Pramod Wagh said, “Right from the beginning, various measures were implemented to not let the infection enter the jail premises. We stopped relatives of inmates from coming to meet them in jail. The hearing of undertrials and others was done through video conferencing. Moreover, an additional set up was made outside the jail where the undertrials remanded in judicial custody were lodged. We also have an isolation room in the additional facility outside the jail so that in case if any undertrial tests positive for ther contagion, he/she can be kept there in isolation.” In addition, the inmates were often given warm water for drinking along with being told the importance of getting their hands sanitized from time to time, said Wagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/zero-covid-19-case-in-nashik-road-central-prison-housing-2700-inmates/articleshow/77511289.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 13, 2020||Ranchi||Cong’s Dipika 5th lawmaker in state to test +ve in a month||Ranchi: Congress party’s Mahgama MLA Dipika Pandey Singh on Wednesday became the fifth legislator in Jharkhand to get infected with the novel coronavirus within a month. In a post on social media, Singh said she has tested positive along with her family members and urged those who came in contact with her to self-isolate and get tested for Covid-19. In July, state water resources minister Mithilesh Kumar Thaku and Tundi’s MLA Mathura Prasad Mahto (both JMM), Gomia MLA Lambodar Mahto (Ajsu Party) and Ranchi MLA C P Singh (BJP) had contracted the virus. Kumar, Mathura and Singh have since been discharged from hospitals after recovery. Singh’s disclosure about getting infected has thrown Jharkhand Congress functionaries in Ranchi into a tizzy. The first-time legislator had recently travelled to various parts of Jharkhand along with other party functionaries to oversee Congress work. Speaking to the TOI, Jharkhand Congress president and state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said: “The MLAs have to act responsibly and adhere to social distancing protocols while dispensing their public duties and set examples for others.” He said instructions have been given for conducting mass screenings of party functionaries and office bearers in the city. “We are also making it mandatory for visitors who come to the party office to get tested for Covid,” Oraon said. While Congress and BJP have kept their offices open for limited entry, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) has shut its office in Bariatu until further orders. JMM’s general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said: “The situation has become alarming and the party has asked all its legislators to strictly adhere to social distancing and stay at their homes as far as possible.” Asked about whether the increasing infections among lawmakers was due to their disregard for protocols, a senior JMM functionary said: “It is more due to professional obligations. No matter how hard we try to self-isolate, we get visitors with various problems seeking solutions at homes. We cannot just turn them away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/congs-dipika-5th-lawmaker-in-state-to-test-ve-in-a-month/articleshow/77513482.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 13, 2020||Ranchi||Dhanbad residents see red after BCCL evacuate ‘advisory’||Dhanbad: Residents of areas affected by underground fire in Dhanbad are on the boil after receiving notices from Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) asking them to to vacate their land and shift to the safer places in view of an increased risk of land subsidence during monsoon. Local leaders claim the advisory was issued in order to shrug off responsibility. On Wednesday, an appeal was issued by the office of the project officer of Godhar Kusunda Colliery apprising residents of Kali Basti, Godhar Basti, Harijan Basti and Kurmidih about the danger involved in living in subsidence-prone areas and appealed them to leave the areas as soon as possible. On Tuesday, a similar appeal was made by the office of the project officer of Gopalichak Colliery to residents of Bauri Basti, Gopalichak Colony and Karkend Bazar eliciting protests from the traders of Karkend, considered to be the oldest wholesale garment markets of the district. Talking to The TOI, Hari Prasad Pappu, district general secretary of Central Industrial Trade Union (CITU), who is himself a resident of Kurmidih Basti, said, “The notice was given in the form of an appeal. It is an attempt by the administration of BCCL to shrug off responsibility.” “We are legal title holders, where will be go? No compensation package has also been decided for rehabilitating people like us,” said Pappu adding, that the administration and the state government should take note of such random notices given by the coal company in order to hide their inefficiency in rehabilitating people. “Why can’t those who are serving notices to us hold talks with us and solve the issue? We have all documents needed for rehabilitating us to safer places,” added Pappu. Meanwhile, the traders’ association at Karkend Bazar decided to send letters and tweets to chief minister Hemant Soren on the issue. BCCL general manager of Putki Balihari area, A K Roychoudhary said, “The appeal published in newspapers are a part of our routine work to inform people to remain alert in view of increased chances of subsidence in the underground fire-affected zones.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhanbad-residents-see-red-after-bccl-evacuate-advisory/articleshow/77513520.cms||Praduman Choubey
August 13, 2020||Ranchi||Schools to celebrate I-Day sans students||Ranchi: In a first, schools in Jharkhand will celebrate Independence Day sans the students in view of the pandemic. On Wednesday, the project director of Jharkhand Education Project Council, Sailesh Kumar Chaurasia, said, “The schools have been asked not to invite the students for the Independence Day celebrations. We have sent copies of safety measures to the schools and the headmaster and teachers must follow them while hoisting the tricolour.” Many private schools are holding online competitions for kids in the primary section to mark the occasion. For instance, recently the Army Public School organised a competition in which students sent their photos while posing with the tricolour in hand. Meanwhile, the state-level function at Morhabadi ground will follow suit and the celebrations will be low-key. Ranchi sub-divisional officer Lokesh Mishra said the state level function will have only 150 invitees. He added that there is a change in the formation and number of platoons engaged in march-past this year. He further said that gatherings around the ground to watch the parade will not be allowed and there will be strong deployment of police force to maintain law and order. The flag-hoisting at the government buildings has to be performed with minimum number of participants while following the safety norms, Mishra informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/schools-to-celebrate-i-day-sans-students/articleshow/77513560.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Ranchi||Courier boy is source of 14-patient cluster in city||Ranchi: In a case of a super-spreader creating a cluster of Covid infections in the state capital, an employee with a courier company in the city has been identified as a source of infection for at least 14 other persons with the logistics firm. Sources in the health department said they received information about the person testing positive and conducted a contact-tracing exercise on Monday, collecting samples of 38 persons who had come in contact with him at the firm’s central warehouse in the city’s Namkum area. Shubhra Rani, incident commander-cum-Circle officer of Namkum block, said “As of now, 14 of the 38 samples have tested positive and the results for 24 are awaited. The warehouse has been closed and is being sanitised.” As all the 14 patients are asymptomatic, the courier company asked the district administration to allow them to be kept at a quarantine centre within the warehouse premise for 14 days, but the officials rejected the request and shifted them to various isolation centres. Rani added, “People from various areas approach courier companies and their staff move around across the city to distribute packages. Letting them remain at the warehouse would have increased the chances of the virus spreading. Also, providing healthcare facilities at the location was not feasible.” When contacted, Dr Devesh Kumar, public health expert and assistant professor of preventive and social medicine at Rims, said: “People who travel around the city for professional commitments must take extra precautions and I would suggest all companies in supply chain management to ensure social distancing by using manpower on a rotational basis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/courier-boy-is-source-of-14-patient-cluster-in-city/articleshow/77513572.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 13, 2020||Ludhiana||No extension to civil surgeons, Punjab clears the air||PATIALA: Amid rumours that civil surgeons are being given extension in services, the Punjab government on Wednesday categorically stated that no such move is under consideration. There were rumours that the civil surgeons are being given extension till next March in view of the Covid crisis, despite a notification issued by the state government in March this year, which had ended all extensions given to the state government employees. This had caused heart burns amongst senior medical officers, who are scheduled to retire in the next six months to one year, as extension to the civil surgeons would affect their prospects of promotion. Earlier, sources in the health department had said a file recommending extension in services of the civil surgeons had been moved in the state health department, which had been put up for the consideration of the cabinet. In March, this year, the state government had decided to discontinue the optional extension policy of granting a twoyear extension to the state government employees to generate employment opportunities for the youth. When contacted, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Anurag Aggarwal categorically denied that there was any move to extend the services of the civil surgeons. “No such file has been moved at any level till now,” he said, adding that the state government has already cleared promotions of senior medical officers and the modalities to promote them to the posts of civil surgeon and deputy director, health department are being worked out. However, senior medical officers in the state health department contended that to date, no meeting of the departmental promotion committee (DPC) has been held.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-extension-to-civil-surgeons-punjab-clears-the-air/articleshow/77515216.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Gurgaon||In Haryana, Gurugram best in recoveries, Yamunanagar worst||JIND: Gurugram has the highest recovery rate for Covid-19 in Haryana — 91.9%, while Yamunanagar has the worst (51.2%), according to the latest weekly report compiled by the health department till August 9. When it comes to better-performing districts, Gurugram is followed by Jhajjar (91.1%) and Bhiwani (90.9%). On the other hand, districts with the lowest recovery rates in the state include Sirsa (55%), Panchkula (56.5%), Panipat (60%), Kurukshetra (60.1%), Charkhi Dadri (65.9%), and Fatehabad (66.1%). The state’s worst-hit district, Faridabad, has the fourth highest recovery rate — 90.4%. While Jhajjar and Bhiwani have got 899 and 856 cases, respectively, Gurugram and Fariabad have recorded 9,728 cases and 10,129 cases. Other districts with a good recovery rate include Nuh (90%), Sonipat (88.3%), Palwal (84%), Rewari (81.4%), Mahendragarh (81%), and Ambala (80.5%). The discharge rate is over 70% in hinterland districts Hisar, Jind and Kaithal, according to the data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/in-haryana-gurugram-best-in-recoveries-yamunanagar-worst/articleshow/77515218.cms||Vijender Kumar
August 13, 2020||Jaipur||‘Forgive, move on,’ Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot tells MLAs upset over rebels’ return||JAISALMER/JAIPUR:Facing resentment among his flock to the idea of taking back all 18 dissidents who had sided with Sachin Pilot, CM Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday advised the legislators to “forgive, forget and move on”. Party sources said a CLP meeting scheduled for Thursday could see “all Congress MLAs” from either camp in attendance. The Congress high command has deputed MP and AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal to be its representative at the CLP meeting. Read AlsoUnaware under what conditions Sachin Pilot returned: Ashok GehlotIn his first reaction after the truce with Sachin Pilot mediated by the Congress high command, CM Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said he would try to find out why and under what circumstances the Congress legislators left, what were their grievances against him and what were the promises made to them.While a rapprochement with the Pilot faction has been initiated by the high command, the Gehlot camp isn’t lowering its guard. MLAs loyal to the CM returned to Jaipur from Jaisalmer by a charter flight on Wednesday afternoon and were immediately herded back to the city hotel where they had been staying till July 31. ‘We are going to hotel, next part of our strategy to be decided by CM’“We are going to Hotel Fairmont. The next part of our strategy will be decided by chief minister Gehlot,” transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said. The MLAs, including some from Congress’s allies, are likely to remain ensconced at the hotel till the assembly convenes for a special session on Friday. Speaking to reporters before leaving Jaisalmer, Gehlot had said it was “natural” for his MLAs to be upset over the prospect of those who had revolted against the party being taken back, no questions asked. “I urged them to put this behind in the interest of the state, the country and the people. Democracy is under threat. This was a fight to save democracy, in which our MLAs gave their support.” Gehlot, who had written a three-page communication last week urging all MLAs in the 200-member assembly to “listen to the people’s voice”, said each of the dissidents should now get back to “working together to fulfil the commitments made to the people of the state”. All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary Avinash Pande, who was on the flight back to Jaipur from Jaisalmer, said Congress was looking beyond just completing a five-year term in Rajasthan. “We will win the next assembly elections in 2023". Watch Rajasthan Congress likely to hold CLP meeting on Thursday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/forgive-move-on-gehlot-tells-mlas-upset-over-rebels-return/articleshow/77515223.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Nagpur||Chanda district crosses 1000 mark, last 500 positive patients came in 14 days||Chandrapur: On Friday, Chandrapur crossed the milestone of 1000 cases with an addition of 39 new patients. While the total caseload now stands at 1027, there are only 409 active cases.  It took 105 days for the district to reach the mark of 1000 Covid patients. A total of 30 patients were discharged, taking the total of cured patients to 609. No death was reported and the toll still stands at 7 in the district. The first Covid case was first detected in Chandrapur on May 2. However, the initial growth of the infection was quite slow and the first 100 patients mark was reached after 61 days on July 2. The infection, however, gained momentum and next the 100 patients (200 mark) came in 12 days on July 14. The 300 and 400 mark came in six days each on July 20 and July 26 respectively. The next 100 patients came in just five days to reach the mark of 500 on July 31. The infection rate further gained impetus despite rigorous measures from the administration. It took just 14 days to add 500 more patients and the district crossed the threshold of 1000 mark on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-district-crosses-1000-mark-last-500-positive-patients-came-in-14-days/articleshow/77546436.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 13, 2020||India||India tests light combat helicopters in Ladakh||NEW DELHI: India has deployed two of its new indigenous light combat helicopters, in addition to the heavy-duty Apache attack and Chinook heavy-lift choppers acquired from the US, in Ladakh amid the ongoing military confrontation with China there. The deployment of the twin-engine LCHs, which are not fully weaponised yet, in the high-altitude region is a show of support for the indigenous choppers ahead of their proposed induction into the armed forces. The initial order for 15 LCHs is likely to be placed on defence PSU Hindustan Aeronautics before the end of this year, with the overall requirement of such 5.5-tonne class choppers by the IAF and Army pegged at 160 as of now. “The LCH is the lightest attack helicopter in the world, designed and developed by HAL to meet specific and unique requirements of Indian armed forces. It reflects the crucial role of HAL in ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’,” said HAL chairman R Madhavan on Wednesday. Such LCHs figure in the negative arms import list announced by the defence ministry on Sunday. The Indian LCHs, which are currently equipped with 70mm rockets and chin-mounted cannons, do not yet have anti-tank and air-to-air missiles. The LCH has the distinction of being the first attack helicopter to land at forward bases in the Siachen Glacier-Saltoro Ridge region, 4,700 meters above sea level with a 500-kg load. IAF vice chief Air Marshal Harjit Singh Arora also flew in the LCH, which is powered by two Shakti engines, during his visit to forward air bases in Ladakh last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-tests-light-combat-helicopters-in-ladakh/articleshow/77515224.cms||---
August 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Karnal gets plasma bank||By: Amit Kumar KARNAL: Deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav on Wednesday inaugurated Karnal’s first plasma bank for Covid-19 patients at Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College and Hospital, Karnal. Yadav said the plasma bank would help treat critically ill patients. He appealed to cured patients to come forward and donate plasma. The DC also honoured the man who was the first to donate plasma. KCGMC director Dr Jagdish Dureja said the bank had the capacity of storing 400 units of plasma. It can be stored for one year. He said plasma would be provided free of cost to all patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-karnal-gets-plasma-bank/articleshow/77515226.cms||---
