August 14, 2020||World||Joe Biden says UAE-Israel ties a 'historic step'||WILMINGTON: Joe Biden is calling the agreement between Israel and the United Arab Emirates “a historic step to bridge the deep divides of the Middle East.” The former vice president and presumptive Democratic presidential nominee issued a statement on Thursday, calling the agreement that the UAE publicly recognize Israel “a welcome, brave, and badly-needed act of statesmanship” and a “critical recognition that Israel is a vibrant, integral part of the Middle East that is here to stay.” Biden also said that West Bank annexation by Israel “would be a body blow to the cause of peace, which is why I oppose it now and would oppose it as president” if he's elected when the U.S. votes in November. He said that as president, he'd seek to foster a two-state solution in the Middle East. Biden also said the accord shows “the role American democracy can play” and “builds on efforts of multiple administrations,” including President Barack Obama's. But he did not mention the Trump White House by name. Biden said he'd spent time with UAE leaders as vice president and “I am gratified by today's announcement.” The pro-Israel U.S. lobby group, American Israel Public Affairs Committee, has issued a statement saying it greatly appreciates the efforts of President Donald Trump and his administration in facilitating the diplomatic move. The influential lobbying group said in a statement that the United Arab Emirates “joins Egypt and Jordan in paving the path to peace through recognition and engagement rather than by seeking to isolate and boycott the Jewish state.” AIPAC urged other Arab states and the Palestinians to follow the UAE's lead and “end its boycott of Israel and America and return to the negotiating table.” The statement came shortly after Trump said on Thursday that the UAE and Israel have agreed to establish full diplomatic ties as part of a deal to halt the annexation of occupied land sought by the Palestinians for their future state. This makes the UAE the first Gulf Arab state to do so and only the third Arab nation to have active diplomatic ties to Israel. Supporters of Israel's now shelved plans to annex parts of the West Bank are slamming Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's “missed opportunity.” Some moderate settlers have welcomed Thursday's announcement that Israel is establishing diplomatic ties with the United Arab Emirates in exchange for dropping its annexation plans. But harder-line settlers say it wasn't worth giving up on annexation for a peace deal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/joe-biden-says-uae-israel-ties-a-historic-step/articleshow/77533399.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 31.68 lakh cash recovered from bus passenger in Punjab's Hoshiarpur||HOSHIARPUR (PUNJAB): The police on Thursday recovered Rs 31.68 lakh unaccounted cash from a passenger travelling in a Jalandhar-bound bus, officials said. Senior superintendent of police, Hoshiarpur, Navjot Singh Mahal said during checking, the police recovered Rs 31,68,950 from a passenger identified as Sukhwinder. He failed to furnish any valid documents to support the case, he said, adding Sukhwinder claimed that he was working as a helper at a jewellery shop in Pathankot. The SSP said the police had called officials of the Income Tax Department for further investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-31-68-lakh-cash-recovered-from-bus-passenger-in-punjabs-hoshiarpur/articleshow/77533968.cms||---
August 14, 2020||World||Oli-Prachanda meet to resolve their differences||KATHMANDU: Nepal's Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli and the ruling party's executive chairman Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda' met again on Thursday to sort out their differences and resolve the intra-party rift, with the sources here expecting a breakthrough soon. The two leaders one-on-one meeting at the Prime Minister's residence at Baluwatar in Kathmandu. This was their first meeting after a week. The details of the meeting have not been disclosed. The sources close to the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) said the talk ended on a positive note. Sources said as Prime Minister Oli agreed to hand over the total command of the party to Prachanda during the meeting, an agreement could be closer. The leaders are expected to meet on Friday too. Oli during a television interview on Wednesday said that the ongoing intra-party tussle will be settled down within five days. Oli and Prachanda have held at least ten meetings in recent weeks to sort out the differences between them. But, as the Prime Minister did not accept the condition of a one-man-one-post, the talks failed. Oli has refused to give up his post as prime minister as well as a co-chairman of the NCP. A bitter internal feud has been brewing in the ruling NCP since the last few weeks after top party leaders, including Prachanda, demanded Oli's resignation, saying his recent anti-India remarks were "neither politically correct nor diplomatically appropriate." They are also against Oli's autocratic style of functioning. The differences grew further after Oli said that some of the ruling party leaders are aligning with the southern neighbour to remove him from power after his government issued a new political map incorporating three Indian territories of Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura. The two leaders are also engaged in tightening their grip within the party with the escalation of the intra-party feud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/oli-prachanda-meet-to-resolve-their-differences/articleshow/77534126.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||A virtual meet to discuss travelling in the 'new normal'||Travel will resume and when it does it will be big and the new normal will lead to travellers becoming a lot more responsible. The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the dynamics of many industries alike. And the travel industry is one which has taken a serious hit in the past couple of months. The travel scenario worldwide is definitely going to change, as people are still learning the idea of ‘new normal’. A Pune-based travel company TraWork recently hosted Global Travel Meet, a first-of-its-kind online travel conference which has travel experts from across the globe The purpose of this Global Travel Meet was to help get insights from industry leaders and experts to help companies and individuals get direction into the future of travel. The idea was to get direction as there are so many people working in the Travel industry like travel agents, travel writers, company owners and all suffering due to the pandemic. This event was created with an idea to be more prepared, learn from the experts, get some insights and most importantly come together  Travel company owners and professionals will play a key role in bringing back travel, adopting the new norms with complete understanding and helping the travellers understand the new travel safety guidelines. “As travel professionals we have a responsibility and we will play a key role in connecting the world again,” said Vandita Purohit, founder, TraWork.  She added, “Domestic tourism will be the new travel for sometime, whereas international travel will also resume eventually but it will be very important for us to ensure all guidelines. This is the time when we should do our research, market well and get ready as travel service providers.”  There are many travel companies across the globe who are suffering huge losses, and moreover they are not able to decide what they must do during such times - try and stay afloat or pivot? From an established travel company to aviation, from a tour guide to an AirBnB provider, the local businesses that depended on tourism, all are on a standstill, and without clarity. And not knowing what to do, the fear of the unknown is even more challenging. “Obviously things will change, and every one will have to adopt the new normal, travel might be a little stressful in the beginning but eventually it will get back to normal. And I believe in a new world we will become much more responsible as travellers. Lastly we all need to collaborate more than ever”, said Vandita Purohit.  This Global Travel Meet helped people get a lot of new ideas, the real world scenarios, and details of how some places are opening up and how some people are innovating. It helped to know more about the perspective of the situation and what things would look like post pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-virtual-meet-to-discuss-travelling-in-the-new-normal/articleshow/77534409.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Gurgaon||Flag hoisting, events go virtual as Gurgaon societies gear up for Independence Day celebrations in COVID times||Like everything else this year, COVID-19 regulations are ensuring that Independence Day celebrations are muted across the city. While the government guidelines allow for a small Independence Day celebration, provided residents wear masks and follow the guidelines of social distancing, most societies in Gurgaon are avoiding gatherings and instead opting for token flag-hoisting ceremonies with only a few people present. Most big societies are asking residents to observe the ceremony from their balconies and join in from their homes itself. Rakesh Sharma, Secretary, Beverly Park 2 RWA, says, “We have a courtyard which all the flats overlook. We will have a flag hoisting there with just two-three people present and all the residents have been requested to be present on their balconies to watch it. Then everyone will sing the national anthem from their balconies itself. We have also done away with the tea party we usually have after the flag hoisting every year.” In places where the societies are structured in a way that it isn’t possible for all residents to observe the ceremony from their balconies or terraces, RWAs are thinking of using Facebook or WhatsApp groups to broadcast the ceremony. Some are making use of technology to make sure that not just the flag hoisting but even the cultural programmes associated with I-Day find a place in the celebrations. Sumit Khosla, member of the governing body, Valley View Estate RWA, tells us, “We will be live-streaming the flag-hoisting on the society’s Facebook page so that all residents can be involved from their homes. In addition, we have been asking people – particularly children – to send videos of their dance or song performances or pictures of their artwork on patriotic themes. These will be displayed on the society’s FB page as well. This way, we get to do what we do every year, while maintaining social distance.” Some societies are also taking this opportunity to honour the essential service workers, who have helped them bide through the lockdown and quarantine. “Apart from the virtual flag-hoisting, we will also honour the guards and other staff in the society. All of them have been of great help to us throughout the last four months, staying away from their families and being out on the job even as everyone stayed indoors,” says Piyali Roy, member of the cultural committee in Escape Apartments, Nirvana Country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/flag-hoisting-events-go-virtual-as-gurgaon-societies-gear-up-for-independence-day-celebrations-in-covid-times/articleshow/77526248.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
August 14, 2020||World||Territorial dispute between India, Nepal can only be solved through dialogue, says Foreign Minister Gyawali||KATHMANDU: The territorial dispute between Nepal and India can only be solved through dialogue, Nepal's Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali said on Thursday. Gyawali made the remarks in an interview with state-owned Nepal Television. India and Nepal will hold review mechanism dialogue next week to take stock of the progress of the ongoing projects in the Himalayan nation, sources had said on Wednesday. Indian Ambassador to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra will be holding talks with Nepal's Foreign Secretary Shanker Das Bairagi, they added. The meeting holds significance as it will be the first since the deterioration of ties between the two nations following the issuance of a new map by the Nepal government incorporating parts of Indian territory. New Delhi has been assisting Kathmandu in various development projects under India-Nepal bilateral initiation to support and strengthen grassroots infrastructure development projects across the Himalayan nation. Projects under this initiative benefit the communities in the project area, particularly in the areas of education, health, connectivity, drinking water and sanitation, vocational training and medical campus. Since 2003, India has completed 422 High Impact Community Development Projects (HICDPs), covering 77 districts of Nepal with a financial grant of over NRs 798.7 crores, according to the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu. Nepal government had issued the new map of the country in May incorporating Indian territories of Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura. India had said that the updated map is "not based on historical facts and evidence" and termed the claims by Nepal as artificial enlargement. External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava also said that the move is violative of the current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/territorial-dispute-between-india-nepal-can-only-be-solved-through-dialogue-says-foreign-minister-gyawali/articleshow/77534539.cms||---
August 14, 2020||India||Territorial dispute between India, Nepal can only be solved through dialogue, says Foreign Minister Gyawali||KATHMANDU: The territorial dispute between Nepal and India can only be solved through dialogue, Nepal's Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali said on Thursday. Gyawali made the remarks in an interview with state-owned Nepal Television. India and Nepal will hold review mechanism dialogue next week to take stock of the progress of the ongoing projects in the Himalayan nation, sources had said on Wednesday. Indian Ambassador to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra will be holding talks with Nepal's Foreign Secretary Shanker Das Bairagi, they added. The meeting holds significance as it will be the first since the deterioration of ties between the two nations following the issuance of a new map by the Nepal government incorporating parts of Indian territory. New Delhi has been assisting Kathmandu in various development projects under India-Nepal bilateral initiation to support and strengthen grassroots infrastructure development projects across the Himalayan nation. Projects under this initiative benefit the communities in the project area, particularly in the areas of education, health, connectivity, drinking water and sanitation, vocational training and medical campus. Since 2003, India has completed 422 High Impact Community Development Projects (HICDPs), covering 77 districts of Nepal with a financial grant of over NRs 798.7 crores, according to the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu. Nepal government had issued the new map of the country in May incorporating Indian territories of Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura. India had said that the updated map is "not based on historical facts and evidence" and termed the claims by Nepal as artificial enlargement. External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava also said that the move is violative of the current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/territorial-dispute-between-india-nepal-can-only-be-solved-through-dialogue-says-foreign-minister-gyawali/articleshow/77534535.cms||---
August 14, 2020||India||Faceless assessment scheme now extended to all taxpayers||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday expanded the faceless assessment scheme to all taxpayers, unveiled a single-page Taxpayers’ Charter and promised a faceless appeal mechanism from next month. He urged citizens to be more tax-compliant, pointing to the fact there are just 1.5 crore taxpayers in a country with a population of 130 crore. “So far, the tax department in our city handled all issues. Scrutiny, notice, survey or confiscation, the income tax officer in the same city plays the principal role. In a way, this will end. Now, scrutiny cases will be allotted randomly in any part of the country… Under this system, a taxpayer will not have an opportunity to know people in the tax department or exert influence,” Modi said. Minutes after his speech, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) expanded the scope of the faceless assessment, launched last year, and asked its officers to pass all assessment orders via the National e-Assessment Centre. “Whilst this initiative should work very well for relatively smaller businesses, larger businesses whose tax returns tend to be more complex may find it challenging to comply with large amount of data requirements during a faceless assessment and the inability to discuss and defend their positions in person with an appointed tax officer. Here, one idea which should be considered is mediation, which even the CJI has expressed on more than one occasion,” said Sudhir Kapadia, the national tax leader at consulting firm EY India. From now on, the unit that undertakes assessment of tax returns has also been barred from conducting surveys, a task that will now be handled by the investigation and TDS wings of the department. Officers said this will require strengthening of the two wings by providing more manpower. While the PM suggested that the new “platform for honest taxpayers” was a structural reform initiative, six months after the plan for a charter was unveiled, the income tax department is yet to detail the service standards or the timelines for resolution of issues. “The attempt is to make the tax system, seamless, painless and faceless. The tax administration should be seamless so that it solves the problem instead of complicating matters. Technology and simple rules will make the system painless. And, faceless in a way that the taxpayer and the tax officer should not be bothered,” Modi said in a televised speech. He said the idea is to repose greater trust in the taxpayer, pointing to the number of cases being taken up for scrutiny. Watch TOI daily: Faceless assessment scheme now extended to all taxpayers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/faceless-assessment-scheme-now-extended-to-all-taxpayers/articleshow/77535177.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Business||Faceless assessment scheme now extended to all taxpayers||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday expanded the faceless assessment scheme to all taxpayers, unveiled a single-page Taxpayers’ Charter and promised a faceless appeal mechanism from next month. He urged citizens to be more tax-compliant, pointing to the fact there are just 1.5 crore taxpayers in a country with a population of 130 crore. “So far, the tax department in our city handled all issues. Scrutiny, notice, survey or confiscation, the income tax officer in the same city plays the principal role. In a way, this will end. Now, scrutiny cases will be allotted randomly in any part of the country… Under this system, a taxpayer will not have an opportunity to know people in the tax department or exert influence,” Modi said. Minutes after his speech, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) expanded the scope of the faceless assessment, launched last year, and asked its officers to pass all assessment orders via the National e-Assessment Centre. “Whilst this initiative should work very well for relatively smaller businesses, larger businesses whose tax returns tend to be more complex may find it challenging to comply with large amount of data requirements during a faceless assessment and the inability to discuss and defend their positions in person with an appointed tax officer. Here, one idea which should be considered is mediation, which even the CJI has expressed on more than one occasion,” said Sudhir Kapadia, the national tax leader at consulting firm EY India. From now on, the unit that undertakes assessment of tax returns has also been barred from conducting surveys, a task that will now be handled by the investigation and TDS wings of the department. Officers said this will require strengthening of the two wings by providing more manpower. While the PM suggested that the new “platform for honest taxpayers” was a structural reform initiative, six months after the plan for a charter was unveiled, the income tax department is yet to detail the service standards or the timelines for resolution of issues. “The attempt is to make the tax system, seamless, painless and faceless. The tax administration should be seamless so that it solves the problem instead of complicating matters. Technology and simple rules will make the system painless. And, faceless in a way that the taxpayer and the tax officer should not be bothered,” Modi said in a televised speech. He said the idea is to repose greater trust in the taxpayer, pointing to the number of cases being taken up for scrutiny. Watch TOI daily: Faceless assessment scheme now extended to all taxpayers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/faceless-assessment-scheme-now-extended-to-all-taxpayers/articleshow/77534886.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||Pune's international students talk about their favourite thing about India||We asked how internationalstudents, studying in Pune, view our IndependenceDay celebrations. What desithings appeal to them and how they feel free in this country. “India has taught me to value independence and freedom”Pune is home to several students from countries where freedom and independence are held hostage by extreme forces and it is difficult for them to express themselves the way they do it in India. Students from counties like Afghanistan who are studying here, value the diversity and freedom everyone enjoys here. “India has taught me to value independence and freedom,” says 20-year old Hussein Fasih, a student of BBA at SPPU and adds, “When I came to India, I was pleasantly surprised to see how everyone, irrespective of their gender, religion and background study together and enjoys freedom to express themselves. It was my first tryst with democracy and freedom. I hold these values really close to my heart. Back home, due to so much political unrest, we don’t get to see these values, I wish, like all Indians, our Afghan brothers and sisters would get the same freedom to express themselves.” While Ahmad Saleh, a student of computer science at Symbiosis from Chad, cherishes how India values its people. “The most endearing part of living in India is how the country value everyone. It is a beautiful quality my country Chad can learn from India. This is something I as a student is fascinated with,” says Ahmad. “Living in India means enjoying a lineup of colourful festivals”With Ganeshotsav, a lineup of festivals including Dussehra, Diwali, Christmas awaits everyone and internationalstudents are excited to witness these desi festivities to soak themselves in the cheer. Melissa Jones, a student of MBA from New Zealand at SPPU International Centre, says, “This will be my first time celebrating Ganeshotsav in Pune. I have seen so many videos online and the festival looks so colourful and exciting. I have started painting Ganesha idols with my friends and the entire experience has been amazing. I have never gotten such a amazing opportunity back home and I can’t wait to see some of the oldest Ganesha pandals across Pune and enjoy the rest of the festivals.” While Ansooyabye Babajee, a BA economics student at Fergusson University from Mauritius says, coming to India has helped her rediscover her roots through festivals. “We celebrate Ganeshotsav and Gudi Padwa in Mauritius too, but the celebrations are not as grand and nuanced as here in India. I rediscovered my roots all over again through these festivals. How grand they are and how it brings everyone together. Now I call home and tell my mother about these rituals and festivals,” says Ansooyabye. Never to late to dress up like a Bollywood divaStaying in India means an excuse to flaunt your inner Bollywood diva. And that’s what these internationalstudents love to do. “Wearing saree, bindi, bangles and mehendi is my favouritethings to sport when I am attending any event in India. My love for Bollywood is just magnet and iron and I love all things filmy, including dressing up on numerous occasions and flaunt my inner Bollywood diva. I think, living in India brings with it so many opportunities to express ourselves,” says DiDi Snyder, from Melbourne, Australia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/punes-international-students-talk-about-their-favourite-thing-about-india/articleshow/77535279.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Business||Retail inflation nearly 7% on food prices rise, RBI may hold rates||NEW DLEHI: Retail inflation accelerated higher than expectations in July, inching closer to the 7% mark on the back of hardening food prices, dashing hopes of any interest rate cuts for now and justifying the central bank’s move to pause its rate-cutting cycle in the monetary policy review unveiled last week. Data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Thursday showed inflation, as measured by the consumer price index (CPI), rose an annual 6.9% in July, higher than the upwardly revised 6.2% in June. Inflation in rural areas was at 7%, while in urban areas, it was at 6.8%. Food inflation soared to an annual 9.6% in July from 8.7% in the previous month as supply disruptions continued to take toll. Meat and fish prices rose 18.8%, while pulses and products soared 15.9%. Oils and fats surged 12.4%, while vegetables shot up 11.3%, and spices were dearer by 13.3% during the month. Prices of personal care products and services rose 13.6%, which economists attributed to the rising sanitisation costs due to the pandemic. The NSO said the price data are usually collected from selected 1,114 urban markets and 1,181 villages through personal visits by its field staff on a weekly roster. As the various pandemic-related restrictions were gradually lifted and non-essential activities started resuming operations, availability of price data has also improved. NSO collected prices from 1,054 (95%) urban markets and 1,089 (92%) villages during July. “Headline CPI remained above the RBI’s upper limit of 6% during seven out of the last eight months. Clearly, supply disruption continues to play havoc,” said Kunal Kundu, India economist at investment bank Societe Generale. “Inching up core inflation is a concern. That said, we think the high inflation reading will merely push back the timeline for further rate cuts, though rate cuts are expected to take place by the fourth quarter of 2020 and/or first quarter of 2021. We continue to expect an additional 50-basis-point rate cut by the RBI during FY21,” said Kundu. “Food inflation will, however, move downwards once the kharif crop comes in post September,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/retail-inflation-nearly-7-on-food-prices-rise-rbi-may-hold-rates/articleshow/77535416.cms||---
August 14, 2020||World||Chinese national among 4 held for Rs 1,100cr online gambling racket||HYDERABAD: A Chinese national and three of his Indian associates have been arrested in a crackdown on an illegal online gambling racket being run by a China-based company, the police said on Thursday. The Chinese national and his associates were arrested by the Hyderabad police from Delhi on Wednesday and brought to Hyderabad on Thursday. The development comes a day after Chinese individuals and companies were raided by income tax sleuths in Delhi, Gurugram and Noida on suspicion of laundering money. The online gambling was allegedly organised by different companies under the umbrella of China-based “Beijing T Power Company”, the police claimed, adding that transactions worth Rs 1,100 crore had been unearthed. Most of the transactions were carried out during the lockdown period. Hyderabad police arrested Yah Hao, the online firm’s head of operations for Southeast Asia, and three Indian directors of the firm — Dheeraj Sarkar, Ankit Kapoor and Neeraj Tuli — after two men from Hyderabad lost Rs 1.64 lakh and Rs 97,000 while gambling online. The four have been booked under IPC Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B(conspiracy) and under the Telangana Gaming Act. Gambling is banned in Telangana and some other states. The two youth placed bets while playing online gambling games organised by the Chinese firms. The organisers have also been accused of cheating the complainants by manipulating results. The firms carried out transactions through two bank accounts. Though most of the money has already been transferred to different accounts, including those abroad, police were able to freeze Rs 30 crore (a day’s earnings) parked in two accounts. They claimed to have unearthed remittances overseas of Rs 110 crore so far. “The servers of the gaming websites are based in China. Data-hosting services are cloud-based in the US but operated from China. The entire technical operation is run by the China-based directors/partners of these companies. The payments were being routed through India-based payment service providers/gateways,” Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said at a press conference on Thursday. Under Beijing T Power Company, several firms — Growing Infortech Pvt Ltd, Sily Consulting Services Pvt Ltd, Pan Yun Technology Services, Linkyun Technology Pvt Ltd, Dokypay Technology Pvt Ltd, SpotPay Technology India Pvt Ltd, Daisylink Financial Pvt Ltd, and Huahuo Financial Pvt Ltd — were organising betting through online games. “Online gaming was being organised by luring prospective gamers through Telegram groups. Entry is only through reference and members who introduce a certain number of prospective players are paid a commission. On these groups, admins usually disclose the websites on which the registered members can play and place bets. However, these websites were being changed on a daily basis,” the Hyderabad police chief added. The four are to be produced in a local court on Friday. Telangana Gaming Act says: “Gaming means playing a game for winnings or prizes in money or otherwise and includes playing a game of mutka or satta or online gaming for money or any other stakes and lucky board and wagering or betting, except where such wagering or betting takes place upon a horse race.” Punishment: For offence, 3-month to 1-year jail term besides fine of Rs 3,000 Second offence: Minimum 6-month jail term and a penalty of no less than Rs 5,000 Third offence: Minimum 1-year jail term and a penalty of no less than Rs 10,000 Read this story in BengaliWatch Chinese national among 4 held for Rs 1,100cr online gambling racket||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/chinese-national-among-4-held-for-rs-1100cr-online-gambling-racket/articleshow/77535604.cms||---
August 14, 2020||India||Chinese national among 4 held for Rs 1,100cr online gambling racket||HYDERABAD: A Chinese national and three of his Indian associates have been arrested in a crackdown on an illegal online gambling racket being run by a China-based company, the police said on Thursday. The Chinese national and his associates were arrested by the Hyderabad police from Delhi on Wednesday and brought to Hyderabad on Thursday. The development comes a day after Chinese individuals and companies were raided by income tax sleuths in Delhi, Gurugram and Noida on suspicion of laundering money. The online gambling was allegedly organised by different companies under the umbrella of China-based “Beijing T Power Company”, the police claimed, adding that transactions worth Rs 1,100 crore had been unearthed. Most of the transactions were carried out during the lockdown period. Hyderabad police arrested Yah Hao, the online firm’s head of operations for Southeast Asia, and three Indian directors of the firm — Dheeraj Sarkar, Ankit Kapoor and Neeraj Tuli — after two men from Hyderabad lost Rs 1.64 lakh and Rs 97,000 while gambling online. The four have been booked under IPC Sections 420 (cheating) and 120-B(conspiracy) and under the Telangana Gaming Act. Gambling is banned in Telangana and some other states. The two youth placed bets while playing online gambling games organised by the Chinese firms. The organisers have also been accused of cheating the complainants by manipulating results. The firms carried out transactions through two bank accounts. Though most of the money has already been transferred to different accounts, including those abroad, police were able to freeze Rs 30 crore (a day’s earnings) parked in two accounts. They claimed to have unearthed remittances overseas of Rs 110 crore so far. “The servers of the gaming websites are based in China. Data-hosting services are cloud-based in the US but operated from China. The entire technical operation is run by the China-based directors/partners of these companies. The payments were being routed through India-based payment service providers/gateways,” Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said at a press conference on Thursday. Under Beijing T Power Company, several firms — Growing Infortech Pvt Ltd, Sily Consulting Services Pvt Ltd, Pan Yun Technology Services, Linkyun Technology Pvt Ltd, Dokypay Technology Pvt Ltd, SpotPay Technology India Pvt Ltd, Daisylink Financial Pvt Ltd, and Huahuo Financial Pvt Ltd — were organising betting through online games. “Online gaming was being organised by luring prospective gamers through Telegram groups. Entry is only through reference and members who introduce a certain number of prospective players are paid a commission. On these groups, admins usually disclose the websites on which the registered members can play and place bets. However, these websites were being changed on a daily basis,” the Hyderabad police chief added. The four are to be produced in a local court on Friday. Telangana Gaming Act says: “Gaming means playing a game for winnings or prizes in money or otherwise and includes playing a game of mutka or satta or online gaming for money or any other stakes and lucky board and wagering or betting, except where such wagering or betting takes place upon a horse race.” Punishment: For offence, 3-month to 1-year jail term besides fine of Rs 3,000 Second offence: Minimum 6-month jail term and a penalty of no less than Rs 5,000 Third offence: Minimum 1-year jail term and a penalty of no less than Rs 10,000 Read this story in BengaliWatch Chinese national among 4 held for Rs 1,100cr online gambling racket||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chinese-national-among-4-held-for-rs-1100cr-online-gambling-racket/articleshow/77535499.cms||---
August 14, 2020||World||Israel, UAE to establish diplomatic ties||DUBAI/JERUSALEM/WASHINGTON: Israel and the United Arab Emirates announced an agreement on Thursday that will lead to a full normalisation of diplomatic relations between the two states, a move that reshapes the order of West Asia politics from the Palestinian issue to Iran. Under the accord, which US President Trump helped broker, Israel has agreed to suspend annexing areas of the occupied West Bank as it had been planning to do, White House officials said. It also firms up opposition to regional power Iran, which the UAE, Israel and the US view as the main threat in the region. Israel had signed peace agreements with Egypt in 1979 and Jordan in 1994. But the UAE, along with most other Arab nations, did not recognise Israel and had no formal diplomatic or economic relations with it until now. The agreement was the product of lengthy discussions between Israel, the UAE and the US that accelerated recently, White House officials said. A joint statement issued by the three nations said Trump, Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu and Abu Dhabi’s Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed Bin Zayed had “agreed to the full normalisation of relations between Israel and the United Arab Emirates”. “This historic diplomatic breakthrough will advance peace in the Middle East region and is a testament to the bold diplomacy and vision of the three leaders and the courage of the United Arab Emirates and Israel to chart a new path that will unlock the great potential in the region,” the statement said. In a separate statement, the crown prince stressed that the agreement would stop further Israeli annexation of Palestinian territories, which Israel has said had been awaiting a green light from Washington. The agreement, to be known as the Abraham Accords, also gives Trump a foreign policy accomplishment as he seeks re-election on November 3. “HUGE breakthrough today! Historic Peace Agreement between our two GREAT friends, Israel and the United Arab Emirates,” Trump wrote on Twitter. The UAE said it would remain a strong supporter of the Palestinian people and that the normalisation agreement maintained the viability of a two-state solution to the Israel-Palestinian conflict. Netanyahu said the agreement represented a “historic day” for his country. But a senior Israeli official said applying Israeli sovereignty to areas of the West Bank — territory Palestinians seek for a state along with Gaza and East Jerusalem — was still on the agenda. The official said, “The Trump administration asked us to temporarily suspend the (sovereignty) announcement so that the historic peace agreement with the UAE can be implemented.” Trump’s special envoy Brian Hook said the deal is a “nightmare” for Iran. Delegations from Israel and the UAE will meet in the coming weeks to sign agreements regarding investment, tourism, direct flights, security, telecommunications and other issues, the statement said. The two countries are expected soon to exchange ambassadors and embassies. Watch Israel, UAE to establish diplomatic ties||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/israel-uae-to-establish-diplomatic-ties/articleshow/77535619.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||#RememberingSushant:Sushant was a quiet guy who was committed to his work : Sandeep Rudra||I was the line producer of M.S. Dhoni: The Untold Story for Kolkata and Kharagpur. The stars of the film were managed by the Mumbai team while we were in charge of the logistics of the Kolkata and Kharagpur schedules of the shoot. In Kolkata, we shot at the Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose International Airport and then went on to shoot a major portion at Kharagpur. I remember Sushant Singh Rajput as a quiet guy who was committed to his work. I saw him practising cricket in the scorching sun at the Kharagpur auditorium for hours on end. He didn’t talk much with anyone on the sets, perhaps because the shooting schedule was very hectic and he didn’t have the time to engage with anyone. Even though he came across as an introvert, I remember him talking at length with Satya Prakash (MS Dhoni’s friend, who worked with him at Kharagpur Railways) during the shoot. Sushant used to stay at the Kharagpur IIT guest house during the course of the schedule. He never complained of anything, never threw starry tantrums while staying there. His cook from Mumbai accompanied him, so all his requirements were taken care of by that boy. I remember Sushant as a very organised person, so much so that his team would be very particular about getting things in order for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rememberingsushantsushant-was-a-quiet-guy-who-was-committed-to-his-work-sandeep-rudra/articleshow/77528063.cms||Ruman Ganguly
August 14, 2020||India||Bengaluru violence: 19 ‘leaders’ named in two FIRs; ban PFI, SDPI says Karnataka||BENGALURU: Police have registered two separate FIRs against 19 men — most of them are members of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) — for their “direct involvement” in Tuesday night’s violence in east Bengaluru. All the 19 accused belonging to a particular minority community have been identified in the FIRs. Taking serious note of the violence, the BJP government in Karnataka renewed its demand for a ban on the Popular Front of India (PFI) and its political arm, Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). It’ll be the fourth ban recommendation to the Centre. An investigating officer told TOI, “These [19] people could have easily prevented the violence, but chose to abet the mob. They made repeated phone calls and forwarded messages, saying police were abusing their religion.” He added, “Some of them were directly involved in the violence, while others instigated the mobs.” Around 7pm on Tuesday, two groups of people protesting a Facebook post made by the nephew of Congress MLA Akanda Srinivas Murthy, offending the religious sentiments of a particular community, rushed to the local legislator’s house and KG Halli police station seeking legal action. After damaging a few vehicles and setting the MLA’s house on fire, the mobs closed in on KG Halli and the neighbouring DJ Halli police stations. The 19 accused are among the 147 people arrested since Wednesday. One FIR has been registered at KG Halli police station; it named 13 men. The other, naming six people, was registered at DJ Halli police station. The DJ Halli police station FIR also says the six men were joined by 200 others who have not been identified. “The 19 accused were the leaders,” an investigating officer said. “They provoked local residents into attacking police and setting the vehicles on fire. They were in the vanguard of the mob that blocked a fire tender and attacked its personnel. The accused also played a vital role in diverting mobs towards KG Halli and DJ Halli police stations.” Among the arrested are daily wage workers, men working in eateries, mutton stalls, ice-cream parlours, garment shops and eateries. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai, after a meeting with senior police officials, told TOI, “Our government is committed to banning these fringe outfits on charges of disturbing communal harmony and creating social disturbance.” “We have started collecting evidence against SDPI and PFI. The preliminary investigation clearly indicates their involvement. We’ll see to it they are banned soon,” he added The government tried to ban the outfits earlier following the attack on former minister and Narasimharaja MLA Tanveer Sait in Mysuru last November, in the wake of the Mangaluru riots in December, and once again after reports of hitmen being hired to eliminate Tejasvi Surya, BJP Lok Sabha member from Bangaluru South. The issue was taken to the cabinet in January this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bengaluru-violence-19-leaders-named-in-two-firs-ban-pfi-sdpi-says-karnataka/articleshow/77535701.cms||---
August 14, 2020||India||Centre: No Mumbai police FIR in Sushant Singh Rajput case, statements invalid||NEW DELHI: The Union government told the Supreme Court on Thursday that there was no legal sanctity in the recording of statements of 56 people by Mumbai police in the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput as the state police had not registered an FIR that empowers police to legally investigate a crime. “Maharashtra police has said in its affidavit that it has collected statements of 56 people. In view of the position that no FIR has been registered and the police officer is merely discharging functions under Section 174 of the Criminal Procedure Code, such statements have no validity or legal sanctity and are non-est,” the Centre said in its written submissions two days after the SC reserved its verdict. The Bihar government, Rhea Chakraborty and the Maharashtra government have also filed their written submissions. Maharashtra referred to Rajput’s death as “an actor passed away on June 14”. It said Maharashtra police were still investigating the cause of the death and if it came to a conclusion that a cognisable offence was committed, then an FIR would be registered. The Centre’s submissions, drafted by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, took a leaf out of the submissions of the Bihar government and said, “It is only after registration of FIR that the police get jurisdiction to record statements of witnesses and not otherwise. Even after registration of an FIR, the police officer is mandated to intimate the magistrate about the same and thereafter everything happens under judicial supervision. This has admittedly not taken place.” It said since Mumbai police had not registered the mandatory FIR and the CBI had taken up the Patna FIR lodged by Rajput’s father for probe, it would be in the fitness of things that the CBI continued its probe. Bihar had earlier said that since the Patna FIR had been taken up for probe by the CBI, Chakraborty’s plea for transfer of the Patna FIR to Mumbai had become infructuous. Referring to Chakraborty’s attack on an inquiry by the ED, the Centre requested the SC “not to make any observations which might affect the investigation being conducted... by the ED which is not the subject matter of the present proceedings”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-no-mum-police-fir-in-rajput-case-statements-invalid/articleshow/77535818.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 14, 2020||Business||In a first, Amazon beats Flipkart in smartphone sales||BENGALURU: For the first time, Amazon India has emerged as the largest online smartphone channel with a 47% market share, leaving behind rival Flipkart. The Walmart-owned e-tailer saw its market share falling to 42%, according to data from Counterpoint for the second quarter (April-June) of 2020. Smartphones, typically, have been a top sales driver for Flipkart and it had a leading share in the online channel for multiple quarters, but Amazon India has now surpassed it. For the first quarter of 2020, Flipkart had a smartphone market share of 50%, which fell by over 19% for the quarter ending June. For Amazon India, in the first quarter, it had a share of 38% — it added almost 24% in Q2. Xiaomi’s own platform had a 10% share for the quarter. Overall, online sales had a 43% share of total sales during the quarter. “We see online channels remaining strong this year and taking a 45% share in the Indian smartphone market in 2020,” analysts at Counterpoint added. Emails sent to Flipkart and Amazon India did not elicit any response. The development comes at a time when sales of several goods, including smartphones, are increasing owing to the pandemic, forcing shoppers to stay home. Sales of smartphones and other electronics are rising due to increased work-from-home mandates for consumers. “Xiaomi, Samsung, and OnePlus drove the shipments for Amazon. Among the top 10 smartphone models on Amazon, nine were from Xiaomi and Samsung. The Rs 15,000-20,000 price band contributed the most and reached its highest ever share on Amazon. Samsung Galaxy models were the top models in this price band on Amazon,” according to Counterpoint analysis of the latest data. Amazon India, typically, has had leadership in the top premium segment with brands like OnePlus. Flipkart had over 50% share in the segment under Rs 10,000. Watch In a first, Amazon beats Flipkart in smartphone sales||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-a-1st-amazon-beats-flipkart-in-smartphone-sales/articleshow/77534408.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 14, 2020||Business||J&J ties up with Hyderabad company, plans affordable vaccine||MUMBAI: US drug major Johnson & Johnson (J&J) will launch an “affordable Covid-19 vaccine on a not-for-profit (NFP) basis” for emergency pandemic use. Additionally, countries that provide critical support for its vaccine project, including India, would receive priority in allocation of doses. The drug major announced a tie-up with Hyderabad-based Biological E on Thursday, highlighting India’s importance in the global vaccine landscape, coming days after agreements by UK-based AstraZeneca and US biotech firm Novavax with Serum Institute for manufacturing vaccines. The tie-up assumes significance in light of the ‘vaccine nationalism’ being witnessed globally, with rich nations cornering most of the vaccine deals, leaving lower- and middle-income countries at risk of being left behind. Elaborating on its tie-up with Biological E, J&J chief scientific officer Paul Stoffels told TOI, “The agreement expands our capabilities to deliver on our goal to make our vaccine available to citizens around the world, provided it is proven to be safe and effective.” After its collaboration with US-based Emergent BioSolutions, and Italy-based Catalent Biologics to support manufacturing of its lead investigational SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidate, Ad26.COV2.S, this is the first such agreement in Asia-Pacific. “Countries and organisations that provide critical support for our vaccine research and development, manufacturing, distribution, and participation in clinical trials should receive priority in consideration of the allocation of the vaccine, given their enablement of global access,” he added. If all regulatory processes are in place and results positive, the company hopes to roll out over a billion doses in 2021. J&J’s SARS-CoV-2 vaccine programme leverages AdVac technology, the platform used for the Ebola vaccine, and to construct its HIV and Zika vaccine candidates. The company has completed pre-clinical testing and is now conducting Phase 1/2a clinical trials. “Our SARS-CoV-2 vaccine clinical development programme includes investigation of both a single dose (to induce rapid onset of protection in the current outbreak setting) and two-dose regimen (to induce long-term protection in people at high-, ongoing-risk of Covid-19, like healthcare workers). The Phase 1/2a study is evaluating the safety, reactogenicity (expected reactions to vaccination, such as swelling or soreness), and immunogenicity (ability to induce an immune response) of one- and two-dose regimens of the vaccine in over 1,000 healthy adults aged 18 to 55 years, as well as adults aged 65 years and older. Interim results from the Phase 1/2a clinical trial are anticipated in September. If these trials produce positive results, we anticipate a Phase 3 clinical trial to start as early as September.” The company is evaluating opportunities to collaborate across a broad array of stakeholders to facilitate research and development, expedite manufacturing scale-up, distribution of, and timely access to safe and effective vaccines. “Given the unprecedented nature of the pandemic, and as part of our commitment to enable supply of over a billion doses of a SARS-CoV-2 vaccine globally, Johnson & Johnson is expanding its global manufacturing capacity,” he added. “We are confident that Biological E’s strong vaccine manufacturing know-how, rich experience and deep technical expertise will assist in the rapid production of a vaccine, leveraging Janssen’s proven AdVac technology beginning in 2021,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jj-ties-up-with-hyderabad-co-plans-affordable-vaccine/articleshow/77534345.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
August 14, 2020||Business||RBI to switch gilts worth Rs 28,000 crore on Monday||MUMBAI: The RBI on Thursday announced switch of government securities (G-secs) worth Rs 28,000 crore maturing between April 2021 and August 2022 with those maturing between May 2030 and September 2060. Under the switch programme, the government-RBI combine buys G-secs of relatively shorter maturities and, instead of paying the sellers money, issues government bonds of equal value. According to the RBI’s plans, there would be one switch on the third Monday of every month. For August, the switch is scheduled for August 17, the central bank said. The government has offered to switch gilts of six different tenures in the current offer. The announcement for switch came on the same day the government announced that the retail inflation for July had shot up to 6.93% mainly due to rising food prices. Bond dealers said the benchmark yield on 10-year bonds could rise from 5.9% on Thursday to about 6% on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-to-switch-gilts-worth-rs-28k-cr-on-monday/articleshow/77534362.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Patna||Is it safe to be in air-conditioned confined spaces?||PATNA: While cases of Covid-19 surge to new heights every day, medical experts and officials in the city contemplate over the usage of air-conditioning (AC) systems in confined travel spaces such as aircraft and train coaches in spreading the infection. According to a recent study conducted by Arnold Barnett, a professor of management science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), the odds of catching covid-19 on a flight are extremely slim. The study that factored in numerous variables such as the odds of sitting next to an infectious person, and the way the air is constantly renewed in airplane cabins, stated that: “On a full 2-hour flight, about 1 in 4,300 passengers will catch Covid-19.” The odds get even lower if airlines leave the middle seat empty. Elaborating on the aforementioned study, an aviation professional who did not wish to be named, said, “At high cruise altitude, the air inside the cabin is very dry and cold. At that height, the level of oxygen and humidity in the air is controlled by sophisticated aircraft systems before injecting it back into the cabin.” “Modern aircraft are equipped with high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters that flush out 99.95% to 99.97% of particles outside the cabin, including (relatively big) covid-19 aerosols,” he further added. Since the resumption of domestic flights on May 25, there has been an increase in health and safety concerns among stranded people availing aviation services. The concerns intensified even more after the World Health Organization (WHO) formally acknowledged the possibility that the novel coronavirus can remain in the air in crowded indoor spaces, where short-range aerosol transmission cannot be ruled out. Rahul, a resident of Patel Nagar, who flew from Bangalore to Patna in June, told this newspaper, “Even though I wore a mask, face shield and PPE suit during the course of the flight, the fear of catching the virus was acute. I isolated myself for 14 days upon arrival. However, I would totally avoid flights till the situation improves.” Not just airways, commuters are equally wary of travelling in closed AC compartments of railways, where the risk of surface transmission of virus also prevails. Rajesh Kumar, CPRO of Eastern Railway, told this newspaper, “Precautionary steps are being taken by the Indian railways to boast passenger confidence and mitigate the risk of infection spread by rail travel,” “Given the risk of infection spread in confined spaces, we are not providing linen, pillow or quilts in the AC coaches. The curtains have also been removed to minimize surface transmission of the virus. Suspected covid-19 passengers are not allowed to travel and full refund is given to them,” added Kumar. Keeping in view the risks associated with rail travel, the Indian Railways’ production unit, Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, has developed a special coach with an aim to keep the infectious disease at bay in a post-Covid-19 world. Meanwhile, experts are of the opinion that less crowded public places pose less threat to the spread of infection as compared to crowded indoor spaces using ACs. However, the risk of airborne transmission of covid-19 can be minimised in confined spaces if there is a provision for cross ventilation. “An infected person releases viral particles (while singing, talking or exhaling) in the form of dry and extremely tiny aerosols, which remain suspended in the air for hours and infect others sitting in the same environment, breathing the same air,” said Dr Arun Shah, President of Indian Academy of Paediatrics Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/is-it-safe-to-be-in-air-conditioned-confined-spaces/articleshow/77531729.cms||Arunima Lal
August 14, 2020||Business||Startups combine forces to tide over tough times||Chennai: Hit by the pandemic and its financial impact, startups across sectors are looking to battle the downturn by combining forces leading to a spike in strategic mergers and acquisitions in the ecosystem. 11 mergers & acquisitions (M&A) deals among VC-backed startups valuing $311 million have already been recorded in 2020 (as of August 7) compared to 15 deals totaling $116 million in 2019, data from Venture Intelligence shows. A review of the deals shows that well-funded players, especially in edtech and health tech, have been particularly active to ramp up capabilities through acqui-hires and strategic mergers.Arun Natarajan, founder, Venture Intelligence says startups, across sectors, are looking to leverage synergies to tide over difficult times as fresh capital raises have almost come to a halt. “This is just the beginning of the trend, and we will see more M&As in the coming months, and entities like Jio will play a key role in this,” he said. In the booming edtech space, Byju’s acquisition of White Hat Jr in an all-cash deal of $300 million led the pack. Unacademy has also made a strategic investment of $5 million in Mastree, and acquired medical entrance exam prep portal PrepLadder for around $50 million. Doctor consultation app DocsApp’s merger with Bengaluru-based MediBuddy to expand its reach and enter new service categories was a key M&A in health tech. Two of the top players in the used cars marketplace Spinny and Truebil also joined hands earlier this month. In the ailing travel sector, SpiceJet acqui-hired Bengaluru-based travel tech startup Travenues. Investors and industry trackers TOI spoke to say M&A action among startups has been hectic in the last few months.“While M&A deals are typically considered a sign of distress during financial crisis situations and the trend generally settles within six to nine months, the crisis brought on by Covid-19 is expected to be deeper,” Arpit Agarwal, part of the investment team at Blume Ventures, said. Passion Connect -a platform incubated by Blume to help portfolio companies with HR services along with acqui-hiring support- has seen increased interest among both supply and demand side companies who are looking to strike deals, he added. In badly hit sectors like fintech, travel, and others, M&A action is driven by a choice between consolidating or perishing as small and mid-size startups find it difficult sustain the high cash burn, Ankur Pahwa, partner and national lead - E-commerce and consumer internet, EY India, said. While most deals in the first half of the year have been in the nature of strategic partnerships and ‘build vs buy’ decisions, the distressed M&As are set to flow in the upcoming quarters of the year, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/startups-combine-forces-to-tide-over-tough-times/articleshow/77532096.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 14, 2020||Patna||ECR: Rs 262cr paid to migrants engaged in 37 railway projects||PATNA: A sum of Rs 262.82 crore has been paid to the migrants, who were working on 37 major railway projects in 32 districts of Bihar from June 20 to August 7, claim the officials of the East Central Railway (ECR). According to chief public relations officer Rajesh Kumar, Railway Board chairman V K Yadav had instructed ECR’s general manager L C Trivedi to engage the returnees in different projects. “As part of the Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan, the railways has allocated funds for engaging maximum number of skilled and unskilled migrant workers in various ongoing railway projects for at least 125 days. It has also deployed one coordinator in each district of Bihar,” the CPRO said and added that the migrants had been engaged in track doubling work, laying of new lines and other construction projects. At present, the railways is carrying out track doubling work on the Samastipur-Darbhanga, Katihar-Kursela, Sugauli-Valmikinagar, Muzaffarpur-Sugauli and other routes in Bihar. Around 24 lakh migrant workers had returned to different places in Bihar by 326 Shramik special trains from Delhi, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Haryana, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown period from May 1 to June 15. Trains cancelled Altogether 12 passenger trains either originating from or passing through the Patna Junction will remain cancelled on different days from August 18 to 31 due to the Covid-19 lockdown in West Bengal. While the Patna-Howrah Jan Shatabdi special (02023/02024) will not run from August 20 to 31, the Patna-Shalimar special (02213/02214) will be cancelled from August 20 to 28. Similarly, the New Delhi-Howrah Poorva Express special (02301/02302) will not run from August 19 to 31 while the Jodhpur-Howrah special (02307/02308) will remain cancelled from August 18 to 31. The Howrah-New Delhi special (02381/02382) will not run from August 20 to 28 and the Kolkata-Amritsar special (02357/02358) from August 18 to 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-rs-262cr-paid-to-migrants-engaged-in-37-railway-projects/articleshow/77531839.cms||Kumod Verma
August 14, 2020||Patna||SSR’s family writes open letter, says getting threats||PATNA: In an emotional appeal to fans and well-wishers of late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput (SSR), his sister Shweta Singh Kriti took to social media from the USA and reiterated the family’s demand for justice to the former. Sushant’s family members have also released a nine-page open letter, alleging that they are receiving threats. Sharing a video on her social media handles on Thursday, Shweta wrote, “I request everyone to stand together and demand justice for Sushant. We deserve to know the truth. We won’t be able to live a peaceful life till then.” Meanwhile, the open letter, released by the late actor’s family on Wednesday, alleged that the family was not even given the time to mourn as attempts were made to label Sushant as a ‘mental patient’ and photos of his body were circulated all over. The hard-hitting letter also claimed that the SSR’s family members, including his father K K Singh and four sisters, were receiving threats and there is a campaign going on to slander their image and vilify the memory of the late actor. “The family lost its patience when a month after Sushant’s death, expensive lawyers and PR agencies were hired by the so-called honey-trap gang who were not satisfied after cheating and killing him and wanted to malign his legacy too,” the letter stated. MLC Nutan Singh, sister-in-law of the late actor, said, “The letter has been issued by the family to bring few things in public domain. The CBI has started its investigation into the matter. We want the truth to come out.” Sushant (34) was found dead in his Mumbai apartment on June 14. While the Mumbai Police claimed it was a case of suicide and has questioned over 50 people on allegations that the actor was suffering from depression due to professional rivalries in the film industry, SSR’s father has accused his son’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her family of abetment to suicide, criminal conspiracy and theft. The CBI took over probe into Sushant’s death after the Centre gave its approval following a recommendation by the Bihar government last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssrs-family-writes-open-letter-says-getting-threats/articleshow/77531630.cms||Arunima Lal
August 14, 2020||Patna||CUSB adjudged country’s 15th best central varsity||PATNA: Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) has bagged 15th position among 40 central universities in the country in rankings released by the ministry of education, with a score of 63%. The varsity has managed to secure Grade ‘A’. Mahatma Gandhi Central University (MGCU), Motihari has jointly shared 23rd position with Central University of Gujarat. Both the universities have scored 59%. The ministry gives the grading and scores to central universities based on several parameters, such as annual student intake in undergraduate, postgraduate, PhD, M Phil levels, student diversity, quality of faculty, student-teacher ratio, teacher vacancies, visiting faculty and research work. The other parameters include National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) 2020, on-campus placement, number of students qualified in National Eligibility Test (NET) and Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE). Harish CS Rathore, vice-chancellor of CUSB, said securing 15th position was a big achievement for the university’s staff and students. “There are around 42 old central universities across the country and CUSB is among 13 new universities established in 2009,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cusb-adjudged-countrys-15th-best-central-varsity/articleshow/77531695.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Historical IIAS building to get Rs 67 crore overhaul||Shimla: The 132-year-old Indian Institute of Advanced Studies (IIAS) in Shimla is all set for a major renovation at a cost of Rs 67 crore. Authorities will repair the kitchen wing and other parts of the heritage building, which was constructed by the British in 1888. The structure attracts a large number of domestic and international visitors. Renovation work will be conducted under the supervision of the Central Public Works Department. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will also help with the overhaul of the building, which was known as the Viceregal Lodge during British rule. After Independence, it came to be known as Rashtrapati Niwas. The building has witnessed many historical events like the Shimla Conference of 1945. In 1964, the Central government decided to establish the Indian Institute of Advanced Studies at Rashtrapati Niwas. The institute has been running here since October 20, 1965. For all its past glory and current popularity, many parts of the building are in a dilapidated condition. Water drips from the roof of the five-storey kitchen wing and the walls have been weakened by dampness. The tiles are also broken. In a press conference held at the Indian Institute of Advanced Studies on Thursday, institute director Prof Makarand R Paranjape said repair work started on Thursday. Underlining the importance of the kitchen wing, he said that during the British regime, food was taken from the bottom through a crane. He said this wing has a Victorian laundry and an old refrigeration system. Paranjape said no repair work was conducted after 1888, except for a few minor improvements. Now, he said, the entire building will be repaired in a phased manner. He said the original character of the heritage structure will be maintained and the interior will be designed in the same way as before. Even the tiles used will be the same as the kind used a century ago, he said. A museum will be set up for preservation of heritage articles, he said, adding that renovation work will be completed in three years. Work on the kitchen wing will be completed in two years. Box: New name in the offing Preparations are being made to change the name of Indian Institute of Advanced Studies after 132 years. A proposal has been sent to the Centre to name it as Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Lodge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/historical-iias-building-to-get-rs-67-crore-overhaul/articleshow/77534513.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Surat||Patient intubated by doctor on oxygen support succumbs||Surat: For Dr Sanket Mehta, 37, who is still in the semi-critical condition, the festival of Janmasthami brought bad news on Wednesday evening. The elderly patient whom he intubated in the ICU of BAPS hospital in Adajan succumbed to the deadly virus. While on the high-flow oxygen support and fighting the coronavirus infection, Dr Mehta risked his life for the critically-ill Dinesh Purani, 71, on August 9. Purani required urgent intubation for the ventilator support. Dr Mehta, who was just two beds away from the elderly patient in the ICU, removed his oxygen support and successfully intubated him. Authorities at the BAPS Hospital stated that Purani breathed his last on Wednesday evening. The news of Purani’s death was given to Dr Mehta later that night. According to the doctors, Dr Mehta was on the six-litre per minute oxygen flow and his requirement has increased to eight litres per minute since Wednesday evening, after the death of Purani. CEO of BAPS Hospital, Dr Parshottam Koradia told TOI, “We could not save the elderly patient intubated by Dr Mehta. I personally informed Dr Mehta about the incident. Though he was unable to talk, his facial expressions were enough for me to understand that he was deeply saddened by the news.” Talking with TOI, vice-president of Surat Anaesthetists Association (SAA), Dr Hiral Shah said, “Entire doctors’ fraternity is praying for the speedy recovery of Dr Mehta, whose condition is semi-critical.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/patient-intubated-by-doctor-on-oxygen-support-succumbs/articleshow/77532808.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Surat||Teenager who ended life was sodomised: Police||Surat: Police registered a case of abetment of suicide against some unidentified person on Thursday in Amroli after a 14-year-old boy ended life in Bharthana village on Monday evening. The boy was found hanging at his home and was brought to SMIMER hospital at around 7 pm. He was declared dead on admission by the doctor. During postmortem, it was confirmed that the boy died of hanging.Preliminary post mortem revealed found injury marks on his private parts. Following this, the police registered a case of abatement of suicide, unnatural sex and under sections of POCSO Act.“Doctors confirmed that the boy could have been sodomised. The injury appears to be fresh and could have been inflicted in 24 hours before death,” said a police officer of Amroli police station.Earlier, parents of the child had informed police that a few minutes before the child ended his life he was scolded by his mother for playing with marbles. It was earlier believed that the boy killed self because of the scolding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/teenager-who-ended-life-was-sodomised-police/articleshow/77532820.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar gives nod to development of Bihar’s 2nd zoo at Forbesganj||PATNA: Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar on Thursday asked the officials concerned to develop ecotourism facilities in more forest areas in the state and also gave nod to development of state’s second and north Bihar’s first zoo at Forbesganj in Araria district. The CM asked the forests department to create a separate wing for looking after ecotourism spots in the state. The CM issued these instructions while chairing the ninth meeting of State Wildlife Board. The meeting was also attended by deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, who holds the portfolio of state forests minister as well. Other members of the board were connected to the meeting via online mediums. The board gave its nod to construction of a ropeway at Mundeshwari hills in Kaimur. In another decision, the wildlife board gave environmental clearance for laying power transmission as well as optical fibre lines. “There are vast possibilities of development of ecotourism in Bihar. Ecotourism facilities should be developed at Valmikinagar and Manguraha in West Champaran district and Rajgir, Gaya, Nawada, Araria and Kaimur districts,” the CM said. Principal secretary (environment, forests and climate change) Deepak Kumar Singh said the CM called for creation of a separate wing in the forests department for development and management of ecotourism sites. The CM also asked the officials to develop an integrated building at the base of new as well as the existing ropeway at Rajgir. “The integrated buildings will cater to the requirement of vehicle parking, restaurant for tourists and other utilities,” he told officials. The CM also issued instructions for completion of work on all ropeways under construction in the state. “Works are underway on a ropeway project at Mandar hills in Banka and consent was given today for development of another ropeway at Mundeshwari hills,” Singh said. The CM also asked forests department officials to take all necessary steps for live- streaming of animals through internet at Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo. Asked about the proposal for development of state’s second zoo at Forbesganj in Araria district, Singh said, “The CM has approved development of the zoo on 289 acres of land in Raniganj. The area presently has around six deer and few pythons.” Additional principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) P K Gupta gave a detailed presentation on wildlife conservation in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-gives-nod-to-development-of-states-2nd-zoo-at-forbesganj/articleshow/77531578.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Heavy rain, wind to last till Sunday||PANAJI: Spells of heavy rain are set to return in parts of the state from Friday, with India meteorological department (IMD) issuing an orange alert till Sunday. Rain is likely to be accompanied by winds with speeds between 35 and 45kmph. Localised short-term flooding, mudslides and uprooting of weak trees during this period are likely. TOI had earlier reported that the state was likely to experience heavy rain this week. The IMD has said that a low pressure area formed over the northwest Bay of Bengal on Thursday, which is ushering heavy showers to the Goa coast. Also, strengthening of westerly winds at 1.5km and 3.1km above mean sea level is likely to intensify rainfall. Strengthening of the pressure gradient over the Arabian Sea along the Konkan coast and the likely formation of an offshore trough will also contribute to heavy showers from Friday to Sunday, the IMD said. Thus far, heavy rain at a few places over the past week have resulted in a few rain gauge stations crossing the 3,000mm mark Pernem, Ponda, Ela-Old Goa, Sakhali, Valpoi, Canacona, Quepem and Sanguem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heavy-rain-wind-to-last-till-sunday/articleshow/77534515.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Lalbazar focuses on curbing petty crime on streets||KOLKATA: The city streets — especially the bylanes — have been relatively deserted in the early mornings and after dusk due to the Covid pandemic. But, as Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma said, that cannot become an excuse to allow petty crimes to continue. Sharma has asked all police stations to ensure they carry out regular anti-crime drills. The orders from Lalbazar, issued to ACPs and OCs, have asked the Anti-Rowdy Squad officers at each police station to carry out proper patrolling in areas frequented by morning and evening walkers and ensure history-sheeters who live in the area are accounted for. “There have been few petty incidents in the past four months. A morning walker was targeted near Victoria Memorial, but the accused was nabbed. In another incident, there were inconsistencies in the complaint. There was an incident at Parnasree, which was solved. However, we do not want anyone walking home to feel insecure. Hence, even in this Covid situation, it is important we are able to monitor the situation on the roads,” said an officer. Sources said the security around parks, lakes and the roads from hospitals and around shopping complexes will be provided with added security. “There have been a few cases of two-wheelers being targeted. The anti-crime drills will cover all these aspects,” said an officer. “Most of the petty thefts take place at night. We are trying to ascertain whether specific groups of bicycle thieves are at work to cash in on the surging demand for the two-wheelers, especially second-hand ones,” another officer said. Night security has already been tightened and there are regular surprise checks. “There are several spots where we check cars to stop unnecessary travelling at night. Anti-crime checks are an integral part of such drives,” an officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lalbazar-focuses-on-curbing-petty-crime-on-streets/articleshow/77533662.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 14, 2020||Mysuru||ASI dies with Covid in Ch’nagar||Mysuru: An assistant sub-inspector attached to Chamarajanagar district police died due to Covid-19 on Wednesday night. ASI KG Parameshwarappa, 55, was being treated at a Covid hospital in Chamarajanagar. He is the second frontline Covid warrior from the district to have succumbed to the disease. Earlier district AYUSH officer Rachaiah died due to Covid. Born in 1965, Parameshwarappa served in many police stations across the district. According to SP Divya Sara Thomas, the ASI was admitted to hospital in Chamarajanagar on July 31. “A few of his family members were also tested positive. They were cured and discharged. There was considerable improvement in his condition too. Doctors had planned to discharge him on Wednesday afternoon. But he had not recovered and hence treatment was continued. He died due to cardiac arrest on Wednesday night,” she said. The final rites of the officer were held at his native village Kunagalli in Gundlupet taluk on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/asi-dies-with-covid-in-chnagar/articleshow/77533489.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mysuru||Road to Talacauvery restored after a week||Madikeri: The district administration on Kodagu cleared on Thursday road leading up to Talacauvery which was hit by a series of landslides. A team of 20 volunteers have cleaned the temple premises ahead of puja from Friday. Meanwhile, the search operation has continued to locate the missing family members and relatives of the chief priests. Puja would be performed from Friday onwards at Talacauvery. The Neeleshwara Padmanabha Tanthri will arrive on Friday to perform various rituals. After this the daily puja will commence, confirmed MLA K.G.Bopaiah who is managing the works in the area. DC Anies kanmani Joy, Temple committee president B.S.Thammaiah and executive officer Jagadishkumar also present. The search operation is continued in the calamity and surrounding Cherangala and riverside areas in three groups to locate three remaining bodies. Meanwhile Mysuru IG Vipulkumr visited the calamity site at Talacauvery with his team and discussed with NDRF,SDRF and Kodagu SP Kshama Mishra regarding the progress in search operation. He assured that till the dead bodies are retrieved, police will fully join hands with the search teams. He regretted the landslides in the famous pilgrim centre and said that natural calamity has to be faced by us. However, he collected the previous history of these landslides in Kodagu and MLA K.G. Bopaiah briefed the story. The search operation resulted in just obtaining a purse belonging to one of the victims, Archak Shrinivas padilaya. The purse consists of his ID card and PAN cards. The temple committee has arranged lunch for 400 persons at Talacauvery prepared at Bhagamandala for the rescue teams. IG,MLA and officials joined the lunch at Talacauvery.RSS senior pracharak Nirmal Kumar visited the spot and recalled memories of late Narayanachar. The bright weather on Friday in Kodagu gave a sigh of relief for the people with smooth routine activities in the midst of corona 59 positive cases in the district on Friday. Surprisingly the rainfall total average showes a decline of 104 mms this year. Last year 1t was 1818 mms and this year it is 1714 mms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/road-to-talacauvery-restored-after-a-week/articleshow/77533409.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Patna||PMO reacts to patient’s cry, asks hosp to improve hygiene||BHAGALPUR: The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) took notice of a complaint of a patient admitted in the emergency ward of Jawahar Lal Nehru Medical College and Hospital (JLNMCH) here about another patient spitting and urinating in the same ward and none taking any action to stop the unhygienic practice. Following the patient’s complaint over phone on Wednesday, the PMO intervened and sent an email to the JLNMCH authorities to look into the grievance of the patient and do the needful to ensure hygienic condition inside the hospital ward. Instructions were also issued to ensure that such nuisance is not repeated. Ambuj Sharma, under-secretary (public), PMO wrote an email to JLNMCH authorities, asking them to look into the issue immediately. JLNMCH sources said the email underlined the sensitivity and understanding of PM Narendra Modi and his office in checking the spread of coronavirus. The aggrieved patient had informed the PMO that no one was listening or taking care of the other patient and stopping him from unhygienic practices. He said he had narrated his grievance to the Bhagalpur police and administrative officials as well as health officials, but to no avail. JLNMCH medical superintendent Dr Kumar Gaurav said, “Two patients were admitted in the emergency ward recently for treatment. One patient had severe psychiatric disorder, mental illness that greatly disturbs patients’ thinking, moods and behaviour. The other one was a normal patient.” He added, “The psychiatric patient was spitting here and there. Both the patients, who were admitted in emergency ward, had to go for Covid-19 test in which they were tested negative for the virus. Accordingly, they have been shifted to other wards.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmo-reacts-to-patients-cry-asks-hosp-to-improve-hygiene/articleshow/77531890.cms||Kumar Rajesh
August 14, 2020||Patna||Medicos hail insurance for private doctors, demand it for all workers||PATNA: Healthcare workers have welcomed the state government’s decision to provide Rs 50 lakh insurance cover to those working in hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. However, they demanded that this benefit be extended to any health worker who dies of Covid-19 virus. “The NDA government is taking all necessary steps against Covid-19. Now health workers of private hospitals will also get the benefit of Rs 50 lakh insurance,” state health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted on Thursday. This scheme will be implemented under the Centre’s Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana. Health department officials said there are 120 such health centres across the state. The state chapter of Indian Medical Association has demanded that this benefit be given to all doctors and health workers who die of Covid-19 even if not associated with these 120 health centres. State IMA secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said a doctor or a health worker does not know whether they are near a Covid-19 positive patient or not. “Even a doctor sitting in a clinic is rendering service in this pandemic. How can he ensure the person coming for treatment is infected with coronavirus or not. What if he gets infected and dies?” asked Dr Sunil. Director of a renowned hospital in Pataliputra Dr Satyajeet Kumar Singh lauded the step taken by the state government. Dr Singh, whose hospital is treating Covid-19 patients, said such an offer has boosted the morale of health workers. “There is always a sense of insecurity and emotional pressure as to what will happen to the family after the death and such announcement have brought a sense of satisfaction. However, it should be extended to all,” said Dr Singh adding, “Most doctors who got infected were not on duty in a hospital, rather they got infected at their clinic.” Even Bihar Medical Council member Sunil Kumar Singh proposed a similar demand. “Announcement by the state government is a welcome step, but any doctor or health worker at present is acting as a shield. They all are serving people in this pandemic and this benefit should be extended to all,” said Dr Sunil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/medicos-hail-insurance-for-private-doctors-demand-it-for-all-workers/articleshow/77531756.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Surat||Familiar woes: Parvat Patiya, Limbayat inundated with sewage water||Surat: Residents in Parvat Patiya and Limbayat had to wade through knee-deep sewage water after Mithi khadi (creek) started overflowing due to heavy rains in its catchment areas of Bardoli and Tapi district on Thursday.Some of the residential societies in the low-lying areas in Parvat Patiya including Veer Darshan, Gurunagar, Vambay Awas and other societies in the interior areas were flooded with the sewage water.Official sources said that the danger level of Mithi Khadi is 7.25 m but the water level touched 8.2 m leading to flooding.“The creek needs to be deepened to avoid flooding in nearby residential areas. This has become an annual problem during rains leaving people in misery,” said Aslam Cyclewala, Congress councillor of Limbayat zone.Bhairav Desai, executive engineer of Limbayat zone told TOI: “Due to heavy rainfall in the catchment areas, the Mithi Khadi overflowed on Thursday morning. The bridge over the creek near Parvat Patiya was flooded, which resulted in low-lying areas getting inundated. We have placed de-watering pumps in these areas.”Desai added, “Unlike last year, the low-lying areas are flooded with less than one-feet of water and there is no evacuation of the residents so far. However, we have made all preparations to shift people if necessary. Food packets are also being prepared.”It must be noted that the creek has been squeezed from both the sides due to rapid urbanisation. In monsoon, when rainwater floods the drain and high tide pushes the water back, the creek turns to be the source of severe misery for Parvat Patiya and Limbayat residents. Last year, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) started building a protection wall under the ambitious river conservation project. The work is 85% complete and the rest is likely to be completed in the next few months.“Due to incessant rainfall, as many as 38 roads connecting villages and towns in Tapi district have been closed as precautionary measures and they will soon be restored for commuters,” said a government official.In Surat district, Mandvi taluka received the highest rainfall with 208 mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/familiar-woes-parvat-patiya-limbayat-inundated-with-sewage-water/articleshow/77531998.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Patna||Governor, CM mourn death of ex-IAS officer||PATNA: Governor Phagu Chauhan and CM Nitish Kumar on Thursday condoled the death of retired IAS officer Manoj Kumar Srivastava (65) of 1980 batch, who succumbed to Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna earlier in the day. The state unit of IAS Officers’ Association has also condoled Srivastava’s death. Srivastava is survived by his wife, a daughter and two sons. His colleagues fondly remember him as lively, ingenuous, caring and erudite person and the ‘land reforms man’. The retired IAS officer was the founder secretary of the disaster management department of Bihar, who charted out effective strategies. Srivastava was credited for the facilitation of the world’s largest free food distribution during 2008 floods in the state under the UNDP Disaster Risk Management Project. His successful career in the IAS began with training in Patna after he secured AIR 3 in UPSC in 1980. After his stint as SDO Hajipur and Koderma, he was posted as DDC in Ranchi. Srivastava was well known for his pioneering work in implementing the integrated rural development programme through a “cluster approach” during his tenure as DDC Ranchi in the undivided Bihar. In 1991-92, he initiated the ‘Bihar Education Project’, the first integrated and holistic policy in the country, aimed at securing comprehensive institutional changes in the functioning of the primary education system with special emphasis on girl child education. After retirement, he continued to serve as adjunct professor, National Institute of Advanced Studies-Bengaluru and as distinguished fellow of IIM-Ahmedabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/governor-cm-mourn-death-of-ex-ias-officer/articleshow/77531654.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Surat||SMC to provide free antigen test kits for industrial workers||Surat: In a major relief to the diamond and textile sectors, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has decided to provide rapid antigen test kits free-of-cost for testing of workers.The decision to this effect was taken at a meeting chaired by mayor Dr Jagdish Patel and municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani in the presence of the industry leaders and the elected representatives on Wednesday. There was an uproar over the notices pasted at the SMC’s health centres in Varachha, Katargam and Ved Road denying rapid antigen testing to the workers employed in the diamond industry. Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) had called the move discriminatory.Official sources said that the civic body will be registering the clinical laboratories for the antigen testing in the industrial units. The antigen test kits will be provided by the SMC to the registered laboratories free-of-cost for testing the industrial workers. The units will have to book the testing of their workers with the laboratories and pay the nominal testing charges fixed.President of SGCCI, Dinesh Navadiya told TOI, “The approved laboratories will visit the units for testing the workers and that they will charge a nominal fee.”Mayor Dr Jagdish Patel told TOI, “The issue of free testing of industry workers has been resolved. Now, many will be tested in a short time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-to-provide-free-antigen-test-kits-for-industrial-workers/articleshow/77532038.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||KMDA launches anti-dengue team||Kolkata: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) on Thursday launched a quick dengue response team to start taking preventive measures in all the KMDA housing schemes and markets. The team, along with three vehicles that will be used to conduct awareness campaigns, was inaugurated by state urban development minister and KMDA chairman Firhad Hakim. The quick response team will be split into three and spread among south Kolkata, north Kolkata and Chetla, and will take up vector-borne disease prevention work, including spraying larvicide, fumigation, conducting public awareness campaigns regarding prevention of vector-borne diseases and cleaning the compounds of KMDA housing schemes and markets. The teams will carry out the dengue prevention measures for the next three months and the authorities are planning to introduce a WhatsApp facility where people can inform them about any stagnant water body or rubbish piled up in any of these places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-launches-anti-dengue-team/articleshow/77533684.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Patna||Gandak in spate, forecast of heavy rain in North Bihar||PATNA/ BAGAHA: Authorities are on alert following rise in water level in Gandak river after fresh rainfall in its catchment areas in Nepal in the past 24 hours. As per a report by the water resources department (WRD), a rising trend was witnessed in the water level of Gandak and its tributaries in Nepal on Thursday morning. The report stated around 50-95mm of rain was recorded in six out of nine rain gauges in the catchment area of Gandak in Nepal. The discharge of water in Gandak flowing from Nepal to Bihar through Valmikanagar barrage also increased from around 1.7 lakh cusec on Wednesday to 2.15 lakh cusec on Thursday evening. Excess water also started gushing in at the Shasatra Seema Bal(SSB) border out post at Jhandua tola camp and Chakadahawa village for the third time this monsoon. Other hilly rivers flowing in West Champaran, such as Harbora, Pandai and Masan river were also in spate owing to incessant rains in last 36 hours. Flood water of Pandai river overtopped Narakatiaganj-Balathar road, leading to disruption of communication network. Flood victims, who had returned to their villages, after rivers showed receding trend over the past few days, started shifting to safer places again.The West Champaran district administration also sounded an alert to block development officers, circle officers and other officials in 18 blocks to remain vigilant. Meanwhile, the population affected by floods in 16 districts in north Bihar surged by around 58,000 over the past 24 hours and stood at 77.77 lakh. As per disaster management department (DMD), altogether 24 people have died due to the floods so far. The 16 districts which have been affected by the floods are Gopalganj, West Champaran, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Supaul, Sheohar, Kishanganj, Muzaffarpur, Darbhanga, Khagaria, Saran, Samastipur, Siwan, Madhubani, Madhepura and Saharsa. As far as water level in major rivers is concerned, Bagmati showed a rising trend at all five flood gauges in Sitamarhi district on Thursday, though it was below the danger level at two places. Bagmati and most other rivers were showing either falling or static trend over the past few days, owing to reduction in intensity of rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gandak-in-spate-forecast-of-heavy-rain-in-n-bihar/articleshow/77531603.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 14, 2020||Patna||Increase number of RT-PCR tests in Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday hit out at the state government for testing limited samples using RT-PCR method. “At least 50,000 samples should be tested per day using this method,” he said. Tejashwi also accused the government of hiding data and giving false information. “Health minister Mangal Pandey had said during the monsoon session of the state assembly that 52.9% tests were done using RT-PCR method, 17.9% through TrueNat and 29% through antigen. But on August 11, in a videoconference with PM Narendra Modi, chief minister Nitish Kumar had admitted that less than 10% of samples were being tested through RT-PCR in the state. Either the health minister or the chief minister is lying,” Tejahwi said. He said though number of tests increased in the state in the past few weeks, majority of samples was being tested through antigen kits. Pandey, on his part, said the data shared by him in the House was accurate and Tejashwi had presented it in a wrong way. “In the assembly, I had said that around 3.15 lakh tests were done through RT-PCR, 1.10 lakh through TrueNat and around 1.78 through antigen and I still stand by my statement. Tejahswi said that CM was talking about 6,100 tests through RT-PCR. This 6100 is per day data and Tejahswi needs to understand these technicalities,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/increase-number-of-rt-pcr-tests-tejas/articleshow/77531826.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 14, 2020||Mysuru||SDPI flag over saint’s statue in Sringeri triggers tension||CHIKKAMAGALURU: Even as the state government is focussing on containing violence in Bengaluru, communally sensitive Chikkamagaluru district on Thursday witnessed a flash protest led by former BJP MLA Jeevraj after an SDPI flag was found over the statue of Shankaracharya in Sringeri. While the cops removed the flag, a special team has been formed to probe the incident, which has triggered tension in the district. Former MLA of Sringeri DN Jeevraj sat on a dharna, demanding quick action against the culprits. Sringeri police reached the place and requested Jeevraj and his followers to stop the protest. Cops and Jeevaraj got into a verbal spat over filing the FIR. Police informed him that the investigation needs time. Jeevraj alleged that local Congress and SDPI leaders were involved in the incident. “Miscreants have deliberately put the flag over the statue. If police don’t act immediately, Hindu groups will intensify protests,” he said. However, SDPI’s district unit president Azmat Pasha refused to react to Jeevraj’s allegations and said SDPI is not active in Sringeri and the flag does not belong to it. Chikkamagaluru SP HA Machindra informed the media that miscreants threw a cloth over the statue on Wednesday night. “We have accessed the CCTV footage in the town. We have formed a team to investigate the case,” he said. Meanwhile, BJP, VHP and Bajrang Dal activists staged a protest at neighbouring Shivamogga district, urging the government to ban SDPI and KFD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/sdpi-flag-over-saints-statue-in-sringeri-triggers-tension/articleshow/77533345.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar, Maharashtra netas spar over Sushant Singh Rajput’s death||PATNA: The mudslinging between politicians from Bihar and Maharashtra over Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death continued on Thursday with senior BJP functionary and former MP R K Sinha asking Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and his family members to learn from NCP chief Sharad Pawar. Referring to Pawar’s statement, Sinha said, “He has very clearly said that he would not oppose the CBI probe into Sushant case. If one has not committed any wrong, why should he/she be afraid of a CBI investigation.” However, Pawar and Majeed Menon, another senior NCP leader, had earlier said Sushant was not very famous and that the issue of his death was being blown out of proportions. “It is unfortunate that a person who committed suicide is being discussed so much. I don’t think it is such a big issue. A farmer told me that over 20 of his colleagues have committed suicide, but nobody spoke about them,” Pawar had reportedly said. However, in a damage control measure, NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik tweeted, “The statement made by Majeed Menon on Twitter is his personal opinion and not of the NCP. The party doesn’t endorse or support his statement in any form or manner. He is not the spokesperson of the NCP which must be noted by all.” The reactions of the NCP leaders came a day after the late actor’s cousin and BJP MLA from Chhatapur Niraj Kumar Singh Bablu sent a legal notice to the Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut through email for “defaming” the family. Raut had claimed on August 10 that Sushant didn’t enjoy cordial relations with his father because of his (father’s) second marriage. On Thursday, Raut triggered another controversy by asking everyone, including the actor’s family, to keep quiet till the Mumbai Police completes its investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-maha-netas-spar-over-sushants-death/articleshow/77531666.cms||Ramashankar
August 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 224 of over 700 Araria district jail inmates test Covid-19 positive||PATNA: Altogether 224 inmates of the Araria district jail have tested positive for Covid-19, setting alarm bells ringing at the prison directorate in Patna. Officials said 706 prisoners are lodged in the jail. Reports of the rapid antigen tests confirmed that out 600 inmates who were tested, 224 were infected with the virus. The tests were conducted on Tuesday and Wednesday on the directive of the prison headquarters. There are around 41,500 prisoners lodged in eight central jails, 32 district and 18 sub-jails across the state having a sanctioned capacity of 44,900 inmates. Araria district jailer Pramod Das said alternative arrangements were being made for inmates found positive for the deadly virus. “We have sought directives from the prison directorate for shifting the prisoners to other jails,” he said over the phone. Araria civil surgeon Dr MP Singh said, “The antigen tests were conducted at the jail premises on Tuesday and Wednesday and 224 out of 600 were found to be infected with the virus.” While 42 prisoners had undergone the test on Tuesday, 182 were selected for the test on Wednesday. “The test of the remaining inmates will be carried out in a day or two. We have already issued guidelines for the infected prisoners and asked the jail administration to make separate arrangements for them,” the civil surgeon added. Authoritative sources said the new entrants were being shifted to the Purnia Central Jail or the sub-divisional jail at Dalsinghsarai in Samastipur district. The jail was being sanitized as a preventive measure to check the spread of the virus. Earlier, reports of inmates of Kishanganj district jail, Madhubani district jail, Motihari Central Jail and Bhagalpur Special Central jail testing positive were received at the prison directorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/224-of-over-700-araria-dist-jail-inmates-test-covid-ve/articleshow/77531686.cms||Ramashankar
August 14, 2020||Business||US eases ban on foreigners returning to same job role||MUMBAI: The US Department of State, in its updated guidelines announced late on Wednesday night, has permitted foreign nationals to seek an H-1B or an L-1 visa and return to the US to resume their previously held employment. In addition, individuals — including those in information technology (IT) — may also qualify for entry to the US under ‘national interest exception’ norms, subject to meeting certain conditions. Immigration experts believe that the slew of lawsuits against the entry ban on a wide range of visa holders, which had the backing of such US tech giants as Apple and Microsoft, forced the Trump administration to backtrack and introduce relaxations. These relaxations are a huge relief to hundreds of US job holders who were visiting India for dealing with family emergencies and functions and, owing to the travel ban announced by President Donald Trump on June 22, found that they could not obtain a visa stamp and travel back to the US. Under the updated guidance, an exception from the travel ban, which remains effective at least until December end, is available to H-1B and L-1 workers who are “seeking to resume ongoing employment in the US, in the same position, with the same employer and with the same visa classification”. The relaxation has been introduced as forcing employers to replace employees in this situation may cause financial hardships, explains the guidance note. In addition, H-1B or L-1 applicants (the latter visa is used for intra-company transfers) may also enter the US if they qualify for national interest exception. This applies in certain cases, such as for those engaged in battling Covid-19 or those whose roles facilitate economic recovery in the US. Workers across a wide range of industry verticals, which include not merely healthcare but also extend to IT, could qualify for the national interest exception, subject to meeting the set conditions. Nasscom has welcomed the relaxation. “We have consistently raised the importance of visa holders working within tech sector, particularly those who would be delivering services designated as essential as per the DHS-CISA guidance,” it said. The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) at the US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) had detailed what would constitute essential services. Cyrus Mehta, a New York-based immigration attorney, told TOI, “The beneficiary of an approved H-1B or L-1 petition must now be subject to the whim and caprice of the consular official. There will be no right to appeal if the national interest exception is denied.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-eases-ban-on-foreigners-returning-to-same-job-role/articleshow/77534430.cms||Lubna Kably
August 14, 2020||Business||Eicher arm to drive Volvo India’s bus business||CHENNAI: Eicher Motor subsidiary Volvo Eicher Commercial Vehicles (VECV) has entered into a ‘business transfer agreement’ on a ‘cash-consideration’ basis with Volvo Group India to acquire its Swedish partner’s bus business in India for just over Rs 100 crore. Following this transfer, which is expected to be wrapped up in 2 months, Volvo’s bus business will be integrated into VECV’s bus division. Old Volvo hand and Volvo Bus Corporation senior VP Akash Passey has been roped in to head VECV’s new integrated bus division as president. VECV is a JV between Eicher Motor, Volvo Truck Corporation and Aktiebolaget Volvo Sweden. Eicher does not take on any debt through this acquisition, VECV MD & CEO Vinod Aggarwal said. The integration of Volvo Buses India into VECV will cover the manufacture, assembly, distribution, and sale of Volvo buses in India. All employees of Volvo Buses India (around 500) will be transferred to VECV. “With the integration of Volvo Buses India into VECV, we aim to shape the future of the Indian bus industry by offering the widest range of transport solutions to our customers,” said VECV chairman Siddhartha Lal. “By consolidating the operations of Volvo Buses India into VECV, we aim to further develop our bus business and strengthen our position in the Indian bus market. The new bus division will offer a full range of modern buses covering customer needs for heavy, medium and light duty buses,” Håkan Agnevall, president, Volvo Bus Corporation added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/eicher-arm-to-drive-volvo-indias-bus-biz/articleshow/77532129.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
August 14, 2020||Patna||LJP likens Munger JD(U) MP to Surdas||Patna: The war of words between two National Democratic Alliance (NDA) allies – JD(U) and LJP – intensified on Thursday with a senior LJP functionary, Asharaf Ansari, describing JD(U) MP from Munger Rajiv Ranjan Singh Lalan as ‘Surdas’ who can’t visualise the happenings around him. Ansari’s remarks came a day after Lalan, a close aide of CM Nitish Kumar, drew a parallel between LJP chief Chirag Paswan and ‘Kalidas’, who was chopping off the branch of the same tree on which he was sitting. LJP general secretary Shahnawaz Ahmad Kaifi also corroborated Ansari’s statement and alleged that the JD(U) MP, by taking a jibe at Chirag, also pointed fingers at PM Narendra Modi, who had stressed the need to increase Covid-19 testing in some of the worst-hit states, including Bihar, during his interaction with the CMs of 10 states on Tuesday. “What the PM said on Tuesday, Chirag had already told CM Nitish through several letters. However, Nitish didn’t take notice of his letters. The CM also didn’t think it proper to reply to the LJP chief,” Kaifi said., adding Nitish was serving as the CM of Bihar with the blessing of PM Narendra Modi. None represents the LJP in Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in the state since Pasupati Paras, who was earlier animal husbandry and fisheries minister, was elected as a member of Parliament from the Hajipur (SC) Lok Sabha constituency in 2019. Sources said the main reason behind the recent spat between the LJP and JD(U) was seat-sharing for the upcoming assembly polls. While Chirag-led LJP is eyeing to contest at least 43 seats in the assembly elections, Nitish’s JD(U) is not in a mood to give the former more than 25-30 seats. “Chirag must follow the ‘gathbandhan dharma’ and realise that the NDA had registered landslide victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Bihar and is expected to perform better in the upcoming assembly polls in the state,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said.The BJP, however, is keeping itself aloof from the verbal duel between LJP and JD(U). Chirag also gave ample hints recently that the LJP was preparing to contest all the 243 assembly seats in the state. The Election Commission has reiterated that the Bihar assembly polls would be held as per schedule and also started preparations for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-likens-munger-jdu-mp-to-surdas/articleshow/77531738.cms||Ramashankar
August 14, 2020||Vadodara||Incessant rain leaves Vadodara’s old city areas inundated||Vadodara: Just a week ago, it seemed that the region would fall short of its average rainfall this season. But over the last 48 hours, the city has been receiving incessant showers. It began pouring on Tuesday night and the rains didn’t take a break even for a minute till Thursday evening. District authorities said that the city may receive more rains in the next 24 to 48 hours.The sun was shining bright on Tuesday evening but by 8.30 pm, rains suddenly lashed the city and it poured throughout the night. Three inches of rains pounded the city between 8 pm on Tuesday to 6 am on Wednesday, leaving many areas water-logged.From the Raopura Road, Nagarwada, Jubileebaug and Dandia Bazaar in the old city to Sayajigunj and Akota in western parts, entire city was submerged in knee-deep waters by Wednesday morning. Potholes were seen on roads in Karelibaug, Gorwa and Atladara putting commuters at risk.While the civic officials were out on the roads assessing the situation, the fire brigade was also kept on alert. “Since years, even a bout of rain leaves this road submerged in water. It doesn’t just affect our business but also damages the property,” said a shop-owner who sells stationery products on the Raopura Road. On Wednesday too, there was no respite for Barodians as the city received another three inches of rain. Though the showers got milder on Thursday, the authorities are keeping a close watch on Vishwamitri River that passes through the city. Thousands of citizens reside in the colonies on the banks of this river that swells fast during the monsoons.Following heavy rains in eastern parts of the district, the authorities are planning to release waters from Dev Dam in Waghodia. If the water is released on Thursday, residents of villages near Dev River may be put on alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/incessant-rain-leaves-vadodaras-old-city-areas-inundated/articleshow/77530866.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Business||Tata Steel sees Rs 4,648cr loss for Q1 due to Covid||Mumbai: Tata Steel, among the top metal producers in the world, posted a loss of Rs 4,648 crore during the first quarter of fiscal 2021 as demand dropped due to the new coronavirus and output reduced after its plants scaled down operations during the lockdown. The company had posted a profit of Rs 714 crore in the year-ago period. Income from operations declined 33% to Rs 23,813 crore. As the domestic market was closed during the lockdown, the company focused on exports to sell the surplus inventory and to generate cash flows. Tata Steel’s plants are currently operating at 95% capacity and the company has started to reduce its exports as the domestic market has been showing signs of improvement since July. Tata Steel’s European operations, which has long battled against cheap Chinese imports, rising costs and a flagging local economy, too has been affected by lower deliveries and spreads declining to unsustainably low levels. The European unit made an operational loss of Rs 626 crore and its revenue declined 23% to Rs 11,225 crore. Tata Steel said that Covid has cast a doubt on the UK unit’s ability to continue as a going concern. The company has assessed the potential impact of the downturn in steel demand due to the pandemic on the European arm’s future business outlook. “Based on the assessment, the outlook for the UK operation is expected to be adversely impacted with respect to its ability to continue as a going concern and meet its liquidity requirements,” the company said in a stock exchange statement. In response to the pandemic, the UK and the Netherlands units have been taking various measures, such as conserving cash besides seeking government-backed funding. During the quarter, the European unit received support from the UK and Netherlands governments, including cash flow deferrals of payables, and it continues to be engaged with the governments for their support. Tata Steel said about Rs 2,000 crore of costs were “under absorbed” due to lower volumes and “have been charged to the profit and loss account” at the consolidated level. The company added that it has curtailed “growth capex” for the fiscal and the focus will be on “sustenance capex”. Tata Steel is the sixth listed entity from the Tata stable to report a loss in its first quarterly fiscal 2021 earnings. On Thursday, sister company Trent announced a loss of Rs 184 crore in the April through June months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-steel-sees-rs-4648cr-loss-for-q1-due-to-covid/articleshow/77534395.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hubballi||Duo accused in minor’s rape case held||Dharwad: Police arrested two persons accused of raping and poisoning a minor girl at Madanabhavi village in Dharwad taluk. While the prime accused Basavaraj Karale, 23, was arrested earlier, police nabbed second accused Sameer Mullanavar, 23, on Thursday. Pressure was mounting on police to arrest Sameer, who was at large since May 21, the day of the crime. SP Vartika Katiyar had formed teams to nab him. The arrested due from Madanabhavi are alleged to have raped a 16-year-old girl of the same village while she was reading in the fields and then poisoning her on May 21. They had also allegedly taken her to hospital where she died on May 23. Based on a complaint from the victim’s father, Garag police have transferred the case to Women’s police station in Dharwad. SWC chief visits victims’ families Chairperson of Karnataka State Women’s Commission Pramila Naidu along with SP Vartika Katiyar visited the family members of the deceased girl and consoled them. Pramila said the accused will not be spared at any cost and police will ensure justice to the victim and her family. Earlier Pramila and SP Vartika visited Bogur village in Dharwad taluk and met Lalita and Poornanand Kambimath, parents of a minor girl who was raped. The girl was allegedly raped by Basheer and she committed suicide later. The SWC chief consoled her family and handed over a cheque for Rs 10,000. Basheer has been arrested under POCSO Act and is in judicial custody. Earlier in the week, several organizations including Shriram Sena had protested in front of the deputy commissioner’s office in Dharwad seeking capital punishment to the accused who raped the minor girls. Caption: Karnataka State Women’s Commission chairperson R Pramila Naidu consoles the parents of a minor girl who committed suicide after allegedly being raped by a man in Bogur village of Dharwad taluk, on Thursday (TOI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/duo-accused-in-minors-rape-case-held/articleshow/77533883.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Surat||Congress SMC councillor, aide booked for seeking bribe of Rs 15,000||Surat: Congress municipal councillor was booked by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for allegedly taking bribe of Rs 15,000 from a builder through his aid for not filing a complaint with the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) again him.The ACB booked Satish Patel, a councillor of Bhestan area and his aide Abhiraj Alias Abhi Ejwa. While Patel is on the run, Ejwa was arrested by the ACB sleuths.According to ACB, Ejwa was caught red-handed while he was accepting a bribe of Rs 15,000 from the complainant allegedly on behalf of Patel. The complainant’s friend is developing a building project in Pandesara. Claiming it to be illegal, Patel had threatened to get it demolished by SMC. For not filing a complaint with SMC, Patel and Ejwa had demanded Rs 20,000. Later the accused settled for Rs 15,000. Meanwhile, the complainant approached ACB and lodged a complaint. Laying a trap K J Chaudhary, police inspector, ACB under supervision of N P Gohil, assistant director, ACB, nabbed Ejwa. ACB had initiated search at the residence of Patel to investigate his wealth. “Patel is yet to get arrested. A search is on for him and he will be nabbed soon,” said an ACB officer. At least six municipal councillors of both political parties — BJP and Congress — have been arrested by the ACB while taking bribe since 2008.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/congress-smc-councillor-aide-booked-for-seeking-bribe-of-rs-15000/articleshow/77532890.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Surat||Another sanitary inspector dies of Covid||Surat: Another sanitary inspector of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) succumbed to the coronavirus infection on Thursday.RM Patel, 53, the sanitary inspector in Amroli ward, dhad tested positive on August 10 and was shifted from SMIMER Hospital to a private hospital. Patel is survived by his 70-year-old mother, wife, son and a daughter. His daughter is studying in ayurveda college while son studies in Vadodara, said an SMC official.Earlier on August 10, three SMC employees had died in a single day due to Covid-19. Since May 19, about 16 employees of the SMC have died of which 12 employees died due to Covid-19 infection.Meanwhile, Surat city reported 181 fresh cases on Thursday with highest 47 being reported from Katargam zone.With 16 fresh cases, Udhna zone now has over 1,016 patients and all the eight civic zones have over 1,000 cases. Officials said four patients succumbed to the virus on Thursday.Meanwhile, Surat rural reported 70 new cases on Thursday, taking the total number in the district to 3,362 while the death toll reached 154.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/another-sanitary-inspector-dies-of-covid/articleshow/77532772.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Patients at risk, fire safety devices lacking in 6 facilities||PRAYAGRAJ: As if the crippling coronavirus outbreak isn’t much of a trouble for it, the Prayagraj administration seems to be inviting more. It sounds dreadful, but six out of the eight Covid hospital and quarantine centres in Prayagraj district are lacking adequate fire fighting arrangements. The UP government had ordered a fire safety audit of all Covid hospitals and quarantine centres in the state after 10 people died last Sunday in Andhra Pradesh when a fire broke out at a hotel being used as Covid care centre in Vijaywada, while eight corona patients died in a blaze at a private hospital in Ahmedabad on August 6. The laxity came to light when officials of district fire department dispatched a report to Inspector General of police, UP Fire Service in Lucknow revealing multiple shortcomings at Covid hospitals and quarantine centres. TOI has a copy of the report. Chief fire officer, Prayagraj, R S Mishra told TOI, “Only two hospitals, Swaroop Rani Nehru (SRN) hospital (new building) and a private hospital in Jhalwa have adequate fire firing arrangements.” The fire fighting equipment at these two hospitals was found operational during checking, but the remaining six lack adequate arrangements, he added. “Teams led by fire station officers (FSO) of Civil Lines and Naini inspected all eight Covid hospitals and quarantine centres and found shortcomings in six buildings, while Covid hospital at Kalindipuram has no fire fighting arrangements at all,” said Mishra. As per norms, fire extinguisher, hose reel, terrace tank, pump and downcomer should be installed. Inspection team visited central railway hospital, Nawab Yusuf road, and found fire extinguishers, hose reel, manual operated electric fire alarm system and automatic detection & alarm system installed, but these were non-functional at the time of checking. Fire extinguishers were operational at TB Sapru hospital, but terrace tank and pump, downcomer, automatic detection and alarm system, manual fire alarm were not installed. No fire fighting equipment and arrangements were found at Unani Medical College, Khuldabad. “The new building of Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital has all latest fire fighting equipment and all were operational, but the hose reel and fire hydrants in old building were not functional. The sprinklers system, automatic detection fire alarm system and fire extinguishers in old building were operational,” said Mishra. Only four ABC fire extinguishers of 5 kg capacity were functional at community Health centre, Kotwa Bani, but hose reel, terrace pump and tank, and manual fire alarm system were missing, the CFO said. Only fire extinguishers were found installed at Nursing and Paramedical College, Karma, and there was no hose reel, terrace tank and pump, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/patients-at-risk-fire-fightingsystem-lacking-in-6-facilities/articleshow/77534892.cms||Kapil Dixit
August 14, 2020||Surat||Diamond firm in Surat sets glittering example in plasma donation||SURAT: A diamond company in the city has set an example with as many as 52 employees including polishers donating their plasma in the last few days at Surat Municipal Corporation-run (SMC) run SMIMER Hospital and 15 more preparing to donate. This was the first such case where a large number of employees of a private firm have come forward to donate plasma to help critically ill Covid-19 patients. Surat has been leading among all cities of Gujarat in plasma donation despite getting the permission for convalescent plasma therapy as late as July first week, compared to Ahmedabad which got the nod in April. Darshan Salia, one of the partners in the company, said that they had resumed operations with all guidelines including social distancing after the lockdown was relaxed on June 1. “During this time, our six employees also tested positive and we shut our unit for a week to control the spread. We re-started on July 14 but as precaution, we asked all our employees to fill up a health form and asked them to provide details about their and family members’ illness during the previous three weeks when they were at home,” said Salia. Of the 555 staff members, 170 employees said they had some mild illness but did not need hospitalization. So, the company conducted antibody tests of 80 staffers and the reports revealed that 55 had developed antibodies. Meanwhile, SMIMER Hospital also contacted the company offering free antibody tests for those wanting to donate plasma. “SMIMER team came to our campus and collected blood samples. So, as on Thursday, 52 of our employees have donated plasma and 15 more will donate soon,” he said. Jayesh Monpara, a diamond polisher at Unique Gems said, “Many diamond workers and their family members have been infected with Covid-19 and need plasma. Some days ago, I got a call from my relatives who requested me to donate plasma for one of them. So, I donated my plasma at SMIMER Hospital. “After testing positive, I was in home isolation and recovered fully. Owner of my firm inspired me to donate plasma to help other patients,” said 38-year-old Vikas Gohil. Salia emphasized that none of our employees are infected with Covid-19 and all are healthy and doing well. The company has its unit in Katargam. Salia had also donated plasma on July 30 at SMIMER Hospital and along with the company’s director Dilip Kevadia , they encouraged staff members to do the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-firm-sets-glittering-example-in-plasma-donation/articleshow/77532833.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Patna||Patna: Screen residents of containment zones thrice in 14 days, officials told||PATNA: With a view to curbing the spread of Covid-19 and ensuring proper surveillance, altogether 55 micro-containment zones have been created in Patna district so far. These include lanes and parts of big localities where corona-infected patients are found. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, who visited Rajiv Nagar on Thursday, pointed out that it would be easier to conduct door-to-door screening and sanitization in the micro-containment zones. “The sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) will ensure that people in these areas have access to all the basic necessities and medicines without any interruption,” Agarwal said. Micro-containment zones will also be created in Bhojpur, Buxar, Nalanda, Rohtas and Kaimur soon. The divisional commissioner directed the officials concerned to screen all the people living in containments zones at least three times within 14 days. He also asked the SDMs and the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) to set up medical camps so that rapid antigen test is conducted, cases are detected on time and infected people isolated. “Police personnel will be deployed in the containment zones to make sure that people wear masks, maintain social distancing and do not remove the barricades. The SDMs will also make regular visits to these areas,” Agarwal said, adding that the PMC workers would disinfect the areas regularly. He also asked the officials to visit one containment zone every day and send him the inspection report that will contain details like door-to-door survey, sanitization, supply of necessary items, testing, social distancing norms and use of masks. Sources claimed that altogether 19,300 people were tested in different containment zones of Patna division on Wednesday. Meanwhile, deputy development commissioner-cum-officiating district magistrate Richie Pandey and Patna SSP Upendra Sharma inspected the Digha containment zone on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/officials-asked-to-screen-residents-of-containment-zones-thrice-in-14-days/articleshow/77531711.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 14, 2020||Patna||Hike stipend: AIIMS-Patna interns||PATNA: Medical interns at AIIMS-Patna sat on a dharna on the hospital campus on Thursday, demanding an increase in their stipend for working in Covid-19 wards risking their lives. “The government should either increase our stipend or involve us only in treatment of non-Covid patients,” they said. Interns said they were working like resident doctors amid pandemic, but still being paid very less. “At other places, stipend of interns treating Covid patients has been increased,” they said. The interns at AIIMS-P, who are currently getting Rs 23,500 per month as stipend, said the amount should be doubled keeping in mind the Covid pandemic. However, AIIMS-Patna director Dr P K Singh said the demand to increase stipend was not justified and could not be fulfilled. “It is a national policy and the same stipend is given to interns across the country. It is just not possible to increase the amount,” Dr Singh added. Meanwhile, resident doctors of AIIMS-P, who had earlier threatened to go on an indefinite strike from Friday under the banner of Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) over their multiple demands, on Thursday postponed their stir till August 18 after getting assurance from the hospital administration. RDA president Dr Vinay Kumar said they have been assured by the hospital administration and the health minister that all their demands would be looked into. The RDA wants the state government to quash its letter in which it had designated 21 senior residents of AIIMS-Patna as specialist medical officers in the same hospital. According to RDA, three years are needed to complete senior residency. “The government’s move will result in a break for us in senior residency and we have to once again take an examination to complete residency in any medical college and hospital. It is a tedious process. Also, for senior residency, there is an age cap of 37 years. What about those who have joined at the age of 36? Also, they are allowing senior residents of other MCHs to complete their residency, then why not to us?” said RDA president Dr Vinay Kumar. They have also urged the state government to provide health insurance to AIIMS-P resident doctors and interns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hike-stipend-aiims-patna-interns/articleshow/77531859.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Patna||Patna University extends deadline for submitting forms||PATNA: In view of the exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state and the floods in north Bihar, Patna University (PU) has extended the last date for submission of online applications for admission to different undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) programmes. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting held under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor H N Prasad on Thursday. The deadline for submission of applications for UG courses is August 31 and that for PG and diploma programmes is September 21. “All the entrance tests for admission to regular and self-financing courses both at the UG and PG levels have also been postponed. The fresh dates will be announced shortly,” PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha told this newspaper. Earlier, August 14 was the last date for submission of online applications for admission to all the UG and PG courses. However, Patna Women’s College, a constituent college of PU, has decided to conduct online entrance tests from August 14 to September 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-extends-deadline-for-submitting-forms/articleshow/77531774.cms||B K Mishra
August 14, 2020||Patna||Tricolour sales dip ahead of Independence Day in Patna||PATNA: With no Independence Day celebrations in schools, colleges and majority of private establishments which are still closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, there has been a dip in the demand of tricolours. Street vendors across the city who used to earn by selling tricolours, badges, balloons, ribbons, wrist bands etc. every year on the occasion of Independence Day, say that there is hardly any demand for these items this year. Flag manufacturers said that the sale of the tricolour has been badly hit due to social distancing norms which stops people from assembling for flag hoisting ceremonies and also due to lack of workers at workshops. Md Sonu (22), a street vendor near the Patna high court premises on Bailey Road, who was carrying only eight flags and 3-4 strips of tricolour ribbons said that last year he sold flags worth Rs 4,800, but this time he could not find a single buyer. “I have reduced the prices of small tricolours from Rs 15 to Rs 8, of medium sizes from Rs 25 to Rs 20 and large flags from Rs 60 to Rs 45 and yet no one is coming to buy,” he said. “Every year during the Independence Day and Republic Day I used to make flags in bulk. But this time, I made only 100 as I was not sure of selling even 50 flags. Most of my customers are school and college students. As all the educational institutions are closed, I failed to attract buyers,” Sonu added. Sumit Kumar, another flag seller near Boring road, also shared similar views. “I had thought that people will definitely buy tricolours because of patriotic sentiments. But everybody is afraid to buy items sold on the streets due to corona. Even though I sanitized each and every flag after I made them, there are hardly any takers” he said.“For the last 45 years, I have been making and selling flags near the St Joseph’s Convent High School, Bankipore. However, this time I kept changing my place to sell flags, badges, caps, ribbons and wrist bands. These items have a price range of Rs 35 to Rs 150. But I could manage to sell only one flag since the morning,” said Irfan Khan (56), a seller near Ashok Rajpath on Thursday. He added: “Earlier, half-a-dozen sellers used to sell tricolours in this area and all of us used to make brisk business. Times have changed due to Covid.” Ashok Kumar Gupta, manager of a khadi shop near Gandhi Maidan said, “We hardly got any customer for flags and kurta- pyjamas. Every year, ahead of the I-Day celebrations, people used to place orders for tricolours and khadi kurtas in bulk,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tricolour-sales-dip-ahead-of-i-day/articleshow/77531714.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New SOP for cops as Covid-19 takes a toll on force||KOLKATA: The over 30-page standard operating procedure prepared by Lalbazar on Wednesday has asked all officers to wear three-layered masks and face shields while out on duty. In addition, all officers visiting a site for investigation will have to wear gloves before touching anything. Also, cops on duty on roads need to maintain a distance while checking cars. TOI reported about the SOP being prepared in Thursday’s edition. Lalbazar on Thursday said the SOP has attained greater importance after some fresh Covid cases in the force. The force has over 275 active cases and overall 1,624 Covid cases. The latest on the list is an officer, managing a crucial portfolio at Lalbazar. Sources said the officer had a fever three days ago and decided to get himself tested. He is currently in home isolation. “He is stable. He has been at the forefront in this war against Covid. All those who came in close contact with him will undergo tests and the required isolation,” said an officer. A colleague will be looking after the cop’s work for now. Earlier, at least two ACPs from the detective department had tested positive. They were among the 44 detective department officers who were infected. Several in the traffic wing at the headquarters, too, tested positive. Multiple measures were taken to curb the spread, but attending to several visitors every day may have led to the officer getting infected. Sources said the SOP will have to be followed “in letter and spirit”. All welfare officers appointed to look after the health of the personnel and their families will have to report their health status daily. “Covid is now hitting Lalbazar regularly. But our men are getting back to work in quick time. Many are donating plasma after recovery. Our recovery rate makes us confident even if our numbers may look high,” an officer said. Ideas propagated in the SOP include sanitizing entrances and exits, stocking face masks for guests, banning visitors from touching sliding doors and parking cop vehicles away from those belonging to the general public. “We prepared this SOP to cover all practical problems a cop faces. This has been prepared after counselling involving junior officers, doctors and virologists. The document should come in handy in every occasion,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-sop-for-cops-as-virus-takes-a-toll-on-force/articleshow/77533649.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 14, 2020||Patna||Union minister takes stock of facilities at PMCH, NMCH||PATNA: Union minister for communications, electronics and IT and law and justice, Ravi Shankar Prasad, visited the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) on Thursday to take stock of the facilities being provided to the Covid-infected patients. Accompanied by PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak and principal Dr V P Choudhary, Prasad first went to the newly created 100-bed Covid ward of the hospital in a PPE kit and interacted with the patients. He also appreciated the doctors, nurses and paramedics for performing their duties well. Dr Karak urged the minister to provide 10 BioPAT and high-flow oxygen machines each to the Covid ward of the hospital. “We also requested him to ask the state government to appoint 10 junior residents, 30 senior residents, 10 emergency medical officers, 100 ward boys and 30 trolley men and ensure provision of essential medicines like Remdesivir,” he said. The Union minister expressed satisfaction over the functioning of the PMCH and assured all possible support from the government. The hospital’s deputy superintendent and officer on special duty were also present. Prasad later visited the NMCH and talked to its superintendent, Dr Binod Kumar Singh, about the facilities being given to the Covid patients. He also went to the isolation centre on the premises of the Patliputra Sports Complex and interacted with the doctors and other officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/union-min-takes-stock-of-facilities-at-pmch-nmch/articleshow/77531812.cms||VK Tripathi
August 14, 2020||Bareilly||Rampur nawab’s heirs ‘up in arms’ after rare armoury’s value pegged at Rs 76L; to file objection in court||Rampur: Months after a strong room at Khasbagh Palace — which was expected to hold rare riches — was found empty, the heirs of the erstwhile nawab of Rampur (UP), who have been embroiled in a decades-long inheritance dispute, were in for another rude shock when they found that officials tasked with evaluating the palace’s armoury had pegged the value of its collection at a mere Rs 76 lakh.Saurabh Saxena, the court-appointed commissioner of movable property of the Rampur nawab, confirmed to TOI that the collection of the armoury was estimated at Rs 76 lakh. The family is now set to file an objection in the matter on August 17. The report was submitted by officials to the district and sessions court in March, but the family only got to know about it this month due to the lockdown and has decided to take legal recourse, said Kashif Khan, PRO of Nawab Kazim Ali Khan, son of former Congress MP Begum Noor Bano and one of the claimants to the inheritance.Rare firearms were unveiled when the locks to the armoury were opened in February — eight months after the Supreme Court passed judgment for the division of the property among the family members. Collectors had hailed the century-old carved vintage guns, gem-studded swords and knives with handles made of precious stones as a “minefield of antiquity”.Nawab Kazim Ali Khan told TOI the family was “dissatisfied with the valuation report and would soon file an objection with the court".According to Rampur city magistrate, Sarvesh Gupta, the evaluation was duly carried out on the directions of Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh by a committee that included the sub divisional magistrate, circle officer and two arms dealers. But Kazim Ali Khan argued that arms dealers cannot properly ascertain the value of antique firearms. “The committee should have had experts who deal with antique arms so they could judge the actual value of the precious armoury,” he told TOI.The evaluation report of two palaces owned by Rampur nawab Raza Ali Khan — the 450-acre Khasbagh Palace and the sprawling Lakkhi Bagh Palace — will also be placed before the court soon.Sanjeev Verma, PWD engineer-in-chief (Rampur), said that engineers were evaluating the buildings. “The structure of the buildings is more than a hundred years old so we will factor in depreciation to calculate the scrap value.” Other properties to be divided among 18 claimants include the 200-acre Benazir Bagh Palace, Sarhari Kunda, Shahbad Bagh Palace and a private railway station, all in Rampur. Valuation of vintage cars, furniture, paintings and other movable items was ongoing.Earlier, in March, a strong room in the palace that was opened after multiple attempts by expert welders had yielded nothing. According to a family member, the room had held pearls, diamonds, emeralds, sapphires and rubies at one point.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampur-nawabs-heirs-up-in-arms-after-rare-armourys-value-pegged-at-rs-76l-to-file-objection-in-court/articleshow/77530547.cms||Nazar Abbas
August 14, 2020||Meerut||Don’t want to die in encounter, will take my own life instead’, absconding rape accused says in ‘suicide note’||Meerut: On the trail of a man, who is suspected to have raped and brutalized a six-year-old girl in Hapur a week ago, police on Thursday found his identity card, a set of clothes and a purported suicide note tucked in it saying that the accused “doesn’t want to be killed in an encounter” and was choosing other means to end his life. “I know I will be killed in an encounter. And I don’t want to die like that. I will choose my own means to end life. Please don’t harass my children,” the suicide note read.Police, however, were circumspect. They claimed this could be an attempt by the suspect to mislead the investigators.In a guarded response, a senior police officer said, “Till we trace him or his body or any evidence to corroborate it, we are not going to rely on the suicide note. We are trying to match the handwriting on suicide note with the original.”All the items were found near Mehmoodpur village of UP’s Amroha, where accused Dalpat Singh lived.Hapur’s additional superintendent of police (ASP) Sarvesh Mishra said, “A trousers, shirt, identity card of the firm in Gajraula where the accused worked and a suicide note have been recovered on the outskirts of Fatehpur village, almost a km away from his Mehmoodpur village.”The minor girl was abducted on August 6 by a man when she was playing outside her house in Hapur’s Garh area.She was raped and left to die in a nearby forest, from where a search and rescue team found her almost 12 hours later.The child is currently admitted in a Meerut hospital and is said to be in a critical condition. There were several injuries on her private parts, leading to excessive blood loss as she lay unattended in the forest region for over 12 hours. Several police teams in Hapur and neighbouring Amroha district have been pressed into service to find the accused, who continues to be at-large despite over a week of massive manhunt.Police have also announced a cash reward of Rs 50,000 for any information leading to the accused’s arrest. The policemen zeroed in on the main accused with the help of three sketches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dont-want-to-die-in-encounter-will-take-my-own-life-instead-absconding-rape-accused-says-in-suicide-note/articleshow/77531770.cms||Piyush Rai
August 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Tricolour developed that grows into plant for I-Day||Mangaluru: Paperseed, a swadeshi social entrepreneurs group based here, have launched eco-friendly tricolours and badges that can be used as seeds that grow into plants after Independence Day celebrations, to make it an eco-friendly affair. Members of Paperseed have been making eco-friendly flags and badges using paper pulp and seeds of various plants, said Paperseed founder Nitin Vas. “We have been making flags and badges to be used for this Independence Day. We already have our own clientele created through various social media platforms. Most of them are NGOs and other organisations working for preserving the environment and other related issues. We have already received orders for hundreds of eco-friendly flags and badges from various parts of the state. Our volunteers have been making flags and badges using paper pulp and seeds,” he said, adding that it takes a day to dry the flags and badges. “Passion fruit seeds have been mixed with the pulp, which is manufactured using old newspapers. We have chosen passion fruit for the flags and badges since it is rich in nutrition, and it has several health benefits. Seeds of passion fruits are brought from Kerala. After the Independence Day celebrations, people may dispose of the flags and badges in flowerpots or in the soil, so that it will grow into plants,” he said. “After flag and badges are dried, they are painted by volunteers. We have attached pins to flags and badges so that they can be attached to shirts and other dresses. While the eco-friendly flags cost Rs 5, the badges are priced at Rs 15. The main idea of promoting eco-friendly flags and badges is to eradicate plastic. Though the Independence Day celebration will be low-key this year due to the pandemic, plastic materials are still available in the market. These eco-friendly flags and badges can be replaced with plastic items as an ideal alternative. Further, this will encourage people to join the environmental movement,” he said, adding that the organisation had earlier introduced paperseed Ganeshas for Ganesh Chaturthi, and eco-friendly rakhis for Raksha Bandhan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tricolour-developed-that-grows-into-plant-for-i-day/articleshow/77531764.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Meerut||Nine arrested with smack worth Rs 60 lakh in Muzaffarnagar; probe ordered||Muzaffarnagar: Nine men were arrested on Thursday in possession of smack worth Rs 60 lakh. During initial investigation, it has come to the fore that the accused made small packets of the illegal drug to sell it to addicts. The arrest comes a day after Shamli police arrested one person in possession of smack worth Rs 25 lakh. A probe is on. According to sources, police stopped a car on suspicion during a routine vehicle checking drive in Nagar Kotwali area, and recovered 750 gm of smack from the two men in the car. Police arrested both and seized their car. Later, they were identified as Shadab and Sameer, residents of Muzaffarnagar, who have dozens of cases registered against them.According to SP (rural) Nepal Singh, “Shadab is in our list of Top 10 miscreants in the Nagar Kotwali police station area, while Sameer is a history-sheeter from Jansath police station area. An inquiry is on in the matter.”SHO of Nagar Kotwali police station, Anil Kaparwan, said, “We have recovered smack worth Rs 60 lakh, which was supposed to be sold to customers across the city.”Based on information provided by the accused, police have also arrested seven other members of the gang and sent them to jail.Earlier on Wednesday, Shamli police arrested a man in possession of smack worth Rs 25 lakh during a routine check. The accused had been incarcerated for drugs smuggling earlier. In a major drug haul last December, police had busted a gang of interstate drug smugglers and arrested four operatives who used to smuggle sedatives into the region. As per police, sedatives worth Rs 1.5 crore were recovered from them. SSP Abhishek Yadav had initiated a ‘zero drug’ campaign in November last year, with a major crackdown on gangs peddling drugs and narcotics targeting local youth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/nine-arrested-with-smack-worth-rs-60-lakh-in-muzaffarnagar-probe-ordered/articleshow/77531758.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Living over life: Rain brings a few bucks for drain cleaners in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Heavy rain is not only a misery for commuters, but also for a particular group of workers. Ramesh Singh, 50, belongs to this group. He has been working as a drain cleaner for two decades and dreads the season as it means dire situations and a barrage of diseases. “Every time I step into a drain, I tell myself this could be the last time I am alive,” Singh said at ITO on Wednesday. “But this is all we can do to eke out a living, the only way I can make money to feed my grandchildren because my son is jobless.” Rain means a source of earning for hundreds of others too. After Thursday’s heavy showers, Jaideep Singh, 46, was in knee-deep water at ITO yielding a bamboo stave to clear the roads of water. He sweeps streets otherwise, but during the rainy season is allocated the duty of clearing clogged drains. “We work on drains that are less than 3ft wide mostly on PWD roads, even though we are municipal corporation people,” said Singh. Singh comes from Laxmi Nagar in the city’s east for his duties in the central zone. “Unlike others, we can’t wear masks when we enter the drains,” Singh pointed out. It took four men like him almost four hours to get the ITO stretch free of water. It is no pleasure for these men to enter the drains knowing fully well they are laying their lives on the line. “We take precautions, no doubt, but it takes well over an hour to clean a drain. And as soon as it rains the next time, we are at the same job again,” said Kamlesh. Shri Pal has spent his whole working life ensuring the capital continues to function despite downpours. “We are assigned to waterlogged areas in the morning,” he said without enthusiasm. “Today, because the Independence Day rehearsal was to take place, we had to come here around 6am. We managed the waterlogging situation only around 3pm.” Pal said that while the rest of the city fretted about Covid infection, they just had to brazen it out. “We take baths and apply mustard oil to sanitise ourselves after the shift,” he disclosed. Shashi Kumar, 54, met with an accident and thought he would lose his leg. Fortunately, he recovered after a month and after recuperating over a few months was able to join work. “This is the first time I got to clean a drain after a gap of a year,” Kumar said. “I always have some hesitation before going into a drain because the flow of water is unpredictable. But once in, there is no looking back.” Kumar recognised that during the pandemic, it had become all the more important to sanitise himself before leaving his home and before meeting his family after work because men like him are ever susceptible to Covid infection. “But our work is important, else the situation in the capital would be worse than it already is,” he reasoned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/living-over-life-rain-brings-a-few-bucks-for-drain-cleaners/articleshow/77534561.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Former CM Vasundhara Raje calls out those spreading news of internal fight in BJP||JAIPUR: Former CM Vasundhara Raje has come to the fore of the present political scenario in the state. Raje has cleared the air on her keeping silent on the power struggle between CM Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot and on the allegations of leading a faction in the party in her address to all the party MLAs held at the BJP office in Jaipur on Thursday. Raje told the party MLAs to stand united in raising public issues in the assembly and slammed those who are spreading rumours of an internal fight in the party and called out the ruling party for misplaced priorities. "I would like to tell those spreading the news about the division in the BJP is that our party is one family and we all are committed taking it forward. Rajmataji has taught me that I am part of a party whose priority is the nation and I am walking on her footsteps," said Raje, who later shared it on Twitter. In her next tweet, she referred about her two tenures and said, "Our BJP government has shown complete unity and served the state for 10 years and taken the state to newer heights. However, Congress has only changed the names of our schemes and did nothing. This is the reason that most of the development projects in the state have been stalled." She didn’t attend the meeting with the central party leaders held after the party meet and left soon after the meeting was over. This week, Raje met BJP president J P Nadda and defence minister Rajnath Singh that had given rise to the speculations that all is not well between her and state president Satish Poonia. Reportedly, she complained of not getting any post to her loyalists in the party and her being ignored by the party leaders in dealing with the political crises. She was called by the leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria to be present in the meeting. Unconfirmed reports also said that MLAs who didn’t follow the party direction to move out of Rajasthan or stay together in Jaipur were loyal to Raje.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raje-calls-out-those-spreading-news-of-internal-fight-in-bjp/articleshow/77534537.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Bareilly||20-year-old youth found hanging in farm||Pilibhit: A 20-year-old youth was found hanging from a scaffold in a farm where he had spent the night to protect the land from wild animals. Police recovered the body on Thursday morning after being informed by locals. The incident took place at Ashok Nagar village under Hajara police station. His body has been sent for autopsy. According to locals, the deceased youth was identified as Vijay Kumar. He reportedly had an affair with a village girl which was unacceptable to her parents, locals claimed. His father, Ramdhari, said that his son had left for the field on Wednesday night after dinner, and was found hanging the next morning. He, however, didn't suspect anyone behind the death. SHO Ram Sevak said that police are waiting for the autopsy report to know the exact cause of death, and will take futher measures if required.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/20-year-old-youth-found-hanging-in-farm/articleshow/77529513.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chennai||AIADMK will continue to lead alliance in 2021: K P Munusamy||CHENNAI: The AIADMK is faced with partymen openly debating who would be the party’s chief ministerial candidate for the assembly election even as ally BJP has expressed intention to lead the alliance. In an interview with Julie Mariappan, AIADMK deputy coordinator  K P Munusamy, who had teamed up with O Panneerselvam when the party split in 2017, said the AIADMK was heading a popular government and it will lead the alliance for the 2021 assembly election. Q: Tamil Nadu politics has seen only regional parties steering alliance for over five decades. Now BJP state vice-president V P Duraisamy has pitched for a strong alliance led by his party. What is the AIADMK’s stand?He has switched camps (from the DMK to the BJP) and expressed his views to show off his standing in the party. I don’t know if the views are his own or that of the party high-command. But Murugan (BJP state unit president) says the alliance stands. As far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, the AIADMK has been ruling the state for long. The state is at the forefront in several sectors due to the contributions of Puratchi Thalaivar (M G Ramachandran), Amma (J Jayalalithaa) and now our chief minister (Edappadi K Palaniswami), who is providing good governance. The AIADMK will lead the alliance and contest the forthcoming polls. Q: Has the party conveyed its angst over statements of local leaders to the BJP leadership?It is not necessary. Our party is running a popular government. There is no need to take seriously comments made by those who joined them recently. Q: Speculation is rife over the AIADMK’s strategy for assembly polls. Who do you think the party will alignwith?Only when elections are closer, we will know who will join whom or who will ditch whom. Those who repose faith in a democratic set up, will join hands with us. We will follow the path laid down by our leaders on respecting alliance dharma, our allies and its leaders, take them along with us and contest the polls. We will return to govern the state in 2021 too. Q: A large section in the party believes chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami should be the CM candidate in the assembly election. What is the party’s stand?Several people had little faith in us after Amma’s demise. They said the government will not last long nor that the party would remain with us. But overcoming the challenges, the government is being run efficiently by the chief minister and the party by coordinator and joint coordinator. All the leaders are striving hard to safeguard the party. Certain individuals express views for personal gains, but the decision (on the chief ministerial candidate) will be taken at an appropriate time. Q:You have watched both Panneerselvam and Palaniswami. Who do you think is the better candidate for the post?We will discuss, and an announcement will be made. Q: Will V K Sasikala’s release from prison in the coming months have any impact on the ruling party?There is no link between us (AIADMK) and her, therefore linking us again and again is unacceptable. She may have other domestic issues to sort out when out of jail. We are not bothered if she is inside or outside. Q:Minister Rajenthra Bhalaji has said there will be horse trading in the event of a candidate being chosen after the elections. He is a cadre, office bearer and a minister. If the party and government have to be steered safely, such views should be avoided. This is not a party of an individual but that of 1.5 crore cadres. Q: Some in the party want to bring back the post of general secretary?The question does not arise at all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-will-continue-to-lead-alliance-in-2021-munusamy/articleshow/77535817.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 14, 2020||Varanasi||NH-29 to connect city with Purvanchal e-way by Dec end||Varanasi: The Varanasi-Ghazipur highway (NH-29), which will connect Varanasi with the ambitious Purvanchal Expressway, will complete by December end. And, as the expressway work will be completed by April 2021, Varanasi people will be able to access it via Azamgarh as Varanasi-Azamgarh (NH-233) will also be finalised by March 2021. The main stretch of the expressway will be opened for public use by January 2021, said additional chief secretary Avanish Awasthi during physical inspection of Purvanchal Expressway project in Ghazipur and Mau districts on August 9. When TOI on Thursday tried to take stock of the projects that will connect Varanasi with PE, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal said, “People in Varanasi will have Ghazipur as the nearest point to access the expressway. And for the same the on-going project of four-lane high speed NH-29 will be completed by the NHAI by December end.” Agrawal said that NHAI is executing Rs 18,000 crore projects in Varanasi and surrounding regions among which the major projects are 72.15 km NH-29 of Rs 868.50 crore, 118.89 km Varanasi-Azamgarh Ghaghra Bridge (NH-233) of Rs 1,526 crore and 137.89 km Varanasi-Sultanpur (NH-56) of Rs 1,792 crore. The work on all these projects had been delayed due to time taken in completion of land acquisition process. Agrawal said that now over 90% land issues have been resolved and NHAI will intensify the pace of remaining work including construction immediately after the end of monsoon. The NH-29 project will be the first to complete by December end, said Agrawal adding that work on NH-56 and NH-233 will be completed by March 2021. If NHAI officials are to be believed the projects of four-lane conversion of NH-56, NH-29 and NH-233 were in final stage when the lockdown in view of Covid-19 was announced in March. All these projects had to be completed by June end but meeting the deadline became impossible due to extension of lockdown as well as commencement of monsoon. PM Narendra Modi had laid foundation of Rs 22,500 crore ambitious PE project in Azamgarh in July 2018 to give an infrastructure boost to the eastern regions. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had recently taken stock of the progress of the work on this project after which Awasthi conducted a physical inspection of the project on August 9. Being executed by the Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority the PE will start from Haidaria village in Ghazipur and go up to Chand Sarai in Lucknow after passing through Mau, Azamgarh, Ambedkar Nagar, Amethi, Ayodhya, Sultanpur and Barabbanki. The 340.824 km long access-controlled six-lane PE works had also been hampered due to lockdown. But, during his inspection at Ghazipur Awasthi said hectic efforts are underway to complete the expressway in scheduled time while its main stretches will be opened for public by December end or in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/nh-29-to-connect-city-with-purvanchal-e-way-by-dec-end/articleshow/77534929.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19: Over 20,000 lives saved at UP medical colleges||LUCKNOW: The Covid-19 recovery rate of state medical institutions, including private medical colleges, was found to be more than national and state averages in an assessment of data undertaken on Thursday. While the recovery rate for UP was nearly 63%, the national average stood at 70%. The average recovery rate of government hospitals was estimated to be 60%. Against this, 74% of the patients, who underwent treatment at government or private medical colleges of UP, defeated the pandemic and went home. “Of the total 27,000 persons who underwent treatment at state medical colleges, 20,000 recovered. Most of the others are under care, while a small number of them have died,” said additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube. He said that over 85% of the patients attended at state medical colleges had comorbid conditions. “Our doctors, nurses and support staff have displayed rearkable commitment. Every single recovery meant victory of life over death,” said Dube. Data revealed that many private hospitals like Teerthanker Mahaveer University Moradabad, GIMS Greater Noida, Sharda University, Era Medical University Lucknow, GSVM Kanpur have done exemplary work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-20k-lives-saved-at-up-med-colleges/articleshow/77535300.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 14, 2020||Dehradun||HC issues show-cause notices to DM, Doon municipal commissioner in contempt case||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court on Thursday issued show-cause notices to the district magistrate (DM) and Dehradun municipal commissioner after a civil contempt was filed alleging that both the officials did not comply with the orders of the division bench of the court. A civil contempt is invoked when someone willfully fails to follow the order, judgement or decree of the court. The single-judge bench of Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma issued the show-cause notices, giving both the officials two weeks to respond. The contempt petition was filed by the chairman of the ‘Weekly Sunday Market Welfare Association’, Heera Lal. In his petition, Lal said they had been holding the Sunday market near the Tibetan Market in Dehradun since 2004. “However in 2018, the administration and the municipal commissioner forced us to vacate the land. Later, the alternate location of the Parade Ground was suggested to set up the shops. However, this location was given to another association registered on our own address. As a result, over 300 people who were setting shops every Sunday are now jobless,” said Shakti Singh, the counsel appearing for the petitioner. The matter had reached the court and the division bench of then Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice Alok Kumar Verma had directed both officers to take a decision within two months on the petitioner’s claim that they were the real committee who are organizing the Sunday market in the city. Singh said even though the order from the division bench was passed on January 3 and his client made the representation on January 14, no action has been taken yet. “We told the court that even after seven months, the officers have not followed the court’s order which set the time frame of two months. After which the court issued them show-cause notices,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-issues-show-cause-notices-to-dm-doon-municipal-commissioner-in-contempt-case/articleshow/77531820.cms||Prashant Jha
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: BJP to move no-confidence motion against Congress govt||JAIPUR: The state BJP on Thursday announced that it would move a no-confidence motion against the Gehlot government in assembly on Friday. The announcement came after the party’s legislature meeting held at the party headquarters. BJP state president Satish Poonia said they would call for a floor test and though the motion might be defeated, the party would expose the Congress’ internal fissures before the public. This is for the first time the party has openly expressed its willingness to go for a no-confidence motion after the political crisis surfaced. They have been either refusing to comment or denying to go for floor test stating that it was Congress’ internal fight. Sources said moving the motion was advised by the central leaders to cause embarrassment to the Congress. “The government will not last long considering the low level of power struggle they have had. They have lost the confidence of people and has no moral ground to rule the state after a month-long game of hide and seek they shamelessly played in the midst of the pandemic,” said Poonia. Lashing at the Congress government, leader of opposition Gulabchand Kataria said other than the no-confidence motion, BJP and its legislators will raise issues the state is facing. “The mishandling of Covid, chronic failure to contain the incessant attacks by locusts, misuse of law enforcement agencies during the political crisis, false allegations on the BJP, rising crime in the state and issues related to water, power and school fees,” said Kataria. During the meeting, Poonia gave a presentation on Bhoomi Pujan of Ram Temple, abrogation of Article 370 and the central government’s efforts to take on the pandemic. The party leaders reiterated that the assembly session was going to be action-packed and they will not leave any issue unanswered. The BJP has 72 MLAs in the 200-member house and has the support of their ally Rashtriya Loktantrik Party party’s three MLAs. Congress has 107 MLAs and support of around 16 other MLAs. The meeting was attended by Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar, BJP’s party incharge in Rajasthan Avinash Rai Khanna and national general secretary V Satish. Responding to a question on the need of the central leaders to participate in the meeting, Poonia said central government was responsibly fulfilling its obligation of ‘cooperative federalism.’ “Union agriculture minister Tomarji is here to keep an update on the central government schemes related to farmers in the pandemic. He has taken feedback from the MLAs and advised them to popularize these schemes,” said Poonia. The meeting was first scheduled on August 11 at a private hotel but the party has to change its strategy since the truce between the Sachin Pilot and the Congress in Delhi. Watch Rajasthan: BJP to move no-confidence motion against Congress govt||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-to-move-no-confidence-motion-against-cong-govt/articleshow/77534553.cms||Shoeb Khan
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Congress to go for trust vote in Rajasthan assembly today||JAIPUR: Ahead of the crucial session of the Rajasthan assembly beginning Friday, chief minister Ashok Gehlot told Congress legislators that the state government would have proved its majority sans the 19 rebels but that would have been devoid of happiness and ‘stability’. "Apne toh apne hote hain (our dear ones are our own)," Gehlot said, addressing the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting where former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his group of 18 legislators, who had rebelled last month, were present on Thursday. After the CLP, AICC general secretary (organisation) KC Venugopal said, "Everything went on well. Now the Congress family is united. We will fight against BJP’s bad politics." He added, "Tomorrow in Vidhan Sabha, the Congress party will stand unitedly and will fight out (the BJP)." Chief minister Gehlot talked about moving a ‘confidence motion’ in the assembly on Friday. Earlier in the day, leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria had said that the BJP would move a ‘no confidence motion’ against the Congress government. Pilot assured the CLP that "every single person sitting in this hall" would go by whatever Congress president Sonia Gandhi asked them to do when the truce was brokered early this week. "If something needs to be changed in our style of functioning or our governance structure, then we should not shy away from doing it," Pilot said at the CLP. Venugopal thanked Pilot for returning by saying that the entire nation had been watching the past month’s events wondering what Congress’s future would be, said sources. Venugopal said that Pilot’s home coming has strengthened Congress not just in Rajasthan but across the nation, said sources. The MLAs led by Pilot attended the CLP for the first time after over a month since they raised a rebellion against Gehlot’s leadership. Following the revolt, the Congress sacked Pilot as the deputy CM and PCC chief. MLAs Vishvendra Singh and Ramesh Meena were removed as tourism and food and civil supplies ministers, respectively. Singh and senior MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma were suspended from the party’s membership. Few hours before to the CLP that was held at the chief minister’s residence in the evening, AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande revoked suspension of Singh and Sharma, who could then come for the party event. Legislators who were corralled in a hotel on the city outskirts following the revolt were brought to CMR in buses. Around half-an-hour prior to the CLP, Pilot reached the CMR where AICC general secretary Venugopal facilitated his meeting with Gehlot in the presence of PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra and senior party leaders Randeep Singh Surjewala, Ajay Maken and Pande. Subsequently, the 18 MLAs loyal to Pilot reached for the CMR. At the start of the CLP, Gehlot and Pilot, along with the senior leaders, made victory signs with their hands before the media. Gehlot told the legislators that their grievances would be redressed at the earliest. "You can meet me now or later," the CM said, in an apparent reference to the Pilot camp MLAs who had complained to the Congress central leadership about public issues remaining unattended in their constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-to-go-for-trust-vote-in-assembly-today/articleshow/77534562.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
August 14, 2020||Kolhapur||80% beds in Maharashtra private hospitals to stay reserved till November||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said 80% beds of private hospitals and nursing homes across Maharashtra would have to be kept reserved for Covid-19 patients for the next three months. “With the shortfall of beds in big cities, the rise in Covid-19 cases and continuous testing, we have to make the necessary arrangements. This arrangement (reserving 80% beds) will continue for the next three months,” Tope told TOI, adding that a proposal to this effect was being made. Confirming the development, state health secretary Pradeep Vyas said the proposal in this regard was ready and it would be reviewed at the end of the month. The state government on May 21 had passed a notification in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, allowing the government authorities to take over 80% beds in private hospitals and regulate the treatment charges. The notification would lapse on August 31. Most of the private hospitals in Pune expressed their willingness to maintain the 80:20 bed ratio but sought change in the treatment costs, claiming that they were unable to manage the overhead costs. The head of the state unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Avinash Bhondwe, said the hospitals were willing to maintain the bed ratio for the next three months also, but there was a need to reconsider the treatment cost and it should be reviewed with the IMA members. Another IMA member said the rates being levied currently on patients prevailed nearly five years ago. Representatives of some corporate hospitals earlier proposed to bring down the percentage of reserved beds to 50%. “We understand the present situation, but the hospitals need to take care of overheads. We have been even unable to pay the salaries of our staffers,” said a board member of a hospital. Another IMA member said the burden on the hospitals in the city would reduce after the two jumbo facilities at Annasaheb Magar Stadium and on the CoEP ground start functioning from August 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/80-beds-in-private-hospitals-to-stay-reserved-till-november/articleshow/77540083.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 14, 2020||Pune||80% beds in Maharashtra private hospitals to stay reserved till November||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said 80% beds of private hospitals and nursing homes across Maharashtra would have to be kept reserved for Covid-19 patients for the next three months. “With the shortfall of beds in big cities, the rise in Covid-19 cases and continuous testing, we have to make the necessary arrangements. This arrangement (reserving 80% beds) will continue for the next three months,” Tope told TOI, adding that a proposal to this effect was being made. Confirming the development, state health secretary Pradeep Vyas said the proposal in this regard was ready and it would be reviewed at the end of the month. The state government on May 21 had passed a notification in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, allowing the government authorities to take over 80% beds in private hospitals and regulate the treatment charges. The notification would lapse on August 31. Most of the private hospitals in Pune expressed their willingness to maintain the 80:20 bed ratio but sought change in the treatment costs, claiming that they were unable to manage the overhead costs. The head of the state unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Avinash Bhondwe, said the hospitals were willing to maintain the bed ratio for the next three months also, but there was a need to reconsider the treatment cost and it should be reviewed with the IMA members. Another IMA member said the rates being levied currently on patients prevailed nearly five years ago. Representatives of some corporate hospitals earlier proposed to bring down the percentage of reserved beds to 50%. “We understand the present situation, but the hospitals need to take care of overheads. We have been even unable to pay the salaries of our staffers,” said a board member of a hospital. Another IMA member said the burden on the hospitals in the city would reduce after the two jumbo facilities at Annasaheb Magar Stadium and on the CoEP ground start functioning from August 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/80-beds-in-private-hospitals-to-stay-reserved-till-november/articleshow/77534565.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 14, 2020||Aurangabad||80% beds in Maharashtra private hospitals to stay reserved till November||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said 80% beds of private hospitals and nursing homes across Maharashtra would have to be kept reserved for Covid-19 patients for the next three months. “With the shortfall of beds in big cities, the rise in Covid-19 cases and continuous testing, we have to make the necessary arrangements. This arrangement (reserving 80% beds) will continue for the next three months,” Tope told TOI, adding that a proposal to this effect was being made. Confirming the development, state health secretary Pradeep Vyas said the proposal in this regard was ready and it would be reviewed at the end of the month. The state government on May 21 had passed a notification in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, allowing the government authorities to take over 80% beds in private hospitals and regulate the treatment charges. The notification would lapse on August 31. Most of the private hospitals in Pune expressed their willingness to maintain the 80:20 bed ratio but sought change in the treatment costs, claiming that they were unable to manage the overhead costs. The head of the state unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Avinash Bhondwe, said the hospitals were willing to maintain the bed ratio for the next three months also, but there was a need to reconsider the treatment cost and it should be reviewed with the IMA members. Another IMA member said the rates being levied currently on patients prevailed nearly five years ago. Representatives of some corporate hospitals earlier proposed to bring down the percentage of reserved beds to 50%. “We understand the present situation, but the hospitals need to take care of overheads. We have been even unable to pay the salaries of our staffers,” said a board member of a hospital. Another IMA member said the burden on the hospitals in the city would reduce after the two jumbo facilities at Annasaheb Magar Stadium and on the CoEP ground start functioning from August 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/80-beds-in-private-hospitals-to-stay-reserved-till-november/articleshow/77540085.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Family bought land in line with law: Minister to Cong leader||Shimla: A week after senior Congress leader, Major Vijai Singh Mankotia (retired) alleged that people linked to a state cabinet minister purchased a huge chunk of land in different parts of Kangra district, social justice and empowerment minister Sarveen Chaudhary held a press conference in Dharamshala on Thursday, where she denied the allegations. She said her family members purchased the land in accordance with law for personal use. She also asked Mankotia to clarify whether he made any monetary gain by selling land in Rajasthan, Himachal and Hoshiarpur and how much money he spent on the construction of his residence, “Om Mahal” at Tiyara in Kangra district. On August 8, Mankotia held a press conference in Dharamshala, wherein, without naming a minister, he urged chief minister Jai Ram Thakur to recommend a CBI probe into the land purchase. He said if Thakur failed to recommend a CBI probe he would approach the high court, claiming that hundreds of kanals of land have been purchased in Kangra by people linked to a minister. Sarveen Chaudhary said Mankotia should first talk about the source of information on the basis of which he had levelled the allegations. She said whatever land she or her family owns is listed in the affidavit filed before the election commission during each election. She also said that the land was purchased by her family for personal use in accordance with the law. Sarveen Chaudhary said she has been contesting the elections since 1993 and has contested six of them. She said each detail of property was given to the election commission in form 26 at the time of filing of nominations. Chaudhary also said her husband retired from the Army as Brigadier after 32 years of service and is drawing a monthly pension of Rs 1.25 lakh. Her husband and son, who has an MBA degree, are working on setting up their own venture and they make small investments with their savings from time to time, she said, adding that they also take loans at times. Describing the allegation of her family buying 4,000 kanals (500 acres) of land as misleading, she said whatever land they have bought in Mohal Fatehpur is in the public domain. At Bhagsunag, she said, her family is constructing a guest house on their own land with due permission. The drawing was approved during the previous Congress regime, she said. The minister said she is considering legal action against Mankotia, saying he is trying to harm her politically after losing three elections to her. She asked Mankotia to clarify why he registered his residence under the home stay scheme and what the actual cost of land purchased by him in Shahpur in 2003 was. She also asked what the actual amount was when he sold it in 2009.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/family-bought-land-in-line-with-law-minister-to-cong-leader/articleshow/77534567.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Allahabad||Gangster on the run, property worth Rs 1.6 cr attached||Prayagraj: Police attached property worth Rs 1.61crore belonging to absconding gangster Sabhapati Yadav, who has over 50 cases registered against him, in Pratapgrah on Thursday. According to reports, Aspur Devsara police of Pratapgarh district attached Yadav’s property under the Gangster Act. Yadav is a resident of Vinaika village. Aspur Devsara police said based on the report of SP (Pratapgarh), the district administration had on August 10 ordered for Yadav’s property be attached as he had amassed it through illegal means. Police also said that Yadav was also among the top 10 criminals wanted by Aspur Devsara police. He has been running an organised gang and has been involved in many criminal activities since 1999. Fifty criminal cases are registered against him in different police stations of Pratapgarh district. Police had first conducted a munadi (public announcement) and later attached the property. Meanwhile, a man wanted in connection with nine criminal cases and had a cash reward of Rs 25,000 on his head was arrested near Babu Crossing in Pratapargh on Thursday. The criminal Sudhir Pandey is a resident of Shivrajpur and was wanted in connection with a case registered under section 307 and 302 of the IPC at Antoo police station. Police said that he was also listed under top 10 criminal. Moreover, two men were arrested with country-made pistols of 0.315 bore and two live cartridges on Thursday. The accused Riyasat Ali and Gulhasan are residents of Mandhata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/gangster-on-the-run-property-worth-rs-1-6-cr-attached/articleshow/77534889.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nashik||80% beds in Maharashtra private hospitals to stay reserved till November||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said 80% beds of private hospitals and nursing homes across Maharashtra would have to be kept reserved for Covid-19 patients for the next three months. “With the shortfall of beds in big cities, the rise in Covid-19 cases and continuous testing, we have to make the necessary arrangements. This arrangement (reserving 80% beds) will continue for the next three months,” Tope told TOI, adding that a proposal to this effect was being made. Confirming the development, state health secretary Pradeep Vyas said the proposal in this regard was ready and it would be reviewed at the end of the month. The state government on May 21 had passed a notification in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, allowing the government authorities to take over 80% beds in private hospitals and regulate the treatment charges. The notification would lapse on August 31. Most of the private hospitals in Pune expressed their willingness to maintain the 80:20 bed ratio but sought change in the treatment costs, claiming that they were unable to manage the overhead costs. The head of the state unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Avinash Bhondwe, said the hospitals were willing to maintain the bed ratio for the next three months also, but there was a need to reconsider the treatment cost and it should be reviewed with the IMA members. Another IMA member said the rates being levied currently on patients prevailed nearly five years ago. Representatives of some corporate hospitals earlier proposed to bring down the percentage of reserved beds to 50%. “We understand the present situation, but the hospitals need to take care of overheads. We have been even unable to pay the salaries of our staffers,” said a board member of a hospital. Another IMA member said the burden on the hospitals in the city would reduce after the two jumbo facilities at Annasaheb Magar Stadium and on the CoEP ground start functioning from August 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/80-beds-in-private-hospitals-to-stay-reserved-till-november/articleshow/77540082.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||80% beds in Maharashtra private hospitals to stay reserved till November||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said 80% beds of private hospitals and nursing homes across Maharashtra would have to be kept reserved for Covid-19 patients for the next three months. “With the shortfall of beds in big cities, the rise in Covid-19 cases and continuous testing, we have to make the necessary arrangements. This arrangement (reserving 80% beds) will continue for the next three months,” Tope told TOI, adding that a proposal to this effect was being made. Confirming the development, state health secretary Pradeep Vyas said the proposal in this regard was ready and it would be reviewed at the end of the month. The state government on May 21 had passed a notification in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, allowing the government authorities to take over 80% beds in private hospitals and regulate the treatment charges. The notification would lapse on August 31. Most of the private hospitals in Pune expressed their willingness to maintain the 80:20 bed ratio but sought change in the treatment costs, claiming that they were unable to manage the overhead costs. The head of the state unit of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Avinash Bhondwe, said the hospitals were willing to maintain the bed ratio for the next three months also, but there was a need to reconsider the treatment cost and it should be reviewed with the IMA members. Another IMA member said the rates being levied currently on patients prevailed nearly five years ago. Representatives of some corporate hospitals earlier proposed to bring down the percentage of reserved beds to 50%. “We understand the present situation, but the hospitals need to take care of overheads. We have been even unable to pay the salaries of our staffers,” said a board member of a hospital. Another IMA member said the burden on the hospitals in the city would reduce after the two jumbo facilities at Annasaheb Magar Stadium and on the CoEP ground start functioning from August 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/80-beds-in-private-hospitals-to-stay-reserved-till-november/articleshow/77540084.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 14, 2020||Bareilly||Admin suspects widespread fraud, to screen all new farmers registered with cane societies||Pilibhit: The state cane administration — having detected serious anomalies in the records of many cane growers who were newly registered with cane development societies during the 2019-20 crushing season to supply cane to mills from the forthcoming crushing season — has ordered a microscopic scrutiny of all documents of new members, before their sugarcane supply bonds are approved. UP principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry Sanjay R Bhoosreddy said stringent departmental action will also be taken against officials who are found guilty of including new farmer-members to cane societies on the basis of fraudulent documents. He said the department had randomly verified revenue records and cultivated sugarcane area of 10% of the new members from Saharanpur, Meerut, Moradabad, Lucknow and Ayodhya regions, which revealed serious irregularities. During the survey, it was found that in a number of cases, the cropped area enlisted for sugarcane was higher than the total land holdings of the farmers. “As sugarcane supply bonds are executed in accordance with cultivated area, inflated records of cropped stretches will result in release of excess supply bonds, which will allow sugarcane mafias to get into cane procurement — buying cane from needy farmers at low rates and making heavy profits by selling it to mills at full state-advised price (SAP),” Bhoosreddy said. As it was feared that such irregularities could appear in other regions as well, orders were issued for 100% verification of new members to eradicate the possibility of manipulation in the system, he said. “It has been decided that farmers will be allowed to supply cane to mills only after the verification is concluded. Supply bonds of farmers who are found to have filed fraudulent data will be liable for cancellation. Likewise, stern action will be taken against officials who have indulged in irregularities or corruption,” Bhoosreddy added. District-level officials have been given a 15-day deadline to complete verification, following which a fresh, state-level scrutiny would be carried out, before final action is taken against defaulters, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/admin-suspects-widespread-fraud-to-screen-all-new-farmers-registered-with-cane-societies/articleshow/77529556.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Bareilly||Two vehicle-lifters arrested in Budaun||Bareilly: Two members of a vehicle-lifter gang were arrested in Budaun on Thursday. Three stolen motorcycles and a country-made pistol were seized from them. Both accused, Arvind and Faizi, have several criminal cases registered against them. Lalit Bhati, station house officer, Kadarchowk police station, said, “The duo was arrested from Vahad forest, near Dhokan village. They have been sent to jail.” Arvind has three cases of theft registered against him at the station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-vehicle-lifters-arrested-in-budaun/articleshow/77529567.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi rain: How Minto Bridge bucked the trend||NEW DELHI: Minto Bridge, which is one of the most vulnerable spots during monsoon, did not witness any waterlogging on Thursday, all thanks to a new monitoring system installed there. The system, which gives live feed to officials whenever it rains, was put in place a few weeks after a man drowned due to waterlogging under the bridge. It was activated for the first time on Thursday and everyone, from junior to senior engineers, received live feed through two CCTV cameras installed there. PWD plans to install the same system at other spots in the city to control waterlogging. According to the protocol, a water level indicator has been installed in the underground sump at all stormwater pumping stations. One the water level reaches the critical mark, which will be fixed by the executive engineer of the area, a hooter will blow an alert for operators to start the drainage pumps. The pump operators will also inform the traffic control room for taking necessary preventive measures. Traffic through the underpass will be stopped if the water level rises by 15cm. One of the CCTV cameras shows the underpass, while the other focuses on the pump room. Recording starts as soon as the pumping starts. The cameras are Wi-Fi enabled and have enough memory to store footage of at least seven days. The pumps are made functional by the field staff with the help of a mobile phone app, which shows the water level in the sump, operational status of pumps and the footage of CCTV cameras. PWD has warned that an FIR will be filed against those not following traffic restrictions imposed during heavy rain. For coordination work and prevention of waterlogging under Minto Bridge, officials can take the services of the local civic body and Delhi Police. If need arises, the situation can be escalated to the PWD minister and principal secretary, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-minto-bridge-bucked-the-trend/articleshow/77534572.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 14, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur girl walks again with ‘hero’ Sonu Sood’s help||Gorakhpur: Filmstar Sonu Sood, who is being hailed as a real-life hero for his humanitarian work during the pandemic, has now played benefactor to a 22 year old Gorakhpur girl who would soon be able to walk once again because of his help. The girl’s father Vijay Mishra, a local priest, is highly grateful to Sood and showered his countless blessings on the actor. Mishra, who lives in Indrapuram, Padri Bazar area of Gorakhpur, told TOI, “My daughter Pragya was badly injured in a road accident in February. Both her knees were damaged. When we consulted a local doctor he said surgery was the only option and would cost Rs 1.5 lakh.” We were distraught as we did not have so much money. I requested some relatives for help but most of them politely refused, he added. “Pragya is a law student. She tried to contact some leaders and social workers in vain. In the first week of August, she tweeted to actor Sonu Sood for help, and he replied that he has talked to a surgeon and called her to Delhi,” said Mishra. Her knee replacement surgery was successfully done at Ghaziabad on Wednesday evening, he said. When TOI contacted Pragya on phone, she said, “My surgery is successful and I’m able to walk with the help of walker now. The doctor is saying I will be discharged after two days. I am extremely thankful to Sonu Sood sir. All the arrangements, including the train ticket were made by him.” “When I and my mother reached Delhi, Sonu Sood sir’s team greeted us at the railway station and took us to the hospital straight away from there,” she added. “Sonu Sood is like God to us. Such angels are difficult to find in Kalyug. I have nothing to offer, but I give him countless blessings and good wishes for more happiness and bright future,” said Vijay Mishra. “I have decided that when I will start earning, I’ll help the children who are deprived of education,” said Pragya. Sood had helped thousands of stuck stranded migrant workers to reach homes by arranging buses, special trains and chartered flights for them during lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-girl-walks-again-with-hero-sonu-soods-help/articleshow/77534968.cms||Arjumand Bano
August 14, 2020||Vadodara||2 hypermarket staff booked for cheating store of Rs 23 lakh||Vadodara: Store manager and an information technology officer of a hypermarket in Gotri were booked for siphoning off store’s stock and money worth Rs 23 lakh.The accused Raju Singh Rajpurohit and Kailashkumar Meghwal came under the scanner after the company owning Osia Hypermarket on Gotri-Sevasi Road conducted an audit. According to police, Rajpurohit, the store manager, had ordered stock worth Rs 20.8 lakh from different companies for the store between February 16, 2016 and February 3 this year and kept them in the store’s warehouse. The payment for the stock was done by the company. The audit revealed that Rajpurohit along with Meghwal used to switch off the CCTV cameras of the store and warehouse to siphon off the stock for their personal use or to sell them illegally. It also came to light during the probe that Rajpurohit had not paid salaries amounting to Rs 1.3 lakh to the employees of the store. Rajpurohit also deposited the rent amount of Rs 70,000 paid by a jewellery seller and batter seller in his personal account and did not pay Rs 25,000 to a vendor.The audit was conducted after Rajpurohit left his job in July this year after a complaint was filed with Gotri police station againt him for allegedly molesting an employee of the store. He was arrested in the molestation case and sent to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/2-hypermarket-staff-booked-for-cheating-store-of-rs-23-lakh/articleshow/77530898.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress revokes suspension of two MLAs||JAIPUR: The Congress on Thursday revoked the suspension of two of its MLAs before the CLP meeting at the chief minister’s residence. “After a consultative discussion, the suspension of Rajasthan Congress MLA Bhanwarlal Sharma and Vishvendra Singh is hereby revoked,” Pande’s tweeted. It comes a day ahead of the commencement of the the Assembly session. On July 17, the Congress suspended Vishwendra Singh and Bhanwarlal Sharma from primary membership of the party following allegations that they were involved in a conspiracy to topple the Ashok Gehlot government. Vishvendra Singh, on Thursday said, "Things will definitely smoothen within the party.” He added, "The government will complete its five-year term under the leadership of Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot." Singh also expressed hope that a three-member committee announced by the All India Congress Committee will find solutions to the grievances of the legislators. The suspension followed the leak of audio clips with conversations allegedly between Sharma, Sanjay Jain, an intermediary suspected to be a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) functionary, and Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, which hinted at a conspiracy to bring down the government. Following the video became public, SOG started an investigation after party chief which Mahesh Joshi filed a complaint. The SOG filed cases under sedition and criminal conspiracy which the SOG later withdrew in the court and the matter is being inquired by ACB. While Jain was arrested but the SOG could not question the MLAs as they were away in Haryana and SOG sleuths were stopped from entry at the hotel. Last month, Pilot was removed as deputy chief minister and Rajasthan Congress chief after his differences with Gehlot came out in open triggering a political crisis in the state with Pilot going to Delhi with 18 of his supporting MLAs with him. Pilot was reportedly miffed after the SOG sent him a notice to record his statement in a case of alleged poaching of Congress MLAs in the state. However, this crisis apparently seems to have ended now as Pilot has agreed to work for the party after a meeting with the Congress top leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-revokes-suspension-of-two-mlas/articleshow/77534571.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||Stigma no bar, family of four from Yerawada takes the lead to help civic body cremate bodies||PUNE: Amid the stigma surrounding Covid-19, a family of four from Yerawada has emerged as knights in shining armour, carrying out cremations of those who have died of the disease despite the risks involved. So far, Arun Jangam, along with his wife, two children and a crew of workers, has conducted 1,400 cremations in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. Jangam has been working for more than a decade at crematoriums run by the PMC for a contractor, but the last few months have been particularly busy and stressful for him as well as his family members. Seeing him running around arranging for the cremations of those who have died of Covid-19, his wife and two children came to his aid despite their initial apprehension. While he remains busy taking care of the nitty-gritty of the cremation process, his children make arrangements for the PPE kits from the PMC and his wife maintains a register of the number of persons cremated. “A lot of protocol needs to be followed regarding paperwork, besides wrapping the body in protective material. When all of that is completed, the officials alert us, and we send an ambulance. We generally take the bodies to the Kailash crematorium near Naidu Hospital or to the Amardham crematorium at Yerawada. Sometimes, we also go to the Koregaon Park crematorium,” he said. “My family was initially scared. I have college-going children at home. Slowly, they overcame fear. And, now, all of them help me in carrying out the cremation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stigma-no-bar-family-of-four-takes-the-lead-to-help-civic-body-cremate-bodies/articleshow/77534576.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: No high tea at Raj Bhawan on Independence Day||LUCKNOW: The novel coronavirus pandemic effect has dampened the much awaited high tea on the sprawling lawns of Raj Bhawan on the occasion of Independence Day as governor Anandiben Patel has pruned the guest list and invited only a select few. The traditional high tea has been cancelled and converted into an informal meeting with VVIPs of the state in the afternoon of Independence day on August 15. It has been done mainly to follow the novel coronavirus protocol and to maintain the social distancing norm. While over six ministers of the Yogi government are down with Covid 19 and recuperating in different hospitals, a cabinet minister Kamal Rani has expired. The governor has invited Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and two deputy chief ministers Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, while almost all ministers have been dropped from the guest list. Speaker of the state Legislative Assembly Hriday Narayan Dikshit has also been invited. Sources in Raj Bhawan said that even senior IAS officers might not get the invitation. Several IAS officers have received the greeting card of Independence Day from Raj Bhawan, but not the invite. So far, chief secretary RK Tewari and chairman of the Revenue Board Deepak Trivedi have been invited. They might be joined by a few senior colleagues. IAS offcers of additional chief secretary rank and below may not be invited to the informal meeting which will be organised inside the Blue Room Hall this year. Some top police authorities, including DGP Hitesh Chandra Awasthy and a few senior Army officers might also be invited to the event. However, no invite has been forwarded to journalists. Invitation from the Raj Bahwan is seen as a status symbol of sorts. But the pandemic and the rising number of Covid cases in the state have compelled the governor to change the venue from lawns to the hall. An official spokesman of the Raj Bhawan confirmed that invited guests would spend 15 minutes with the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-spoiler-no-high-tea-at-raj-bhawan-on-i-day/articleshow/77535311.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 14, 2020||Pune||Two hosps get ethics panels’ nod for vaccine’s clinical trial||Pune: The institutional ethics committees of the Bharati Hospital and Research Centre, and KEM Hospital have given a go-ahead for the clinical trials of the Oxford University’s AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine.The B J Medical College and Sassoon General Hospital, and Jehangir Hospital are awaiting approval from their respective institutional ethics committees.Principal investigator at the KEM Hospital’s clinical trial site Ashish Bawdekar said they received the approval from the ethics committee on August 13.“We shall have the site initiation visit sometime next week. We are waiting for vials to come to the site. The first recruitment of the volunteers was supposed to be on August 20, but it seems vials will not be able to reach the site by that time. So, it will get pushed to somewhere around the last week of August,” said Bawdekar.He said there was no fixed sample size, but they were anticipating somewhere around 200-250 participants.Sanjay Lalwani, medical director, Bharati hospital, told TOI, “The trials for the proposed vaccine were likely to begin soon. We got the clearance from the institutional ethics committee of Bharati hospital on Wednesday and I am sure other shortlisted hospitals from Pune, too, will get their clearance soon. We are looking at the sample size of around 300-350 volunteers at Bharati hospital. The basic aim of the trial is to study safety and potency or immunogenicity of the vaccine.”He said the meeting of the principal investigators from the shortlisted sites across the country had been called on Friday, where the details regarding the study would be discussed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-hosps-get-ethics-panels-nod-for-vaccines-clinical-trial/articleshow/77534569.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Railway board offers incentives||Hyderabad: The railway board announced a set of concessions and incentive schemes. The board decided to give concession in short lead traffic to improve industrial activities, under which a discount of 50% will be given on freight up to 0-50 km, 25% discount on freight up to 51-75 km and 10% discount on freight up to 76-90 km. Freight up to 91-100 km will also be carried by railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/railway-board-offers-incentives/articleshow/77534570.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Goa||With 570 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, Goa crosses 10,000-mark||PANAJI: The state’s total Covid-19 caseload breached the 10,000-mark on Thursday with a highest single day spike of 570 cases. This also pushed the tally of active cases to 3,491. Since Sunday, an average of 460 cases has been reported per day. The state’s Covid-19 death count also shot up to 91 after two men — a 48-year-old man from Rajbagh, in Canacona and a 73-year-old man from Aquem, Margao — both with co-morbid conditions succumbed to the virus at ESI-Covid hospital in Margao. The total cases reported from the jurisdiction of the Margao urban health centre went up by 90 cases on Thursday taking its total active cases to 390. An health official said that the trend in Margao is similar to what was seen in Zuarinagar, a month ago when it reported cases close to 400. He said Fatorda, Gogol, Aquem, Gandhi market, central Margao and other areas of the commercial town bordering Curtorim need to be watched as majority cases are detected from these areas. “These areas are a major cause of concern and the government must declare containment zones here to contain any further spread of the virus. Otherwise we will witness a massive spike in the next 15 days. It’s still not too late to take measures,” he said. 348 cases detected from Margao till date, 122 curedThe tally of active cases reported within the jurisdiction of the Curtorim primary health centre stood at 96 on Thursday. Of the altogether 1,719 cases in Salcete till date, 348 cases were detected from Margao, out of which 122 have recovered, while three succumbed to the infection, leaving 223 active cases. Around 90 of these cases have been linked to the new municipal market and the Gandhi market. South Goa collector Ajit Roy has now directed the Margao municipality to ensure that whenever any shopkeeper/worker goes for testing, the shop should remain closed until his report is obtained, and that if he is found positive, the shop should remain closed for 14 days. In North Goa, a major rise in cases was reported from Valpoi. The rise in infection in Valpoi has been sharp and active cases stood at 142. Other community health centres that crossed the 100-mark on Thursday are Pernem and Sakhali. Panaji reported 22 new cases taking its caseload to 167. The positive cases reported from Panaji on Thursday includes a newspaper editor, a staffer of Ayush minister Shripad Naik, two bank employees, and a biochemist working at GMC. On Wednesday, the Ayush minister and his wife had tested positive. Porvorim, which is also witnessing a major rise, had 40 more cases on Thursday taking its total of active cases to 113. A massive rise in infection was also reported from the jurisdiction of the primary health centre in Chimbel. The active caseload has shot up to 195. (With inputs from Govind Kamat Maad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-570-covid-cases-on-thu-goa-crosses-10k-mark/articleshow/77534574.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 14, 2020||Varanasi||Police debunk life threat alleged in video by MLA||Varanasi: A day after Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra released a video claiming life threat to him and his family members, Bhadohi police on Thursday termed it as a bid to divert attention from the 73 criminal cases lodged against him. Police have also booked Mishra under Goonda Act and lodged an FIR against him in a case of grabbing property of his relative. Mishra on Wednesday made a video message viral on social media in which he alleged that he along with his wife and son were being framed in false cases and Gopiganj police have made it difficult for his family to stay in Gopiganj area. He claimed life threat to his son and pregnant daughter-in-law. Mishra also tried playing the Brahmin card by claiming that he was being targeted by the police for belonging to a particular caste. He held it a conspiracy to ensure that no local person could contest the zila panchayat election and pave the way fro muscleman from Varanasi to contest. He also claimed that he could be arrested or murdered any time. However, Bhadohi cops on Thursday morning reacted strongly to Mishra’s allegations through their official Twitter handle. Contacted, SP Bhadohi RB Singh held it a bid to mislead people and divert their attention from his criminal history, which has 73 cases in his name. Regarding allegations of biased action by police, Singh said that police had registered a case on the complaint of Mishra’s own relative and probing the case impartially. He said police gunners had already been provided to Mishra, hence all his allegations are baseless. On July 18, police had booked Mishra under Goonda Act for issuing threat to a contractor who got the contract of realising toll at Lalanagar toll plaza on national highway-2 in Aurai area. An FIR was lodged against Mishra on August 8 on the complaint of his relative with Gopiganj police under section 325, 506,347, 387 and 449 of IPC for grabbing his house in Dhanaapur . SP Bhadohi said hearing of the case against Mishra under Goonda Act is in progress in the district magistrate’s court for approving the action initiated by the police. Police said that as many as 73 criminal cases were lodged against Mishra in different districts of the state and 10 cases being heard in MP/MLA court. Mishra is known as a muscleman politician of east UP region. After winning Gyanpur seat for three consecutive times, including 2012 election which he contested from jail, he was denied ticket by Samajwadi Party in 2017 assembly polls when he contested on Nishad Party ticket and emerged victorious for fourth time. His wife is an MLC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/police-debunk-life-threat-alleged-in-video-by-mla/articleshow/77534935.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Allahabad||DM’s orders 7 properties of jailed don Atiq Ahmad to be attached||Prayagraj: District magistrate (Prayagraj) Bhanu Chandra Goswami has ordered for seven immovable properties owned by jailed don Atiq Ahmed to be attached under Gangster Act in the city on Thursday. The properties are located in Chakia, Sabhasad Nagar, Karbala, MIG Kalindipuram, and Mahatma Gandhi Marg and fall under the limits of Khuldabad, Dhoomanganj and Civil Lines police stations. The decision was taken after SSP (Prayagraj) in a report sent to the DM had recommended the properties of the former MP to be attached as they were allegedly accumulated through illegal means. After going through the available records, the DM decided to attach the seven properties. Meanwhile, Goswami also issued notices for the cancellation of arms license of 23 firearm owners on the basis of criminal cases registered against them with different police stations. He cancelled the licenses following a report compiled by SSP (Prayagraj) who had recommended the action. The list of firearm owners whose licenses were cancelled included Atiq Ahmad, Shadab, Israr, Mukhtar Ahmad, Mohd Isha, Girish Dubey, Noor Akhtar, Mohd Azam, Mohd Imran, Mohd Idris alias Babloo, Sanjay Prasad Mishra and12 others. The list included the name of Sanjay Prasad Mishra, a private security guard who was arrested for allegedly beating up an elderly woman at the premises of Swaroop Rani Nehru Hospital last week. The accused Sanjay Mishra is a resident of Kaudhiyara. The video of assault had gone viral on social media, following which a case was registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/dms-orders-7-properties-of-jailed-don-atiq-ahmad-to-be-attached/articleshow/77534896.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||T can emerge as edu hub, says guv||Hyderabad: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said Telangana has the potential to emerge as a hub of higher education. Interacting with eminent personalities in the field of educational administration in a webinar on ‘Perspectives on National Education Policy-2020’ here on Thursday, she said NEP would usher in massive reforms and restructure the education system. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-can-emerge-as-edu-hub-says-guv/articleshow/77534581.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh to have more beds for city Covid-19 patients||CHANDIGARH: Due to the unrelenting rise in coronavirus cases, UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, on Thursday, directed that additional facilities of 100 beds each, exclusively for Chandigarh Covid-19 patients, be created at PGIMER and GMCH-32. UT adviser Manoj Parida said around 600 beds were available at hostels 8, 9 and 10 of Panjab University for taking care of mild and asymptomatic Covid-19 cases. He also said that facilities at James Hotel in Sector 17 have been requisitioned, where patients, who can afford to pay the charges, can stay and avail Covid-19 care centre services. Eden Hospital is also available for treatment in Chandigarh, he added. The administrator decided that on August 18 an interactive meeting will be held with municipal corporation councillors through video-conference to seek their views regarding Covid-19 management in the city. MP Kirron Kher will also be invited to participate in it. To tackle the situation, the UT administration has already prepared a contingency plan, under which it has split the healthcare facilities for positive persons into three categories: Covid Care Centres (CCC), Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC), and Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH), depending on the severity of the infection. The plan reads, “It is felt that about 1% population of Chandigarh may be tested positive in the worst case scenario. Hence, about 12,000 confirmed cases of Covid-19 may be detected considering the 12-lakh population. All the confirmed cases have to be isolated at some healthcare facility to contain the spread. Peak day hospitalisation of such active cases may be around 30% of the total confirmed positive cases. Hence, our estimate is that we need to be prepared for management of about 3,600 active cases.” The plan adds, “It has been estimated that about 75% of confirmed cases would either be asymptomatic or have mild symptoms. Hence we need to make arrangements for about 2,700 such positive patients on a peak day out of total 3,600 positive and active patients on the peak day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-to-have-more-beds-for-city-covid-patients/articleshow/77533253.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt appoints panel of lawyers for Supreme Court||JAIPUR: The state government issued an order appointing four advocates as panel layers in the Supreme Court to represent and defend the cases on behalf of the state of Rajasthan. According to the order issued by principal secretary, law, Vinod Kumar Bharwani, advocates Abhijeet Shah, Nilofar Khan, Ashutosh Shekhar Parcha and Preeti Thanvi have been appointed as panel lawyers of the state government in the Supreme Court. These advocates have been temporarily appointed as panel lawyers under the terms and conditions. The drafting fee will be payable to all the advocates as per the departmental order dated June 5, 2015, as per the stipulated conditions. Apart from this, this appointment will be subject to the circulars and orders issued by the Law Department from time-to-time and their services can be terminated by this department at any time without notice and reason. The panel of lawyers will not be authorised to present and advocate any case against the state of Rajasthan before the Supreme Court, New Delhi / high court, New Delhi and other courts, tribunal / authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-appoints-panel-of-lawyers-for-sc/articleshow/77534584.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Supreme Court refuses to stay speaker’s order, arguments in Rajasthan HC to continue today||JAIPUR: In what may seem as a morale booster for CM Ashok Gehlot, the Supreme Court on Thursday said it would not stay the speaker’s order on merger of six BSP MLAs in to Congress while adjourning hearing till Monday. BSP argued in the Supreme Court for an interim stay on the Speaker’s order as the matter in the high court is being deliberately delayed. SC directed the Rajasthan high court to continue hearing on the case while refusing to interfere in the matter now as the HC is hearing the case. The argument in the HC remained inconclusive on Thursday as it was a half day due to Janmashtami celebrations. Kabil Sibal, counsel for Speaker C P Joshi in the high court, argued that the BSP must approach the Speaker first. In case, he does not pass any order, then the BSP may approach the court for a direction to the Speaker for deciding on their application. He said the BSP’s writ petition bypasses the available remedy. Sibal contended that he has no problem if the BSP and the BJP are directed to approach the Speaker for a proper order if they are not satisfied with his order on September 18 last year. Senior advocate Rajeev Dhawan, who represented one of the six MLAs, also started his arguments, but the hearing remained inconclusive owing to paucity of time. The court of Justice Mahendra Goyal posted the matter on Friday the petitions filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and the BSP challenging the merger of six MLAs with the Congress. The petitioners have challenged the merger of the six MLAs —Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha — with the Congress and demanded stay on the execution of the order passed by the speaker. They contested and won the 2018 assembly elections on BSP tickets. All of them crossed over to the Congress in September 2019. The MLAs submitted an application for merger on September 16, 2019, and the speaker issued an order on September 18, 2019. Dilawar challenged the merger and filed a petition before the speaker in March this year which was rejected on July 24. Dilawar challenged the decision of the Speaker in the high court and demanded a stay on the merger. Similarly, the BSP filed a separate petition against the merger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc-refuses-to-stay-speakers-order-arguments-in-hc-to-continue-today/articleshow/77534577.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kanpur||Plea: Name Dhannipur mosque ‘Sufi Masjid’||Kanpur: The Madariya Sufi Foundation has written to the chairman of UP Sunni Waqf Board with a suggestion to name the alternate mosque in lieu of Babri masjid at Dhannipur village in Ayodhya as ‘Sufi Masjid’. The foundation had organised an international Sufi conference at Makanpur, Kanpur, last year. “The naming of the mosque as ‘Sufi Masjid’ will help promote harmony and endorse Ganga-Jamuni tehzeeb. On behalf of Sufi leaders, sajjada nasheens of dargahs, Islamic scholars and peace-loving citizens of our country, we appeal to you to consider our suggestion as this will have a positive impact nationwide,” said Haji Mohd Sameer Aziz Boghani, president, Madariya Sufi Foundation. Boghani said, “India is an example of peaceful co-existence of various religions, creeds and faiths. Sufis were firm in abstaining from religious conflict and are recognized as peaceful members of society. Sufi teachings of spirituality, tolerance and global harmony still resonate with common people. Sufism is an antidote to extremism.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/plea-name-dhannipur-mosque-sufi-masjid/articleshow/77535012.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 14, 2020||Kanpur||FGF hands over first SRGM to DGNAI for tests||Kanpur: Field Gun Factory, Kanpur handed over the first indigenously developed, 76/62 Super Rapid Gun Mount (SRGM) for testing to the director general of Naval Armament Inspection (DGNAI) during the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” week on Thursday. The 76/62 SRGM, in service with 58 Navies worldwide, is a multirole medium caliber naval gun mount, designed for anti-missile and anti-aircraft as main role, and conceived for installation on multipurpose ships of any class and type, informed Ahtasham Akhtar, public relationsoOfficer and joint general manager, Field Gun Factory, Kanpur. "This 76/62 Super Rapid Gun Mount (SRGM) has been developed by Field Gun Factory, Kanpur for the first time. After it's testing in Balasore, Odisha, we are expecting a bulk order. From the operational point of view, the 76/62 gun can fire at the max rate of fire (120 rds/min) all the loaded ammunition, without interruption, delivering a huge amount of ammunition payload on very distant targets. The 76/62 gun’s powerful and stabilized servo systems allow fast reaction to re-phasing commands from one target to the other and precision and accuracy in aiming," said Akhtar further. Hari Mohan, chairman and director general of the Ordnance Factory Board, was present as the chief guest through video conferencing and Rear Admiral Sanjay Mishra, DGNAI as special guest at the event organized on the occasion. General manager of Field Gun Factory, Kanpur G C Agnihotri highlighted the technical details of SRGM Ordnance. Thereafter, on behalf of the Chairman and Director General of the Ayudh Factory Board, General Manager of Field Gun, G C Agnihotri, duly transferred the Super Rapid Gun Mount (SRGM) to Commodore Brijendra Vasishtha, controller of Naval Armament, CNA(OF), Ordnance Factory, Khamaria, Jabalpur, present on behalf of Rear Admiral Sanjay Mishra, DGNAI at the event. On this occasion, the chairman of the Ordnance Factory Board congratulated everyone and called for all the challenges to be converted into opportunities, thereby path to success. Rear Admiral Sanjay expressed heartfelt appreciation of this achievement of the Field Gun Factory. Member, OFB C S Vishwakarma, member OFB AK Jain and senior DDG ER Sheikh, senior officials of OFB and senior officers of Field Gun Factory and JCM, members of the working committee were also present at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/fgf-hands-over-first-srgm-to-dgnai-for-tests/articleshow/77534979.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 14, 2020||Bareilly||Security guard deputed at car showroom shot, two arrested||Bareilly: Moradabad police on Thursday arrested two accused persons involved in the murder of a security guard at a private vehicle showroom in the Majhola area of UP’s Moradabad. The deceased, identified as Shakir Ali, was shot by some unknown persons on Thursday midnight at a car showroom in Majhola police station area, where he died on the spot. According to police, the security guard was killed due to personal rivalry. The city police arrested two persons in the connection and recovered licensed arms from their possession. Moradabad superintendent of police (SP) Amit Kumar Anand said, “After a security guard, identified as Shakir Ali, was shot dead by unidentified men on Thursday midnight, the Moradabad police had formed special teams to apprehend the culprits and CCTV footages were accessed by the police team to identify the accused persons. On Thursday afternoon, the police team successfully arrested two people accused in the killing of the security guard. The accused were identified as Shratipal and Suresh Sharma, local residents who also worked as security guards with private agencies in the city.” During the interrogation, accused Suresh Sharma revealed that he had previously worked as a security guard along with the deceased at the same car showroom where some dispute had occurred regarding payment with the company supervisor. The accused alleged that Shakir also got involved in the dispute and he later had to quit the job. He further alleged that after quitting the job, some unidentified men attacked him, following which he lodged a FIR against unknown persons at Majhola police station in June 2019. Ever since then, the accused wanted to take revenge from Shakir Ali. “On Thursday, we spotted Shakir Ali at the showroom and I, along with Shratipal, decided to kill him and opened fire, leaving him fatally dead,” Suresh Sharma told police. Licensed weapons and live cartridges have been recovered from the possession of the accused who have been lodged in jail. An FIR has been registered under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC. ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/security-guard-deputed-at-car-showroom-shot-two-arrested/articleshow/77529594.cms||Maria Khan
August 14, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report on Covid situation in Trichy as PIL seeks lockdown||Madurai: Madras high court on Thursday put forth several queries on the Covid-19 situation and directed the state government to file a status report in a public interest litigation which sought to impose lockdown in Trichy district to contain the spread of the viral disease. A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam asked details including the time taken to announce the test results, number of private labs permitted to perform Covid-19 tests and whether test results are conveyed to asymptomatic patients. The judges also sought details on the number of beds available to treat symptomatic patients at government hospitals and Covid care centres in the district. The judges asked whether frontline medical workers including doctors, PG students, paramedical staff and cleanliness workers are provided PPE kits, and the facilities available to cremate or bury those who die.The judges sought responses on these queries in the status report and also directed the Trichy district collector and corporation commissioner to appear before the court through video conferencing during the next hearing. R Rajagobal, a practising advocate from Trichy district, stated in his petition that since the authorities are unable to control the movement of people, the spread of Covid-19 is intense in the district. Doctors of Indian Medical Association, Trichy branch had submitted a representation to the authorities seeking to impose lockdown for two weeks in the district. Since no steps were taken, the petitioner moved high court Madurai bench with the same prayer. He also sought a direction to provide safety equipment to frontline workers and make effective arrangements for testing and treatment of patients in the district. The case was adjourned to August 27 for further hearing.Another public interest litigation filed by one S Sakthivel, a resident of Srirangam, sought to shift the Covid treatment facility set up at a private hospital in Srirangam since there were no proper infrastructure facilities at the hospital as per norms. The division bench ordered notice to the state government and adjourned the case to August 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-covid-situation-in-trichy-as-pil-seeks-lockdown/articleshow/77534583.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Varanasi||Reporter ends life, woman accuses him of harassment||Varanasi: A television new channel reporter Rohit Srivastava, who was missing for the past several days, ended his life by jumping into the Ganga river from Vishwasundari bridge on Thursday afternoon. The suicide took a mysterious turn when a woman, who possessed his mobile phone, met SSP Amit Pathak along with her lawyer. While handing over Srivastava’s phone, she levelled serious allegations of fraud and sexual harassment against him. The SSP, however, said a suicide note of several pages has been recovered, further complicating the matter. “Any thing conclusive could be said only after a through probe,” he said. “Srivastava, a native of Chandauli district dwelt in a flat in Sigra area. Reports stated that during lockdown he accommodated a woman in his flat. He went missing about 10 days ago and his family lodged a case with Sigra police in this connection on August 4,” said Pathak. However, the cops could not trace him while his mobile phone was allegedly being used by the woman. On Thursday, he surprisingly appeared at Vishwasundari bridge around 12 noon and jumped into the Ganga. Several fishermen present there rescued and rushed him to the Trauma centre of BHU, where he died during the course of treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/reporter-ends-life-woman-accuses-him-of-harassment/articleshow/77534951.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||70 more fatalities push Pune’s death toll to 2,689||PUNE: Seventy more patients succumbed to Covid-19 complications in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Thursday, taking its toll to 2,689 so far. This is the highest number of single-day casualties in PMR, tied with the 70 fatalities recorded on August 8. A total of 2,388 people tested positive for the contagion in PMR on Thursday, pushing the region’s tally up to more than 1.17 lakh. Among the fresh cases, as many as 1,091 were added in Pune municipal limits, 922 in Pimpri Chinchwad areas and 375 from the rural and Cantonment areas. Among the fatalities, a maximum of 36 were recorded in the PMC areas, 13 in PCMC limits and 21 in the rural areas, a press statement issued by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated. The statement said 1,773 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours in the region ended on Thursday evening, with PMC areas reporting most discharges at 1,156 than new positives (1,091). The report also revealed that tally in the PMC areas surged past 70,000-mark on Thursday. A PMC report stated that 737 patients were at critical stage in the municipal limits, of whom 448 were on ventilator support. The PMC on Thursday conducted about 6,335 tests, including rapid antigen tests. Most of deceased were above 50 years of age and suffered from co-morbidity conditions like high blood pressure and diabetes, among others, a PMC health official said, adding that they had been putting efforts for detection of Covid-19 cases to avoid complications. “To bring down fatalities, we are keeping track of senior citizens. Rigorous contact tracing is under way in the containment zones and in the areas with more positive cases,” the official said. He said, “We are preparing list of senior citizens and patients with co-morbities in every ward as well.” So far, as many as 5.31 lakh tests have been conducted in PMR, of which a maximum of 3.4 lakh tests have been conducted in the PMC limits, followed by 1.3 lakh in PCMC areas. The DHO statement also revealed that the district has continued to conduct way more tests per million population (54,098) than the state (22,155) and the country (19,145).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/70-more-fatalities-push-citys-death-toll-to-2689/articleshow/77534579.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 14, 2020||Pune||PMC starts helpline for complaints against inflated bills of health hubs||PUNE: Citizens can now directly approach the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) via helpline to register complaints against inflated hospital bills for Covid-19 treatment. Aggrieved parties can now file the complaints against private hospitals for inflated Covid-19 bills through landline (020-25502115) or WhatsApp (8767858310) numbers, besides sending an email to billscomplaints@gmail.com. The civic helpline follows several complaints of overcharging by some health hubs treating coronavirus patients. Earlier this week, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao had said pre-audit teams, headed by deputy collectors, would check hospital bills amounting over Rs 1.5 lakh. The PMC has appointed auditors, who will ensure timely disposal of the complaints received through the helpline. The PMC issued a notification in this regard on Thursday. “The officials appointed for auditing the bills will have to submit a report. They should also keep a watch on issuance of bills, amount and their validity,” the circular issued by PMC’s health department chief Ramchandra Hankare stated. As per the circular, the auditors will have to be at the designated hospitals from 10am to 6pm for cross-verification of bills. They will have to check all the bills quoting an amount of more than 1.5 lakh (for patients barring those, who are getting benefits of insurance scheme, urban poor scheme and other medical schemes). These auditors will coordinate with the district administration officials and deputy collector working to resolve the issues of inflated bills. Daily updates on the complaints that have come through emails will also be given by the auditors. The divisional commissioner had on Tuesday said the administration had issued notices to 83 hospitals in the district on the basis of complaints related to overcharging while treating coronavirus patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-starts-helpline-for-complaints-against-inflated-bills-of-health-hubs/articleshow/77534586.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Bareilly||Cops caught drunk on duty, video goes viral; attached to police lines||Bareilly: Two policemen were on Thursday attached to police lines after a video purportedly showing them consuming liquor on duty went viral on social media. The policemen — constables Akash and Deendayal — were posted at Gunnour kotwali in Sambhal. Sambhal superintendent of police Yamuna Prasad told TOI, “A video surfaced on social media in which the duo could be seen consuming liquor, along with a few local drunkards, in uniform during their duty hours at a public place. The policemen, identified as Deendayal and Akash, were deputed as constables at Gunnaur kotwali in Sambhal. We have taken cognisance of the matter and attached the constables to the police lines. A departmental probe has been ordered against them, following which further action will be initiated.” “The source of the video is yet to be ascertained, but it appears that some onlooker or someone within the group recorded the video after spotting the policemen in uniform consuming liquor and posted it on social media,” added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cops-caught-drunk-on-duty-video-goes-viral-attached-to-police-lines/articleshow/77529647.cms||Maria Khan
August 14, 2020||Madurai||Sathankulam case: Court dismisses bail plea of two accused cops||Madurai: The Madurai principal sessions court on Thursday dismissed the bail plea of two suspended policemen, who were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district.Suspended inspector S Sridhar and constable S Vail Muthu had filed separate bail applications before the court.The counsel for Muthu stated that the petitioner was allotted computer operator duty at the Sathankulam police station and was never involved in any law and order work. The petitioner did not know anything about the deceased people and never touched them.The counsel for Sridhar stated that the deceased died due to illness and the petitioner has not committed any offence as alleged by the prosecution. Since the issue became sensational, a false case was registered against him.However, the special public prosecutor for CBI cases, S Vijayan submitted that the petitioners, along with other accused brutally tortured and caused death to the deceased. The final postmortem certificate has been received, wherein it is stated that the deceased would have died due to complications of blunt injuries sustained by them.Vijayan submitted that if the petitioners are released on bail, they would be able to influence the local people by taking advantage of their service in the police department. The petitioners may tamper the witness if they are released on bail, he added. Since, the CBI has not completed the investigation, he objected to the grant of bail to the petitioners.Taking into consideration the gravity of the offence and that the investigation was in a preliminary stage, Madurai principal sessions judge (in-charge) M Thandavan dismissed the bail petitions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sathankulam-case-court-dismisses-bail-plea-of-two-accused-cops/articleshow/77534588.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||DIAT develops ‘comfortable’ protective suit||Pune: The Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT) has developed a suit named “Aushada Tara” for those treating Covid-19 patients. DIAT said the reusable suit would protect wearers, while keeping them comfortable. The first batch of 100 suits has been delivered to a Kolhapur-based medical college. DIAT said the suit has high water resistance and ventilation. “Any water/liquid particles will roll off the suit, thereby avoiding spread of infection. If a patient sneezes, the droplets will not stay on the suit,” professor Balasubramanian K, head of the project, said. “The existing disposable PPE kits do not have these properties,” he added. — Sandip Dighe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/diat-develops-comfortable-protective-suit/articleshow/77534598.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Agra||Cops vs MLA: Viral videos show the other side, poke holes in Aligarh MLA’s version of assault||Agra: A day after Aligarh’s SP (rural) was shifted after a city’s station officer (SO) allegedly manhandled a BJP MLA inside a police station, two videos of the scuffle turned up online on Thursday purportedly suggesting that it was the legislator who took up the fight and also snatched the badge of the police officer. On Wednesday afternoon, the MLA from Aligarh’s Iglas constituency, Rajkumar Sahyogi, came out of Gonda police station and accused SO Anuj Saini of thrashing him. A ruckus ensued and scores of BJP men, including Aligarh MP Satish Gautam, rushed to the police station. Within hours, the SO was suspended and the SP (Rural) Atul Sharma got transferred. However, by Thursday morning, two videos of the scuffle allegedly offering glimpse into the other side were being shared widely on social media platforms. In one of them, the MLA can be heard saying that he had no choice but to do this (the attack) when his work is not being done. In the other video, SO Saini is purportedly heard saying, “If you want to fight then let me remove this uniform, I cannot see its disrespect.” In the same video, as the heated arguments were going on, another BJP MLA Anoop Balmiki, who joined Sahyogi later, can be heard trying to intervene to resolve the matter. A few moments later he even goes on to tell Sahyogi to behave. Balmiki can also be heard in the video admitting that Sahyogi’s behaviour was “wrong” and the matter could be resolved easily with conversation. When contacted, inspector general (IG) of Aligarh zone, Deepak Ratan, said that an inquiry is going on. “All evidence is being collected and an interim report will be sent to the government.” On being asked about the video clips, the IG said, “We cannot take a call on the footage as they were shot after the incident. We can’t draw a conclusion on the basis of these clips.” “Version of the SO and that of MLA’s have been recorded,” the IG said. Meanwhile, the MLA was admitted to the district hospital on Wednesday night after he complained of “uneasiness”. He was discharged in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cops-vs-mla-viral-videos-show-the-other-side-poke-holes-in-aligarh-mlas-version-of-assault/articleshow/77531857.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Forum seeks graveyard for Covid-19 victims||Hyderabad: Members from the Christian community urged the government to grant them land for burial of Covid-19 victims in the state on Thursday. In a meeting with Koppula Eshwar, minister for minority welfare, the members raised the issue of delay in allocating graveyards as discussed by the government earlier. “Members requested the minister to appoint a committee with representation from all churches. A ratio of 30% to the Catholic community and 70% to the Protestant community was agreed on the basis of the strength of each community,” read a press release issued by a delegation of the Telangana United Christian Forum. The delegation, led by Roydin Roach, also expressed concern over lack of representation from the community in the government. They felt that issues of the community were not being given priority. The minister responded positively to the requests made by the members and asked them to submit a written representation on the issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forum-seeks-graveyard-for-covid-19-victims/articleshow/77534594.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Boy falls from 6th floor while catching pigeon||tnnMohali: A 10-year-old boy died after he fell from the sixth floor of a society in Kharar on Wednesday evening. Sumit, a Class III student, was trying to catch a pigeon when he had the fatal fall.Kewal Krishan, the investigating officer, said, “Sumit, a native of UP, was playing with his friend. The two went to the sixth floor of the society and tried to catch a pigeon. As the pigeon flew to the fifth floor, Sumit tried to climb down with a rope. But the rope broke and he fell down. He died on the spot.”Police have initiated proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC. The body was handed over to the family after the postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/boy-falls-from-6th-floor-while-catching-pigeon/articleshow/77533262.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Draft building bylaws draws on ‘15-min city’ plan: UDH||JAIPUR: Some sections of the real estate industry are eloquent in their opposition to the UDH’s accent on vertical development of the city. The draft guidelines proposing to allow additional floors in smaller size plots would result in overpopulating existing residential areas, aggravating the inadequacy of infrastructure and services provided by the civic authorities, they said. But senior officials of the department said the reaction lacks insight. They said allowing more residential units in residential localities confirms to the concept of a ‘15-minute city plan’ which is driving urban development in cities like Paris and Melbourne. “Some of the guidelines are inspired by the ‘15-minute city’ plan adopted by many global cities where people don’t have to drive long to reach their workplaces, parks, hospitals, schools or shopping centres. The saves cost and time, reduces pollution and stress and improves quality of life,” said Bhaskar A Sawant, principal secretary, Urban Development and Housing (UDH) Department. Also called ‘compact city concept’, it gives priority to proximity, diversity, density and ubiquity which fulfill functions like living, working, supplying, caring, learning and entertainment. Sawant said the idea allows harmonious co-existence of social and economic life, and compliments each other. Besides extra floors, the draft norms have also made a case of allowing residences to have larger size offices for professionals like lawyers, chartered accountants, architects and others, while prohibiting mercantile activities. The permission to set up mini-theatres is another part of the plan. ‘15-minute city’ plan is not a new concept. Another official of the department said, “The Walled City of Jaipur is already an excellent example of this concept developed around 294 years ago where walk to work, school, recreation centres, and religious places is possible within 15 minutes.” The official said that it is not always possible to provide all civic amenities and infrastructure in areas where haphazard development is taking place. “Roads, electricity, pipelines, transport facilities for commuting, schools, hospitals and all other social and physical infrastructure require lot of government resources. Also, there would be a constant demand on the government to provide services without disruption. We want horizontal expansion but it has to be contiguous, not at locations cut off from the city by long distances,” said the official. In existing areas, the government can augment the infrastructure capacity required for a little higher number of people with incremental resources but meeting the demand of new areas needs bigger budgets and higher size of manpower, he added. On the criticism, the official said that the real estate developers who build big projects only on the basis of availability of land are afraid that demand for housing will shift to localities and there will be less number of customers for their projects. “Their criticism is understandable but we need to look at development from a holistic point of view,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/draft-building-bylaws-draws-on-15-min-city-plan-udh/articleshow/77534590.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 14, 2020||Pune||Cap on sanitizer, mask prices soon||Pune: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said the three-member committee constituted to recommend the maximum price limit for sanitizers and masks had been told to table its report next week, following which the order capping their rates would be issued. There have been several complaints regarding hospitals charging Rs200-Rs500 for these during the pre-audit of bills. Tope stressed on the early detection system with the positivity rate of the state being at 19%. He said the aim was to bring it below 10%. He has also sent a proposal to the Union government to start more Covid-19 private hospitals . — Nisha Nambiar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cap-on-sanitizer-mask-prices-soon/articleshow/77534591.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 14, 2020||Madurai||Body of missing fisher recovered, state tells HC||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday closed a plea seeking to rescue a missing Kanyakumari fisherman, after it was informed that the body was recovered. The court was hearing the habeas corpus petition filed by M Sathish Kumar, branch secretary of the Meenavar Orunginaipu Sangam based at Marthandanthurai in Kanyakumari district.  The petitioner sought for a direction to trace and rescue the fisherman, Ignatius, who went missing on August 7 after his boat capsized while he was returning back to Thengapattanam fishing harbour in the district. When the case was taken up for hearing, the petitioner’s counsel and the state government informed the court that the body of Ignatius was traced and recovered on August 7 itself. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices K Kalyanasundaram and T Krishnavalli closed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/body-of-missing-fisher-recovered-state-tells-hc/articleshow/77534592.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong questions KTR over cabinet meet||Hyderabad: CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka wondered how did minister KT Rama Rao chair a meeting of council of ministers on Wednesday. Vikramarka said he came across the details of a cabinet meeting held in Pragathi Bhavan under supervision of KTR. “Probably, this is the first time in the country that a cabinet meet is conducted by a minister instead of the CM,” he said. People were seeking to know in what capacity did KTR conduct the meeting, he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-questions-ktr-over-cabinet-meet/articleshow/77534589.cms||---
August 14, 2020||India||In e-courts, lawyers in vests, with hookahs||NEW DELHI: Advocates, arguing before virtual courts from the comfort of homes and farmhouses, do not seem to be able not to a sip of tea or coffee, so intrinsic to the Indian way of life, while on the job. With many advocates seen in video-conference proceedings of the Supreme Court and high courts taking cups to their lips, a storm brewed on the court decorum front. First, it was the dress. Some were found in their vests and were reprimanded by the judges. Then, some lawyers were found dressed in casuals. They were told to button up and wear at least a tie even as a concession was made for not wearing the lawyers’ coat and gowns. But a very senior advocate and constitutional expert tore the last vestige of court decorum when he blew smoke from his hookah during arguments in an important case before a high court. He tried to hide it by putting a case file before his face. But there was little he could do except sport a sheepish look as he exhaled plumes of smoke that he had dragged from his old-style hookah, with the actions prominently displayed on the virtual court video screen. On Thursday, an advocate was found chewing gutka and spitting nonchalantly while appearing in a case before a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari. The judges took serious exception to this breach of decorum. The lawyer was initially adamant that he was not chewing gutka but when the judges said they saw him doing so, he apologised. When seniors throw decorum to the wind, it is natural that the greenhorns too would try to stretch its boundaries. But irrespective of the stature of lawyers, almost everyone is positioning themselves before book racks while arguing cases. It is difficult to tell whether it is intended to indicate the intrinsic link between the profession and books or to show off one’s book collection. In any case, judges have realised the handicap most lawyers face in advancing arguments through virtual mode and are seen to accommodate them by allowing them to argue for a longer time, much more than what they used to get during physical hearings. Watch Hookah makes a grand entry in online court hearings||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-e-courts-lawyers-in-vests-with-hookahs/articleshow/77535824.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||PU may take loan to pay salaries||Chandigarh: The pandemic has dented the coffers of Panjab University, which may take a loan to pay salaries. The university will cut down expenditure of around Rs 28 crore during this financial year (2020-21), considering the revenue loss of approximately Rs 93 crore projected by its finance department. In the austerity committee meeting held on Thursday, the agenda tabled was on how to bear the expenses when there is a shortfall in revenue during the pandemic, which has held back examination and admission fees.In the meeting, the finance department stated that under the semester system, the university conducts two examinations and charges fees for each semester separately. From one semester examination, total fees of Rs 70 crore to Rs 75 crore is collected and it adds up to Rs 150 crore to Rs 155 crore yearly. In the given circumstances, it appears that the university may not receive examination fees for both semesters in this financial year, causing a loss of revenue of around Rs 70 crore to Rs 75 crore. Besides, there can also be an impact on fresh admissions, which will affect the projected flow of income. A proposal was mooted to cut down salary for the time being, but members rejected it, saying the university could take loan on internal assets, which will return as and when the revenue is received by the authorities. During the pre-Covid times from April to July, the authorities managed to disburse the salaries from fees collected for examination and entrance tests.PROJECTED REVENUE LOSS Category | Amount (in Rs crore)One semester examination fees | 70-75Hostel fees of five to six months | 5 to 6Charges to conduct BEd exam not given to PU this year | 3 to 4Drop in fresh admissions | 7 to 8Total | 85 to 93EXPENDITURE CUT PROPOSALCategory | Amount (in Rs crore)Conduct of examination of one semester | 17 to 22Administrative expenditure | 1 to 2Electricity | 2 to 3Miscellaneous | 1 to 2Total | 21 to 29OTHER PROJECTIONSNet loss or delay in receiving revenue | Rs 64 crore approximatelyBUDGET DETAILS Category| For 2020-21 (in Rs crore)Internal income | 300.63From UGC | 247.49From Punjab government | 38.15Total income | 586MAJOR REVENUE OF PU Category| 2020-21 (projected in Rs crore)Fees of examinations | 157.5Partially self-finance department | 61Registration certificate and CET fees | 23.26Income from hostels | 11Student parties meet VCVice-chancellor professor Raj Kumar held meetings with all student parties on the issue of waiving fee of semester from July to December. Student parties were divided on the issue as few were for exemption of all fees except tuition fee for this semester, while others wanted a complete waiver. The V-C constituted a committee under DUI to look into the demands of all parties and submit a report soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-may-take-loan-to-pay-salaries/articleshow/77533270.cms||Aarti Kapur
August 14, 2020||Madurai||Poll race between BJP, DMK will be second spot: Min||Tuticorin: The battle of words between the BJP and the DMK over coming to power in the state after the 2021 assembly elections is actually for the second spot as the BJP is already in alliance with the AIADMK, said Tamil Nadu information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju on Thursday. The topic surfaced after BJP state vice-president V P Duraisamy said the BJP would lead the alliance against the DMK. Responding to a question in this regard, Raju said their “competition is not for coming to power, but for the second spot.” “The BJP is with us (AIADMK alliance),” he said. Backing his statement, Raju recalled the DMDK’s alliance with the AIADMK in 2011, where they pushed the DMK to the third spot and DMDK took the position of the opposition party. “Now, the BJP is in the AIADMK alliance. So Duraisamy could have cornered the DMK and hinted at the competition for the second place between the BJP and the DMK,” he added. The minister said, “Stalin is afraid of Kanimozhi, and Kanimozhi is not ready to accept Stalin as leader.” He added that Stalin had roped in his son Udhayanidhi as a competition to Kanimozhi. Dynasty politics is at its worst in the DMK now compared to the Karunanidhi period, he said and added that the rage in the minds of the DMK leaders would soon burst in the open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/poll-race-between-bjp-dmk-will-be-second-spot-min/articleshow/77534602.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Rare sight: Delhi’s second ‘good’ air day of the year||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded a “good” air day on Thursday with the overall Air Quality Index touching 50, according to CPCB’s daily bulletin. This is just the second “good” air day recorded this year. The last time the city had a “good” air day was on March 28 — the first week of lockdown, when the AQI fell to 45 as industries remained shut and there was very little traffic on streets. Track the pollution level in your cityWhile Delhi did record plenty of “satisfactory” days, where the AQI is between 51 and 100, “good” air days, when the AQI is 50 or lower, are rare. In fact, Delhi only recorded two good air days in all of last year, both in August, when incessant rain kept the AQI at 49 on August 18 and 19, respectively. In 2018, not a single day made the cut. In 2017 again, only two good air days were recorded. The capital had largely been recording “satisfactory” air quality this week, with the AQI hovering in the range of 51 and 100. Data showed that Wednesday’s AQI was 63 and Tuesday’s 75. A CPCB official claimed that long-term data has showed the number of “satisfactory” and “moderate” days in Delhi are increasing, while the number of “severe” and “very poor” days are going down. “Good air days are a rarity, but two have already been recorded this year. The improvement in AQI is a good sign for the region,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rare-sight-citys-second-good-air-day-of-the-year/articleshow/77534605.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi on alert after terror intel||NEW DELHI: After intelligence inputs about a possible terror strike in the capital over the next three days, the security arrangements for the Independence Day celebrations was stepped up on Thursday. Overall, the setup around Red Fort will be different from previous years, and hi-tech temperature check gadgets and oximeters will be given equal importance with Glocks and MP-5 machine guns. According to an intelligence alert, chatter among Khalistani terror groups saw an unusual spike after US-based terrorist Gurpatwant Singh Pannu of the Sikhs for Justice group offered $125,000 to anyone who carried out an attack on Red Fort and hoisted the Khalistan flag there on August 14,15 or 16. After Pannu released a video vouching for the promised bounty, security officials believe there can be an attempt by a lone wolf Khalistani operative to disrupt the August 15 function. At Red Fort on Independence Day, a seven-layered security structure will welcome visitors entering the grounds, during which they will be scanned for their body temperature and oxygen saturation level. Policemen at the sole entry and exit gate will mandatorily wear personal protective equipment suits and sit in an isolation chamber to carry out the frisking of guests. The number of visitors has been reduced to a third of the normal this year and they have been advised to arrive earlier than usual to undergo health and security checks. Face shields and masks are mandatory for those entering the Red Fort venue. A special booth has been created where the visitors will be asked to remove their masks for a facial scan. The cops have appealed to visitors to stay away from the celebrations if they have had symptoms of Covid-19 in the past two weeks. A fleet of ambulances is on standby to take anyone with symptoms to hospital. There are seats only for 110 guests on the ramparts instead of the usual 400. The seating arrangement has been altered to ensure each person is seated at least a metre away from another individual. This year, 500 NCC cadets will occupy the forecourt that was earlier used to seat 3,600 school students. Photojournalists, who normally are allowed to get close to the VVIPs, too will have to undergo a health check-up. Even otherwise, only journalists from government-approved agencies will only be permitted to be near the Prime Minister and other dignitaries. A multi-layered security ring has been imposed on Red Fort since Thursday morning. More than 20,000 personnel from Delhi Police, Central Armed Police Forces and National Security Guard have been deployed around the historic fort, and the surroundings have been put under the surveillance of 500 cameras equipped with facial recognition technology. Watch Delhi on high alert after terror intel ahead of Independence Day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/capital-on-alert-after-terror-intel/articleshow/77534680.cms||Somreet Bhattacharya
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||RERC plan to levy cross-subsidy charge may take shine off solar||JAIPUR: In what has the potential to eclipse the prospects of solar energy in Rajasthan, the state energy regulator Rajasthan Electricity Regulatory Commission (RERC) has proposed to levy cross-subsidy charges on solar plants put up by developers for their industrial or commercial clients (third party). Cross-subsidy charges, which go up to Rs 2.16 per unit, are collected from general consumers to compensate for the power subsidies given to farmers, a major reason for high electricity tariffs in Rajasthan. “In the existing regulations, the open access (third party) transaction based on renewable energy projects were exempted from levy of cross-subsidy surcharge. However, as the technology is matured over a period of time, there is no need to provide any such exemption,” said the draft proposal of RERC (Terms and Conditions for Tariff determination from Renewable Energy Sources) Regulations, 2020. Imposition of cross-subsidy is expected to raise the cost of solar power closer to conventional energy and shut the door for investors. But RERC chairman Shreemat Pandey said that they have sought suggestions from the industry and other stakeholders and based on their feedback, a right decision will be taken by the regulator. “This is a draft. We have sought suggestions and views from the industry and other stakeholders. We will hear their points-of-view before taking a final call on the cross subsidy surcharge,” Pandey told TOI. However, other officials in the commission said that discoms are wary of losing high-profit generating customers like commercial establishments to the third party solar power producers. “Yes, the regulator and the discoms are on the same page when it comes to discouraging the third party solar projects. But nobody can wall off the inevitable, the market forces, which are squarely behind solar energy,” he said. Even the solar industry in Rajasthan is vocal against the move, is determined to stall any attempt to levy cross-subsidy charges. Sunil Bansal, general secretary of Rajasthan Solar Association, said, “People are already working and developing strategies for the open access market in Rajasthan. If the cross-subsidy surcharge is imposed, it will deal a heavy blow to the industry. This would be serious miscalculation of the investors’ mood and the state will fall from the radar of the solar power developers. The proposals are against the positive vibe Rajasthan solar policy created.” The draft has also proposed that the banking facility will be allowed for the consumers consuming up to 20% energy from the captive power plant. “No banking facility shall be allowed for the consumers, whose captive consumption is more than 20% of total consumption on annual basis,” the regulator said in the draft. Similarly, banking charges currently attract 2% of banked energy in each month. But the new proposal, to 10%. Justifying the move, RERC said had the owner of renewable energy plant opted for battery systems, he would have incurred capital cost and the banking facility saves it. Captive power plant owners find the restrictions strangulating. “By restricting the capacity to 80% of our contracted demand is retrograde. They should allow capacity to fulfil our requirements from green sources of energy. Similarly, why small businesses consuming less than 1 MW power should not have captive plants. There should be no restrictions,” said a senior official of a mining company. India has made an international commitment for 40% electric power installed capacity from non-fossil fuel-based energy resources by 2030. Solar needs to play a key role if the country wants to achieve the target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rerc-plan-to-levy-cross-subsidy-charge-may-take-shine-off-solar/articleshow/77534650.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||One dead, 7 injured as pipes burst at Gouravelli project||Hyderabad: A 45-year-old worker died and seven others were injured in a freak mishap at Gouravelli pumphouse near Regonda in Siddipet’s Husnabad mandal on Thursday. Two pipes at the project site reportedly broke, as a result of which water gushed out. The workers, who were standing close by, were hit by the force of the water and fell down. They sustained injuries when they collapsed on some iron material at the site. One of them, Vanga Ramesh, died instantaneously. Five workers were shifted to a hospital in Karimnagar, while two others who suffered minor injuries were taken to a local hospital. Ramesh hailed from Kesamudram in Warangal rural district. The other workers belong to various states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/one-dead-7-injured-as-pipes-burst-at-gouravelli-project/articleshow/77534638.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Big challenge is to bridge fiscal deficit due to pandemic||LUCKNOW: Despite a vastly improved financial performance in July, the pandemic has a telling impact on the state of UP’s economy. The real challenge for the state government now is recovering from losses of the first three months of the current financial year. The finance department in its 2020-21 annual Budget had fixed the target of Rs 15632.7 crore revenue realisation in July, while it could net only Rs 10675.4 crore, posting a deficit of about Rs 4957.3 crore. In the preceding months of April, May and June, this gap was even much higher. If this deficit figures are extrapolated to the last few months of financial year 2021, the estimated gap could be as big as Rs 45,000 crore. Finance minister Suresh Khanna has admitted that “in the given scenario the state would have to go for recalibrating the budgetary figures.” “The state government faces a Herculean task of recovering huge losses of the last four months and if it fails to do so it will have no option but to cut its expenditure,” said economist Yashveer Tyagi. The revenue in the past four months has not been enough to clear the salary and pension bills of the state staff. The government is using its treasured funds to disburse salaries. Additional chief secretary, finance, Sanjiv Mittal, however, said that it was true that the revenue collection was behind the target mainly due to the coronavirus pandemic, the state had adequate funds to clear the salary bills of staff. Although the economy is on the path of recovery, if one takes into account the revenue receipt from April to June 2020, against the target of Rs 46,127 crore, the state recovered only Rs 17,412 crore which is merely 37.7%. If July’s collection of Rs 10,000 crore is added, the total figure could be about Rs 28,000 crore and the total salary and pension bill of the state staff of the last four months is over Rs 48,000 crore. While the novel coronavirus pandemic and the sagging economy have thrown a spanner in government’s revenue generation plans, the GST compensation from the Central government is another area of concern for the state. “We have received the GST compensation of March so far,” said Mittal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/despite-recovery-overcoming-fin-lossescaused-by-pandemic-a-tall-order-for-up/articleshow/77535426.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Procedural lapses in procurement of medicines in Hanumangarh||JAIPUR: The two-member probe committee, appointed by the cooperatives department, found procedural lapses in the procurement of medicines in Hanumangarh. However, no financial irregularities were found in the procurement of medicines by the district cooperative. Registrar, cooperatives, Muktanand Agrawal had constituted a two-member committee to investigate the alleged irregularities amounting to Rs 7.36 crore in purchase of medicines and issuing non-availability certificates (NACs) to the pensioners by Hanumangarh cooperative consumer wholesale store limited. Following the probe, the stock of medicines was found to be less than the normal (there was a shortage of stock) in some shops. There was an overall shortage of stock by around Rs 8.5 lakh (in 10 shops). Also, instead of signing individual agreements/contracts with each supplier of medicines (or making separate files for each agreement), the store signed a single agreement with all the suppliers collectively (as a group or as a whole). Additional registrar (senior scale) Vidyadhar Godara and assistant registrar Shirish B Chande were appointed as members of the probe committee. While they have submitted their report, the Registrar will take a decision on action to be taken against the cooperative store. “The district collector had earlier investigated the matter. Based on that, we looked into all the facts and details. We found procedural lapses in the procurement of medicines, but there were no financial irregularities or misappropriation of funds. The bills, which were produced by the store, were passed by the treasury after scrutiny,” said Godara, one of the probe members. “Among the procedural lapses included – first, instead of maintaining a purchase register for the procurement of medicines, the purchases were recorded in the general register; second, in some shops, there were shortages in the stock of medicines. In one shop, the shortage of stock was found to be amounting to Rs 6.60 lakh and in another shop the stock was less than normal by Rs 1.59 lakh,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/procedural-lapses-in-procurement-of-medicines-in-hanumangarh/articleshow/77534628.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
August 14, 2020||Agra||Doc on duty at Covid isolation centre tests +ve, 139 more cases in Bareilly||Agra/Bareilly: A 45-year-old doctor of Khergarh community health centre on duty at L1 isolation ward on Agra-Delhi highway was tested Covid-19 positive. Her husband, a doctor at a private hospital in the Sikandra area, was tested positive on Monday. He is under treatment at a private hospital. Mother of two, the corona warrior is asymptomatic and is under home isolation. Moreover, according to the health department, 36 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra on Thursday evening, taking the district tally to 2,245. These included four patients suffering acute respiratory infection, two patents of influenza-like illness, two patients of acute respiratory distress syndrome, a patient of coronary artery infection and a kidney patient. Also, 28 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Thursday. Of the 2,245 cases, 80% have been declared "cured and discharged", and there are now 346 active cases in the district. In Bareilly, at least 139 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, said additional chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar. The district tally has reached 4,459 cases, including 88 deaths. Also, 27 fresh cases were reported from Budaun. In a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases in Meerut, at least 61 people, including four health workers, were found positive on Thursday, taking the total tally to 2,699, according to Dr Raj Kumar, Meerut chief medical officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/doc-on-duty-at-covid-isolation-centre-tests-ve-139-more-cases-in-bareilly/articleshow/77531886.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Madurai||Madurai city’s active cases dip, only 3 zones have 100+||Madurai: Active cases are steadily declining in Madurai corporation limits with the total coming down from 885 on August 7 to 624 on August 12, but the mobile medical screening camps will continue in all the zones of the city. Nine wards have gone without new cases in two weeks. All the zones had more than 100 cases a week ago, with zone one having 298 active cases, zone two 280, zone three 198 and zone four 109 as on August 7. Now, only three of them have over 100 cases. Zone four has just 78 active cases and zone one, two and three, 212, 199 and 135 cases respectively. Corporation Commissioner S Visakan said it was encouraging that nine of the 100 wards had not seen new Covid-19 cases in the past 13 days. ``These are places where we give extra care. These nine wards include Goripalayam ward number 39, Iravathanallur ward number 55, Villapuram ward number 63, Tamil Sangam ward number 81, Perumal Teppakulam ward number 79 and Madura Basaradas Nagar ward number 78,” he added. All hundred wards in the city, have less than 50 cases each, while only Palanganatham ward number 76, Bibikulam ward number 5, Bethaniapuram ward number 10, Madhichayam ward number 35, Karpaga nagar ward number 27 and Ismailpuram ward number 51 being the only ones to have cases ranging between 10 and 15. All the others have less than ten cases each. Only three, TVS Nagar (104), Thiruparankundram (100) and Harveypatti (102) have over hundred cases. Surprisingly, some of the most congested parts of the city including Goripalayam, Ahimsapuram, Kovalan Nagar, VeeraKaliamman koil street and Tamil Sangam road have just one case each. Corporation sources say that intense screening in these places by the field workers and repeated testing were helping to bring down the cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-citys-active-cases-dip-only-3-zones-have-100/articleshow/77534641.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Trichy||Samples taken from Eda Street shopkeepers after crowding||Trichy: In a surprise random screening conducted by Trichy Corporation in Eda Street in Ariyamangalam zone, 100 samples have been collected by the health teams for RT-PCR testing. The screening exclusively focussed on shopkeepers including street vendors in the area as there were complaints of overcrowding amid the Covid-19 pandemic.Trichy Corporation officials said that Eda Street in ward 24 has reported 31 positive cases so far. A section of the population is workers in the Gandhi market area, which was a major containment zone. Since then, the civic body has kept Eda Street under scanner. Meanwhile, Eda Street and adjoining Paruppukara Street, Keela Neikara Street and Kajapettai were overcrowded for the past few days and a majority of them were not wearing facemasks. As complaints cropped up from multiple sources, Ariyamangalam zone corporation officials on Thursday carried out a surprise screening of all the shopkeepers in Eda Street and collected swabs from 100 traders as they showed symptoms. “Eda Street accounts for a good number of Covid-19 cases in Ariyamangalam zone. Tea shops were often seen crowded, so we collected samples from such shops,” a health official said.Grocery stores and vegetable stalls were also covered in the drive. The civic body considers Eda Street as a potential hot spot due to the narrow roads and closely-build houses. “Since people are not adhering to the Covid-19 preventive measures, we don’t have an option than to install a massive containment zone if multiple positive cases were identified,” the health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/samples-taken-from-eda-street-shopkeepers-after-crowding/articleshow/77535367.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 14, 2020||Goa||Vishwajit Rane calls for low-key Ganesh festivities||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Thursday appealed to people to keep their Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations low-key in view of the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases. “This is not the time for celebration. If you do not have Ganesh celebrations on a regular scale, it will not make you less religious or it does not imply that a person lacks religious sentiments,” Rane said on Thursday as Goa witnessed the highest single-day spike of 570 cases. “My appeal to the people of Goa is that they should personalise their celebrations and follow standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the government in toto,” he said. Stating that not just this month, but September too, will witness a sharp rise in cases, Rane said, “It is not possible for the government to keep a tab on every person. I’m expecting the cases to increase in large numbers and hence people must be very careful.” The government is trying its best to stop the spread of the virus, but another big spike after Ganesh Chaturthi will be inevitable if people do not follow social distancing norms, he said. As cases rise it becomes difficult for the infrastructure to hold on and offer quality service, Rane added. “I have even told my parents that if possible, they should consider having Ganesh Chaturthi deferred to February as planned by some,” the health minister said. Stating that he doesn’t want to dictate terms to people, Rane said that they should understand the seriousness of the situation and make their individual decisions. Regarding the areas that are presently witnessing a major spike and the need to have them declared containment zones, Rane said that he has had a discussion on this. An expert committee meeting has been scheduled on Friday. Besides, an epidemiologist has been asked to submit details of the areas that have seen major spikes and projections for those hot spots, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-calls-for-low-key-ganesh-festivities/articleshow/77534681.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 14, 2020||Delhi||National Law University Delhi professor demoted over stalking||NEW DELHI: National Law University Delhi (NLUD) vice-chancellor Ranbir Singh has demoted professor Jeet Singh Mann to the rank of associate professor for five years after a committee comprising retired high court judges found him guilty of the serious allegations of online stalking and harassment of women and for “making wild allegations against judges”. During this period, there would also be an embargo on his promotions. After the allegations against Mann surfaced, the university’s executive council suggested that an inquiry be initiated against him. On May 14, 2019, Singh wrote to the university chancellor informing him that Mann’s activities on social media had been irresponsible. The chancellor and then Delhi high court Chief Justice Rajendra Menon directed that Mann be suspended and that an inquiry be initiated against him. Mann was suspended in December last year. The NLUD order dated August 10, which was accessed by TOI, mentioned that an inquiry was initiated against Mann in January 2020 and he was found guilty of “stalking and harassment of working women” and subsequently penalised in the form of demotion for five years. A university official said, “There were many allegations against Mann, including that of posting views on social media where he would raise wild allegations against senior judges and legal luminaries. He was also found involved in stalking and harassment of a female researcher.” “We followed the principle of natural justice and gave Mann the opportunity to defend himself. We even conducted the inquiry online,” the official added. Asked why Mann was only demoted, advocate Sanjay Vashishtha, the presenting officer in the matter, said, “I believe the disciplinary authority placed its order on the principle of rehabilitation and reformation, thereby merely demoting Mann to the post of associate professor. I’m sure that state-of-the-art legal education will continue to be imparted at NLU Delhi.” Mann refused to comment on the charges and the decision of the university. However, he did confirm to TOI that he had been demoted from his current rank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nlud-prof-demoted-over-stalking/articleshow/77534674.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
August 14, 2020||Madurai||Actice cases dip in Madurai corpn, 9 wards have no new cases in 2 wks||Madurai: The number of active cases is steadily declining in Madurai Corporation limits with the total number coming down from 885 on August 7 to 624 on August 12. But the corporation continued to conduct its mobile medical screening camps in all the zones. No cases were reported in nine wards for the last two weeks. All the zones had more than 100 cases a week ago, with zone one having 298 active cases, zone two 280, zone three 198 and zone four 109 as on August 7. But now only three zones have more than 100 cases. Zone four has just 78 active cases, while zone one, two and three, 212, 199 and 135 cases. Madurai Corporation commissioner S Visakan said that it was encouraging that nine out of the 100 wards in the city have not reported any new case for the past 13 days. “We give extra care to these places, and these nine wards include Goripalayam ward number 39, Iravathanallur ward number 55, Villapuram ward number 63, Tamil Sangam ward number 81, Perumal Teppakulam ward number 79 and Madura Basaradas Nagar ward number 78. All the hundred wards in the city have less than 50 cases each, while only Palanganatham ward number 76, Bibikulam ward number 5, Bethaniapuram ward number 10, Madhichayam ward number 35, Karpaga Nagar ward number 27 and Ismailpuram ward number 51 are the only wards to have cases ranging between 10 and 15. All the other wards have less than ten cases each. Only TVS Nagar 104, Thiruparankundram-100 and Harveypatti-102 have more than hundred cases. Surprisingly, some of the most congested parts of the city including Goripalayam, Ahimsapuram, Kovalan Nagar, VeeraKaliamman Koil Street, and Tamil Sangam Road have just one case each. Corporation sources say that intense screening and repeated testing were helping them bring down the number of cases. The commissioner said that their intensified fever screening through mobile units, UPHCs and house-to-house survey was a reason for the dip in the number of cases. “Any fever case coming to the GRH is tracked and so are those coming to the 300 private hospitals in the city. We have deployed a staff for every fifteen hospitals and he has to keep track of the fever cases,” he said. It is a collective effort by the corporation staff, including those in the revenue and engineering sections. The 140 mobile camp units are positioned strategically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/actice-cases-dip-in-madurai-corpn-9-wards-have-no-new-cases-in-2-wks/articleshow/77534662.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kanpur||Seven more Covid-19 deaths, 246 test positive||Times News Network Kanpur: Seven more Covid-19 positive persons died on Thursday taking the district’s death toll beyond 300. A total of 303 patients have died till now. And, 246 more persons were tested positive for novel coronavirus taking the total count of Covid-19 cases to 9,501. The city has been witnessing a rise in the number of Covid related death from past many days. The lowest fatality was recorded on Wednesday when only three deaths were reported but the number again increased on Thursday.  All the deceased were suffering from other ailments also. A total of 129 persons were declared cured and were discharged from Covid hospitals. So far 3,057 persons have recovered from Covid-19. Now there are 4,114 active cases undergoing treatment here. New cases were detected from areas - Darshanpurwa, Mcrobertganj, Naubasta, Shyam Vihar, Shastri Nagar, Damodar Nagar, Govind Nagar, Kidwai Nagar, Basant Vihar, Azad Nagar, Lal Bangla, Civil Lines, Phoolbagh, Kalyanpur, Chatai Mohal, Sanjeev Nagar, Ratanlal Nagar, Pheelkhana, IIT, Babupurwa, Rawatpur, Maswanpur, Vishnupuri, Barra, Vikas Nagar, Sujatganj, Sanjeev Nagar, Kabir Nagar, Anandpuri, Kaushalpuri, Sarvodaya Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Naveen Nagar, Sankar Nagar, Ramadevi, Colonelganj, Shatabdi Nagar, Ambedkar Nagar, Tulsi Nagar, Panki, KR Puram, Cantt, Jajmau, Latouche Road, Dabauli, Kailash Nagar, Khalasi Line, Chedi Singh Ka Purwa, Pandu Nagar, Fazalganj, Shanti Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Udyog Nagar, Mandhana, Nirala Nagar, Gumti Number-5, Ashok Nagar, Acharya Nagar, Bhaba Nagar, Guptar Ghat, Emrald Garden, JP Colony, Om Purwa, Shukla Nagar, Sanjay Nagar, Macchariya, Jawahar Nagar, Surendra Nagar, Kakadeo. Health department said that 699 teams surveyed 45,582 homes and identified 229 persons with symptoms for the viral disease of which samples of 222 persons were collected. Another lot of 1,759 samples were collected for tests, the results of which are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/seven-more-covid-19-deaths-246-test-positive/articleshow/77534993.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Trichy||CPI cadres stage protest, demand reopening of crematorium||Trichy: Cadres of the Communist Party of India (CPI) on Thursday staged a sit-in protest demanding the Trichy Corporation reopen the defunct Konakkarai electric crematorium in Woraiyur. With Covid-19 victims being cremated at the Oyamari electric crematorium, the protesters alleged that residents struggle to cremate their kin who die of non-Covid-19 reasons. Although Konakkarai crematorium was launched in 2015, the facility served only for a short period, which pushed the nearby residents of Woraiyur, Puthur and Thillai Nagar to depend on the Oyamari crematorium. Condemning the local body for not restarting the Konakkarai crematorium, CPI cadres led by S Balamurali, secretary, CPI Trichy west staged the protest at Konakkarai cremation ground. “At least 2 lakh people depend on the crematorium, and the civic body should make it function again,” K Suresh, general secretary, Trichy district AITUC said. Corporation officials assured that a contractor will be identified to manage the crematorium, following which the protest was withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cpi-cadres-stage-protest-demand-reopening-of-crematorium/articleshow/77535385.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Ganesh laddu auctions to be a low-key affair this year||Hyderabad: There are hardly nine days left for the Ganesh Chaturthi festival, which will be celebrated on August 22, but the demand for Ganesh laddus hasn’t picked up yet. Like the festival, the laddu auctions too are likely to a low-key affair due to the pandemic. Usually, by this time, reputed sweet shops in the city get bulk orders for laddus from Ganesh pandal organisers but this year they still haven’t received such orders. “The idol makers have reduced the size of Ganesh idols and we too have planned to cut down on the weight of the laddus. We used to prepare laddus ranging from a kilogram to 30 kg but this year we will make them based on the orders,” Sumeeth Agarwal, owner of Agrawala Sweets, told TOI. “As the business is yet to pick up, we have decided to prepare only 40 pc of laddus as we are yet to receive bulk orders from the Ganesh pandals,” he added. “Just a week is remaining for the festival and we are waiting for orders. The reason for the poor response is because of the police restrictions in view of the pandemic,” said another sweet house owner. “We are ready with the preparations of laddus and will do so two days from the festival. We have taken all measures to preserve the laddus for 11 days,” said an in-charge of G Pulla Reddy Sweets. Currently, the cost of the laddu per kg is between Rs 600 to Rs 680 but sweet shop owners will collect an additional amount for the Ganesh laddu as the prices of dry fruits have shot up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ganesh-laddu-auctions-to-be-a-low-key-affair-this-year/articleshow/77534675.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Catch 22: Heavens open up, but all hell breaks loose on Delhi’s roads||NEW DELHI: The heaviest rain of the season once again exposed the lack of preparedness of the civic and other agencies on Thursday. Scenes of waterlogged arterial roads, flooded underpasses and traffic jams were witnessed all across the city with office-goers struggling to reach their destinations. It had rained all through the night, leaving several trees uprooted and roads damaged. The IMD classifies a shower as ‘heavy’ when it is above 64.4 mm in single day. Till 8:30 am on Thursday, Ayanagar had received 99.2mm of rainfall, followed by Palam (93.6). Other weather stations –Safdarjung (68.2), Ridge (84.6) and Lodhi Road (72.6) – too had received ‘heavy’ showers. Though it continued to drizzle, the situation returned to normal after 2pm with multiple mobile pumps deployed on key stretches. A senior police officer said that this time waterlogging was not as bad as the day when Delhi had the first heavy rain of the season on July 19 with a person losing his life under the waterlogged Minto Bridge and a cluster of jhuggis near ITO getting washed away. “Since then, we have taken more measures to ensure that we do not have to face such a scenario again. More staff was deployed at vulnerable spots across the city so that the water suction pumps could be activated as soon as it started raining,” said a senior PWD official. Heavy waterlogging was reported from IP, Mayapuri and Raja Garden flyovers, the railway bridge near Bhairon Marg, residential area near Mandi House, and some areas of Mundka and Nangloi. Traders at markets in low-lying areas like Sadar Bazar found rain water had entered their shops early in the morning. The west zone saw waterlogging at Kair, Jhuljhuli, Dwarka’s Sector-3, primary school at Matiala village and Mahavir Enclave Part-III. The central zone received similar complaints from Okhla Mandi and WHO building near ITO which has emerged as a perennial trouble spot. South Delhi Municipal Corporation said at least 20 cases of trees getting uprooted due to the gusty winds were reported to their control room. The calls were received from Panchsheel Park, Hauz Khas, Hauz Khas Enclave, Greater Kailash-II, Sheikh Sarai and Sarvodaya Enclave. The boundary wall of a house in Greater Kailash-I was damaged when a tree fell on it. Similar complaints of falling trees damaging properties were also received from Janakpuri. “Our maintenance teams have been sent to remove trees from areas like Kotla Mubarakpur, Jangpura Extension, Lajpat Nagar-III and South Extension. A part of the boundary wall of a park also collapsed in Vikram Vihar of Lajpat Nagar-IV but no one was injured,” added a corporation official. East Delhi Municipal Corporation reported the least number of incidents with two cases of tree felling reported in Geeta Colony and waterlogging in Mansarovar Garden. North Delhi areas witnessed eight incidents of building collapses and seven cases of tree felling. The cases of building collapse were reported from Ashoka Basti, Nabi Karim, Anand Market, Savan Chowk at Ajmeri Gate, Swaroop Nagar, Paharganj, Joshi Road, Pandav Nagar and Omkar Nagar. The rain also damaged a drain on Dhansa road where underground metro work is going on. A section of the Bhalswa landfill too collapsed because of the downpour. Several people took to Twitter, some sharing pictures from their balconies and others from the waterlogged streets. A video of people falling into the water while trying to cross a severely waterlogged road on a bullock cart in the Tughlakabad area went viral within minutes of the incident taking place. With arterial roads choked during the office commuting hours, people vented their ire on social media. Shubham Agarwal from the Nangloi area said that Rohtak Road in the Nangloi-Mundka area, which is one of the main industrial areas of the capital, was in knee-deep water. Nishant Yadav, a resident of Bhagya Vihar in Rani Khera, said the area around their houses was under water. “Our area is low-lying and the authorities should find a permanent solution to this problem,” he added. Goonmeet Chauhan said that the city grapples with waterlogging and traffic snarls every time there is heavy rain. “Are we a smart city if the capital fights flooding with a 44-year-old drainage plan?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/catch-22-heavens-open-up-but-all-hell-breaks-loose-on-delhis-roads/articleshow/77534679.cms||Paras Singh
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC staff push for release of Rs 675 crore||HYDERABAD: Hit hard by the pandemic, employees of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) have urged the government to intervene and ensure release of Rs 675 crore to the credit cooperative society (CCS) account so that they can avail loans and meet other expenditure. In a representation to the chairman of TSRTC Employees’ Thrift and CCS Limited, the employees urged him to release Rs 675 crore along with Rs 96 crore interest to the CCS account. B Mahesh, secretary of TSRTC Employees’ Thrift and CCS Ltd, pointed out that several employees had taken loans from private moneylenders in the hope that the CCS amount would be released into the account. “We have approached the corporation several times to release the amount to the CCS account, but in vain. Apart from this, several loan applications of the employees have been pending since January 20, 2019. Fixed deposit and retirement settlement benefits of some employees are pending since August 2019. Pension payments are also pending from June 2019,” he said. He added that they were unable to clear their bank loans as the corporation was sitting over these payments for over a year now. TSRTC financial advisor N Ramesh on Thursday said the issue was pending with the management. “It is a big amount and we do not have money to pay them,” he told TOI. When asked about the delay in payments despite a high court order in 2019, he said: “I cannot comment.” Mahesh, however, said they understand the current situation on account of Covid-19. “But, we expect the corporation to at least release a part of the amount, considering the long wait of 15 months.”In February this year, MD of TSRTC Sunil Sharma had told the employees at a review meeting that the funds for CCS and PF were being mobilised. CCS members, however, alleged that the amount had not been paid till date despite the high court order to transfer at least Rs 200 crore to the CCS account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-staff-push-for-release-of-rs-675-cr/articleshow/77534658.cms||Moulika.KV
August 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: PMC to shut 8 underutilised Covid care centres for now||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to shut down eight Covid-19 Care Centres (CCCs) for the time being as they are underutilised. The centres will be put to use again if the number of patients increases. “We are temporarily shutting these centres to enable better management of resources and manpower,” said Rajendra Muthe, head of PMC’s establishment department. Earlier this week, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said the Covid-19 positivity rate had dropped from 39% to 22% over the past 10 days. The case fatality rate was 2.4% in the PMC limits, 1.8% in the PCMC areas and around 3% in rural Pune as on Tuesday. As per data provided by the PMC, the total bed capacity across 21 CCCs is around 12,000 but only 3,000 beds are being used currently. Civic officials said the number of positive patients has dropped and the recovery rate is better, thereby reducing the need for beds at the centres. Another key reason for the drop in demand is the option of home isolation. The civic administration has allowed patients with no or mild symptoms to be home quarantined if they are able to follow norms set by the Union government and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). As many as 75% of the home-quarantined Covid-19 patients in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) are from the Pune municipal limits, district health office data revealed. In the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits, less than 1% of the total patients who opted for home isolation had to be shifted to medical facilities due to health issues. Most of the patients did not develop any symptoms during their isolation period and recovered successfully, PCMC officials said. “There has been a shift in the profile of the virus spread as far as demography is concerned. In the early days, there were higher number of cases in densely populated areas and slums. After a couple of months, the virus also spread to housing societies and other areas, where getting a separate room, toilet and caretaker is possible,” said a senior official. The shift has also impacted the overall occupancy of centres. “We have some big isolation centres and CCCs. As per our new plan, we will centralise the facility. The bigger facilities will be filled completely first, then others will be opened for use,” said Muthe. He added that the move will help save funds spent on solid waste management, electricity, sanitisation and other day-to-day expenses. State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil has also urged the civic administration to rethink the plan to invest public funds in jumbo Covid-19 facilities as the number of active cases had been on the decline since the beginning of the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-shut-8-underutilised-covid-care-centres-for-now/articleshow/77534672.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
August 14, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Tribal folk opera ‘Gavari’ hit by Covid, artistes seek state patronage||UDAIPUR: The pandemic has proved to be a double whammy for the already-struggling Gavari performers in Mewar-Vagar region who say it has hit hard on the waning art as performers have no invitations and they sit idle in their homes in the performance season. With Gavari being the biggest source of entertainment for inmates in tribal settlements, life has come on a standstill for them with no immediate signs of resumption of any kind. In these times of quarantine and social distancing, all festivals, functions or fairs have been cancelled and Gavari artists are left in the lurch. “As there is no reward or recognition for performers, the younger generation has hardly any interest in learning this tribal folk opera and the apathy of the government on the other hand for its promotion discourages the few mandalis or troops that have been dedicatedly performing for years to pass on to the posterity, the values and lessons associated with the art,” says ChandraShekhar Joshi, district president of Bhartiya Janta Party Yuva Morcha, Udaipur Dehaat. Joshi has recently written to the ministry of culture and tourism for inclusion of Gavari performers in the artistes pension scheme and welfare fund. “Gavari is a 40-day festival of dance and drama performed by the Bhil community which begins soon after Rakshabandhan and continues till September-October. It is celebrated by tribes in Udaipur, Rajsamand, Chittorgarh and some parts of the Dungarpur district. The artistes perform plays in those villages where their married sisters and daughters reside. The purpose behind this custom is to ensure the wellness of their loved ones after marriage and instill in them a sense of proud and security,” informed Narumal Bhil, a senior government teacher at Saradi village in Salumber block of Udaipur. As it takes place only for two months in a year, the performers do not get any monetary gain but they have been doing it out of passion. Most of them are farmers or labourers who are associated with mandalis who leave their homes for the entire season, performing in various villages on invitations. Narumal said there are over 10,000 performers in the entire division, but the government has never taken any initiative to promote it. Lacking encouragement, people are slowly drifting away. Gavari’s unique is its fusion of pan-Hindu mythology with purely local folk beliefs and rituals. Life for the performers is not easy. For 40 days, they follow strict rules. They follow celibacy, do not wear shoes, abstain from alcohol and meat, skip night meal, sleep on the floor and do not bath during this period. In their acts are lessons on environment protection, respecting women and abstinence from addictions. pics- Gavari is an 800-year old performing art, very popular among the tribal communities in South Raj. (Pictures of earlier performances)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/tribal-folk-opera-gavari-hit-by-covid-artistes-seek-state-patronage/articleshow/77534677.cms||Geetha Sunil Pillai
August 14, 2020||Agra||Ram Janmabhoomi Trust chief tests positive for Covid in Mathura, a week after sharing stage with PM, Yogi||Agra: Eight days after sharing stage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, governor Anandiben Patel and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat at the bhoomi pujan ceremony for the Ram temple in Ayodhya, head of Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust Mahant Nritya Gopal Das tested positive for Covid-19 in Mathura on Thursday. “An antigen test for Covid-19 was conducted, which came back positive,” Mathura district magistrate Sarvagya Ram Misra said. Antigen tests, introduced later to complement conventional RT-PCR tests, are considered highly accurate for positive results. A TrueNat test also came back positive. “His oxygen level, however, was saturated,” Misra added. Covid-19 is often accompanied by low oxygen levels in the bloodstream. The 83-year-old mahant of Mani Ram Das Ki Chavani, Ayodhya’s largest temple, had been at the forefront of the mandir movement for years and appointed head of the Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas. On Tuesday, Das had arrived in Mathura for the Krishna Janmashtami celebration at the Sri Krishna Janamsthan Temple. He is also chairperson of the Krishna Janmabhoomi Nirman Nyas, a group seeking a Krishna Janmabhoomi Temple next to a mosque in Mathura. On Thursday morning, he started feeling sick. “He had high fever and was breathless. A team of doctors was called for a checkup,” Misra said. When he tested positive, Adityanath spoke to eminent cardiologist Dr Naresh Trehan and asked district officials to arrange for Das to be moved to a private hospital in Gurgaon, Medanta. “A team of our doctors, a district official and a circle officer have accompanied the mahant to the Gurgaon hospital,” Misra said. He has been "put on oxygen supply" and continues to have fever and dry cough, a district health official said. Back in Mathura, district health officials are identifying people who came in contact with Das. Officials at the chief minister’s office, however, refused to say if Adityanath will be tested and quarantined since he shared space with Das in Ayodhya. “The CM’s health is being monitored,” an official said. Five days before the Ayodhya ceremony, a priest and 14 cops on duty at the Ram Janmabhoomi Complex had tested positive for Covid-19. “About 40 people, including Sri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan secretary Kapil Sharma and member Gopeshwar Nath Chaturvedi and the main priests of the temple will be tested for Covid-19. They were all present at the Janmashtami celebrations with the mahant on Wednesday night,” Dr Bhudev Singh, in charge of the epidemic control room, told TOI. Events for Nandotsav, celebrated a day after Janmashtami, were cancelled. The temple has been sealed and is being sanitised.The DM and chief medical officer Dr Sanjeev Yadav too have now been quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ram-janmabhoomi-trust-chief-tests-positive-for-covid-in-mathura-a-week-after-sharing-stage-with-pm-yogi/articleshow/77531914.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 14, 2020||Agra||Agra’s first charging station for e-buses to be set in Foundry Nagar||Agra: State government has approved a sum of Rs 12.85 crore for construction of a charging station for e-buses in the city. Agra Municipal Can has handed over a16,000 square metre plot of land in Foundry Nagar to Agra-Mathura City Transport Limited for the same.The work will be undertaken by the construction and design wing of Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam. Additional municipal commissioner KB Singh said, “The leveling of the land will be started very soon”. Managing director of Agra-Mathura city Transport Service, RBL Sharma said, “Plans are afoot to run 100 e-buses in Agra and Mathura cities. The e-buses are to be delivered by the end of March, 2021. Before that, the construction of the charging station will be completed. Operations of e-buses will significantly reduce pollution caused by public transport vehicles in the Taj Trapezium Zone”.At present, CNG buses operate in Agra and 60 diesel buses operate in Mathura. As a majority of these are old, the state government has decided to replace them with modern electric buses. The state government plans to operate 580 electric buses on contract basis across nine major cities. Out of these, 100 will be operated in Agra-Mathura cities, which are in the TTZ The electric buses will also be operated in Kanpur, Prayagraj, Ghaziabad, Varanasi, Gorakhpur and Saharanpur. The urban transport directorate has planned to start operation of at least 10 buses in each city within the next three months. According to officials at the urban transport directorate, the electric buses will run a 150 km on a single charge. The buses will have maximum speed of 75 km per hour. The lithium-ion batteries of these buses will not take more than 30 minutes for complete charging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agras-first-charging-station-for-e-buses-to-be-set-in-foundry-nagar/articleshow/77531922.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 14, 2020||Trichy||OFT launches anti-materiel rifle||Trichy: Ordnance Factory of Tiruchirappalli (OFT) on Thursday unveiled its second new weapon in a week, an anti-materiel rifle (AMR) to be used by Indian Army. Defence minister Rajnath Singh launched the indigenous rifle through video conferencing on OFT campus near Trichy city. AMR is a large caliber (diameter) sniper rifle with 14.5mm and 20mm caliber. It can be used to destroy enemy bunkers, lightly armoured vehicles, radar systems, parked aircraft and fuel storage facility. The single-shot bolt action weapon has a range of 1,800m for 14.5mm caliber and 1,300m for 20mm caliber. It has a detachable three-round magazine. The weapon weighing 24 to 30kg can be dismantled and carried in portable man-packs. “So far, we were importing the weapon from South Africa. Now, OFT has developed the weapon through our own research and development without any MoU with foreign collaborators and without any support from external agencies,” C Ariya Sakthi, works manager, OFT said. Due to indigenous production of the rifle through Atmanirbhar Bharat mission (Self-Reliant India Mission), OFT sources said that foreign exchange to the tune of $90 million will be saved. Ordnance Factory Board, Kolkata has received orders from central armed police forces and state police organisations. The indigenous production of AMR is likely to give OFT workload for another five years. OFT can manufacture AMR with the existing infrastructure. Earlier on Monday, OFT had launched Stabilized Remote Controlled Gun (SRCG), a weapon to be used in the Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/oft-launches-anti-materiel-rifle/articleshow/77535398.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Trichy||BDU to fast track PG admissions||Trichy: Bharathidasan University (BDU) is going ahead with the admissions process for its postgraduate and integrated programmes by giving provisional admission to eligible candidates. Though it had started receiving online application last month, the university recently extended the last date for admission to August 20. However, it has decided to award seats to students based on the applications received without waiting for the last date. BDU registrar G Gopinath said the university departments have been asked to go ahead with the admissions following the usual reservation. Candidates will be admitted provisionally for the postgraduate programmes as final admission would be based on the final semester results of candidates in the undergraduate programme. Results for the UG programmes are yet to be declared since the final semester examination is yet to be conducted. Therefore, UG candidates will be admitted to PG programmes based on the marks obtained in five semesters. “There are many candidates who must have secured good marks and applied in other colleges as well. If we continue to delay the admission process, students may opt for other colleges. In order to retain such students, admission process has been fast tracked,” he said. For five and six-year integrated programmes, admission is made on the basis of class XII marks. Since these candidates must have applied in many colleges, they may chose colleges if university delays admission, said another teacher from the university. There are a total of 37 departments offering MA, MSc and MTech programmes besides five and six-year integrated programmes for which class XII pass is the basic eligibility. On the number of applications received so far, the registrar said the response wasn’t so high. Some science departments have received good number of applications, but not humanities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bdu-to-fast-track-pg-admissions/articleshow/77535407.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Ahead of GHMC polls, it’s raining sops for city voters||Hyderabad: The state government is leaving no stone unturned ahead of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections likely in 2021 to earn the goodwill of the urban voters. One-time amnesty scheme on interest on property tax arrears, 5% discount on building permission fee and instalment facility (fee) to builders (over 1,000 square metres), TS bPASS and implementation of Pradhan Mantri Street Vendors Atmanirbhar Nidhi have been rolled out/implemented in the past three months. The elections are likely to be held in January, 2021. Around 5.4 lakh property owners are yet to pay property tax dues since years. With the amnesty scheme, they need to pay just 10% of their accumulated interest along with principal amount up to the 2019-2020 financial year, the scheme is applicable to other urban local bodies too. Under implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi, GHMC hopes to enrol 1.5 lakh vendors and ensure they get Rs 10,000 loan. Though the discount on building permission fee might benefit builders, who raise high rises, it might indirectly benefit TRS in the form of funds and the government might earn some brownie points. To woo resident welfare associations, the civic body has sanctioned Rs 123 crore for 50 new parks and the onus of maintenance of these would be given to RWA members. For the poor, works pertaining to construction of 2-BHK houses were also being taken up at a brisk pace. “By September, construction of 60,000 houses will be completed,” a GHMC official said. Beneficiaries would be handed over keys a couple of months ahead of the elections. Works pertaining to infrastructure projects have also been put on the fast track. Durgam Cheruvu cable-stayed bridge, connecting Road number 45 Jubliee Hills, will be inaugurated before December, while efforts were on to complete road under bridge at Hi-Tec City MMTS Station and road over bridge at Khaitlapur. According to GHMC officials, infrastructure projects and sops were not related to GHMC elections. “Sops are rolled out to boost economy amid Covid-19, construction of washrooms and infrastructure projects are routine activities, they are not related to the polls,” a GHMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ahead-of-ghmc-polls-its-raining-sops-for-city-voters/articleshow/77534692.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Commuters in Delhi wish they had stayed home as arteries choke||NEW DELHI: Traffic jams choked several major arteries of the city bringing it to a halt following Thursday’s downpour. Police identified 11 points that witnessed waterlogging through the day. Traffic had to be diverted at these places. Almost all the underpasses across the city, including Tilak bridge, Dhuala Kuan, New Delhi Railway Station, Minto Road, Azad Market railway bridge, Moolchand underpass, Pul Prahladpur underpass, Zakhira underpass and Prembadi underpass, were flooded. At least 26 cars suffered engine damages due to the water flow. Traffic had to be diverted from stretches like Mehrauli-Badarpur Road, Zakhira and Bhairon Marg due to the heavy rains on Thursday morning. Snarls choked the C-hexagon during the morning peak hours after a tree was uprooted near Delhi high court. Snarls due to waterlogging were reported at Mathura Road, Outer Ring Road and Mehrauli-Badarpur Road throughout the day. The police control room received more than 200 distress calls regarding accumulation of water on streets. Traffic moved slowly near Sarai Kale Khan and at the mouth of the Signature Bridge. The stretch near Pragati Maidan, Ashram and New Friends Colony had slow moving traffic as water had accumulated at the construction sites in these areas. Traffic jams also took place near the IIT-Delhi Campus and Munirka flyover due to waterlogging near another construction site on the way to the airport. Ankle-deep water at Rao Tula Ram Marg slowed down airport- bound traffic. Major traffic jams occurred near Devli due to waterlogging by the roadside. The movement of vehicles slowed down in areas like Bharthal Chowk on Dwarka Link Road, Wazirabad Road, Apsara roundabout, Mandoli and Rajokri flyover. Traffic was also affected on NH-24 due to the mayhem at ITO. Low-lying areas on the Ring Road and Outer Ring Road in south Delhi were also severely affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/commuters-wish-they-had-stayed-home-as-arteries-choke/articleshow/77534686.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||Can NMC conduct 80k tests a day for shopkeepers, asks mayor||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi on Thursday slammed the August 18 deadline set by municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe for testing all shopkeepers and their staff for Covid-19 (regular or antigen). “The order should be withdrawn immediately,” he said.Speaking to media persons, Joshi said that conducting Covid-19 test for lakhs of traders and their staff in just six days is an impossible task. “Mundhe is taking very impractical decisions for the city in the context of Covid-19 and we are accused of politicizing the issues on opposing them,” said Joshi.According to the mayor, the decision taken by Mundhe was not based on facts. “There are four traders’ associations in the city. According to them, there are 50,000 traders with about five lakh employees in the city,” he said. “All pathology laboratories in the city together are conducting about 3,000 Covid-19 tests per day. Is it possible to test about five lakh traders and their employees in just six days. Is the administration ready to conduct 80,000 tests daily for six days? Moreover, August 15 is a holiday,” said the mayor.Joshi said the traders will have to bear charges for Covid-19 tests, as per Mundhe’s instructions. “This means the traders and their employees in the city will spend a total of Rs85 crore,” he said and added, “Can anyone guarantee that if a trader tests negative today he will not test positive tomorrow?”The mayor warned that if required he will take to the streets along with the citizens to oppose the move. He said the commissioner should first make arrangements for citizens and then impose any decisions like conducting tests for traders. A delegation of shopkeepers also met the mayor and appealed to him to look their demands including revoking the odd-even day formula in commercial areas. The mayor expressed anguish against Mundhe “for not implementing the July 31 meeting decision to allow shops on over 12-mt wide roads like Central Avenue to open on all days”.“The people of Nagpur also need to discipline themselves. But lockdown is not the solution,” said the mayor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/can-nmc-conduct-80k-tests-a-day-for-shopkeepers-asks-mayor/articleshow/77531926.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Alert residents foil theft bid, one arrested||Hyderabad: A 28-year-old man was arrested for attempting to break into a house at Dinesh Nagar colony in West Venkatapuram on Thursday. According to Alwal police, residents of the colony saw the man moving around suspiciously and trying to break into a house in the colony. However, they caught the suspect and after tying him to a tree, they alerted the police. The police immediately freed the man and rescued him from the locals. “The suspect, Raju, is a resident of Addagutta. He was in an inebriated condition. During interrogation, Raju claimed that he is a mason and that he came to the colony looking for water. His answers were not satisfactory. We are trying to get more details about him. A case has been registered against Raju,” Alwal inspector P Yadagiri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/alert-residents-foil-theft-bid-one-arrested/articleshow/77534683.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Khadakwasla discharge up to 16,000 cusecs, Mutha swells||PUNE: The discharge of water from the Khadakwasla dam into the Mutha river was increased to 16,247 cusecs on Thursday with heavy spells of rain continuing in the catchment. The release was maintained at the rate of 1,000 cusecs in the morning and was gradually increased up to 11,704 cusecs by afternoon and 16,247 by late evening. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued an alert for people living in the low lying areas along the river as a precautionary measure. The Baba Bhide bridge near Deccan Gymkhana and the riverside road, which were open for vehicles as the water level in the river remained low till afternoon, were closed for traffic late in the evening after the water discharge was increased. An irrigation department official said water would be released from the Khadakwasla dam on Friday as well if the catchment continued to receive heavy spells of rain. The PMC activated its helplines for use in case of emergency and to deal with instances of flooding following the water discharge from the Khadakwasla dam. The disaster management cell of the district administration issued a warning to the PMC to avoid parking of vehicles on the roads along the Mutha and stop people from going near the river. The water storage in the Khadakwasla dam reached its full capacity of 1.97 TMC on Wednesday for the first time this rainy season. The irrigation department also started releasing water from Vir and Kalmodi dams in the Bhima basin after the stock in both the reservoirs reached their full capacities. The release from Vir was increased to 23,000 cusecs by Thursday evening. The irrigation department also issued an alert on the possibility of water release from the Mulshi dam in the next couple of days. The water storage in the dam reached 73% of its capacity on Thursday. Water released from Mulshi flows in to Pavana and then in to the Mula-Mutha. It flows further to the Bhima river. Watch Pune: Mutha River swells after Khadakwasla dam discharges up to 16,000 cusecs water||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/khadakwasla-discharge-up-to-16k-cusecs-mutha-swells/articleshow/77534688.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 14, 2020||Vadodara||Covid rules slashed with sword, 13 held||Vadodara: Thirteen people were arrested by Sayajigunj police on Wednesday afternoon for celebrating one of the accused’s birthday near Akota bridge by bursting crackers at midnight and not maintaining any social distance. Police said that they learnt about the celebration by seeing a video posted by one of the accused on the social media. Cops identified Rahul Mali as he was cutting a cake with a sword while his other friends gathered around him and were bursting crackers. When Mali was questioned, he revealed names of other accused who were present during the celebrations and were visible in the social media video. All accused including Mali are residents of Parshuram Bhatta in Sayajigunj. Based on Mali’s statement, all other accused were brought to the police station and were arrested for committing a negligent act likely to spread infection of any disease and under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. “None of the accused were wearing facemasks and they did not maintain any physical distance at the same time, so we arrested them and later released on bail,” said a police official. Cops also seized the sword which Mali used for cutting the cake. It was brought by his friend Kalpesh Gohil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-rules-slashed-with-sword-13-held/articleshow/77531032.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Trichy||Trichy city has more deaths than 15 dists||Trichy: With 51 Covid-19 casualties so far, which include 12 deaths in the past 12 days, Trichy city has recorded more Covid-19 deaths than 15 districts in the state. Trichy district that has one of the highest mortality rates in the country has reported 79 deaths so far, of which 64.5% casualties were from Trichy city. Until the first week of July, Trichy city reported only 4 Covid-19 deaths. The toll quickly surged to 32 by the end of last month. However, August continues to witness more casualties. So far the city has reported deaths at the rate of one per day in the months. Ariyamangalam and K Abishekapuram zones have reported 16 deaths each, followed by Srirangam with 12 deaths. Trichy city has more Covid-19 casualties than 15 districts including Tiruppur, Erode, Krishnagiri and Pudukkottai. The spike in the number of deaths was attributed to the comorbidities prevalent among the vulnerable population residing here. Trichy city, being a preferred retirement destination for government employees, has a significant number of the aged population. “Population density of Trichy is another factor in the fatalities. Since 95% of the Covid-19 victims are above 50, we are focussing on the particular age group in testing,” district epidemiologist Aravind Kumar said. Diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney diseases were identified as the chief comorbidities causing deaths, the epidemiologist added. Delay in availing medical attention was another reason for the high casualty. especially since many senior citizens stay alones. Although the senior citizens stay indoors, they contract the infection through other family members .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-city-has-more-deaths-than-15-dists/articleshow/77535415.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||Table 50% tax rebate proposal before GB: Joshi to Mundhe||Nagpur: Mayor Sandip Joshi has asked Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) administration to submit a proposal to general body (GB) for providing 50% rebate in property tax and water bills for the first half of this fiscal. He had convened a meeting of public representatives in NMC in which everybody raised this demand. Joshi also asked municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe not to levy fine on people who fail to pay property tax and water bills on time. The commissioner has this power.Mundhe had not attended the meeting even though he was invited. Joshi expressed annoyance over repeated failure of the commissioner to attend NMC meetings. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi was. however, present in the meeting along with other officials.MLAs Krishna Khopade and Mohan Mate, MLCs Girish Vyas and Pravin Datke, and others said earnings of people had nosedived due to the lockdown. Many people have lost jobs or their salaries have been drastically reduced, said the leaders. Traders and professionals were not getting enough business and under such circumstances, the NMC should provide relief to citizens, they said.Khopade said many citizens owed thousands as property tax arrears to NMC. A one-time settlement scheme should be implemented for them and 50% of their arrears should be waived off in view of the pandemic situation, he said.Later Joshi told TOI, “We are demanding 50% rebate in water and property tax for the April-September period. Taxes should be levied at full rate for September-March period.”“NMC is cash-strapped and many developmental works have been stopped due to this. If we provide rebate in taxes, some more works will be affected but at least citizens will get relief. Right now, our priority is to reduce financial burden on lockdown-hit Nagpurians,” said the mayor.“About Rs650 crore property tax arrears have to be collected by NMC. If a one-time settlement scheme is implemented with rebate on arrears, many people will clear their dues and NMC will get revenue. Water tax hike should be deferred by one year because financial condition of most citizens is not good,” he further said.Joshi admitted that the proposal to give rebate in taxes would require state government’s approval. “If it blocks our proposal, we will take to the streets,” he said.Standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke also said NMC is in a position to give rebate in property and water tax. “If we give rebate on arrears of property tax and water bills, a lot of people will pay up and NMC will get additional revenue,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/table-50-tax-rebate-proposal-before-gb-joshi-to-mundhe/articleshow/77531937.cms||Ashish Roy
August 14, 2020||Pune||Woman’s kin beat up her father-in-law in Dhayari||PUNE: A 67-year-old man lodged an FIR at the Sinhagad Road police station on Wednesday stating that he was assaulted by four relatives of his daughter-in-law at Jadhavnagar in Dhayari on Tuesday morning following a domestic issue between her and his son. “The elderly man, admitted to a private hospital for treatment, said he was on his way to a pharmacy when the four men attacked him,” senior inspector Nandkishor Shelke said. “The man’s daughter-in-law recently returned to her paternal home at Daund, following an issue with her husband,” he added. Shelke said, “His son was at home and the elderly man stepped out to buy medicines. The four men were waiting near their residential society. They spotted the elderly man walking towards them and assaulted him with a stick before running away. The man was rushed to a nearby hospital and the staff informed the police about the incident. The area has CCTV camera surveillance and we will study the footage to ascertain the identity of the suspects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/womans-kin-beat-up-her-father-in-law-in-dhayari/articleshow/77534697.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||FDCA nod to 134 Gujarat companies to make hand sanitizer||AHMEDABAD: The rush to make hand sanitizers has intensified with more companies venturing into this personal hygiene product. In the past two months, as many as 134 new manufacturers across Gujarat have been granted permission to manufacture hand sanitizers. With the demand for hand sanitizers skyrocketing amid rising cases of Covid-19 across the country, new players continue to enter the hand sanitizer space. There was already a spike in the number of companies getting into hand sanitizer manufacturing during the initial months after the lockdown was announced. During the period, many big companies like Zydus Welllness, Eris Lifesciences, Cadila Pharma and Nivea India forayed into hand sanitizer production either for commercial or philanthropic purposes. Before the Covid-19 outbreak, Gujarat had only 219 hand sanitizer manufacturers as on March 21. The number jumped to around 499 by mid-June. “With the rush to make hand sanitizers continuing, the total number of companies producing hand sanitizers in the state has further grown to 633 (as on July 31) and these players have been granted a total of 3,637 product licences as on July end,” said H G Koshia, commissioner, Gujarat Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA). “There has been almost a threefold increase in hand sanitizer makers in Gujarat since the Covid-19 outbreak. There were only 219 manufacturers in the state in pre-Covid period,” Koshia added. Of the total number of hand sanitizer makers in Gujarat, 303 firms — the highest number — have received permission for making hand sanitizers in the cosmetic segment, followed by allopathic (185 companies) and ayurvedic (145), shows data compiled by Gujarat FDCA. Of all the product licences issued to these manufacturers, 2,487 have been issued for making cosmetic hand sanitizers, 684 for allopathic and 466 for ayurvedic. “The Union health ministry has also exempted hand sanitizers from the requirement of sales licence. With this, hand sanitizers can now be sold at grocery shops as well. Previously, a licence was required to sell and stock hand sanitizers,” the FDCA commissioner added. Not just hand sanitizers, several new players have forayed into manufacturing of masks and vitamin C and D3 since the onset of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fdca-nod-to-134-companies-to-make-hand-sanitizer/articleshow/77533422.cms||Kalpesh Damor
August 14, 2020||Delhi||AAP and BJP spar over waterlogging in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Thursday’s waterlogging triggered a war of words between Aam Aadmi Party and BJP in Delhi. AAP MLA Dilip Pandey slammed BJP-led municipal corporations for not cleaning the drains, which led to waterlogging in the city. Around 98% drains come under the jurisdiction of the municipal corporations and only 2% of the drains under Delhi government. The responsibility of cleaning the drains lies with BJP-led municipal corporations, Pandey said at a press conference. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta claimed waterlogging was reported across Delhi and people are suffering because the Kejriwal government failed to complete even 50% desilting work before the monsoon. The AAP functionary claimed that Section 32 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act 1957 clearly states that cleaning of any drain in Delhi is the responsibility of the municipal corporations. The state BJP chief, on the other hand, accused the Kejriwal government of not implementing the Drainage Master Plan of Delhi, which has been duly approved, because of which entire Delhi gets flooded in little rain. “We all know how corrupt the corporations of Delhi under the BJP are. It is very clear that the municipal corporations have not cleaned a single drain. There is a separate budget allocation for desilting of drains, but BJP uses this money for its corruption,” Pandey alleged. “In Delhi, the responsibility of cleaning the drains is under the municipal corporations but unfortunately, they always use the entire money for the corruption and do not perform any work. In the upcoming polls, people will finish the BJP’s power in the municipal corporations,” said Pandey. The BJP functionary said: “Delhi government had claimed that more than Rs 100 crores were spent on cleaning of drains, but this claim also flowed along with the rainwater. Such a situation in Delhi even after crores of expenses indicates scam. Delhi Jal Board had bought machines for crores, but those machines cannot be seen anywhere.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-and-bjp-spar-over-waterlogging/articleshow/77534696.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||Moderate rain alert in Pune for weekend, Pashan receives 11.4mm in 9 hours||PUNE: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday forecast heavy to very heavy rain in the ghat areas in and around the district over the next 48-72 hours and moderate showers with occasional spells in the city. The western parts of the city received more rainfall than the rest of Pune. The IMD’s Pashan station registered 11.4mm of rainfall from 8.30am to 5.30pm. Shivajinagar and Lohegaon received 9.8mm and 8.6mm of rainfall, respectively, during the period. The maximum temperature at Shivajinagar also dropped to 25.3ºC, two notches below normal. Humidity also remained high throughout the day. Areas in the Western Ghats were pounded by heavy to very heavy rain in some areas till Thursday morning. Lonavala received 140mm of rainfall till 8.30am. Areas such as Shirgaon received 210mm of showers during the same period. Till Thursday evening, Mahabaleshwar received 78mm of rain. The red alert issued for Thursday has now been downgraded to an “orange” alert for the ghat areas till August 17. This implies that most ghat areas may receive heavy rain, with isolated areas likely to witness very heavy rain ranging from 65mm to 200mm. “The low pressure formed over north-west Bay of Bengal is converging with westerly winds from the Arabian Sea, which is bringing moisture into Maharashtra. Along with that, an upper air cyclonic circulation has formed over southern Gujarat, which is causing heavy rainfall in much of the region around Goa, central Maharashtra, and Konkan,” Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather at IMD Pune, said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/moderate-rain-alert-for-weekend-pashan-receives-11-4mm-in-9-hrs/articleshow/77534693.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC to collect labour cess at time of issuing bldg permission||Hyderabad: With several builders and developers failing to pay labour cess, the GHMC on Thursday decided to collect labour cess at the time of issuing permission for construction. A proposal to this effect was approved by the GHMC standing committee on Thursday. As per records of the state vigilance commission, the contractors are to pay a total of Rs 958 crore in dues, accumulated since years, to the labour department. The defaulters include construction companies with a global presence, reputed builders as well as network service providers. The agencies and contractors that are executing state government projects have also evaded labour cess. As per norms, one per cent of the construction cost (for Rs 10 lakh and above) is the labour cess and the contractor needs to pay it depending on the progress of his project. The cess applies to renovation and road restoration work too. The GHMC’s decision to collect labour cess in advance is expected to bring relief to workers as all funds for benefits to labourers are sanctioned through the labour cess. The sanctions include ex gratia, grants for health and education facilities to labourers and their families. Meanwhile, political party representatives opined that the defaulters should be penalised. “Efforts should be made to collect the pending cess. Action should be taken against the defaulters who are depriving labourers of their rights by not paying the cess,” said M Srinivas, city secretary, Communist Party of India (Marxist). Earlier this year, the labour department had lodged a complaint against GHMC to the state government regarding the lack of cess collection. “Collection of labour cess beforehand is the solution and the proposal has been approved,” said a GHMC official. A total of 18 proposals were approved by the standing committee on Thursday. The remaining proposals were pertaining to civic works that were approved. “If civic works that were approved are delayed, the contractors will be blacklisted and earnest money deposit will also be forfeited,” said mayor Bonthu Rammohan, who chaired the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-to-collect-labour-cess-at-time-of-issuing-bldg-permission/articleshow/77534699.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Zydus launches generic remdesivir in India||Ahmedabad: Zydus Cadila, the Ahmedabad-based pharmaceutical major, on Thursday launched the generic version of Gilead Sciences’ antiviral drug remdesivir in India under the brand name Remdac. Remdesivir is used to treat Covid-19 patients. Priced at Rs 2,800 for a 100mg lyophilized injection, Remdac is the most affordable remdesivir version available in India, the company said in a statement. “Remdac is the most affordable drug as we would like to enable patients to have access to this critical drug in the treatment of Covid-19,” said Dr Sharvil Patel, managing director, Cadila Healthcare Limited, the flagship company of Zydus Cadila group. According to the company, the drug will be made available across India through the group’s distribution chain reaching out to government and private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients. Zydus has become the fifth company to launch a copy of this antiviral drug in India after Hetero Labs Limited, Cipla, Mylan NV and Jubilant Lifesciences Limited. In June 2020, Zydus entered a non-exclusive agreement with US-based Gilead Sciences Inc. to manufacture and sell remdesivir, which has been issued an emergency use authorization by the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) to treat patients suffering from severe symptoms of Covid-19. The active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) or raw material for the drug has been developed and manufactured at Zydus Cadila’s API manufacturing facilities in Gujarat. “Through the course of this pandemic, our efforts have been focused on supporting people, whether it is through developing vaccines, ramping up production and distribution of critical drugs, making diagnostic tests available or exploring new treatment options,” Patel said. “Zydus currently has the capacity to manufacture 6 lakh vials per month, which can be expanded up to 12 vials per month,” said Dr HG Koshia, commissioner, Gujarat Food and Drug Control Administration (FDCA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/zydus-launches-generic-remdesivir-in-india/articleshow/77533423.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Global edge: Delhi govt inks pact with US organisation for road safety||NEW DELHI: Less than a week after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal put forth a comprehensive Delhi Electric Vehicle policy, transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Thursday signed an MoU with a New York-headquartered Bloomberg Philanthropies to ensure road safety and mobility in the capital. “Through this MoU and by joining the Global Road Safety Initiative by Bloomberg Philanthropies, we are partnering with the world’s leading organisations to improve road safety. Delhi government, global road safety experts and Delhiites together will now ensure no more lives are lost on Delhi roads,” Gahlot said. In a statement, the government said it would be supported by the world’s leading experts, which would help with technical assistance to conduct various periodic road user behaviour observational surveys and training for staff from relevant agencies. Kelly Larson of Bloomberg Philanthropies, said, “We are delighted to welcome Delhi as one of the 30 cities that will participate in the initiative for Global Road Safety — a network committed to reducing deaths and injuries from road traffic crashes.” These cities would receive resources and support, which would enable them to implement safety activities. The participating cities would work in collaboration with Bloomberg Philanthropies’ partner organisations and road safety experts, who would provide technical assistance on all the aspects of planning, implementation and enforcement. Road safety strategies that would be part of the initiative include enforcing laws on speeding, drunk driving, motorcycle helmets and seat-belts, designing and building safer roads and transportation systems, promoting safe driving and building public support for road safety via communication campaigns and using data from high-quality monitoring and evaluation systems for policy and planning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/global-edge-govt-inks-pact-with-us-organisation-for-road-safety/articleshow/77534714.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||Helmetless pillion rider dies, another injured||Nagpur: A 26-year-old man, Nikhil Lonare, riding without helmet and pillion with his two other friends, was killed after their bike was dashed from behind by a truck on Nagpur-Bhandara Road on Wednesday. Lonare’s friend, Nikhil Meshram, 21, too was injured in the accident. Lonare had sustained serious head injuries.Police said the friends, who worked at a food outlet at Pardi, were returning after having a feast. The bike was being driven by Akash Tandulkar who had made miraculous escape and remained unhurt. The three were thrown on the road after the killer truck rammed into the two-wheeler. Lonare had suffered the worst hit as he was seated last. Kalamna police have registered an offence of rash and negligent driving against the trucker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/helmetless-pillion-rider-dies-another-injured/articleshow/77531943.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||BIE to start Inter 2nd yr classes from Aug 17||Hyderabad: Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) is all geared up to commence classes through Doordarshan (DD)-Yadagiri and online platforms for second year students from August 17. The board is in final stages to engage students in the new mode of learning. After the lockdown was declared across the country, TSBIE had started developing e-content of the syllabus and even selected subject experts as content pullers to identify topics that could be converted into e-content. “We have already converted almost 40 % of the syllabus into e-content, which will be aired through DD-Yadagiri and T-SAT till February. Students will have six hours — three-hour slots in the morning and afternoon — of learning,” TSBIE secretary Omar Jaleel told TOI, adding the e-content would also be streamed live on various YouTube channels and made available for students online. For those who don’t have access to either television, smartphone or the internet, BIE has identified 405 government colleges as student service centres, where teachers would ensure an alternative arrangement is made for such students. “Teachers will be reaching out to such students and will help them continue their learning process. We are also planning to activate some student groups, wherein bright students will hand-hold those who are academically weak. This way, we will continue the learning momentum,” Jaleel added. Taking a cue from Central Board of Secondary Education’s decision to cut 30% syllabus for the ensuing academic year, TSBIE has submitted its suggestion to reduce the syllabus to the state government. Once the government gives its nod, the board would identify junior lecturers and experts who would decide on the syllabus to be snipped as a one-time measure. Sources said as compared to the CBSE curriculum, TSBIE curriculum was dense in many subjects such as mathematics, botany, zoology, physics and chemistry. Subjects experts opine the board would have to first trim the excess syllabus followed in Telangana. “CBSE is a role model for the intermediate syllabus followed in Telangana. The syllabus will be deleted in such a way that intermediate students don’t lag behind their counterparts from CBSE in competitive exams,” Telangana State Junior College Lecturers’ Association president Madhusudan Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bie-to-start-inter-2nd-yr-classes-from-aug-17/articleshow/77534705.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 14, 2020||Trichy||South TN reports 37 Covid deaths, central districts 13||Madurai/ Trichy: The southern districts reported 37 deaths on Thursday with 1,538 new positive and 13,163 active cases. With this, the total cases till date in southern districts have climbed to 71,439. Meanwhile, the central region reported 691 fresh cases taking the tally to 20,651, which included 5,225 active cases. The region also reported 13 more deaths taking the toll to 263. Out of the total deaths on Thursday, Dindigul recorded two, Kanyakumari-six, Madurai-five, Ramnad-five, Sivaganga-one, Tenkasi-four, Theni-five, Tirunelveli-seven and Virudhunagar-two. Though there was a decline in the overall number of cases in southern districts for the last one week, seven out of the ten districts saw more than 100 cases on Thursday. Madurai recorded 151 new cases and five deaths on Thursday taking the toll to 308. However, Madurai Covid-19 monitoring officer Dr B Chandramohan said that the number of active cases in the district was coming down in the last two days. Theni continued to have the highest number of cases in the southern district with 286 new cases and five deaths, taking the death toll to 104. Health department sources said that the death toll was increasing because people who were receiving treatment at private hospitals in other districts were getting admitted to the government hospital at a terminal stage. They also had a case of a man, aged about 45, who had home quarantined himself without medical supervision although he had developed symptoms. He was rushed to the hospital when he developed breathing issue, but died on the way. Theni and Virudhunagar were the only districts to see more than 200 new cases on Thursday with 219 cases and two deaths. This takes the total cases in the district to 10,849 with 1,425 active cases. Tirunelveli reported 189 new cases and seven deaths while and Kanyakumari 185 new cases and six deaths. In the central region, 147 more positive cases than Wednesday were registered on Thursday. Pudukottai reported four deaths and Thanjavur three, while Karur and Trichy recorded two deaths each. One death each was reported in Ariyalur and Tiruvarur. With 161 fresh cases, Trichy tops the list in the region, which took the toll to 5,550. Meanwhile, a total of 43 people were discharged from Trichy on Thursday. Thanjavur recorded 154 new positive cases, taking the tally to 4,561. Number of cases in Thanjavur has been going up. Covid cases were also reported in Nagapattinam (71), Tiruvarur (27), Pudukottai (131), Ariyalur (76), Perambalur (31), and Karur (40).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/south-tn-reports-37-covid-deaths-central-districts-13/articleshow/77535421.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||GB’s 1st virtual meet on Aug 20, set to be stormy||Nagpur: After two standing committee meetings on virtual platform recently, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) general body is all set to meet online for the first time on August 20. The decision to hold meeting online was driven by the coronavirus outbreak and the city emerging as a major hotspot.Though online, the meeting is likely to be stormy with many civic issues to be raised by corporators from both ruling and opposition parties.Link to join the virtual meeting will be provided 45 minutes before the start, said an order issued by municipal secretary.Apart from old ones, the administration has submitted eight new proposals which include one about making licence from the civic body compulsory for shopkeepers, architects, surveyors and butchers to run their businesses. Failure to seek the licence will attract penal action, says the proposal citing Section 376 of Maharashtra Municipal Corporation Act, 1949, which mandates activities and businesses mentioned in the Act could not be undertaken without the permission of municipal commissioner. The proposal is set to be resisted by corporators from both ruling and opposition parties. The ruling BJP, which is viewed as working to protect the interests of traders, may not allow the administration to implement the licence rule.Education department’s proposal to distribute 1,950 Tablets to students of class X and XII will also come up for discussion. As per the proposal, the department will require around Rs2.50 crore for the purpose. Besides, it will also need financial provisions every year for maintenance of the gadgets.The House may also allow discussion on 27 questions raised by corporators. The House is also likely to witness discussion on 17 adjournment notices served by corporators on various civic issues.The NMC’s public works department has submitted a proposal for repair and maintenance of north, central and south sewerage zones of the city. As per the proposal, the civic body will require Rs31.31 crore for the purpose. The north zone will cover Satranjipura, Ashi Nagar and Mangalwari zone and will require Rs10.36 crore, while central zone comprising Dharampeth, Gandhibagh and Lakadganj will need Rs4.98 crore and south zone including Laxmi Nagar, Hanuman Nagar, Dhantoli and Nehru Nagar will require Rs15.95 crore.The administration has also admitted that two earlier development plans on strengthening the city’s sewerage system were not implemented. GB Meet To Go VirtualEarlier, two meetings of standing panel held on virtual platform recentlyMandatory licence for shopkeepers and professionals likely to be opposedProposal for 1,950 Tablets for students of class X and XII tabledHouse may discuss 17 adjournment notices by corporatorsProposal for repair and maintenance of sewer line may be discussed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gbs-1st-virtual-meet-on-aug-20-set-to-be-stormy/articleshow/77531950.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 14, 2020||Agra||Hospital of former MLA vandalised over death of patient||Agra: A hospital on Shamshabad road owned by Fatehabad MLA Dr Rajendra Singh was vandalized after the death of a patient by his family members on Thursday morning. The staffers of the hospital were also beaten up. The family members of the deceased alleged carelessness in treatment and overcharging.Owner of GR Hospital Dr Rajendra Singh said, “The patient, 50-year-old Nahar Singh, resident of Tajganj area was admitted under critical condition on July 19. He was shifted from SN Medial College by family members. The patient was kept at the intensive care unit and on high oxygen flow for over three weeks as he was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome. Since the last three days, he was on ventilator. The family members of the patients were frequently updated about his unstable health condition. The patient died during treatment on Thursday morning.”“Alleging that the patient died due to carelessness of doctors, the family members started vandalism at the hospital. The glass gate at the entrance was shattered. Doctors and other staffers were also beaten. I have forwarded a written complaint to the Tajganj police station for suitable action. The act of vandalism has been recorded in the CCTV cameras of the hospital,” he added. Station house officer (SHO) Tajganj Narendra Singh said, “The matter is being investigated. An FIR will be registered after checking the facts. We are contacting the family members of the deceased.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hospital-of-former-mla-vandalised-over-death-of-patient/articleshow/77531946.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Powermen work without safety gears in Zirakpur||Mohali: Deaths of their workers due to fall from towers or electrocution have failed to teach Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and Punjab State Power Transmission Limited (PSPTL) a lesson. The power agencies have been risking the lives of the maintenance staff, who work without safety equipment. Earlier this week, while erecting a 150 feet-high high-tension wire tower in Zirakpur for supporting the Ramgarh Bhudda grid line, the staff were seen working without safety harness and helmets. The workers were at a height of 45 to 60 feet.As per the Safety and Electric Supply Regulation Act, 2010, the utility must ensure the safety of its employees, but the PSPCL failed to provide them even basic gears such as harness, gloves, gumboots, helmet, safety belt, testing rod, earth stick and tools for testing voltage. Joint electricity regulatory commission (JERC), in April last year, had directed the department to purchase telescopic ladders, safety harnesses, helmets with headlights, hand gloves, auto lift platforms and other equipment for safety of men at work. In 2019, five to six linemen had lost their lives on duty. In July last year, a lineman repairing a transformer at Lehli in Lalru was electrocuted. Zirakpur executive officer Khushinder Singh did not respond on the issue. Another senior officer at Zirakpur said, “The department is providing them safety gears, but it is for the contractor or labourer to use them.” He said the department does not have telescopic ladders, safety harnesses, helmets with headlights and even hydraulic ladders. Mohali powermen union’s president Mohan Gill said around six fatal accidents had taken place in just five months last year in Mohali district due to non-availability of safety equipment. PSPCL executive engineer in Mohali said the Punjab government had recently announced an insurance policy of Rs 10 lakh for such victims and safety equipment were provided, but ground staff do not wear them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/powermen-work-without-safety-gears-in-zirakpur/articleshow/77533413.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 14, 2020||Pune||One booked on charge of extortion||Pune: A person from Lohiyanagar was booked on Wednesday by the Khadak police on the charge of issuing threats to the husband of a Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) corporator and demanding Rs1 lakh from him. The 42-year-old man lodged a complaint on Wednesday, according to which, the suspect bumped into him just off Nehru Road on July 12 and issued threats. “The man told the corporator’s husband that he would not allow development works of the PMC unless the complainant paid him Rs1 lakh,” senior inspector Bharat Jadhav of the Khadak police told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-booked-on-charge-of-extortion/articleshow/77534710.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Heavy spell nearly wipes out season’s rain deficit in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Showers in the capital did not seem to stop on Thursday. The precipitation over several hours was the heaviest of the season so far and left roads waterlogged. Fallen trees and power cuts also marked the wet and overcast day, with Ayanagar recording 99.2mm of rainfall till 8.30am. The rains continued till around noon and brought the maximum temperature down to 28.9 degrees Celsius, five degrees below normal for this time of the season. Thursday’s downpour also wiped out much of Delhi’s monsoon deficit from around 35% to 10%, bringing it into the ‘normal’ classification. The season is considered ‘normal’ when rainfall is between -19% and 19% of the long period average. The forecast is for rains to continue on Friday, though with reduced intensity. After Thursday’s heavy showers, two Delhi districts — North and South-West —have now received ‘excess’ seasonal rainfall though East, North-West, North-East and South districts still remained deficient but better than Central district, which has a ‘large’ deficit, according to IMD. Indian Meteorological Department classifies a shower as ‘heavy’ when it is above 64.4mm in a single day. By this measure, till Thursday morning, the weather stations at Palam, Safdarjung, Ayanagar, Ridge and Lodhi Road all experienced ‘heavy’ rainfall. While Palam received 93.6mm of rainfall, the Ridge saw 84.6mm and Lodhi Road, 72.6mm. Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station, received 68.2mm of precipitation. The earlier seasonal high at a single station was recorded on July 19 at the Ridge with a measure of 86mm, followed by Lodhi Road (81.2mm) and Safdarjung (74.8mm). Another ‘heavy’ rainfall was recorded on July 23 with Safdarjung getting 67.6mm of rainfall and Palam, 81.2mm. A met official said, “Overall, Thursday saw the heaviest spell over all the stations, with Safdarjung getting the second heaviest rainfall day after July 19.” Historically, Safdarjung recorded Delhi’s top August precipitation in the past decade in 2010 with 110mm of rainfall on August 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heavy-spell-nearly-wipes-out-seasons-rain-deficit/articleshow/77534709.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 14, 2020||Delhi||HC allows DU student to take online exam from jail||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Thursday directed the Mandoli jail authorities to facilitate a Delhi University student, accused in a murder case related to northeast Delhi riots, to appear for online open book exam from jail premises on Friday. The investigating officer told additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav that Aman Kashyap had to appear for an open book examination on August 14. “In the report filed by the superintendent, Central Jail number 11, Mandoli, it has been stated that the office of the superintendent jail concerned will facilitate the applicant in appearing for the exam,” the court noted. The court also referred to a Delhi high court ruling that a duty judge has to consider the seriousness of the offence while considering the interim bail plea. Meanwhile, a man who claimed to have got stuck in a crowd on his way home from work when a video footage captured him during northeast Delhi riots has been denied bail by a court. The court, on the contrary, found him holding a “baseball bat” – depiction of his “active role” in the riots. Mukesh, through his advocate Seema Chaudhary, had also submitted that neither was he carrying any weapon nor was he sloganeering. Chaudhary argued that her client had a family of nine members to support. Special public prosecutor R C Bhadoriya refuted the defence’s claims while relying on the video footage. He said Mukesh and associates could be seen raising communal slogans besides vandalising public and private properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-allows-du-student-to-take-online-exam-from-jail/articleshow/77534748.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Delhi||TB exposure keeping Covid-19 death rate low?||NEW DELHI: Despite the high incidence of Covid-19 in India, deaths due to the viral infection remain low. The reason behind this could be frequent exposure to pathogens known to cause tuberculosis, claimed doctors at Lok Nayak Hospital and Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC). The doctors at Lok Nayak, one of the largest Covid-designated hospitals in the country, recently conducted a small study to test this theory. They divided infected patients into three groups: H, A and S. Group H comprised 20 healthy healthcare workers from the hospital with a Covid-negative report, Group A had 20 asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic cases with a Covid-positive report and Group S had 20 severely-ill positive cases admitted in the ICU. Patients with comorbid conditions, such as kidney failure, heart disease and those on long term immuno-suppressants, were excluded from the study. Dr Ajay Gupta, professor, orthopaedics at the hospital, who led the study, said 14 (70%) of the 20 subjects in Group S died due to the disease, and all of them tested negative for Quantiferon TB gold — a test which measures body’s immunity against tuberculosis. “More important was the observation that five of the six critically-ill patients, who managed to survive, were found positive for Quantiferon TB gold, while the sixth patient had high levels of antibodies against typhoid,” he added. In Group H and A, 50% of the subjects were strongly positive for Quantiferon TB gold test, depicting good community exposure to the tubercular antigen. The Lok Nayak doctor said, these findings indicated that the latent TB or recent TB exposure might have some beneficial effect with reference to severity and mortality in Covid-19. Many experts had also suggested that the administration of the BCG vaccine, which protects against childhood tuberculosis, could reduce the severity of Covid-19 in high-risk groups. Indian Council of Medical Research gave a go-ahead to a multi-centric study to research this possibility. Till the time evidence supporting this claim was not available, the World Health Organization (WHO) does not recommend BCG vaccination for the prevention of Covid-19. According to WHO, two clinical trials addressing this question were under way, and WHO would evaluate the evidence when available. Dr Sarman Singh, a leading microbiologist and director, AIIMS Bhopal, said the protective role of immunity against TB either through vaccination or community exposure against Covid-19 was not proven. “The Lok Nayak study is very small and may be premature to conclude anything to this effect. We need larger clinical trials to state the same with authority,” he said. Watch Covid-19 in India: TB exposure keeping corona death rate low?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tb-exposure-keeping-covid-death-rate-low/articleshow/77534700.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||Nurse falls off Sadar flyover as SUV hits her two-wheeler||Nagpur: A 36-year-old nurse fell to her death near Nelson Square from the Sadar flyover when the scooter she was riding was hit by a speeding SUV on Thursday.According to police, a Mahindra Scorpio driven by an unidentified driver hit her. The incident took place around 12.30pm and led to the death of Manjusha Dalal, a resident of Collector Colony, Godhani. Manjusha was on her way to Dhantoli hospital where she worked. Sadar zone traffic police inspector Atul Sabnis, who visited the spot after the accident, told TOI the SUV, which was registered in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh state’s Seoni district, hit the two-wheeler, tossing Dalal several feet in the air. She fell nearly 20-25 feet from the flyover. Passers-by took her to a private hospital where she died.The SUV driver dragged the scooter several feet before speeding away from the place. Though the Mankapur police intercepted the vehicle on Koradi-Chhindwara road, the driver managed to flee on foot.“According to eyewitnesses, who too were on the flyover, the car was coming towards Mankapur at breakneck speed,” Sabnis said, adding Dalal was going toward RBI square end. Cops from Sadar police station said that after hitting the scooter, the SUV hit another car at Mankapur stadium square.Eyewitnesses said the SUV zoomed past many vehicles cutting lanes before hitting the two-wheeler head on at the intersection of the flyover, where one end moves towards Old Katol Naka and another towards Mankapur. The speed limit on the flyover is 50km per hour. A majority of vehicles drive faster than that, admitted Sabnis. Traffic police will now approach the NHAI to erect fibre based road dividers, said the senior traffic PI. Since inauguration of the flyover, TOI has run several stories about dangerous behaviour of drivers on the flyover. Dalal’s body was sent for a post mortem later in the day while the car and the scooter involved were towed to Sadar police station.Sadar police have registered a case against the unidentified driver for rash driving, causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others and causing death by negligence. Further probe is currently underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nurse-falls-off-sadar-flyover-as-suv-hits-her-two-wheeler/articleshow/77531975.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||IAF staffer found dead in Sec 46||tnnChandigarh: A 40-year-old Indian Air Force employee was found dead under mysterious circumstances at his house in Sector 46 on Thursday morning. Blood stains were found in the room and on Sushil Choudhary’s body.Neighbours of Sushil, who worked at the phone exchange wing of the IAF, sounded the police. A PCR took him to Sector 32 hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead.Police said Sushil was an alcoholic and might have vomited blood before his death. He was alone at home that day. No injury marks were found on his body.“He and his wife lived separately. The exact cause of death will be known after the post-mortem, which will be conducted following his Covid-19 test. No suicide note was recovered from the spot,” said a cop. Police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/iaf-staffer-found-dead-in-sec-46/articleshow/77533427.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Plea for pruning ignored, tree falls on boundary wall of house in Greater Kailash-I||NEW DELHI: The boundary wall of a house in Greater Kailash-I was damaged after a tree fell on it due to heavy rain on Thursday morning. Residents claimed that they had requested deep pruning of trees in the area several times in the past but nothing happened. Sonika Bansal, resident E block, said that the entire boundary wall of her house was destroyed after a tree fell on it. “I heard a sound of something falling on a car and thought a branch may have broken off, but was shocked to see the entire tree had uprooted. My car was also dented,” she said. Sanjay Anand, chairman of E block RWA said they had approached the municipal corporation’s horticulture department as well as BSES staff for help to prune the trees but to no avail. “Such incidents are bound to happen during monsoon as many trees in the area are tilted. At present, the civic body takes a lot of time to do even mild pruning due to the red tape of permissions from the forest department. But the mild pruning is ineffective,” he said. Karan Aggarwal, a resident of East of Kailash, claimed to be facing a similar problem of overgrown trees near his house. “I have written a complaint on the Prime Minister’s Office portal in this regard,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/plea-for-pruning-ignored-tree-falls-on-boundary-wall-of-house-in-gk/articleshow/77534726.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Screenshot of old post resurfaces; fresh case booked||Mangaluru: The resurfacing of a Facebook post reportedly uploaded in 2018 in the form of screenshots sallied Mangaluru police into taking decisive action, with a fresh case being booked on Thursday relating to the defamatory post. The recirculation of the old Facebook post comes against the backdrop of the violent clashes in Bengaluru, which erupted on Tuesday, and which have thus far claimed the lives of three protesters. A case had been registered in connection with the defamatory post two years ago at the cyber, economic offences and narcotics (CEN) police station, but the investigation reached a dead end in 2018. Mangaluru city police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash confirmed to TOI that a case had been booked in 2018. “No link to this post exists. But, based on a complaint, we have registered a fresh case at the CEN station. Such posts must not be circulated at all. People with any information about those circulating the post must immediately contact police,” he said. The commissioner said that they were in the earnest in hunting down the culprits who were spreading rumours. “We would not have registered a fresh case otherwise,” said Vikash, warning of police initiating stringent action against those indulging in the circulation of such inflammatory messages. Meanwhile, following directions by Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai, a company of the Rapid Action Force (RAF) arrived in Mangaluru on Thursday. Vikash, however, downplayed the arrival of the RAF company in the coastal city as being a temporary measure. On Wednesday, Bommai had ordered the deployment of RAF companies in Mangaluru and Hubballi, cities considered to be communally sensitive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/screenshot-of-old-post-resurfaces-fresh-case-booked/articleshow/77533455.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||Harassed by city goons? Come with proof to Ravi Bhavan: HM||Nagpur: State home minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday urged the citizens to share names of the goons and gangsters with the proof of their activities at his camp office in Ravi Bhavan between August 20 and 25.He has assured the complainants of confidentiality. Deshmukh was the first home minister in the state to have made such an appeal publicly for clearing the city of the nuisance of the goons under his direct supervision.Deshmukh, who had extolled the efforts CP BK Upadhyay in tackling hardened goons in the past, has now given a clarion call against the ganglords and vowed to kick-start a cultivated drive to oust the anti-social elements from the city limits. During his visit in the city last week, the home minister had sounded his latest agenda to go after the goon full-throttle. Deshmukh had stated he intended to remove the blot of ‘crime capital’ associated with the city which had long been tarnishing its image nationwide. This also remained the focus of his latest press communication. Reiterating the intention of assured actions against goons, Deshmukh has asked the citizens to name those who might have managed to remain elusive from the police dragnet and furnish detailed proof of their activities with his officer-on-special duty Sanjay Dhote. He mentioned that Dhote would be attending the complainants between 3pm and 4pm at Ravi Bhavan during the six-day drive to collect names and details of the goons from the citizens. The home minister also stated that he has repeatedly reviewed the crime scenario along with law and order of the city but now wants to ensure that the goons can no more find a place here. Issuing a press communication, Deshmukh stated that city police have already sent 118 gangsters behind bar invoking Maharashtra control of organized crime act (MCOCA) against 20 gangs and another 51 goons through stringent Maharashtra prevention of dangerous activities Act (MPDA). During his last visit, Deshmukh had stated that though the city police have taken strict actions against all the notorious goons, he wants to know from the citizens whether anyone had been left out or spared in the city. Referring to the names of gangster Santosh Ambekar, Deshmukh stated that not only the goon was sent behind the bars but his illegally constructed bungalow too was brought down. He also named others anti-social elements like Sahil Sayyed whose bungalow too was being demolished after legal actions were initiated against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/harassed-by-city-goons-come-with-proof-to-ravi-bhavan-hm/articleshow/77531959.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 14, 2020||Pune||Civic body invites citizens’ ideas||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has invited suggestions from residents on public works that can be carried out in their areas under the participatory budget initiative (2021-22), which will be a part of the next fiscal’s civic budget. In consideration of the pandemic, the civic body has also provided the option of online submission of applications to enable citizens to submit their suggestions from home. The forms can also be submitted at the ward offices. Applications will be accepted till September 3. The citizens can make suggestions of up to Rs5 lakh. Recommendations may include a public facility, a road or an amenity. Citizens are expected to explain how the proposed work will benefit the local area or community. A PMC official said that application forms have been uploaded on the civic body’s website. The contact details of the 15 ward offices have also been provided for further assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-invites-citizens-ideas/articleshow/77534730.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||Experts warn against increasing burden on ‘limited’ Pune airport||PUNE: Aviation and defence experts have cautioned against adding to the burden of the Lohegaon airport by overlooking its infrastructure constraints. “Due to a short and single runway at the existing civil enclave, which is part of an Indian Air Force base, wide-bodied passenger aircraft as well as IAF’s own planes cannot land. In case of an untoward incident, like a tyre burst on the runway, the entire airport gets held up for hours,” Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (retired), who headed the panel investigating the 2010 Mangalore air crash that claimed 158 lives, told TOI. The runway and the air traffic control belong to IAF, while the facility for passenger flight operations is managed by Airports Authority of India (AAI). There have been incidents of multiple flight delays, diversions and cancellations due incidents involving aircraft on the runway. A proposal to extend the length of the 2.5km long runway by another 1,000m has been tied up in litigation for several years. “Around 50 landowners have agreed to provide their plots near the airport, but negotiations over compensation are on. Once we resolve this issue, the runway extension work will pick up momentum,” Pune MP Girish Bapat, who heads the airport advisory committee, said. “There are several infrastructural constraints at the existing airport,” aviation analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar said, adding, “Despite the announcement of a new Pune airport project in 2016, more than Rs400 crore is being spent on expanding the existing facility, which is beyond its capacity. AAI should have worked on the new project. Why must IAF compromise on its slots to allow commercial flights? No matter what they do, Lohegaon can never be a 24x7 airport.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/experts-warn-against-increasing-burden-on-limited-pune-airport/articleshow/77534735.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||‘Most candidates were ready with 'sifarish' from politicians’||Nagpur: Lamenting the turning of academic circles into “political battlefields”, Union minister Nitin Gadkari had appealed to keep politics away from Nagpur University (NU) in his speech at its 106th convocation ceremony on January 19 last year. His advice is apparently not being heeded by the BJP-backed Shikshan Manch, which, NU academics say, used all its political clout to ensure that the new NU vice-chancellor (VC) is its member. Subhash Chaudhari’s appointment at the top post is already under the scanner, following allegations of “favouritism” and “ignorance of merit”. After TOI’s series of reports highlighting alleged political interference in the VC selection process, a few candidates who were part of the process claimed majority of them had backing from politicians across the state and Centre as well. Endorsing NU academics’ claims, the candidates said that when 30 candidates were called for the interview, most were ready with “sifarish (reference)” from some or the other leader. It included some ministers from the city and Vidarbha region. When five were shortlisted for interviews by the chancellor, many leaders tried to use their clout to have their favoured candidate at the helm of NU affairs. “The bias was evident from the day applications were invited by the search committee. The way five candidates were selected was very surprising, as many had far better credentials in terms of academic qualifications, teaching experience, and the number of patents and students guided for PhD,” one of the candidates told TOI. “Many of us have been in contention for the VC post several times at various universities,” the candidate added. Another losing candidate questioned the need to go through the entire exercise of constituting a search committee, inviting applications from eligible candidates and conducting the interview process. “The political outfits should have directly appointed their candidate, rather than wasting others’ time and money, and incurring the government's expenditure. The way the incumbent is selected proves that his appointment is purely political in nature. How else is it possible that a person with less credentials than competitors and having no administrative experience was selected,” he lamented. Manch coordinator Kalpana Pande had also told TOI that all earlier appointments of VCs were “political ones”, except Chaudhari’s, who she claimed was selected based on his impressive credentials in engineering faculty. Agreeing with aggrieved VC candidates, senior academics said since chancellor BS Koshyari hailed from the same party, they were sure that Deshpande — also affiliated to Manch once — would be named. “He’s also a renowned economist and was nominated on Kelkar Panel for studying Vidarbha’s backlog,” they said. “But since Chaudhari is junior and submissive, he was chosen ahead of Deshpande,” the academics added. What VC candidates claim * Shikshan Manch started preparations of having its member as VC since 6 months * Made it as prestige issue and ensured its man would sail through processes * Many eminent candidates with top qualifications and vast experience were ignored * Some were working with institutes of national repute like ICT Mumbai * Many had earlier appeared for VC’s interviews for various varsities, 5 or more times * Few from NU’s academic circles having rich experience of decade or two||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-candidates-were-ready-with-sifarish-from-politicians/articleshow/77533470.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 14, 2020||Trichy||IIM-Trichy online classes from Monday||Trichy: Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Trichy welcomed the newly enrolled students of management programme at an inaugural session organized online on Wednesday. The induction programme was held for the tenth batch of the postgraduate programme in management (PGPM), eighth batch of the fellow programme in management (FPM), and the first batch of the postgraduate programme in management – human resources (PGPM-HR). Classes for the same will commence from Monday. Gauthami Tadimalla, founder, Life Again Foundation in her inaugural address highlighted the critical element of human resource management in all professions. Saying that innovation is vital to grow and stay relevant in present times, she said joy and happiness are equally important while taking decisions in life. Pushp Joshi, director, human resources, HPCL asked students to work on themselves during these 2 years of their lives apart from devoting their time for academics and experiential learning. Bhimaraya Metri, director, IIM Trichy acknowledged the incoming batch to be a special one due to the launch of the PGPM-HR program. He emphasized on the need for people managers today. The winners of director’s merit scholarships for best academic performance in the first year of the PGPM 2019-21 batch were also announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/iim-trichy-online-classes-from-monday/articleshow/77535423.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||Police arrest man, seize 21kg ganja||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch on Wednesday arrested 26-year-old Allabaksh Shaikh at Walhekarwadi and seized 21kg ganja worth Rs5 lakh from him. Shaikh was transporting the drug in a sedan, which has been impounded. He travelled from Latur to Pune with a valid e-pass, police said. Senior inspector Rajkumar Shinde and his team members laid traps at Wakad and Walhekarwadi based on a tip-off and intercepted Shaikh’s car at Walhekarwadi. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-arrest-man-seize-21kg-ganja/articleshow/77534715.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress to seek trust vote; no confidence, says BJP||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan assembly’s crucial session beginning Friday would see the ruling Congress move a motion for trust vote and the BJP move a ‘no confidence motion’ on the first day itself. Ahead of the session, both the parties held their legislature party meetings at different locations here on Thursday and separately declared about testing and proving the government’s majority during the session. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot told his legislators at the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meeting, held at his residence in the evening, that the government would move the confidence motion in the house and prove its majority. Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his 18 MLAs attended the meeting. Pilot assured complete cooperation to the Gehlot government in the assembly. Opposition BJP too held it legislators’ meeting, which was attended by former chief minister Vasundhara Raje and national leaders Avinash Rai Khanna and Narendra Tomar, at the party headquarters in the afternoon and finalised its strategy for cornering the government to expose fissures within the ruling party. Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria said the opposition would move a no confidence motion and question the government for “failing on all fronts, be it checking Covid-19 or state’s law and order”. BJP state president Satish Poonia said the Opposition would corner the Congress government on public issues left unattended for more than a month due to the fight between Gehlot and Pilot. Until Thursday, Kataria had maintained that the BJP would not move the no confidence motion. With former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot returning to the Congress with his 18 MLAs early this week, the BJP was forced to change its stand. As per the Rajasthan assembly rule 132A, the government’s confidence motion takes precedence over the Opposition’s no confidence motion when both are moved simultaneously. Sources said the ruling party would inform the Speaker in writing about bringing the confidence motion before the House proceedings begin at 11am. Sources said the Speaker can allow voting on the same day if the CM requests for it despite the Opposition seeking more time. The House would begin with Speaker C P Joshi reading condolence messages in remembrance of MPs and MLAs who passed away after the last assembly session in March. Sources said the Speaker may allow a departure from the assembly’s tradition of adjourning the House after reading the condolences on the first day and let the debate on confidence motion begin on Friday itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-to-seek-trust-vote-no-confidence-bjp/articleshow/77534701.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
August 14, 2020||Pune||RTO raises daily driving test quota||Pune: The Pune regional transport office (RTO) on Thursday increased the number of daily appointments for licence seekers, but the response has not been ‘encouraging’ so far, said officials. Driving schools have been allowed to open a week ago and many of them are waiting for students, who left the course midway owing to imposition of lockdown, to rejoin. “We are focusing on our existing students who either have completed training and are ready to appear for test or were in the middle of their training. However, only 10 to 15% of them have turned up,” said Pratap Jadhav, owner of Jadhav Motor Training School. The instructor of another driving school at Hadapsar said, “We are hoping for business to pick up. Things have been quite the opposite as there are no new customers.” A Pune RTO official said that the daily appointment slots have been getting fewer response. “The daily quota has been increased to cater to more people seeking driving licence for four-wheelers, but the response has not been much,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-raises-daily-driving-test-quota/articleshow/77534746.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man hurts chin in fall, dies in hours||Ahmedabad: A man from Chandkheda slipped from his motorcycle and fell on road near Kargil petrol pump on SG Road on Thursday afternoon. He suffered some injuries on his chin which he didn’t care about. After about two hours, he began to feel uneasy and his friends took him to a hospital where he was declared dead. According to an FIR filed with SG-2 traffic police, Sahil Solanki, 25, resident of the Chandkheda, had left his home on his motorcycle for a job interview in Changodar on Thursday afternoon. At around 2.15pm, Solanki called up his cousin Gunjan Parmar, 33, and informed him that his motorcycle had slipped near Kargil petrol pump on SG Road in Sola. Parmar and his cousin Maitrik rushed to the place. When they asked Solanki where he had been hurt, he showed them a small cut on his chin and bruises on his elbows. Solanki told Parmar that he wanted to drink something as he was feeling giddy and weak. Parmar brought him some soda water. After Solanki drank it, he felt better and wanted to go home. As they reached near Vaishnodevi Circle, Solanki told Parmar that he should shave his beard so that a doctor can examine the wound properly. They went to a barber and Solanki had a shave. Later, they reached Solanki’s home where he told his parents about the accident. At that time, he suddenly began feeling nausea and uneasiness. Solanki’s father and Parmar took him to a nearby private hospital, but as no doctors were available due to Janmashtami, they took him to another hospital where he was declared dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-hurts-chin-in-fall-dies-in-hours/articleshow/77532002.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||20 hospitals apply for fire NOCs||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), which had warned action against hospitals failing to comply with fire safety norms, said that 20-odd of the 69 designated Covid hospitals have applied for fire NOCs. AMC standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said that these hospitals will be issued NOCs within a week. The remaining hospitals have been issued notices to comply with the rules. The fire department has been directed to ensure that Covid hospitals are given priority. Bhatt said, “It is the responsibility of the owners, the managers, or the office-bearers in cases of highrise building to ensure that they get their NOCs renewed. The fire department cannot keep tab on such a large number of buildings and establishments.” Bhatt pleaded ignorance about a software developed in 2018 on renewal of NOC. A senior officer from the AMC said that in 2018 when Mukesh Kumar was transferred from the AMC, he had the software ready for implementation. Even in a meeting after the Shrey fire, municipal chief Mukesh Kumar had question the fire department as to why the software was not implemented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/20-hospitals-apply-for-fire-nocs/articleshow/77533475.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mumbai||Need to hike rates for Covid beds, says IMA||Mumbai: Citing revenue losses, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has approached the state government to reconsider the capped rates for Covid and non-Covid treatment that were fixed in May. It has urged the state to increase bed charges by at least 50%, and regulate rates for PPEs, masks and bio-medical waste services. IMA members who had a meeting with public health minister Rajesh Tope on Tuesday said they have sought revision of bed rates before a fresh circular of the extension is issued. Under the ceiling, Covid patients can’t be charged over Rs 9,000 a day for an ICU bed with ventilator, Rs 7,500 for ICU bed without it and Rs 4,000 for isolation in a routine ward. IMA wants these increased by at least 50%. The state on May 21 issued a circular, assuming control of 80% beds in the private sector and capping bed charges and treatment cost of over 270 non-Covid procedures that patients admitted in this category could be charged. Hospitals could decide charges for the other 20% beds under the scheme, now referred to as 80:20. It was to be valid till August 31 which the state plans to extend till November. “Rates for Covid management and some non-Covid procedures are not feasible. They were based on charges of General Insurance Public Sector Association (GIPSA) which are impractical for many. Also, rates are at least four years old,” said Dr Avinash Bhondwe, president of IMA, Maharashtra. “The state has to consider that cost of biomedical waste disposal for a small- or mid-size hospital is up from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 3 lakh due to the pandemic. Salaries, electricity, phone and other essentials have tripled in the last four months,” he said. A senior official said that the state will extend the scheme, but may revise some features to make it more acceptable to private hospitals as the situation is different from what it was in May. “The state still needs the capacity, but we may have to look at some issues raised by the IMA before finalising the new notification,” said an official. A state official claimed that hospitals didn’t incur losses due to the scheme but people’s fear to visit hospitals. “They should advertise the scheme and lowered rates to increase footfalls. In areas where Covid is on a decline, people are coming for non-Covid treatment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/need-to-hike-rates-for-covid-beds-says-ima/articleshow/77535437.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 200 guesthouses, hotels get notices for violation of Village Bylaws||CHANDIGARH: Terming around 200 guesthouses and hotels located at different villages in the city as illegal and in violation of the Village Bylaws, 2017, the estate branch of the municipal corporation has served notices on them for a personal hearing. The hearing will start from the last week of August and the dates have been given to the violators keeping in view the social distancing norm. There are over 250 such guesthouses and hotels in villages across the city. But since over 50 had moved the Punjab and Haryana high court and got a stay, they will not be summoned till their case is pending. The rest will have to physically appear before the MC. Additional municipal commissioner-rank officer along with a colleague will hear the owners’ pleas. The estate branch has planned to conduct hearing of eight to 10 cases in a day to avoid crowding at the MC building. Though the estate branch has already mentioned the norms and by-laws as per which these buildings of guesthouses and hotels are illegal, if required documents will be given to them for their satisfaction. “The notices were issued after conducting a survey at all the villages. As per Village Byelaws, no commercial establishment other than a shop can be opened beyond the 50sqm area, but violators have constructed huge buildings. These guesthouses or hotels are located in congested areas with no proper space and ventilation, besides hardly do they follow fire safety norms. Thus, if the owners don’t shut these buildings after notices are served and the given time, these will be sealed without delay,” an MC official said. Sources said the majority of these buildings were located in Burail, Kajheri, Manimajra, Attawa and Butrela. The charges of these guesthouses and hotels are quite cheap as compared to those in urban areas. Strict action will be taken: KK YadavMunicipal commissioner KK Yadav said, “Any illegal or irregular construction will be dealt with strictly as per law and byelaws. We have sent notices to guesthouses and hotels. After hearing them, further course of action will be decided.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/200-illegal-guesthouses-hotels-in-villages-get-notices-hearing-soon/articleshow/77533467.cms||Deepak Yadav
August 14, 2020||Nashik||18 state transport buses ply from Nashik on Day 1||Nashik: The Nashik division of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) saw 18 buses leave for different destinations till 7pm on Thursday — the first day of operations resuming after Covid-related restrictions.The state government had allowed the MSRTC to restart the services by adhering to all Covid-19 norms, including capping passenger occupancy to 50% of regular capacity. The transport body has also provided hand sanitisers on the vehicles and the buses are sanitized at the terminuses. Though the Nashik division had readied 100 buses to ferry passengers to various destinations, only 18 left Nashik district on Thursday.Currently, buses are plying to Borivali and Kasara from Mahamarg bus stand; Pune, Dhule and Aurangabad from New CBS; Nandurbar and Trimbakeshwar from Old CBS.“We could run only 18 buses with average passenger strength of 18. It means not more than 350 passengers travelled by these buses,” the MSRTC officers said. Santosh Jamdade, who travels to Mumbai daily, was happy with the resumption of services. “I am a government servant and have to go to work in Mumbai. When there were no buses or trains operational, it was a burden on my pocket to travel to work.”The MSRTC drivers too were delighted with the resumption of services. They had to face hardships as their salaries were delayed due to closure of services. Some of them had started selling fruits, vegetables, masks etc. to earn a living.“This is a good thing. In our profession, we cannot work from home. Now, the things will change,” Keshav Sangle, one of the drivers, said. The MSRTC officials said the inter-district travellers are usually students and businessmen. This could be the reason for the low response.“As far as families are concerned, they need time to plan. Currently, we have Ganesh festival and a weekend coming up. We don’t expect any surge in traffic for the next three days,” the MSRTC officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/18-state-transport-buses-ply-from-nashik-on-day-1/articleshow/77660247.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||SHO says no to son’s wedding in police custody||Chandigarh: Suspended SHO Jaswinder Kaur has filed another application in the CBI court stating that she “doesn’t want to attend her son’s wedding in police custody”, on Thursday. The special court of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had on August 11 partly allowed interim bail to the suspended SHO, Jaswinder Kaur, who is an accused in a bribery case, so that she could attend her son’s wedding in police custody on August 14. The court has directed her to attend the wedding ceremony from 9 am till 4 pm in police custody and if required, she could be handcuffed too.Jaswinder Kaur submitted two applications - one is addressed to the court and the other to the superintendent jail - wherein she has stated that she doesnot want to go to attend the marriage under the police custody due to Covid-19.She said she was a heart patient and was on medication and was also “mentally depressed” so she doesn’t want to undergo quarantine for 14 days.“In view of the above said reasons, accused Jaswinder Kaur will not be send to attend the marriage ceremony of her son on August 14 under police custody,” said superintendent jail in an application to the special court of the CBI.She had filed a petition on August 6, seeking interim bail from August 13 to 15 for participating in and performing rituals and ceremonies for the marriage of her son in Chandigarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sho-says-no-to-sons-wedding-in-police-custody/articleshow/77533457.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Trichy||Kuwait-Trichy left out again from Vande mission||(Cleared/Gopa) Trichy: Despite repeated appeals to operate rescue flights under Vande Bharat Mission to Trichy from Kuwait, the city has been left out again from the list of flights released by the ministry of external affairs on Wednesday. Thousands of Tamils stranded in Kuwait, particularly those hailing from the central region, have been eagerly awaiting a flight only to be disappointed again. The central government had begun its rescue operation of Indians stranded in other countries from May 7. Thousands were brought back including to Tamil Nadu. Trichy international airport alone had so far handled 115 services bringing 19,146 Tamils from several countries. However, no flights from Kuwait were operated so far under the mission. According to the list issued by the Indian Embassy in Kuwait, both Air India Express and IndiGo Air will operate 12 services to Chennai, Delhi, Vijayawada, Bhubaneshwar, Jaipur, Bengaluru and Hyderabad from Kuwait. A senior officer in IndiGo Air told TOI that they were operating flights according to the schedule issued by Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) . “Had they included Trichy, there would have been no issues to provide our service to Trichy”, he said. A functionary from a federation of tourism in Trichy said the associations functioning from Kuwait for Tamils were not applying enough pressure either on the Indian embassy or the government of Tamil Nadu in thie regard. “We wonder why Trichy airport is continuously being neglected for services to Kuwait. Earlier, Kuwait carriers were not permitted to operate to Trichy under a temporary bilateral agreement with Kuwait. Now, Indian carriers are also omitting Trichy”, V B Jaganath, member of Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavors, alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kuwait-trichy-left-out-again-from-vande-mission/articleshow/77535435.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t rush to Nagpur, treat locally, say docs||Nagpur: One of the reasons behind rising Covid deaths could be the utter hurry of relatives, local doctors and private hospitals from neighbouring districts and states to rush moderate to severe patients to the two government hospitals in Nagpur. The five private Covid hospitals, where several VIPs from neighbouring places are coming, too are asking outstation patients to avoid travel.Doctors in GMCs and private hospitals have observed that the victims condition worsens because of long distance travel. They feel patients from entire Central India must not be directly rushed to Nagpur but treated at local level. The journey is more dangerous for the patients than the disease may prove to be, they said.Speaking over phone, GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra said transfer of patient must be done judiciously and only by following SOPs. “Now transfers are being done by relatives, local private hospitals or treating doctors. But travel must not harm a patient. There are only a few occasions when transfer is really needed or when it can actually improve the condition,” he said. Though disturbing, an internal audit has found outstation patients brought on ventilator and oxygen haven’t survived for more than three days in city. “30% passed away on way to GMCs as they were brought dead and tested positive,” an GMC official said.Dr Mitra said when it is too late, death rate is very high even if a patient is shifted to a tertiary care centre. “Late transfer in Covid has poor survival rate. Shifting a patient from one place to another is not a solution. Early infection can be managed at taluka and district hospital level,” he said. Asked about the travel of patients, a top district health officer said, “It is more of an issue of people becoming seriously ill at home. Travel is a factor but not the only factor. People need to access healthcare much earlier and thus be in comparatively better state to tide over the transport time,” he said. IGGMCH dean Ajay Keolia too said that though there was no harm in patients coming in from periphery, long distance travel must be avoided. “Journeys taking over 4 to 5 hours are not advisable for patients,” he said. OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar said there was absolutely no need for patient to travel. “I am advising my patients from Yavatmal and Amravati to get treated there only. Today, all basic infrastructure and medicines are available at all small towns. People should have faith in local healthcare system and doctors. Travelling also leads to exposure of more people to the virus beside straining the logistics in two cities,” he said. Another private hospital owner said people should not make efforts to shift patients to Nagpur. “15% moderate patients who are susceptible of slipping in severe category need to be saved. When patients are not brought from outside, more beds would be available for Nagpur citizens,” he said. Dr Ashish Badkal, cardiac surgeon at VIMS which has got NMC nod to start Covid treatment, said an aura has been created about Nagpur regarding the coronavirus. “Even doctors from the periphery are rushing to Nagpur. Everyone just wants to get treated here though there is no harm for mild cases,” he said.Regarding allegations of private hospitals packing off critical patients to GMCs, Dr Badkal said, “Price cap is a major reason for private hospitals to shift critically-ill patients to government hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-rush-to-nagpur-treat-locally-say-docs/articleshow/77531982.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Shrey fire: Trustee gets bail||Ahmedabad: The trustee of Shrey Hospital, Bharat Mahant, 57, was granted bail by a metropolitan court on Thursday in connection with the death of eight Covid-19 patients in the hospital ICU. The fire tragedy had taken place in the wee hours of June 6. The Navrangpura police produced Mahant before an additional chief metropolitan magistrate and sought five-day remand of him. The magistrate declined the request for custodial interrogation looking at the charges levelled by the police in this case. After the remand application was rejected, a bail application was moved on part of Mahant. The court allowed his bail plea and ordered to release him on furnishing bail bond of Rs 15,000, sources said. Mahant is the sole accused named in the FIR that was registered at a belated stage after the state government took a decision for probe in the case on August 10. He was booked for causing death due to criminal negligence – Section 304a of IPC — among various other criminal charges, which are triable by a magisterial court. The FIR said that the hospital, which was a government designated Covid care centre, had no fire NOC. There was no fire audit or inspection after its NOC expired in April. The hospital staff was not trained in emergency rescue. The hospital lacked functioning fire alarm system.  Last year, after 22 students lost their lives in fire in a coaching class in Surat, Section 304 of IPC was invoked against various people – the owner of the classes as well as officials of the civic body. Some of them are still languishing behind bars without bail after more than a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/shrey-fire-trustee-gets-bail/articleshow/77533478.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: From forest dump to carbon sink||NEW DELHI: If you are driving down the loop of Barapullah flyover at Sarai Kale Khan, you will notice a tiny but dense forest near the Sun Dial next to the drain there. Developed on what was a sewage marsh two years ago, this green patch is set to grow tenfold into an urban carbon sink. The reclamation of land there was a joint initiative of Delhi Development Authority and the Union government’s department of biotechnology to clean the sewage channel that pollutes the Yamuna. On the reclaimed 750 square metres now stand 2,214 saplings of 44 indigenous tree species planted since 2018. The agencies involved are now turning it into a bigger urban forest spread over 7,000 sq m so it can become a carbon sink that can absorb 30% more carbon dioxide. “A memorandum of understanding was signed on Tuesday among DDA, which has provided the land, Indraprastha Gas Ltd, which is funding the project as part of its corporate social responsibility, and the office of principal scientific adviser to the government of India, which will provide the technical expertise,” a DDA official revealed. Amit Garg, director (commercial), IGL, said, “This marks the beginning of the realisation of the vision of our minister of petroleum and natural gas to relieve Delhiites of pollution, thanks to team PSA and team DDA. IGL remains committed to a cleaner and greener Delhi.” Shailja Vaidya Gupta, senior adviser, office of PSA, who has been associated with the project from the outset, said that the contaminated area had to be de-watered and reclaimed for planting indigenous plants. Gupta said that during a visit to a water treatment laboratory of a project seeking to clean drain water, Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan came to the upcoming urban forest and suggested it be expanded to create a carbon sink. “DDA provided us 7,000 sq m of land and we, accompanied by IGL, adopted the area to give new strength for the city’s depleting lungs,” Gupta continued. “Delhi’s lungs have been taken over by invasive species like kikar, so we conserved this plot by planting endemic species such as jamun, arjuna, neem and banyan.” “Even now, the area that has been developed is a completely different world right in the heart of Delhi. We have used a Japanese technique called Miyawaki, which helps in creating a dense forest within two years,” Gupta said. She added, “We are hopeful that in the next one and a half years, this area will be ready for opening up for people who can come and spend peaceful moments. There will be walking trails and seating areas for visitors.” Gupta, however, clarified that no permanent structure would be built because the site was close to Yamuna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-forest-dump-to-carbon-sink/articleshow/77534753.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 14, 2020||Trichy||Boy, 10, rescued after bonded labour of 3yrs||Thanjavur: A 10-year-old boy, who was working as a bonded labourer for the past three years near Papanasam in Thanjavur district, was rescued in a joint operation by police, revenue and Childline officials on Wednesday. The boy was herding more than 300 goats of a man from whom his father had borrowed Rs 40,000. The boy’s father, a native of Pudukkottai district, was a drug addict while his mother died three years ago. His father had borrowed Rs 40,000 from S Muruganantham of Uthirakottai Mangai village in Ramanathapuram district in 2017, and sent his son to herd goats as payback. On receiving an alert on 1098, Childline officials informed Kumbakonam revenue divisional officer Vijayan, who formed a team to rescue the boy. Inquiries after rescue revealed that the employer had given the boy gruel twice a day and made him sleep in the pen. The district child welfare committee will take care of his accommodation and studies, assistant commissioner of labour enforcement N K Dhanapal said. Police have registered a case against Muruganantham.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/boy-10-rescued-after-bonded-labour-of-3yrs/articleshow/77535428.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Woman posing as ASI, fining people for Covid violations held||NEW DELHI: A woman allegedly posing as a cop and extorting people on the pretext of issuing challans for violation of Covid-19 guidelines has been arrested from west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar. The woman was nabbed after two officers on patrolling duty spotted her. On being questioned about her police station and place of duty, she could not give satisfactory answers and was caught. The accused has been identified as Tamanna Jahan (20). “Jahan said that she started the ruse as her financial condition was weak. She got a fake uniform stitched, started posing as an ASI and issuing fake challans in the name of violation of Covid-19 guidelines. A fake challan book, Rs 800 and the police uniform has been seized from her,” said Deepak Purohit, DCP (West). Jahan was spotted by head constable Sumer Singh patrolling in the area. Singh saw a woman in police clothes near 12 block, Tilak Nagar, who was stopping people without masks and issuing challans. Singh then told constable Ashok to go in front of the woman in plain clothes without wearing a mask. When she asked the cop to pay a fine, she was quizzed about her credentials and nabbed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-posing-as-asi-held-for-fining-over-covid-violations/articleshow/77534785.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 18-year-old lands in the ICU after excess gymming||NEW DELHI: Undertaking vigorous exercises out of the blue can be harmful. It can lead to muscle breakdown and, in rare cases, kidney damage due to release of a protein called myoglobin. Lakshay Bindra, an 18-year-old youth, suffered the same after he hit the gym recently and took up vigorous exercises to make up for the time lost during the lockdown. He began to suffer from extreme muscle fatigue, body stiffness and pain, along with vomiting. When the symptoms didn’t improver for three days, the teen was rushed to Max Super Specialty Hospital in Patparganj. Dr Dilip Bhalla, senior consultant, department of renal and kidney transplant at the hospital, said the patient came with acute pain in the abdomen, black-coloured urine with reduced urine output, and deranged kidney and liver function. “He was diagnosed with rhabdomyolysis, a health condition in which acute muscle breakdown occurs. This in turn releases certain enzymes in the bloodstream, leading to kidney malfunction,” Dr Bhalla said. He added that Bindra was immediately wheeled into ICU and started on IV fluids to maintain hydration and provide nutrients to his muscles. “Gentle physiotherapy was conducted for several days to soothe his muscles. In addition, he needed two sessions of dialysis as his kidneys had stopped functioning totally. Slowly, as days passed, the patient started improving. His muscle stiffness and pain began to subside gradually, even as he slowly regained muscle power,” the doctor added. According to Dr Bhalla, the patient’s kidneys have revived and are fully functional now. Dr Abbas Ali Khatai, attending consultant, emergency medicine at Max Patparganj, said every person’s body reacts differently to exercise regimens. “It is essential to know the limitations of one’s own body, stay hydrated and get proper professional guidance when exercising – be it weightlifting, yoga, cardio or cross-fit. Aggressive, unaccustomed exercise leads to accumulation of acid in the muscles which leads to breakdown of muscle protein,” he said. Watch Delhi teen lands in ICU after excess gymming||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/18-year-old-lands-in-the-icu-after-excess-gymming/articleshow/77534800.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Curriculum must match changing needs of society||After a long interlude of 34 years, a sincere and serious effort has been made to transform the Indian education system by the Union government. The new National Education Policy of 2020, which was approved by the cabinet last month, is the third NEP in the history of independent India, after 1968 and 1986. Before making the changes, the Centre consulted all state governments and took feedback from over 2.5 lakh gram panchayats, 6,600 blocks, 6,000 urban local bodies and 676 districts. I welcome the whole exercise wholeheartedly. We cannot be rigid in our thinking as far as education is concerned. We should change our curriculum as per the ever-changing needs of the society. The visionary CM of Andhra Pradesh, Jaganmohan Reddy, wants quality education to be affordable and accessible to all, and that’s precisely the spirit embodied in NEP-2020. He strongly believes that no one should be deprived of quality education because of poverty and those ideas are reflected in NEP-2020. The AP government’s Amma Vodi scheme, which gives a mother who sends her children to any school an annual grant of Rs 15,000, has helped in more poor students getting quality education. Enrolment in schools has increased while drop-outs have reduced. As per NEP-2020, education can’t be a commercial activity. The chief minister has stated this many times. While the previous government closed down hundreds of schools to benefit corporate institutions, Jaganmohan Reddy’s government has attempted to transform government schools under the Nadu-Nedu programme and make them more attractive than private schools. A budgetary allocation of Rs 12,000 crore has been made for Nadu-Nedu, which seeks to transform government schools into vibrant and competitive institutions with quality infrastructure. Under YSR Vidhya Kanuka scheme, special kits — which include schoolbag, books and notebooks, cloth for three pairs of uniforms, a pair of shoes, two pairs of socks, belt and face masks — are given to students at the start of the academic session. As per NEP-2020, the pre-school years are critical as they shape and mould a child during his or her formative years. This, too, has been a top priority of the AP government which has extended the Nadu-Nedu initiative to Anganwadi centres. The YSR Sampoorna Poshana programme has been launched to ensure quality food to children at Anganwadi centres. Our CM was the first to advocate that under-graduation must be a four-year course, and the same has been echoed in the NEP. It also suggests that where ever possible, a multilingual policy should be adopted. AP has been striving to introduce English as the medium of education in government schools, with Telugu as a compulsory subject. This vision suits NEP-2020, which has offered several foreign languages at the secondary school level. The new education policy also suggests introduction of vocational courses at the school level itself which will make it easy for students to get employment. While the NEP mandates vocational education in schools from sixth grade onwards, the government of AP has focused on skill development from pre-primary stage to the university level. There are also plans to set up a skill development university in Visakhapatnam. Education is in the concurrent list of the Indian Constitution. Andhra Pradesh will fully cooperate with the Centre in the implementation of NEP-2020. Since the Union government plans to spend 6% of GDP on education, our state will benefit with additional allocation of funds. Students will also immensely benefit from the pedagogy of teaching envisaged in NEP-2020 which seeks to move away from rote learning to critical and analytical thinking. The new policy completely reflects the reforms initiated by the AP government in the education sector. (The author is the national general secretary of YSRC and also its Parliamentary Party leader. He can be contacted at: venumbaka.vr@sansad.nic.in)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/curriculum-must-match-changing-needs-of-society/articleshow/77532321.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 kills retired IAS officer, 9 others in Bihar, tally 94,459||PATNA: After fighting with Covid-19 for almost a month, 1980 batch retired IAS officer Manoj Kumar Shrivastava succumbed to the virus on Thursday morning. Shrivastava is among 10 deaths reported in Bihar on Thursday, taking the toll to 484. Condoling his death, chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief and said Shrivastava held responsible positions in various departments and carried out his duties diligently. The state also saw 3,906 new Covid-19 cases reported on Thursday, taking the tally to 94,459. However, with 62,507 recoveries, the number of active cases now stand at 31,466. According to the health department, two deaths were reported from Gaya and Rohtas each. Begusarai, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, East Champaran, Saran and Vaishali reported one death each. AIIMS-Patna reported eight deaths, including that of the retired IAS officer, on Thursday. Talking about Shrivastava, the hospital’s Covid-19 in-charge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said, “He was admitted on July 17 and had a history of diabetes. For the past one week he was on ventilator.” His wife was also admitted at AIIMS, but was discharged 10 days ago. Apart from Shrivastava, two more residents of Patna died at AIIMS—a 62-year-old man from Patrakar Nagar and a 74-year-old man from Krishna Nagar. The NMCH also reported one death — a 65-year-old woman from Biharsharif. The hospital’s epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer (reporting cell), Dr Mukul Kumar Singh said 19 patients were admitted on Thursday and so far 23 are on ICU and 53 on oxygen, while 375 beds were available. Maximum Covid-19 cases on Thursday were reported from Patna where 399 people tested positive for the virus, taking the district’s tally to 14,980. However, with 11,616 recoveries and 91 deaths, active cases stand at 3,273. Other districts which registered large number of new cases are Esat Champaran (220), Katihar (200), Begusarai (197), Gaya (179), Saharsa (175), Araria (163), Madhubani (159), Sitamarhi (133), Purnia (130), Jehanabad (127), Buxar (118), Nalanda (110), Darbhanga (108), Kaimur (103). The state also tested 10,4452 samples in 24 hours, which is highest so far. In the same time period, 2,439 people recovered, taking the recovery rate to 66.17%. Incentive for plasma donors: Encouraging people to donate plasma after recovering from Covid-19, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Thursday said Dadhichi Deh Dan Samiti will give Rs 1,000 incentive to such people. SuMo, who is also the patron of this organization, said the state government will also announce an incentive plan for plasma donors. “Dadhichi Deh Dan Samiti will make a list of all those people who have recovered from Covid-19 and are willing to donate plasma,” said SuMo, asking people not to get panicked but to remain conscious as only 3% of infected people needed oxygen support and 2% needed ICU and less than 1% needed ventilator. “In Bihar, death rate due to Covid-19 is less than 1% and over 85% of infected people were getting cured within five to seven days,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/retd-ias-among-10-dead-state-tally-reaches-94459/articleshow/77531939.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad municipal corporation makes Covid coordinator mandatory for offices||AHMEDABAD: If your company employs more than 30 people, appointing a Covid coordinator is now mandatory for you, according to the latest guidelines from the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). The coordinator will have to ensure that employees follow social distancing rules and wear masks. If an employee tests positive for Covid , the coordinator will also have to provide a list of persons who had come in contact with that person. Any violation or deviation from these duties will invite strict penalties for the coordinator including punishment under Sections 188 and 270 of the IPC and Section 3 of Epidemic Diseases Act. Apart from malls and corporate offices, where offices can be reorganised to maintain social distancing, civic officials feel applying this rule will be challenge at informal markets and the many processing units of Ahmedabad, mainly in the northern, southern and eastern parts of the city. The decision to mandate coordinators was taken at a meeting chaired by additional chief secretary, forests and environment, Rajiv Gupta, who has been deputed to handle Covid situation in Ahmedabad, and municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar. Gupta claimed, “A combination of Covid management measures in Ahmedabad over the last three months has resulted in some improvement in the Covid situation of the city. However, during Unlock 3.0, some incidence of violation of social distancing guidelines has been noticed in the city, inviting stricter penal actions. For further prevention of the virus spread, it is important to ensure that social distancing guidelines are effectively followed in all offices, institutions and business establishments.” Gupta claimed that all such establishments have been asked to immediately send details of the designated Covid coordinator to the respective zonal office of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). At establishments with fewer than 30 employees, the owner or manager shall be responsible. Officials said that the decision was taken after AMC teams found staff sitting in offices without masks, next to each other. The rules will also be applicable for malls and in case of any violation the manager will be held directly responsible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-makes-covid-coordinator-mandatory-for-offices/articleshow/77533501.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How a garbage heap became a green lung||NEW DELHI: Once barren and neglected, the two-acre municipal land next to a railway line and jhuggi cluster in Keshavpuram has now been transformed into a lush green place with 2,500 saplings of more than 42 tree species planted there. Their numbers are likely to increase this monsoon. North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s horticulture department had started a special drive to identify such neglected sites, especially those in the middle of congested neighbourhoods, to develop them into man-made mini-forests. Unlike parks, only saplings of native trees are being planted in such forests and decorative plants, shrubs, and monoculture are being avoided. The first such forest was developed on the directions of Delhi high court in 2019 in Rajendra Nagar. “The place is small, around one acre. So far, we have been able to plant 615 saplings of native trees in addition to the amaltas trees growing along the boundary wall. We have arranged for a pipeline of treated water for regular irrigation,” said Ashish Priyadarshi, horticulture director, north corporation. Indigenous trees such as Ficus virens (pilkhan), banyan (bargad), Ficus glomerata (gular), jamun, Madhuca longifolia (mahua), neem, mango, teak (sagwan), etc can be found at this place. Officials appreciated the efforts of the local RWA for survival of 90% of the saplings. Vikas Vasudeva, general secretary of Rajendra Park RWA said that their long struggle with the authorities and legal battle was finally bearing results. “The land on Shankar Road near Hotel Siddharth was a municipal park since 1960, but it got destroyed due to lack of maintenance and Ramlila being organised there. In 2016, we were alarmed at the decision of setting up a petrol pump there. The area hardly has any green space. Finally, the high court ruled in our favour,” he added. “Today, this place is green again and the corporation is developing the area into a mini-forest. A walkway will be made later once the saplings are fully-grown. This green oasis will help reduce air, noise and water pollution and lessen ambient temperature by increasing moisture content. The plan is to plant 1,000 more saplings here,” said Vasudeva. Converting the triangular land located next to a jhuggi cluster in C2-Block in Keshavpuram into a waste management centre and then a mini-forest was a challenging task. “The plot had become a garbage dump. We first constructed the boundary wall, restricted entry by installing gates and then planted the 2,500 saplings in January,” said Priyadarshi. To ensure that the saplings survived peak winter, section officer Bablu Narware rented a house near the park. “I got shredded leaves laid around the saplings, which is the best defence against extreme cold,” he said. The civic agency also carried out a campaign on radio to educate the public not to damage the saplings. On August 17, work is expected to start at a third such plot of two acres in Rohini. The civic body expects these places to become dense forests in the next 3-4 years. “We will plant the same kind of saplings in Rohini and construct walkways between them so that people can enjoy the fresh air,” said an official. Plans are also afoot to develop one such mini-forest in each of the six wards. Watch How a garbage heap became a green lung in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-a-garbage-heap-became-a-green-lung/articleshow/77534767.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 14, 2020||Pune||Survey on to identify centres for CET||Pune: A survey is underway to identify viable test centres to conduct the Common Entrance Test (CET) for professional courses in engineering, pharmacy and hotel management. The new CET dates would be declared after the report is received, Uday Samant, state minister for higher and technical education, said on Thursday. Most government colleges or their hostels have been turned into quarantine centres for Covid-19 patients so there is a need to take stock of the situation before announcing the dates, Samant said. He was in the city on Thursday to check the progress of teacher training academy which is coming up near the Directorate of Technical Education in Model Colony. The first such training institute for college-level teachers is slated to be inaugurated on December 1. The minister also spoke about setting up a pharmaceutical university in Aurangabad, for which a proposal has been sent to the Union government. “We have come to know that some states are conducting their CETs in October. But the first issue is can we bring such a large number of students to the districts for the examination and is it safe? Secondly, can we conduct these exams at the taluka level? The CET cell is conducting a state-wide survey to see the feasibility of having exam centres at the taluka level that enable following of social distancing norms. Many government colleges and hostels have become quarantine centres, making them ineligible for being entrance exam centres. Once the survey is done in 7-8 days, a meeting will be held and a decision will be taken on the CET,” Samant said. When asked if the CET will be set aside and the stage will be set for admission to professional courses on the basis of merit in class XII board examinations, Samant said that it would negatively impact most students. “Most students in our state don’t work as hard for their class XII board examinations as they do for entrance exams. A decision against holding the CET will hurt students. Hence, an appropriate decision would be taken, considering everything,” he said. Samant also spoke about the first teachers’ academy coming up in Model Colony. “While Yashada gives training to various officers of the government, this will probably be the first institute giving training to just one department. 1.25 lakh sq feet area has been earmarked for it and construction is happening. Earlier the teachers were sent to places like Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini or other private institutes for training, which we have stopped. Now, they will have a dedicated place for training. Moreover, even non-teaching staff will get skill development training here,” he said. Samant did not say much on the issue of final year examinations, stating that the matter is sub-judice. However, he mentioned that they have submitted all affidavits to the Supreme Court and were awaiting the verdict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/survey-on-to-identify-centres-for-cet/articleshow/77533486.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 14, 2020||Hubballi||One killed, 4 injured in accident||Hubballi: A person was killed on the spot and four others suffered injuries after the car in which they were travelling rammed into a stationary truck near Hubballi on Thursday. The deceased is Ayyanar Perumal, 54, of Salem in Tamil Nadu. The injured are Savitri Ayyanar, 50, Kadresh Chellikal, 25, Permal Chellikal,49, residents of Mumbai, and Selvamani Karnan, 27, of Tumbal village in Tamil Nadu. The accident took place near Noolvi Cross on national highway-4. The car was going from Mumbai to Salem. The driver lost control over the car and rammed into the truck, which was standing by the roadside. The injured have been shifted to KIMS and they are undergoing treatment and a case has been registered in this regard, he said. Hubballi Rural police have booked a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/one-killed-4-injured-in-accident/articleshow/77533830.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Encroachers block caves of Jawai Bandh leopards, may force them to leave reserve||JAIPUR: Leopards dwelling in caves at Jawai Bandh Leopard Conservation Reserve (JBLCR) are fast losing their homes as encroachers are blocking the entrances of caves in the hills. Several caves have been blocked by thorny bushes, stones and debris to shut the natural shelters of leopards living in the surroundings of villages, including Bisalpur, Jeewda, Serna, Bera and Kothar. Encroachers have also fenced hilly trails and closed paths to restrict the movement of leopards.  stones and debrisAs many hills are located on pasture and government land, locals are finding it easy to encroach as the district administration is turning a blind eye to the issue. A member of a safari association, who wished to remain anonymous, said, “We have apprised the administration about the encroachments on pasture and government land several times. Recently, a memorandum was given to administrative officials. However, no action has been initiated. If timely action is not taken, the habitat of these wild cats will be destroyed.” The Jawai Dam reserve is home to a wide variety of animals, including rusty-spotted cats and nearly 65 cave-dwelling leopards. Wildlife enthusiasts fear that increased human activity will affect the solitude of these hills and push leopards far from the reserve. “Only in Jawai Bandh, one can see leopards living in caves. Encroachment is a serious threat and may become a cause for leopards to move from the area,” said Vishvaraj Singh, a wildlife enthusiast. The Jawai Bandh forests were previously a closed wildlife area. On February 23, 2010, the state government declared the Jawai Bandh Leopard Conservation Reserve. Since then, it has set a successful example of wildlife peacefully co-existing with humans. “If the caves are destroyed, either the leopards will abandon the area or man-animal conflicts will increase. The forest and district administration should act on the issue at the earliest,” said Naveen Menon, a wildlife enthusiast, who often visits the region for leopard safari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/encroachers-block-caves-of-jawai-bandh-leopards-may-force-them-to-leave-reserve/articleshow/77534732.cms||Ajay Singh
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||CA student, teacher father narrowly escape lynching in Ahmedabad's Narol||AHMEDABAD: A man and his father were allegedly assaulted by a mob in Narol on July 27 on suspicion of stealing a buffalo calf. Over a fortnight after the incident, the cops are yet to get any video footage. Six persons have been arrested even as the victims alleged they were beaten by a mob of at least 25 persons. Awes Shaikh, a CA student, 24, who teaches in a private school, and his father Qamil Shaikh, an Arabic language teacher in a madrassa, had bought a buffalo calf for Eid-Ul-Azha. On July 27, the calf, which was tied in front of their house, escaped after freeing itself. Awes and his father along with a friend went in search of their calf in the area. “We stumbled upon a man riding a horse near RV Denims on Narol- Sarkhej highway. We asked him if he had seen a buffalo calf. He replied in the negative and advised us to run away as locals engaged in cattle rearing would lynch us on suspicion of stealing cows and calves,” said Awes. Awes and his father got scared and started returning home. “Just then, a mob of around 20-30 persons brandishing sticks and rods came running towards us. My friend fled but the mob caught hold of me and my father. My father was kicked and thrashed while I was hit by a group of men riding motorcycles. They hit me and chased me on the highway,” he said. Awes’ father took shelter in bushes near Ruby Marble factory in Narol. He alleged that the mob indiscriminately pelted heavy stones on the bushes to kill him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ca-student-teacher-father-narrowly-escape-lynching/articleshow/77532027.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||Two city schools sign PASCH agreement with German govt||Pune: Students of the Sanskriti and Shamrao Kalmadi High School will now get a chance to access training materials, workshops, theatre and be a part of musical tours with ‘Schools: Partners for Future (PASCH)’— an initiative of the German Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Goethe-Institut. Both the schools on Wednesday signed an agreement with the German government to extend these opportunities to their students. “The MoU was signed on August 12. The event was virtually attended by senior members of Goethe Institut, including the head of South Asia, Andrea Walter, and director, Miriam Bruns. PASCH is an initiative of the German Government & Goethe Institut where a select group of schools from across the world are chosen as partners after a rigorous evaluation process. The aim is to share best practices, learning and strengthen the education and cultural ties between German educational institutions and the students of the partner schools,” a statement issued by Sanskriti Group of Schools stated. Students of the two schools can also avail of scholarships for studies in Germany. “We are confident that many of our students will benefit from this initiative,” director of Sanskriti Group of Schools, Devyani Mungali, said. Director of Goethe-Institut, Pune, Miriam Bruns, said that she was delighted with the new partnership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-city-schools-sign-pasch-agreement-with-german-govt/articleshow/77533507.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kochi||HC seeks report from police||Kochi: A high court bench of Justice VG Arun on Thursday sought from the Pathanamthitta district police chief a report on the probe being conducted into the death of PP Mathai, a 40-year-old farm owner from Pathanamthitta, who was allegedly taken into custody from his home by forest officials on July 28th for destroying a CCTV camera near his farm. His body was found in a well near his farm, 10km from his house, after a few hours. Deceased’s wife Sheeba sought a CBI probe in the case in high court. In the plea seeking a probe by the central agency, it is alleged that no action has been taken by Chittar police despite registering an FIR the same day. Though allegations were raised in the first information statement, the FIR was registered for unnatural death, the petition said, while alleging inefficient probe by a team led by DSP of special branch at Pathanamthitta. During the hearing, the court asked prosecution why only a case for unnatural death was registered and directed Pathanamthitta district police chief to file a report. The court will hear the case again on August 21. Meanwhile, Mathai’s family fears that delay in reporting the offence by the investigating officer to the concerned magistrate under CrPC 157 will weaken the case at the trial stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-seeks-report-from-police/articleshow/77530849.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Priests’ steal man’s rings||Ahmedabad: A man from Zundal in Gandhinagar lost two gold rings worth Rs 15,000 when taking blessings from two men dressed as priests. Dhruv Shah, 33, an accountant with his firm on CG Road, stated in his FIR filed on Tuesday with Naranpura police said on Tuesday morning, when he was near a hospital in Naranpura, an autorickshaw asked for an address. When Shah was telling them that address, one of two priests sitting in the auto said he wanted to bless him. One of the priests put his hand on Shah’s wallet and the other held Shah’s hand. They removed his two rings worth Rs 15,000 and fled tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/priests-steal-mans-rings/articleshow/77532060.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||Law students take grievances about fees to edu dept||Pune: Law students from various colleges in the city are up against various issues related to fees, including concession. They also claim that reserved and backward category students are being overcharged. With the bachelor and masters degree students of first-year students starting late with entrance exam results being delayed, students have demanded that they should be given concessions up to 50 %. A law student said, “I belong to the backward category and yet the college has asked me to pay Rs 37,000 as first instalment fee. There is no concession given and we have taken this issue to the social welfare department as well as the higher education department. But, there is no response.” A group of students from 12 law colleges in the city came together and submitted a letter to the higher education department regarding fee concession. A student from this group said that, “We have been demanding from the last three months that first year students be given at least 50% concession in fees as the second semester started and ten days later institutes were shut down due to lockdown.” The students said they had attended only 8 to 9% of the total offline classes. According to the universities act, every semester has to be conducted for a minimum 90 days. Another student said, “According to the university rules, a student has to have attendance of 75% and if there is less than that, then students are not allowed to sit for the semester exam. Students are not even allowed to fill the exam form. We are just fighting for our rights.” Another student from the group said, “We are paying annual fees of nearly Rs 30,000 to Rs 40,000. Many students opt for loans to pay their fees. In the first semester we attended barely 40 to 45 days, whose names appeared in the first merit list of centralised admissions. The second list students started attending even later. When the second semester began, the lockdown was imposed. Hence, we are demanding a fee concession.” When contacted, director of higher education Dhanraj Mane, said, “The law students must give their grievances in writing to the department in order to give their demands a thought. If they have submitted their grievances to the office we will take a look at it and review after discussing with the experts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/law-students-take-grievances-about-fees-to-edu-dept/articleshow/77533518.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||AFK develops ammo for under-barrel grenade launcher||Pune: The Ammunition Factory, Khadki (AFK), has ammunition for the 40mm under-barrel grenade launcher (UBGL) used by Indian security and paramilitary forces. The UBGL is fitted to an INSAS rifle. Security forces can use this ammunition for multiple purposes in battle. Currently, the Army and paramilitary forces import this ammunition from Israel and South Africa. There are four types of 40mm UBGL ammunition — Practice, Red Phosphorus, High-Explosive Anti-Personnel and High-Explosive Dual Purpose. At a formal ceremony here on Tuesday, AFK handed over the first consignment of UBGL Practice ammunition to the Border Security Force for training purposes. For the past few months, a team of AFK engineers carried out internal trials of the ammunition at the proof range in Khadki and the Ordnance Factory, Trichy, to check various parameters. “This ammunition has an advantage over conventional hand grenades — the former can be fired from an INSAS rifle up to 400m, while the former can’t be thrown beyond 30-40mm,” an AFK official said. “A BSF board of officers and officials from the Union home ministry recently inspected each parameter of the four types of ammunition during trials at the Khadki range on August 3 and 4. On August 4, AFK senior general manager M K Mohapatra handed over an inspection note to BSF Deputy Inspector-General Ashok Kumar Jha,” the official added. The 40mm UBGL was developed by Pune-based lab of Defence Research and Development Organization and the Armament Research and Development Establishment. It was later inducted in the Army and the paramilitary forces. However, the country has had to rely on imports from Israel and South Africa for the ammunition. “The indigenous development of the four types of ammunition for the 40mm UBGL will help reduce the import bill,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/afk-develops-ammo-for-under-barrel-grenade-launcher/articleshow/77533533.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Rise in catch may bring down hilsa retail price||KOLKATA/ EAST MIDNAPORE: Prices of hilsa promise to dip due to a dramatic rise in catch with the east-wind, accompanied by drizzling at the confluence of the river Hooghly and Bay Bengal, making hilsa Hooghly-bound. After a long dry spell, the catch of Hilsa started improving from Monday. On Wednesday, the catch was 55,000kg, the highest catch this season. The higher catch in the Bay of Bengal has its cascading effect in the city markets. For the first time hilsa’s retail price has dipped, though not significantly, yet the bigger catch promised further dip in price, making it affordable for middle class Kolkatans to buy the fish. On Thursday, hilsa weighing more than 1.5 kg each was sold at Rs 1,700-1,800 per kg. “Price of this size hovered around Rs 2,200 a kg throughout the season,” said Amar Das, a fish trader at Lake Market. Bijon Maity, secretary, Kakdwip Fishermen’s Association, said, “Hilsa’s catch completely depends on the right kind of weather condition — ilshe guri bristi (drizzle) and pubali haoa (east wind). Since Monday, we have been experiencing these weather conditions that made fishermen rush to the confluence and the catch increased steadily.” “If the catch was modest 2,000kg on Monday, it became 55,000kg on Wednesday. At Digha, where the catch was as low as 300-400kg a day, on Wednesday, it rose to 1,000kg. Significantly, the catch was also of remarkably bigger size — 800 gram to 1.7kg. Bigger the size, greater is the taste,” he added. Partha Sarathi Kuti, a wholesale trader of Diamond Harbour’s Nagendra bazar, said, “The size of catch is remarkable. There is hardly any hilsa weighing below 700 gram. Majority of the catch weighed higher than 800 grams. Hilsa of 500 gram, which used to dominate the catch, is significantly less in the last three days.” Bablu Das, a fish merchant at Maniktala Market said, “The hilsa market this year remained gloomy with shortage of supply and sharp drop in purchasing capacity. If middle class people cannot buy fish, there is no point running a business for miniscule rich people. Since hilsa controls the price of other fish, its unavailability also left fish varieties unusually dearer.” “Since hilsa price was unaffordable, we looked for other varieties. This has made fish across the spectrum costlier. Even a couple of days ago, a hilsa weighing below 500 gram was being sold at Rs1,100 a kg. I stopped buying Hilsa,” said Rama Ganguly, a buyer at Gariahat market. According to fish merchants, if the weather conditions prevail like this and the catch remains high like on Wednesday, the Hisla of bigger size (>800 grams, <1.5 kg) and tastier variety will dip to Rs 1,000-1,200 a kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rise-in-catch-may-bring-down-hilsa-retail-price/articleshow/77533526.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
August 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Plus II results: 15 schools with zero pass percentage showcaused by state govt||Bhubaneswar: A day after the publication of the higher secondary results, the school and mass education department on Thursday issued showcause notice to 15 schools that recorded nil results. The government asked these institutes to explain why their temporary/permanent recognition should not be withdrawn. The show-cause letter, sent to the principals of the schools by the directorate of higher secondary education, read, “You are requested to show cause as to why admission restrictions for the current year shall not be imposed and temporary/permanent recognition for science stream shall not be withdrawn within seven days.” Last year, nine higher secondary schools had recorded nil results. “The state government has taken the matter seriously and issued show-cause notice to the 15 higher secondary schools for their poor performance in the annual CHSE (Council of Higher Secondary Education) examination. After receiving their replies, we will study the reasons and help them improve,” said school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Das. To improve the higher secondary results, the state government had decided to conduct counselling of students after Class X and guide them to make better subject choices depending on their interests and learning ability. The state government has imposed restriction on admission in nine higher secondary schools (junior colleges) that registered zero results during the Plus II examination in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/plus-ii-results-15-schools-with-zero-pass-percentage-showcaused-by-state-govt/articleshow/77532009.cms||Minati Singha
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||No food, water for last 2 days, say PAPs atop chimney||Chandrapur: The protest by project-affected people (PAPs) over the tallest chimney of Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS) entered the ninth day on Thursday. The protesters alleged that their food and water supply has been stalled since last two days and their supporters at the base of chimney have been flushed out of plant premises. Hopes of a solution rekindled as energy power minister Nitin Raut has once again summoned leaders of the PAPs to Nagpur for dialogue over the issue. “We believe there will be a fruitful outcome,” said leader of PAPs Dr Abhilasha Gauture. She along with others left for Nagpur in the evening. Gauture confirmed that supporters of PAPs have been flushed out. Over reports of no food and water supply for the protesters, she said, “The plant authorities are keeping food and water at the base of the 275-metre high staircase with a hope to detain the protesters if they come down.” More than 650 PAPs of CSTPS are deprived of permanent jobs as promised by the government in the early years 80s. Seven PAPs backed by Maharashtra Rajya Vijnirmiti Pragatkushal Kruti Samiti had climbed up the on August 5 demanding regularization in jobs. The dialogue between the energy minister, Mahagenco and protesters failed during the initial stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-food-water-for-last-2-days-say-paps-atop-chimney/articleshow/77533483.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 14, 2020||Delhi||DCW helps rescue infant sold several times; 4 arrested||NEW DELHI: Delhi Commission for Women exposed a huge trafficking nexus after rescuing a two-and-a-half-month old girl, leading to the arrest of four people. The child was sold several times before she was rescued. On Wednesday night, DCW received information from its Mahila Panchayat that an infant was sold by her father for Rs 40,000. A team was formed to rescue the child. The infant’s father, identified as Amanpreet, was taken to a police station, who revealed he had sold the girl to one Manisha. With the help of Delhi Police, the team conducted raid at several places throughout the night and the child was finally rescued from Hauz Qazi early Thursday morning. A senior police officer the father, Amanpreet, said he had two daughters who were both physically challenged when the third girl was born. He told police that he sold the third girl to get medicine for his other kids. Police said that Manisha sold the child to one Sanjay Mittal, who paid Rs 80,000 to her. The transaction was done through two women, Deepa and Manju, Mittal’s neighbour. “Manju, Mittal, Amanpreet and Manisha have been arrested. Deepa is absconding,” police said. DCW chief Swati Maliwal said the commission is working on rehabilitating the infant. “The work of Delhi Police on this case is commendable and I thank them,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dcw-helps-rescue-infant-sold-several-times-4-arrested/articleshow/77534839.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Elderly man evicted by son, approaches police||Ahmedabad: An elderly man from Maninagar filed a complaint with Sarkhej police on Tuesday that his son, daughter-in-law and her parents had pushed him out of his own house in Sarkhej. In his FIR, Bhupendra Trivedi, 70, who currently stays with his sister at Sahjanand Apartments in Kankaria, stated that his son Riddhish, his wife NIdhi, her parents Ashok and Panna Shah harassed him and forced him to leave his house in Atulyam flats in Makarba for which he had given Rs 13 lakh to his son. Trivedi said in his complaint that his wife had died six months ago. “I was living along with my family at Atulyam Flats in Makarba for three years. I had sold my house in Isanpur and given Rs 13 lakh to my son to buy the flat in Makarba. Not only my son and my daughter-in-law, but also my daughter-in-law’s parents often threatened to me and told me to leave that flat,” he said in the FIR. Ultimately, they pushed him out on Tuesday.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/elderly-man-evicted-by-son-approaches-police/articleshow/77532091.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||Trio steal Rs 12k from shopowner||Pune: Three men, posing as customers, diverted the attention of a shopowner and stole Rs 12,000 from the cash box on the pretext of purchasing a bucket on August 11. The incident took place at a shop selling stationary and gift items at Ram housing society at Yerawada’s Phulenagar. The shopowner, Pravin Chaudhary (29), lodged an FIR at the Yerawada police station on Wednesday. The suspects visited Chaudhary’s shop and struck up a conversation with him. Police said two men diverted his attention and started negotiating the price of bucket with him when their third accomplice took advantage of the situation and stole Rs 12,000 from the cash box. The suspect then signalled his accomplices and they hurriedly rushed out of the shop. Chaudhary did not register a complaint with the police against the trio immediately. He later took a call to register a complaint, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-steal-rs-12k-from-shopowner/articleshow/77533543.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||Mandap decorator duped of Rs1.12L in KYC fraud||Pune: Naeem Shaikh (44), a mandap decorator from Vadgaonsheri, registered an FIR with the Yerawada police on Wednesday stating that a cyber fraudster duped him of Rs1.12 lakh on the pretext of upgrading his Paytm KYC on February 11. He initially filed a complaint application with the Pune cyber police which carried out a verification before the FIR was lodged on Wednesday. Naeem received a telephone call from a man claiming to be a representative of an online wallet company. He told him to get his KYC verification done or else his Paytm wallet would stop functioning, police said. Yunus Shaikh, senior inspector, Yerawada police, said, “Naeem shared details of his credit/debit cards without verifying the credentials of the caller. He also shared the OTP with the caller following which money was transferred from his bank account to another account. Naeem realised that he had been tricked after he received text messages of the money transfer on his mobile number.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mandap-decorator-duped-of-rs1-12l-in-kyc-fraud/articleshow/77533572.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||AHNA reports doctor to police||Ahmedabad: After a ‘critical care specialist’ doctor was found to be admitting Covid-19 positive patients at private hospitals on his behalf and charging them nearly five times the amount, Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) has approached the city police to formally file a complaint and requesting a probe. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said that they came across alleged malpractice of Dr Vipul Shantilal Patel through a case of Pushya Hospital in Navrangpura. “A couple had got admitted on recommendation of Dr Patel, claimed to be having his practice on Anandnagar Road, to the hospital. Dr Patel said that he knew the couple and he would pay for their treatment. They were discharged by July 5. Dr Patel paid Rs 4.5 lakh for the treatment,” he said. But the couple’s son, currently outside the country, was surprised to find the bill of Rs 19.5 lakh for the treatment – which also included seven shots of Tocilizumab. The health insurer went to the ‘Mission Enterprise’ mentioned on the bill and found address of Pushya Hospital that clarified that no such enterprise was functional on their premises and also got to know about the charges by Dr Patel. AHNA officials said that it brought the alleged scam to fore. “The hospital authorities started a probe and also asked Dr Patel to furnish his credentials, but he did not respond to the queries. The hospital also claimed that they have payment of Rs 53,790 pending for another patient. As such practice is dangerous and also detrimental to the medical fraternity, we decided to lodge a complaint,” said an AHNA official. Officials said that Dr Patel has shown his affiliation to 12 reputed city-based hospitals, which is also under scanner. ‘As per the records in Gujarat Medical Council, he has been registered only for MBBS and not for critical care,’ mentioned the letter to the police commissioner, adding that a detailed inquiry in the case is also conducted by Dr Manish Bansal of Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahna-reports-doctor-to-police/articleshow/77533578.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Early intervention will prevent complications and spread’ / ‘Have cut down on hours of work as I need more rest’||How did you get infected? Being a frontline worker, there was regular exposure from unsuspecting patients. There was a surge in cancer patients in April, probably because of travel restrictions during the lockdown. I had got myself tested thrice earlier, but all the results had come negative. On July 20, I felt unwell in hospital. I returned home. In the evening, I developed fever. I gave my samples for test the next day. The result came positive in the evening. Our hospital (Sparsh) got in touch with the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation to allow me to get treated there itself. I drove to the hospital and got admitted. Two colleagues, including another doctor, also tested positive in the next two days and were admitted. What were the symptoms? Within hours of getting admitted, my eyes had turned blood-red, like it happens during conjunctivitis. I started experiencing bone pain — deep and unbearable. The body temperature was around 102 degrees Fahrenheit. This continued for 36 hours, after which I started feeling better. My colleagues had different symptoms. The other doctor friend had fever for seven days and lost the sense of smell and appetite. His cough had blood particles. The other colleague’s blood sugar level shot up exponentially and oxygen level dropped. He required prolonged oxygen support. My appetite was almost normal except for the first two days when I had fever. For the first 24 hours, I was given oxygen support. What was the treatment? I am diabetic, 49, have had past episodes of lung problems, and suffered pneumonia a year ago. I was classified a moderate risk patient. I was given steroids and remdesivir for five days. My CT scan and chest X-ray showed no further complications. What kinds of precautions had you taken earlier? I had taken hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis as recommended by the ICMR. I have been using PPE. Were your neighbours supportive? Yes. At Infocity Green Apartments in Shailashree Vihar, where I stay, the entire community was supportive. After I tested positive and my family was put in quarantine, they ensured supply of essentials. The apartment’s office-bearers were in touch over phone, extending moral support. Was your family apprehensive? My wife (Sutapa Biswas) is also a doctor. So, my family members broadly understand the situation. But since nobody is certain about how the disease will behave, being apprehensive is natural. All my family members, including my aged parents, my son (Plus II student) and daughter (Class I) tested negative. Any problem post-Covid? There is still weakness. For some days, there was anxiety as well and I was finding it difficult to concentrate. I resumed work on Monday, but I have cut down on the hours I work to around six because I feel the need to rest. Things are improving gradually. During hospitalization, my anxiety level was very high. Your advice to people? One must not hide symptoms, and go for test as early as possible. Just like any other disease, early intervention is very important here. This will help prevent possible complications and stop further spread to others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/early-intervention-will-prevent-complications-and-spread-/-have-cut-down-on-hours-of-work-as-i-need-more-rest/articleshow/77532019.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||Aided colleges urge HC for exclusive CAP rounds||Nagpur: Reiterating their demand for scrapping centralized admission process (CAP) for Standard XI, petitioner junior colleges informed the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court that after state board results were out, it came to fore that the number of seats are much more than those clearing exams. In an affidavit through counsel Bhanudas Kulkarni, the petitioners prayed for accepting amendment wherein they have demanded directives to respondents to conduct first two CAP rounds exclusively for government-aided colleges within municipal limits from this year. While allowing the amendment, a division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Nitin Surywanshi on Thursday adjourned the hearing for two weeks. Alleging unholy nexus between junior colleges operating outside Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) limits and coaching classes, the petitioners had earlier demanded constitution of a panel under a retired judge to verify whether they comply with norms and subsequent action taken by the state education department. Citing declaration of SSC results, the petitioners said from NMC areas 33,675 students had appeared for exams of which 31,790 cleared it. However, there are 46,680 seats available in junior colleges across all faculties — science, commerce, arts and minimum competency vocational courses (MCVC), which means several seats remain vacant. Similarly, in areas under Nagpur Metropolitan Region Development Authority (NMRDA), 28,174 students had appeared for the exam and 23,336 cleared it. Here too, 36,530 seats are available, which is far more than the number of pass out students, the petitioners pointed out. “About 10% of these students would get admissions in various Industrial Training Institutes (ITIs) and other colleges like military schools in the state. Therefore, the CAP is of no use and students should be allowed to decide on colleges they want to join,” Kulkarni contended. While blaming the government for granting permissions, the petitioners said it has led to mushrooming of private colleges adding to the woes of aided colleges which hardly get students due to college-coaching classes nexus. “All this has led to drop in the number of students rendering teachers surplus. The government was draining taxpayers’ hard-earned money on their salaries.” The petitioners, therefore, demand first two CAP rounds for grant-in aided institutions, while the private ones to be added from third round onwards. “If this process is not followed, the government would itself throttle the very existence of its aided colleges, which don’t charge tuition fees and have qualified and approved staff,” they said. Intake capacity of junior colleges in NMC & NMRDA areas Faculty ------------Intake ----------------NMC --------------NMRDA Science ----------- 32,170--------------- 21,600------------------ 10,570 Commerce ------- 19,280--------------- 13,840------------------ 5,440 Arts ---------------- 25,800--------------- 7,720------------------- 18,080 Composite -------- 5,960--------------- 3,520-------------------- 2,440 Total --------------- 83,120--------------- 46,680------------------ 36,530 Percentage -------- 100--------------- 56.10%------------------ 43.90%||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aided-colleges-urge-hc-for-exclusive-cap-rounds/articleshow/77533504.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Cops deny permission for community Ganesh Puja in city, Cuttack||Bhubaneswar: Wary of the steady rise in Covid positive cases and deaths, the commissionerate police have decided not to permit Ganesh Puja celebrations in the twin cities of Bhubaneswar and Cuttack on August 22. “In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, there are restrictions on large religious congregations. So, no permission has been given to puja mandaps to celebrate Ganesh Puja at the community level. Even Ganapati festival in Mumbai isn’t taking place this year. All are requested to cooperate,” the commissionerate police tweeted on Thursday. In the previous years, police used to give permission to at least 150 puja mandaps in Bhubaneswar and 250 in Cuttack to organise community Ganesh Puja. About a fortnight ago, police held a discussion with some puja mandaps in Cuttack and sought their cooperation in suspending the annual festival. Police said they would slap relevant sections of the IPC, disaster management act and epidemic diseases act against those who defy the order. “We have asked the personnel of police stations to keep vigil in their areas and sensitise local puja organisers to the need to desist from celebrating Ganesh Puja this time. Stringent action will be taken against the violators,” another police officer said. Police said Ganesh Puja can be celebrated by people in their homes. “Our restriction is only applicable for community or colony-level celebrations that would usually draw crowds. Neither the crowded community puja nor the immersion procession will be allowed. People can worship Lord Ganesh in their houses. But they should not invite guests and relatives to celebrate the festival as it would lead to a congregation,” the officer said. While the Covid outbreak has already taken the sheen off several festivals of different communities in the past four months, traders and shopkeepers here heaved a sigh of relief following restriction on the celebration of Ganesh Puja. “We had been facing exploitation by goons and were forced to pay hefty chanda to different puja committees during big festivals like Ganesh Puja and Durga Puja. We have been spared this time,” said a garments store owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/cops-deny-permission-for-community-ganesh-puja-in-city-cuttack/articleshow/77532042.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||Global varsities tie up with IIT for Gandhi webinars||Kolkata: Ahead of the Independence Day, universities across the world have collaborated with IIT Kharagpur to discuss the relevance of Gandhi now. This is part of a special initiative of the ministry of human resources development, which is being hosted in the premier institute, to close the sesquicentenary celebrations of Gandhi and the 74th Independence Day of the country. Since physical movement is restricted this year, the programmes are being organised in the form of webinars where institutes like MIT, Tufts University, University of Texas, Arlington, US, University of Manchester and University of Leeds, UK, University of Melbourne, Australia, University of Auckland and University of Massey, New Zealand, and University of Alberta and University of Toronto from Canada are taking part. Right from Ahimsa, Swadeshi and inclusive politics of Gandhi to his theory of self sufficiency and local self- government, the webinars are trying to capture the myriad shades of Bapu. V K Tewari, director of IIT Kharagpur, said, “We are happy to be able to host these unique sessions. Gandhi is relevant even in this pandemic situation through his ideals of maintaining physical and mental health and strengthening immunity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/global-varsities-tie-up-with-iit-for-gandhi-webinars/articleshow/77533563.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Rs 10 lakh relief to family of girl killed in sacrifice ritual||Chandigarh: The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) has awarded Rs 10 lakh as compensation to the family of a four-year-old girl, who was killed in a human sacrifice ritual in February 2018.The court had awarded life imprisonment till natural death to the convict – Kamlesh, a resident of Sanjay Labour Colony in Industrial Area, Phase I – and fined him Rs 25,000 on September 12, 2019. Kamlesh, who worked at Geeta Printing Press in Sector 51, had slashed her throat to offer a sacrifice to Goddess.The murder case was registered on February 25, 2018. According to the FIR, the girl — Ujala — lived with her family here and Kamlesh was their neighbour. Ujala had gone out to play that day. After sometime, neighbours raised the alarm and told her mother that Kamlesh was attacking her with a knife. Everybody rushed to the spot and by the time, the girl was freed from his clutches, she was dead. The compensation amount was awarded following an inquiry by chief judicial magistrate-cum-secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, Ashok Kumar Mann and as part of the Victim Assistance Scheme, 2012. The district court had recommended compensation under the Victim Compensation Scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-10-lakh-relief-to-family-of-girl-killed-in-sacrifice-ritual/articleshow/77533552.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||DBA chief moves HC over shortage of Covid drugs and facilities||Nagpur: In view of spurt in deaths due to Covid-19 in the city, a lawyer has approached the high court claiming shortage of life saving drugs like remdesivir that are leading to fatalities and prayed for directives to the Central and state governments to ensure medicines’ availability for patients across Vidarbha. Citing sudden deaths of Nagpur University board of mass communication’s former chairman Sunil Mishra and of lawyer Shashikant Borkar, petitioner Kamal Satuja, through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar, demanded constitution of a committee for improving ongoing procedure of dealing with the coronavirus patients and make efforts to reduce fatalities. A division bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Nitin Suryavanshi on Thursday issued notices to respondents including Union ministry for health and family welfare and State department of health, asking them to file reply in two weeks. Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation through its director general, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner, divisional commissioner and collector here, Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), along with Government and Indira Gandhi Medical Colleges and Hospitals (GMCH and IGGMC), are other respondents in the case. Claiming acute shortage of essential drugs during the ongoing pandemic, the petitioner, who is also the president of District Bar Association (DBA) here, said it was leading to death in cases like those of Mishra and Borkar, who couldn’t get them while undergoing treatment. Quoting several media reports, including those in TOI, Satuja pointed out that even number of isolation wards in the city wasn’t sufficient while existing ones are in pitiable condition. While demanding directives to NMC to act against private hospitals for overcharging patients for conducting tests and related activities, the petitioner further asked it to provide details of all hospitals treating Covid-19 patients and Covid Care Centres (CCCs). “The civic body should inform the stockpile of life saving drugs at government and private hospitals in the region. It should also come out on steps taken to ensure that hospitals aren’t overcharging for their services,” he said. While insisting that Union ministry frame guidelines for treating Covid-19 patients and make people aware in this regard, Satuja prayed for directives to all respondents to script modalities, procedure, methodology for accessibility of patients' relatives and frame a protocol for public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dba-chief-moves-hc-over-shortage-of-covid-drugs-and-facilities/articleshow/77533521.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Student develops affordable ultraviolet box to kill virus||Bhubaneswar: A city-based agriculture student has developed an ultraviolet (UV) box that is capable of disinfecting a range of daily-use products such as vegetables, wallets and cell phones within minutes. The 21-year-old, Abhisekh Mohapatra, who is currently pursuing his degree in agriculture at SOA deemed-to-be university here, said excessive use of sanitisers or chemicals on gadgets could damage them. “I chose to use the UV method of sanitisation, which is already in use in places like laboratories and airports. The problem is they are too costly, not easily available and mostly of improper size, so I decided to make my own UV device,” he said. Abhisekh claimed that his UV box is the most affordable one, which can be made available under Rs 1,000. “Other such boxes cost over Rs 2,000, but this one can be made available for only Rs 700,” he said. His UV box has a reflective inner side in which one can put all their daily devices such as masks, spectacles, money, watch and more. “Besides, there is a hook at the top of the box to hang the mask inside it. I also made the box lid automatic so that it can close easily. Instead of sensors, I used simple circuits to turn off the light when the lid is opened for the safety of users,” Abhisekh added. On being asking about its cost-effectiveness, the developer said he had used the most easily available materials in the market such as Thermocol sheets as they are good insulators, reflecting materials, wires, resistors, tape, magnets, sockets and UV. He said the device can work on simple 220 volt of current via any kind of socket at home. It will take nearly 15 minutes for perfect disinfection of the products. The device can be used anywhere as it is mobile and light, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/student-develops-affordable-ultraviolet-box-to-kill-virus/articleshow/77532055.cms||Sandip Mishra
August 14, 2020||Pune||Burglars flee with cash, ornaments||Pune: Burglars entered the bungalow of a builder on Katraj-Kondhwa bypass through its balcony’s open door and decamped with cash and gold ornaments, collectively worth over Rs7.63 lakh, between August 4 and 9. Builder Mohit Ghume (34), son of a retired civil engineer of the Pune Municipal Corporation, lodged an FIR with the Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Wednesday. Ghume’s parents had visited Shikrapur on August 4, while his other family members had gone to Islampur. When they returned after five days, they found the booty stolen from a cupboard. Senior inspector Vasant Kunvar from the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said, “The burglars climbed a tree and entered the bungalow’s first-floor balcony on finding the door open. They stole booty from the cupboard in one of the bedrooms and went to the ground floor. They then opened the rear side kitchen door and took to heels.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/burglars-flee-with-cash-ornaments/articleshow/77533582.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mobile water tanks for Ganesh idol immersion||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to provide mobile tanks at the doorstep of devotees for immersion of Ganesh idols. This would ensure devotees not having to travel long distances for immersion, officials said. The initiative also intends to avoid crowding during the festive period in the backdrop of Covid-19 pandemic. “Our main intension is to ensure that more and more devotees opt for immersion of idols at their homes,” mayor Murlidhar Mohol told TOI on Thursday. He said that 15 vehicles would be converted into makeshift tanks. Each ward office would get one vehicle. Filled with water, they would travel to different areas under the jurisdiction of the ward office, helping devotees to immerse idols at their doorstep. If the demand increases, the civic body may consider adding 15 more such tanks, so that two tanks could be provided to each ward office. Mohol said that the PMC would provide ammonium bicarbonate for preparing the solution to immerse the idols made of plaster of Paris. There would also be the option of handing over the idols at the collection centres at ward offices. According to civic officials, the PMC has decided to procure 150 tonnes of ammonium bicarbonate to promote eco-friendly immersion of Ganesh idols. The civic administration would set up a network of NGOs and Ganesh mandals to distribute the powder. Ajay Vaishampayan, who had worked as an honorary adviser for the committee set up by the PMC for management of immersion, welcomed the move. “The initiative is good. But the PMC can lay more stress on collecting the idols from citizens. Collection centres should be set up in large numbers across municipal areas. Premises of temples and municipal schools can be used for collecting these idols,” he said. Corporation data states that around 4.5 lakh idols are immersed every year under its jurisdiction. They are either immersed in river or makeshift tanks, especially built for the purpose. Nearly 500 tanks are set up across the municipal areas for the festival every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mobile-water-tanks-to-help-citizens-immerse-ganesh-idols-at-doorstep/articleshow/77533610.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Case positivity at 2% from 16% a month ago||Ahmedabad: Gujarat in 24 hours carried out 50,817 tests to find new cases, taking the total to 11.6 lakh. The state health department said that the per day per million testing has reached 782. Analysis of the tests reveals that in past 24 hours the state’s test positivity rate (new cases per 100 tests conducted) was 2% with 1,092 cases from 50,817 tests. The rate was 16% on July 13 when the state had recorded 902 cases out of 5,619 tests. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot are 28,602, 16,135, 6,060 and 2,979 respectively. Dang is the only district now in Gujarat having less than 100 cases as tally of Devbhoomi Dwarka on Thursday reached 102 with six new cases. The state also recorded deaths of 18 positive patients, taking the state death toll to 2,733. Out of 18 deaths, 14 were from municipal corporation areas. The deaths include five from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, three from Rajkot, one each from Bhavnagar, Gandhinagar, Gir-Somnath, Jamnagar, Kutch and Vadodara. A total of 1,046 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 58,439. The discharges include 238 from Surat, 235 from Ahmedabad, 148 from Vadodara and 74 from Bhavnagar. With the update, the active patients in Gujarat are now at 14,310, which consists of 19% of the total patients. The share of discharged and deceased patients is now at 77.4% and 3.6% respectively. As on Thursday evening, Gujarat has 4.88 lakh persons under quarantine, out of which 4.87 lakh are under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/case-positivity-at-2-from-16-a-month-ago/articleshow/77533617.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Expect more rains for next 48 hours||Chandigarh: City recorded 72mm rainfall between Wednesday 8.30am and Thursday 8.30am. The airport observatory on the other hand recorded 64.6mm rainfall. According to the weathermen, more rainfall is on the cards for Tricity for next 48 hours. The monsoon season has so far witnessed 614.3mm rainfall, while the normal is 565.5mm. Following continuous rainfall, the maximum temperature in the city witnessed a drop on Thursday. The day temperature on Thursday was recorded at 29.3 degrees Celsius, 3 degrees below normal, while on Wednesday it was recorded at 34.4 degrees Celsius, 2 degrees above normal. The minimum temperature on the other hand was recorded at 24.7 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal on Thursday, while on Wednesday it was 25 degrees Celsius.According to weathermen, light to moderate rainfall is expected on Friday. The maximum temperature is expected to be around 31 degrees Celsius, while the minimum is expected to be around 25 degrees Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/expect-more-rains-for-next-48-hours/articleshow/77533595.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt to go ahead with Puri, Lingaraj projects||Bhubaneswar: Despite the austerity measures undertaken by the state government to tide over the economic slowdown triggered by a raging pandemic, sources said it has decided to push forward with the Augmentation of Basic Amenities and Development of Heritage and Architecture (ABADHA) scheme that aims to transform Puri into a world-class heritage city. While tendering process for two projects – the municipal market complex and multi-storied car parking at Jail road – has already been completed and agreement signed, another tender for four different projects are in an advanced stage. “One single tender has been floated for four projects – Shree Setu project, Musa river revival plan, Jagannath Ballav Pilgrim Centre and Mahodadhi market complex. The cost of the projects would be more than Rs 400 crore. Friday (August 14) is the last date for receiving technical bids. We expect the tendering process to be over by September-end,” said a senior government official. The government has earmarked Rs 695 crore in the state budget for ABADHA scheme. The Shree Setu Project is aimed at decongesting the pilgrim town by linking National Highway-316 (Puri bypass) to the Grand Road through a trumpet bridge. While the Jagannath Ballav Pilgrim Centre will be developed with features like multi-level car parking, tourist amenities, commercial space, meditation centre and multi-modal hub, the Musa river revival plan is to connect the Musa river with Mangala river through a network of lakes. Work on the heritage security corridor project around the Jagannath Temple, stalled due to the pandemic, will also start very soon. The draft design of the heritage corridor, to be developed around the 12th century temple premises (Meghanada Pacheri) has already been prepared. As a number of residential units as well as structures like shops, lodges and mutts were demolished, the state cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to provide 6.61 acres of land to the displaced families at the resettlement colony at Mangalaghat. The government will also remit stamp duty and registration fee for transfer of the land. Works department sources said the Ekamra Kshetra Amenities and Monuments Revival Action (EKAMRA) plan will also continue as usual despite resource crunch. Under the EKAMRA plan, the state government has envisioned to develop nearly 66 acres of land surrounding Lingaraj temple in Bhubaneswar. Budgetary provision of Rs 150 crore has been made for the project for the 2020-21 financial year. While Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation is acquiring land for the project, a New Delhi-based architecture firm is preparing the draft design, which is expected to be ready soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-to-go-ahead-with-puri-lingaraj-projects/articleshow/77532101.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Pune||Alandi groups pledge to tone down public celebration||Pune: Representatives of 32 Ganapati mandals in the temple town of Alandi and the local civic body unanimously resolved on Tuesday in favour of installing only one Ganesh idol as part of the public celebration in the town. At the same time, the Alandi Municipal Council (AMC) has decided against allowing immersion of idols from neighbouring areas in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits, in the Indrayani river to prevent crowding at river banks. Alandi has recorded 171 Covid-19 cases till date. Of these, 128 patients have been discharged post-recovery, seven have succumbed to the virus and 36 are still under treatment. Pimpri Chinchwad’s additional commissioner of police Ramnath Pokale said, “Alandi is the first town to promote the idea of One-Town-One-Idol. We have urged Ganesh mandals in our jurisdiction to follow the norm in view of the virus scare.” “No mandal will install an idol without the permission of the concerned police station. They will have to adhere to guidelines related to pandal size, social distancing norms, etc. Our officers are constantly holding meetings with mandal representatives and urging them to opt for the One-Town-One-Idol norm,” Pokale added. AMC chief officer Ankush Jadhav said, “We have asked citizens to immerse Ganesh idols at home so that they won’t come to the river banks or ghat area.” Inspector Ravindra Chudhar of Alandi police station, who was also present at the meeting, said, “Corporators and local residents have categorically told us to prohibit people from neighbouring towns from immersing idols in the river. We are working in tandem with other police stations, including Dighi and Bhosari. We are also conducting meetings with mandals to tell them about the issue.” Vaijayanta Umargekar, president of AMC, said, “The Covid-19 cases in and around the town have increased in the last few weeks hence there is a fear that any mass gathering would spread the virus further. We are urging people and mandals not to come to Alandi to immerse idols this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/alandi-groups-pledge-to-tone-down-public-celebration/articleshow/77533622.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Unit owner booked on neighbour’s complaint||tnnFIRE AT PKL FACTORYPanchkula: A day after a massive fire broke out at a thinner and chemical factory in Industrial Area, Phase II, the police on Thursday booked its owner, Ashwani Jindal, on the complaint of his neighbour.Tarundeep Singh, a resident of TDI City, Sector 117, Mohali, who works as a manager at an office adjoining the factory, said in his complaint that Jindal’s negligence led to the fire“The incident caused loss not just to Jindal, but to us as well. It is the third time that a fire broke out at the unit,” he added.A case has been registered under sections 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 336 (whoever does any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees) of the IPC at Sector 20 police station, said sub-inspector Gulab Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unit-owner-booked-on-neighbours-complaint/articleshow/77533625.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Supreme Court gives bail to ex-IAS officer Ashok Singhvi in mine scam||JAIPUR: The Supreme Court on Thursday granted bail to former IAS officer Ashok Singhvi in the money laundering case filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). He was granted conditional bail on furnishing bail bonds of a sum of Rs 1 lakh with two sureties of the same amount to the satisfaction of the trial court and subject conditions that he should not influence the witnesses and should not tamper with evidence. The bench comprising chief justice S A Bobde said, “Having heard learned counsel appearing for the parties and considering the facts and circumstances of the case, we consider it appropriate in the interests of justice to direct the release of the petitioner on bail. Accordingly, the petitioner is directed to be released on bail.” Singhvi, the former principal secretary (mines), in Rajasthan, surrendered before the special ED court in Jaipur on June 1 in the matter related to a mining scam which was unearthed by Rajasthan ACB in 2015. Singhvi, who was arrested by the ACB for the scam when his alleged conduit was caught taking Rs 2.5 crore bribe for reopening of mines in Chittorgarh, was later released on bail. However, ED had lodged a case of money laundering under PMLA Act on November 30, 2015, against Singhvi and seven others. Singhvi tried for bail for more than a year before surrendering on June 1. The ACB had accused Singhvi of allotting mines at whims and fancies in violation of orders of the Centre and also of taking hefty bribes for it during the previous BJP government in 2015. Singhvi, who was once in the race to become the chief secretary of the state, has maintained that ACB did not recover any bribe amount from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc-gives-bail-to-ex-ias-officer-ashok-singhvi-in-mine-scam/articleshow/77534836.cms||Joychen Joseph
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||SMSN welcomes reimbursement of med fees to open category students||Nagpur: In a cabinet decision taken on August 12, the state government has decided to pay fees of medical and dental students of general unreserved category who were affected by the implementation of socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) and economically weaker section (EWS) quotas last year. These students could not get admission in government colleges for MBBS and PG medical courses as the number of seats for general category reduced due to the implementation of SEBC and EWS quotas, and hence had to opt for private education institutions. The Save Merit Save Nation (SMSN) forum running under the Save Merit Foundation (SMF) has welcomed this decision. “It’s heartening to hear that government of Maharashtra has ultimately decided to reimburse the additional amount of fees to the open category students who lost their admission in GMCs due to implementation of SEBC reservation in medical/dental admissions during last academic year,” said Dr Sanjay Deshpande, president of Save Merit Save Nation Forum. “We had a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for the same on February 26. In fact, these assurances were given by the then CM Devendra Fadnavis. SMSN requests that same rule should be applied every year till the number of seats available during 2018 are not restored,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/smsn-welcomes-reimbursement-of-med-fees-to-open-category-students/articleshow/77533571.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 14, 2020||Vadodara||Two arrested for killing old woman||Vadodara: Two 21-year-old cousins were arrested on Thursday for allegedly murdering a 72-year-old woman in Chhota Udepur on July 30 and disposing of her body in an abandoned mine on the outskirts of Mithibor village. The two accused Arjun Nayak and Mukesh Nayak were arrested by the local crime branch (LCB) based on information and after questioning the residents of Kothara village. LCB sleuths said that they became suspicious of the duo from the answers they were giving. They eventually broke down and confessed their crime during the interrogation. The two cousins told cops that on the afternoon of July 30, the deceased Beli Nayka, while passing by their house, was blabbering and hurled abuses at them for no reason. The duo got instigated by the elderly woman’s behaviour and killed her. Mukesh tried to strangulate her and then Arjun hit an axe on her head which led to her death. They wrapped Nayka’s body in a quilt and kept in a big plastic bag. The accused then rode to the abandoned mine with the body on the outskirts for dumping it there. The body was found on August 7 by Nayka’s son Viniya and other villagers when they were searching for her in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-arrested-for-killing-old-woman/articleshow/77531233.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Departments of school and higher education get new heads||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister and education minister Manish Sisodia emphasised the importance of good coordination between the departments of school education and higher education while welcoming the two new directors for the units on Thursday. He also credited the outgoing education director, Binay Bhushan, for working towards the improvement of Delhi schools. Udit Prakash Rai replaced Bhushan as the head for directorate of education (DoE), while Azimul Haque took over the charge for higher education from SS Gill in a welcome function. When the transfer orders for Bhushan had arrived, the deputy CM had written to home minister Amit Shah, requesting him to stay the decision until the end of the academic session. At the function, Sisodia said that Bhushan was the man behind the revamped school buildings seen all over Delhi. “Bhushan took the initiative from day one and created the blueprint towards this road to success which we have been able to achieve today,” the deputy CM said. Sisodia added that the coordination among the department of education and higher education has been seamless. “We expect the same for the future so that the other department’s needs can be known. The director of higher education should be aware of the number of children in the first grade today so that accordingly he can plan how many seats will be needed for higher education 12 years later,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/depts-of-school-and-higher-education-get-new-heads/articleshow/77534849.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Two held in Ahmedabad in nationwide fraud racket||AHMEDABAD: Sleuths of the cyber cell of city police on Wednesday detained two persons, Mohsinkhan Pathan and Sohailkhan Pathan, for allegedly using the ruse of updating the victim’s ‘know your customer’ (KYC) details to defraud people from Gujarat, Haryana, Maharashtra, MP, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Punjab and Delhi. They allegedly siphoned off crores in this fashion. “We have informed the concerned states of their arrests and are coordinating to find out how many victims they have cheated,” said a police official. Deputy commissioner of police, cyber cell, Amit Vasava, said that they seized two mobile phones, three laptops, three sim-slot boxes, 39 sim cards, three dongles, vehicles including a car, documents of two shops and Rs 58,000 cash. “During their interrogation we learned that they cheated about 250 people in Gujarat to the tune of Rs 1 crore and we are in touch with police of other states to apprehend others involved in the scam,” added Vasava. Local court has sent the accused to five-day police remand. Assistant commissioner of police, cyber cell, Jeetendra Yadav, said that in November 2019, Akbar Gulliwala of Jamalapur lodged a complaint about a call from an unknown number asking him to update his KYC details. “The caller made him download an application and siphoned off Rs 98,000 from his bank account. Akbar died of Covid in May and his son Faisal pursued the complaint,” added Yadav. “We found the money siphoned off from Gulliwala’s account was transferred to other bank accounts through IMPS. One such account belonged to Sohailkhan, a resident of Rakhial,” said PSI Sajan Muchal of cyber cell. Through Sohailkhan police reached Mohsinkhan, also a resident of Rakhial. From them they learned that they were in touch with other criminals in Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal and got data on lakhs of customers using the ruse of selling ayurvedic medicine. “After getting the data, Sohailkhan used to send messages to thousands of customers to update their KYC and charge Rs 6,000 per day to do so. Based on the messages, cyber crooks in Jharkhand, West Bengal and Bihar called up and cheated the customers. Eight bank accounts into which the stolen money was deposited were uncovered,” said Yadav. DCP Vasava said the accused had a script to narrate for conning victims that their e-wallet KYC details need to be updated. They would say the e- wallet’s KYC has expired and they will have to update it. “They were already wanted by police of various states,” said Vasava. Cyber cell officials said they also enticed victims using the lure of a free mobile phone. Officials said Sohailkhan had passed Class XII while Mohsin studied up to Class IX. They had been cheating people for about nine months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-held-in-nationwide-fraud-racket/articleshow/77532144.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||One in 3 persons in Silk City has antibodies: Sero survey||Bhubaneswar: Around one-third of the residents living under the limits of the Berhampur Municipal Corporation (BeMC) has already developed antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. This was the finding of the serological survey jointly conducted by ICMR-Regional Medical Research Centre (RMRC), the BeMC and MKCG Medical College and Hospital in Berhampur between August 3 and August 7. As part of the survey, 2,830 blood samples were collected from members of the community picked at random, as well as those belonging to the high-risk category. The study found that 31.1 per cent of the samples tested showed the presence of antibodies against the novel coronavirus. If the finding is extrapolated to the entire population of Berhampur, it means that one in three persons in the Silk City has been exposed to SARS-CoV-2. “In absolute terms, it would mean that around 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh people of the city have been exposed to this virus,” RMRC director Sanghamitra Pati said. Pati added that five health teams had drawn the samples from 25 wards and five slums. “Prevalence ranged from 7 per cent to 60 per cent in the different wards. Four wards had more than 50 per cent sero prevalence,” she added. She also said urban slums in the city of Ganjam district, which has been the worst affected by the Covid pandemic in the state, had 35 per cent sero prevalence. “Prevalence of the virus in high-risk groups was 23.4 per cent. The best thing is the very negligible infection fatality rate of the city, a low 0.02 per cent,” she added. She said the results of the survey, announced on Thursday, held true for the infection scenario of a month ago, as it takes around two weeks for the human body to develop antibodies to the virus. “The second round of serological survey will indicate further progression of sero prevalence in the city. The second round will begin 28 days after the start of the first sero survey,” she added. It is thus expected to begin later this month. Pati said the second round of serological survey might show more people having developed antibodies. “It is too early to say anything about the development of herd immunity among the people of the city,” she added. Chakravarti Singh Rathore, BeMC commissioner, said negligible infection fatality rate was a good thing. “This happened because of the administration’s efforts and the cooperation of the public. The study also shows that 90% of the infected were asymptomatic. It shows there was no health hazard to most people,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/one-in-3-persons-in-silk-city-has-antibodies-sero-survey/articleshow/77532078.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Submit forms for pre-nursery to Class VIII by today||Chandigarh: Parents’ who want to admit their wards in pre-nursery to Class VIII in government schools, are left with only a day for applying as Friday is the last day. Officials of the education department have clarified that no extension in the last date will be given. Till date, 9,400 online admission forms have been received in all 20 clusters.Every cluster has around six government schools. It is for the first time that online admissions for pre-nursery to Class VIII are being done. The pandemic has been the reason behind the move. There are around 15,000 vacant seats in government schools in different classes.Sharing details, Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director School education, said, “The last date to apply online in cluster schools is August 14. No further extension to fill the admission forms will be given. Depending upon the vacant seats in different clusters, further decision regarding the admission will be taken.”Now the cluster heads will scrutinise applications. If the number of applications received is more than the number of seats available in a particular school or class, then draw of lots will be conducted by the school concerned. The final list of students will be uploaded on the cluster website and parents will be informed accordingly.For the first time, the government school authorities made unique efforts to attract parents for admissions to government schools. They made videos and posters and promoted them on social media.———————————————BOX | Important datesLevel | Allocation of seats | Admission in school Pre-primary | Before August 21 | August 24 to 29Primary | Before August 28 | August 31 to September 5Upper primary | Before August 31 | September 7 to 11—————————————-BOX | Class XI merit list to be uploaded todayThe UT education department will upload a common merit list for Class XI admission on its website at 11am on Friday. Thereafter, students will have to submit online objections from 11.30am onwards on August 14 and they can do so till August 15 up to 1pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/submit-forms-for-pre-nursery-to-class-viii-by-today/articleshow/77533612.cms||Kamini Mehta
August 14, 2020||Pune||No decision yet on special trains to Konkan for Ganeshotsav||Pune: Central Railway on Thursday said it was awaiting permission from the state government to run special trains to Konkan region for Ganeshotsav,A statement issued by CR stated that they had written to the government on July 23 on the feasibility of running Ganapati Special Trains. The director of the disaster management unit, through a letter on August 7, allowed this. CR then prepared a schedule, which was approved by the railway board on August 9, the statement added. However, senior state government officials told CR to put this plan on hold. “Since then, the railway administration has been in touch with the state government,” the statement said.Recently, the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation started running festival special buses to Konkan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-decision-yet-on-special-trains-to-konkan-for-ganeshotsav/articleshow/77533648.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Syndics ask VC not to postpone senate polls||Chandigarh: Nine syndicate members of Panjab University meet vice-chancellor Professor Raj Kumar on Thursday and took up the issue of not postponing the senate elections, which are scheduled in August.Sources said members of the syndicate discussed there are some faculty members who are spreading the rumours that the senate elections are going to postponed considering the Covid-19 pandemic. They demanded that the authorities should not consider this move and conduct the elections as per the schedule. One of the members, on the basis of anonymity, said the VC told that the authorities would conduct the senate elections as per the scheduled date. Last month, four senators who are from the BJP-DAV group, submitted a representation to the chancellor M Venkaiah Naidu, seeking postponement of the senate elections due to the Covid-19 pandemic, which has affected Punjab, HP, Chandigarh and Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/syndics-ask-vc-not-to-postpone-senate-polls/articleshow/77533656.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Another DU professor called by NIA||NEW DELHI: Another Delhi University’s assistant professor, PK Vijayan, has been summoned on Friday by National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Bhima Koregaon case. Earlier this month, Hany Babu MT, an associate professor at the department of English, was arrested by the agency in Mumbai. He was the 12th person in the case to be arrested. Students have been protesting demanding his release. PK Vijayan also teaches at Hindu College. Both Babu and Vijayan are members of the defence committee for the release of GN Saibaba. Saibaba, an English teacher with 90% disability, has been charged under UAPA and is lodged at the Nagpur central jail. Speaking to TOI, Vijayan, said, “I have been called tomorrow morning at the headquarter here. It is just a summon notice, which I have received.” When asked if he is being called due to his association with the defence committee, Vijayan said, “I have no idea, but I suspect that is the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/another-du-professor-called-by-nia/articleshow/77534856.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Tricolour sales for Independence Day dip in Jaipur, traders blame Covid||JAIPUR: Pandemic has taken a toll on the sale of flags ahead of Independence Day. Last year, shopkeepers sold around 1.5 lakh Tricolours, but this year they have barely managed to sell 8,000. “People who sell flags on the streets are our biggest customers these days. These people sell flags at traffic signals or from temporary roadside shanties. Last year, we used to supply flags across Rajasthan and nearby states as well. But all the business is shut,” said Lokesh Aggarwal, owner of Chhagan Lal & Sons, a wholesale shop at Tripolia market. All educational institutions, offices and private clubs are shut due to the pandemic which has impacted the sales. Till last year, students and people attending private parties used to purchase these flags which has now gone down to zero this year. Pappu Lal, a flag seller at JDA circle, said last year he earned around Rs 3,700 by selling flags at traffic signals. “Last year, people used to purchase flags for their children and for school. This year sales are down and I fear if I will be able to sell all the products I purchased,” said Lal. Flags are usually stitched by women in slum areas. Sushmita Khichar, a resident of Chandpol Mandi, said she used to make flags every year for some extra earnings, but this year she got no such contract. “I would go to the shops who gave me the raw materials and assigned me the work. It was just to earn some extra bucks. But this year, I have no work. My husband has a mechanic shop which is out of business due to the pandemic,” said Sushmita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tricolour-sales-for-i-day-dip-in-city-traders-blame-covid/articleshow/77534841.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Foswac opposes move to levy entery charges for parks||Chandigarh: Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh (Foswac) has opposed the recent proposal of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) on levying entry fee in parks. Unhappy over the move, residents believe that it is ill-conceived and highly deplorable.“Besides this proposal, we are already paying house tax, increased tax on water and electricity bills and parking fee,” said Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman of Foswac.“The roads which used to be re-carpeted after every five years, now stand nowhere even after 10 years. Road gullies have not been cleaned before the monsoon season. Twenty-four hour water supply still remains a distant dream. Maintenance of parks and green belts is poor. Garbage segregation, collection and management have also not been streamlined for the past many years,” added Bittu.“If the MC is unable to manage things, then there is no need for them and the same should be scrapped. The Chandigarh administration should handle the work as it had been doing it prior to the formation of the MC,” said J S Gogia, general secretary.According to information, the matter is under discussion at a preliminary stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/foswac-opposes-move-to-levy-entery-charges-for-parks/articleshow/77533639.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Bhubaneswar||OUAT, IIT Delhi join hands for research||Bhubaneswar: The Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT) Bhubaneswar has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Delhi for education and research collaboration. The collaboration will help generate frontier technologies and produce quality manpower in the field of agricultural research and education for addressing the challenges faced by the rural communities and improving their quality of life. OUAT and IIT Delhi will work jointly in the field of sensor application in agriculture, precision farming, geospatial technology, nanotechnology, biotechnology and related aspects of agriculture leading to creation of rural livelihood opportunities. Hrusikesh Patro, director (planning, monitoring and evaluation), OUAT, said both students and faculties will be benefited through exchange programmes and use of laboratories of both the organisations. “Students and scientists of our university can get a chance to conduct research in IIT Delhi laboratory. The IIT Delhi can also use our facilities,” he added. The MoU was signed between OUAT vice-chancellor Pawan Kumar Agrawal and IIT Delhi director V Ramgopal Rao. Agrawal expected that this collaboration would create new avenues for interdisciplinary research with involvement of scientists from both the institutions. A senior professor said the two institutions will hold student and faculty exchange programmes for education and research programmes. “We have the disciplines like agriculture, veterinary sciences, fisheries, forestry and agricultural engineering. The IIT Delhi has disciplines like biological sciences. Both the institutions are conducting various researches on these disciplines. We will exchange ideas and technical helps with each other and researchers will work jointly,” he added. IIT Delhi’s twitter handle said, “OUAT Bhubaneswar signs MoU for strengthening research and education in cutting edge areas of agriculture and allied subjects.” The national institute is working with multiple laboratories of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) on a variety of agricultural problems as a part of its resolve to strengthen the rural economy through technology interventions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/ouat-iit-delhi-join-hands-for-research/articleshow/77532111.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Rain a pain for Panchkula, people fear flood-like situation||PANCHKULA: With heavy rain lashing the city on Thursday morning, residents in various parts of Panchkula, especially Sector-19, faced a lot of trouble due to water logging — as they do every year during the rains. The residents of Sector-19 fear if more rain takes place, there would be flood-like situation in their area, and alleged that nothing concrete has been done by the administration here, though the issue of water logging and rainwater entering their houses has been an annual pain. They said the situation is in the knowledge of the municipal corporation officials, as they have raised innumerable complaints regarding this, but to no avail. Raahil Singh, a resident of Sector-19, said, “In every rain, we have to face the problem. We keep standing outside the house, be it day or night, to prevent rainwater from entering the house by using motors and buckets to push it away. We are facing the same situation again.” A group of residents said they have already put their beds and other furniture in the house on bricks to save them from getting destroyed in the rainwater entering their houses. Anita Mehta said, “All furniture we purchased during my wedding got destroyed during the rains last year as water had entered our house. Same situation was repeated this morning.” They alleged that due to poor coordination between the civic body and Huda officials, the situation does not improve here. When contacted, the officials concerned said they had cleared the drains before the monsoon, but the problem is that the drainage pipe is narrow towards it opening in Baltana in Mohali of Punjab. So, when the flow is high, water logging happens here, they said. “We have seen workers cleaning the drainage pipes, but it is only a temporary solution as the problem persists,” said Mohit Kumar, another resident of Sector-19. Besides, people also face water-logging problem at the city’s roundabouts. The officials, however, said though water logging is there for half an hour after heavy rain, it disappears soon, as all road/gully drains have been cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rain-pain-for-panchkula-residents-again/articleshow/77533650.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rains cool Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: The constant pit-a-pat of rains since Wednesday brought the maximum temperature down to 28.4 degrees celsius on Thursday. The city in the past 36 hours ending on Thursday evening received 34 mm of rain. According to Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), during the day, Sarkhej area received the maximum 40 mm of rain followed by Vatva which got 32 mm of rainfall. The AMC control room said that the city’s total seasonal rainfall was 548 mm. The city on Thursday received five complaints of water logging from three areas in west zone and two complaints from south zone. Also, one complaint of tree uprooting was also reported from Mainagar. Three complaints of break down were reported from the city from Ratnadeep Complex in Gota and Nagarwel Hanuman and Jagdish park in Viratnagar. IMD officials have forecast a few spells of light to moderate rain and at times heavy rain in the city on Friday. The IMD officials said that the maximum temperature was 28.4 degree which was 3.6 degree below normal, while the night temperature was 25.4 degree which was 0.3 degree above normal. The IMD officials said that Ahmedabad district should have received 418 mm of rains till Thursday against which it has received 358 mm which was a deficit of 14%. The state should have till Thursday received a normal rainfall of 457 mm against which it has actually received 524 mm which was 15% above normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rains-cool-ahmedabad/articleshow/77532170.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Waterlogging in Jaipur: Residents blame civic bosses||JAIPUR: Dirty lanes, which were not cleaned before monsoon, are now getting waterlogged causing trouble to residents. There are around 5,000 such lanes in Walled City. Many complaints are now being filed by residents regarding the dirty lanes that are causing menace during monsoon. Anil Parashar, a resident of Johri Bazaar, said it had become intolerable to live in Walled City. “They were supposed to be cleaned by Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) every year, but this year tenders were not issued and the lanes are now waterlogged. A foul smell has started emanating from the garbage in the lanes,” Parashar said. The lanes are actually space between houses in Walled City. At the time of construction, these spaces were left for ventilation. However, now they are being used as dumping yard by people. Every year, JMC invites tenders to clean the dirty lanes. This year, tender wasn’t invited before the monsoon. A senior JMC official said, “Everyone got busy with the pandemic. We didn’t get time to invite the tenders. However, documentation is done and after monsoon we will start working towards cleaning them.” This claim was objected by another resident of Walled City. Vikas Kothari, a resident from Haldiyon ka Rasta, said there is no sense in cleaning the lanes after monsoon. “The lanes are cleaned every year before monsoon to prevent waterlogging and mosquitoes. However, after monsoon there will be no need of it. JMC has become ignorant about the garbage situation. Door-to-door garbage collection vehicle is not regular despite repeated complaints to the officials. Due to this, many open garbage spots are back in Walled City,” Kothari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/waterlogging-in-jaipur-residents-blame-civic-bosses/articleshow/77534840.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nashik||450 locations in city drop containment zone tag||Nashik: The number of active containment zones in Nashik city has dropped by 452, from 1,791 to 1,339, in the last 48 hours due to a rise in recoveries from Covid-19 and absence of new cases. A total of 996 patients recovered on Wednesday, the highest recovery (86.87%) in a day in the city so far, while the number of active patients dropped from 3,654 on August 14 to 1,830. Civic officials said there has been a rise in the number of recovered patients as compared to new cases during the last five days. While 2,260 new cases were reported between August 15 and 19, 3,644 patients recovered in the last five days. “We focussed on tracing of people with Covid-19 symptoms and conducted antigen tests for early detection and treatment. We also started finding patients with co-morbidities and increased the tracing of low-risk contacts of patients. These steps helped in more recoveries of patients,” said civic officials. The death rate, which was 4.81% on June 30 and 2.92% on July 31, reduced to 2.28% by Wednesday. This is the lowest death rate in the city compared to 2.35% recorded two-three days ago. “We have increased the tracing of high- and low-risk contacts of patients from 22 per patient to 35-40. Moreover, we increased surveillance to find people with symptoms and increased the number of tests up o 2,000, including 75% antigen tests, per day to break the chain,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/450-locations-in-city-drop-containment-zone-tag/articleshow/77660356.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 14, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Effluents from textile units pose threat to Luni River||Jaisalmer: The Luni River, which is also called Maruganga, is facing serious threat from the effluents being discharged from the textile units in Pali and Balotara. The chemically polluted water is discharged into Bandi River, which joins Luni through Nehda dam. The polluted water enters the river at its entry point in Barmer district and the hazardous waste is carried downstream, thus polluting the banks on its course. Due to long exposure to such effluents, the groundwater in the area, too, has been polluted. Also, the once fertile lands on Luni’s banks are turning barren, hitting the farmers hard, said a farmer. The ignorance shown by the pollution control board and the district administration has cost Luni River its legacy. Since long, the farmers have demanding the government to save the river from pollution, but no action has been taken against any industrial unit, he added. Pradushan Niyantran Evam Paryavaran Sanrakshan Samiti, an organisation fighting to save the river for the last five years, said that the government does not have time to hear grievanceds about the river. Samiti president Tulsaram Choudhary said that Luni is facing a double whammy. On one hand chemically polluted water is discharged from Pali and on the other polluted water from textile industries operating in Balotara is also being discharged into the river. The administration is not implementing the order given by NGT. The samiti has started a campaign to make farmers of Samdari area aware for which people are being contacted. The samiti on Thursday reached out to people at Rampura, Bhanawas and Kharantia villages. Samiti secretary Om Prakash Soni said the organisation is working for quite a long time to save the river from pollution. During the reach-out programmes, choudhary asked farmers to adopt legal measures to save their lands. Farmers took oath to get united and save the river from pollution. Barmer collector Vishram Meena accepted that waste water from textile mills in Pali is flowing into Luni River. Due to excess rainfall in the area, waste water from the dam is overflowing and reaching Luni, Meena said. He said possibly a few industrial units in Pali are releasing more waste than the prescribed limit, which is flowing into Luni. He said a probe will be launched into the matter. Pali collector Anshdeep said he is getting the information in this regard and if industrial units are found violating the rules, then action will be taken against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/effluents-from-textile-units-pose-threat-to-luni-river/articleshow/77534864.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Crook seeks money from fake FB account of ex-IPS officer||Ahmedabad: Cyber crooks have now been making fake Facebook accounts of police officers and demanding money from their friends. On Wednesday, a former IPS officer Dharmendrasinh Vaghela uploaded an advisory from his real FB account, telling his friends that someone has made a fake FB account with a spelling change in his name.In the complaint received by Ahmedabad district cyber police station, Vaghela has said that the impersonator used the name “Dharmendrasinh Veghela”. Vaghela said that from the fake Facebook ID, requests for money were sent to his friends through the messenger app. “Thinking that this is my real Facebook account, some of my friends were planning to pay money to the crook but someone brought it to my knowledge. I soon informed them that the messages have been sent from a fake account,” Vaghela said.He said the fake account was subsequently blocked, and the crook also started deleting the messages. The device used to make the fake account was traced to Meerut in Uttar Pradesh. A few days back, a similar fake Facebook account was made in the name of a serving IPS officer also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/crook-seeks-money-from-fake-fb-account-of-ex-ips-officer/articleshow/77532179.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Man lies unattended at Esplanade bus stand, dies||KOLKATA: A senior citizen fell unconscious and collapsed to the ground at the Esplanade bus stand on Thursday afternoon and lay there unattended for around 40 minutes without a single person coming forward to help him or take him to a hospital, situated barely a couple of kilometres away. By the time the cops arranged for an ambulance, the man had died. Police said Haldia resident Pannalal Pradhan (64) had come to Kolkata to buy some goods for his shop. “He visited Iskcon temple and at the end of it, he was waiting for a Haldia bus at the Esplanade stand around 2.30pm. He suddenly collapsed. Locals said a few people dialled the police, but none helped out. Cops arrived as soon as possible and took him to SSKM, where he was declared brought dead. “It seems he suffered a massive heart attack. His family has denied he had any Covid symptoms,” said a senior officer. Earlier, around 10 am, a driver named Sukanta Nath (52) was found dead inside the utility room of Tower 4 at at South City complex. Cops said they were alerted about him after residents found him unconscious. A resident of Bhangar, Nath was taken to Baghajatin state general hospital where he was declared brought dead. Police did not find any external injury on him. “He stayed in the servant room alone. It is not known when he died but a post-mortem is being conducted,” said an officer. In another incident, a 67-year-old man, Arun Chanda, was found dead in a Parnasree flat. Police said a suicide note was found and that Chanda had been depressed over lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-lies-unattended-at-esplanade-bus-stand-dies/articleshow/77533666.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Collector felicitates women Covid warriors for outstanding work||JAIPUR: About 180 women — who did outstanding work to protect people from the coronavirus infection and to help the government reach out to the needy — were felicitated by district collector Antar Singh Nehra on Thursday. The ceremony was held at the municipal headquarters under the August Revolution Week, which is being organized to commemorate the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Addressing the programme, the collector said that these corona warriors have done their duty well by working under challenging circumstances. “These courageous women deserve appreciation for this. At the time when even relatives of Covid-19 patients were away, in such a situation, these women did their duty, by going and working amidst infected persons and in infected areas. They worked putting their lives in danger and they should be respected, said Nehra. About 51 women police personnel, including additional deputy commissioner of police Sunita Meena, were felicitated for doing excellent work during the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collector-felicitates-women-covid-warriors-for-outstanding-work/articleshow/77534846.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Business||Medha Group to set up rail coach unit in Hyd||Hyderabad: Rail transportation player Medha Servo Drives Pvt Ltd is investing Rs 1,000 crore in setting up India’s largest private sector rail coach factory on Hyderabad’s outskirts at Kondakal village in Shankarpally of Rangareddy district. The factory will manufacture coaches, locomotives, intercity trainsets, metro trains and monorail, among others, and will have a production capacity of 500 coaches of various types and 50 locomotives per year. The facility is slated to create about 1000 direct jobs and 1200 indirect jobs ones in the region. Speaking at the ground-breaking of the factory, Telangana industries minister KT Rama Rao said the setting of the rail coach factory will create an ecosystem for rail coach manufacturing in Telangana. Telangana has units that manufacture buses, tractors, parts of aircraft, and helicopters and with Medha Group setting up their rail coach factory the state will now become a hub for manufacturing train coaches as well, KTR said. The Hyderabad-based Medha Servo Drives Pvt Ltd designs and manufactures various high-tech electronics products for application on locomotives, trainsets, coaches, railway stations & yards, making it the largest propulsion equipment supplier to Indian Railways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/medha-group-to-set-up-rail-coach-unit-in-hyd/articleshow/77533673.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Four days on, Pak agrees to take body of intruder||Jaisalmer: Pakistan finally agreed to take the body of an intruder who was shot dead at the international border adjoining Barmer, after first refusing to take it for four days.Four days ago, an intruder from Pakistan was shot dead at the international border adjoining Barmer. On Tuesday late night, after the flag meeting with Pakistani rangers, they agreed to take the body. In the meantime, the father and brother of the deceased from Pakistan were also present. During the investigation, it was found that the intruder was launched into India to check the security arrangements. On August 8, the BSF warned the intruder who had jumped into the Indian border climbing the fence at the international border adjoining Bakhasar in Barmer district and when the intruder did not listen to the warning, the BSF jawans shot him dead. After this for the last four days, meetings between India and Pakistan were on and Pakistan kept refusing to take the body. In the meantime, the body was kept in the mortuary. BSF Gujarat frontier DIG ML Garg said that on Tuesday late night, a flag meeting took place between BSF and Pak rangers and later, Pakistani rangers agreed to take the body and Bakhasar police and BSF jawans handed over the body to Pakistan. The intruder was identified as Bhairu Mal (22) resident of Dhudhari, Harho Tharparkar in Pakistan. At the time of handing over the body, his father and brother were present. Pakistan was also given evidences on the intruder. He said that the intruder was provoked by Pakistani smugglers and was sent for dummy drive into the Indian border. When he was entering into India, there were around 8-10 Pakistani persons as well. DIG Garg said that during these four days, 6 to 7 meetings were held with Pak rangers after which they agreed to take the body. Possibly there was pressure from the family members of the deceased. The body was handed over at the pillar number 919/2D gate on Tuesday night. Pak ranger Bakhtar Khan pak police ASI Ranjimal were handed over the body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/four-days-on-pak-agrees-to-take-body-of-intruder/articleshow/77534868.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Heavy rain leaves city waterlogged||Chandigarh: With the onset of the delayed monsoon, city roads were found submerged following heavy rain on late Wednesday night and Thursday morning. Waterlogging was witnessed in various low-lying areas across the city. However, water drained out in most of the parts of the city, but in some areas, the public health division of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC), had to deploy their staff to drain-out the excess water.Some roads in the city also caved-in due to heavy rains. Multiple teams of the engineering department of the MC were in the field to keep an eye on the situation.Heavy waterlogging was witnessed under the railway bridge of Industrial Area, Phase I. Several complaints poured in regarding the underpass of Sector 11/15, and from residents of Sectors 39, 37, 38 and other parts of the southern sectors. Moreover, the fire and the emergency services departments of the MC also received a few calls regarding waterlogging, and they had to send fire tenders to drain out the water.“Due to heavy rain roads were waterlogged in some areas, but the water drained out after sometime. Our teams were in the field to take stock of the situation. Since heavy rain was witnessed on Wednesday night as well as Thursday morning hours, there was no traffic congestion on the roads,” said an official.Cases of road cave-ins were also reported from some parts of the city. The cave-ins were majorly in the middle of the roads or in the corner, which posed threat to commuters.The public health wing of the MC’s engineering department had kicked-off the work to clean the road gullies across the city in April. Besides hiring 143 people on outsourced basis, the engineering department had also employed their men to clean the road gullies. Initially, most vulnerable areas were identified for cleaning and later, the cleaning work was spread across the city. According to the record of the civic body, there are approximately 30,000 road gullies in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/heavy-rain-leaves-city-waterlogged/articleshow/77533659.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Police arrest two chain snatchers who target elderly morning walkers||JAIPUR: Cracking a whip on chain snatchers, Jaipur police (south) on Thursday busted a gang involved in targeting morning walkers especially elderly persons and arrested two persons and seized two stolen motorbikes. Police have so far unearthed their involvement in 26 cases of chain and mobile phone snatching especially during morning hours. Concerned with increase in the number of snatching incidents in the city from June, senior police officers including DCP (south) Manoj Kumar constituted a team. “During investigation, we took grabs of CCTV footage. We also deputed policemen in areas such as Mahesh Nagar, Gopalpura Mode and others,” said Kumar. Police found that majority of the incidents were in and around colonies near legislative assembly and Gopalpura Mode. “Finally, after getting inputs and tip-offs, we arrested two persons identified as Naushad alias Chotu (23) and Vishnu Harijan,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-arrest-two-chain-snatchers-who-target-elderly-morning-walkers/articleshow/77534850.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Devasi community’s blindfold protest against Udaipur cops||Udaipur: Members of the Devasi community and sarv samaj from Bankli village staged a protest outside the SDM’s office at Sumerpur in Pali district on Thursday. The agitators raised slogans against Udaipur police and demanded a high-level committee to probe against cops in a case related to one Tejaram, a cattleman from their community, who had been allegedly falsely accused in an NDPS case and is presently lodged in Udaipur central jail.The protesters demanded immediate release of Tejaram and said if they do not get justice, they would resort to mass demonstrations in Pali, Udaipur and Jaipur in the coming days. In a memorandum addressed to the CM, DGP and Human Rights Commission, the agitators demanded the suspension of additional SPs Mukesh Sankhla and Kailash Dan, Vallabh Nagar DSP Hitesh Mehta and then circle inspector Gaj Singh for allegedly conspiring with opium smugglers and ‘falsely dragging an innocent man’ in a criminal case.“Tejaram is a shepherd as well as a daily wager enrolled under MGNREGA. He has been jailed for alleged involvement in doda post smuggling case lodged in May 2019 at Kheroda police station in Udaipur,” said R S Sameeja, an activist leading the movement.In May 2019, the Kheroda police had seized an SUV carrying 353kg doda post and had arrested one Shyamlal Gurjar, while two others escaped. Shyamlal told police that Umesh Beniwal from Barmer aided him while he didn’t know the driver. Police brought Umesh on production warrant from Bali sub-jail and questioned him. Umesh named Tejaram as the driver upon which police interrogated Tejaram, too, and finding him innocent, let him free. However, on August 6, Udaipur police picked Tejaram and took him to Vallabh Nagar police station where he was kept for a day and was arrested later. Tejaram was remanded in judicial custody on August 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/devasi-communitys-blindfold-protest-against-udaipur-cops/articleshow/77534885.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Minor rape survivor critical||Kota: The 19-year-old youth who is accused of raping a 5-year-old Sahariya tribal girl in Beta village under Shahabad police station of Baran district was arrested on Wednesday night and produced before court on Thursday that ordered to hand him over to police remand for 4 days. The survivor, whose condition remains critical, underwent surgery on Wednesday while two more surgeries are yet to be conducted. Sections of 376 of IPC and Pocso Act have been slapped against accused, said police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-rape-survivor-critical/articleshow/77534879.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports biggest single-day spike of 1,264 new corona cases||JAIPUR: With the biggest single-day jump of 1,264 new Covid infections, the state’s tally rose to 57,364 on Thursday. In the last 24 hours, 11 people lost their lives taking the cumulative casualty count to 833. Among the districts, Kota reported 200 new infections, the highest in the state, while Jaipur and Jodhpur reported more than 100 new cases. Ten districts contributed 50 or more new cases. Two persons died in Udaipur taking its toll to 16, three died in Bharatpur taking its toll to 60, three died in Jaipur taking its toll to 223, two died in Sriganganagar taking its toll to five, while Bikaner reported its 49th Covid fatality. In Jaipur, five employees of the directorate of medical and health services were found infected. The highest number of cases were detected from Mansarovar (22), followed by Jhotwara (14), Sanganer (9), Vidhyadhar Nagar (8), Jhalana (8), Shastri Nagar (6), Adarsh Nagar (6), Bassi (6), while rest of the cases were reported 37 other areas of the city. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (200), Jaipur (157), Jodhpur (133), Sikar (91), Ajmer (80), Bikaner (78), Alwar (73), Bhilwara (59), Udaipur (53), Bharatpur (50), Chittorgarh (40), Pali (34), Barmer (32), Sriganganagar (25), Jhalawar (23), Hanumangarh (21), Karauli (21), Rajsamand (20), Dholpur (19), Jalore (14), Churu (12), Baran (9), Nagaur (8), Dausa (7), Pratapgarh (4) and Sawai Madhopur (1). Health minister Raghu Sharma said in the past few days, increasing number of cases have been detected in the state due to increased number of testing. “Testing is the only option available to prevent the spread of the virus. Only through testing, we can identify asymptomatic cases, which are more than 90% of the total cases. If asymptomatic cases remain undetected, they might spread the virus to other places unknowingly,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-of-1264-new-corona-cases/articleshow/77534854.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat govt issues notice to PCCF over remarks||Ahmedabad: The state government has sought an explanation from the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) Shyamal Tikadar, for his remarks during the webinar on World Lion Day, August 10. During the webinar, Tikadar called upon the Union government to make provisions for eco-tourism in the Wildlife Protection Act, which is being revised. Tikadar had said, “Policy makers have to take a hard decision now otherwise lions will not be here for a long time if the community starts losing its tolerance. Humans and large carnivores can coexist only if the people start earning through eco-tourism. The politicians and people should start looking at Asiatic lions as a resource from which the local communities can earn.” He had said revenge killings also happen in Gir. “We are sitting on a time bomb that can burst at any time,” he had said. The government in a statement issued on Thursday said “on the eve of World Lion Day, a webinar was organized by the Central Zoo Authority in which the principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) and chief wildlife warden was one of the panellists. During this webinar he spoke about the conservation of the Asiatic lion in Gujarat. He presented certain objectionable views and made undesirable comments on various issues.” The government of Gujarat stated that it does not agree with his personal views, which are ‘far from truth’. “For his irresponsible statements against the policies of the government, the government of Gujarat has decided to call for an explanation and issue notice as per All India Service (Conduct) Rules.” The government also listed steps taken and said that a monitoring committee chaired by the inspector general of police, Junagadh range, having officers of concerned line departments as members, has been constituted to deal with any such illegal activity. Refuting Tikadar claims that the lions are not wild anymore as 80% of them are micro-chipped, the government stated that microchips are used for monitoring and better management. It in no way changes the wild behaviour of lions. Meanwhile, Tikadar claimed his comments have been misunderstood on social media. He said that the department is taking all possible action for the long-term conservation of the lion and its landscape. The department is doing its best in the larger interest of the lion and Gir. The forest department of the government of Gujarat was never in favour of translocation of lions outside Gujarat. He further said his department is not in favour of tourism at the cost of the lions or Gir and nor is private tourism advocated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-govt-issues-notice-to-pccf-over-remarks/articleshow/77532198.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan complaint against firms making corona antigen test kits||JAIPUR: Expressing concern over the quality of antigen test kits being used across the country to diagnose Covid, the state government has asked the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to follow up with companies involved in manufacture of the kits and direct them to improve its quality. Health department principal secretary Akhil Arora wrote to Balram Bhargava, secretary to the department of health research, ministry of health and director general, ICMR, requesting that the testing strategy be reviewed. He mentioned that they had validated rapid antigen test kits through the department of microbiology, SMS Medical College, and found that the sensitivity of rapid antigen test taking RT-PCR as gold standard was 48.6% for Covid and only 33% for influenza-like-illness (ILI) cases. Arora stressed upon the need for reviewing the testing strategy referring to the ICMR’s advisory issued on June 14 on use of rapid antigen detection test and also the advisory issued on June 23 on newer additional strategies for Covid testing wherein ICMR had recommended the use of rapid point-of-care (PoC) antigen detection test (for diagnosis along with RT-PCR), while communicating that specificity of the test ranged from 99.3 to 100% and sensitivity of thee test ranged from 50.6% to 84%. However, during validation, the sensitivity was found much less at SMS Medical College. “With this low sensitivity, the state’s technical committee has rightly advised against the use of rapid antigen test at large or in hospital settings. In case of asymptomatic cases who are negative with rapid antigen test in a hospital setting, there is risk of transmission of infection through them to other patients and to healthcare services providers. In case of symptomatic cases who are negative with rapid antigen test in a hospital setting, they will have to be subjected to a confirmatory RT-PCR test, which implies increase of time for testing, and also another test,” Arora wrote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-complaint-against-firms-making-corona-antigen-test-kits/articleshow/77534858.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Rainwater enters houses in Zirakpur, Mohali, leaves streets inundated||Mohali: Waterlogging during monsoons, power cuts and potholed roads have become a part of lives for residents of Mohali and Zirakpur. The heavy downpour has exposed the tall claims of the Mohali municipal corporation as well as the Zirakpur municipal council regarding cleaning of storm water drains.Mohali residents said the heavy downpour late on Wednesday night and Thursday morning has not gone down well with them as the city roads were again waterlogged with three-feet of the road submerged. The most affected areas were Phase IV, 3B1, 3BII, V, and Phase XI.Navjit Singh Miglani, a resident of Zirakpur, said, “This is a regular picture here. We now believe that choosing to settle in Zirakpur was the worst decision. Daily power cuts, potholed roads, smoke due to stubble burning and waterlogging has now a become part of our lives. Authorities have no mercy for residents as they have left us on the behest of almighty.”Mohali former councillors Kuldeep Kaur Kang, Harmanpreet Singh Prince and Kuljit Singh Bedi were once again seen on waterlogged streets, helping the affected residents.At many places in Phase IV and XI, residents claimed that they had to call fire tenders for pumping out excess water from the streets.Kuljit Singh Bedi said he used the water pumping system to pump out water from streets and parks.“Every time during heavy rain, our phones start ringing. Residents get terrified after experiencing losses that they suffered in 2017 flooding. We had prepared ourselves this year by installing water pumping sets at key points, which we used today to drain out excess water,” he said.Another former councillor from the affected area, Kuldeep Kaur Kang said she was once again standing in knee-deep water helping residents in pumping out the same.“Water once again entered houses, but as the duration of the rain was short, residents did not suffer any loss. Tall claims of the authorities have fallen flat and nothing has been done on ground level,” she added.—————————————BOXCauseway construction work stalledThe construction of causeway has come to a standstill. The causeway was being constructed on the dividing road of Phase IV and V. The construction of the cause was proposed with a view to give clear passage to the rain water to drain out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rainwater-enters-houses-in-zirakpur-mohali-leaves-streets-inundated/articleshow/77533672.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Race Course folk slam model road project||Coimbatore: Two months after the city corporation launched work to renovate the Race Course Road under the model road project of the smart cities mission, residents said it does not address the core issues of the busy residential area and creates new additions which may alter its look. Local administration minister S P Velumani had performed bhoomi puja for the Rs 40.7 crore project on June 13. The project aims to revamp the men’s gym, set up a gym for women along with play area for children, convert the children’s park to an amphitheatre and set up a four-metre wide footpath on the outer ring of the Race Course Road and scheme road. Also, stalls will be set up for 30 eateries. However, Race Course residents don’t find any of the features exciting. “What Race Course truly requires is relaying of the road, which has been topped for years. It gets damaged after rain,” said president of the Race Course and Neighbourhood Association (Rana) Sailesh Ethiraj. “It also requires provision for additional water connections. Plots along the stretch are being converted to apartments and commercial space. They dig up the road even for providing a new connection. They claim they have no money even to repair or install street lights, but have money for a model road.” Smart city documents clearly state that for every project, local residents’ association should be consulted, said Rana treasurer Prasanna Subramaniam. “However, we don’t know what is happening. Leave along stating that what they are doing is wrong, we can’t even give suggestions or tell them what we really need.” While a model road should be easy to navigate, the corporation aims to convert Race Course into a recreation spot, said Rana secretary Satish Balagopal. “They are going to set up stalls for 30 eateries, an amphitheatre and a women’s gym. Are they required? We already have so many eateries and commercial establishments here that there is no space for parking. Many of us can’t even get out of our houses because gates are blocked,” he told TOI. “First, they should create parking space for the excess vehicles that are expected to enter the area. There is a huge space in the heart of Race Course, behind Valarmathi Mess and 108 Vinayagar Temple, which can also be turned into a parking space,” Balagopal said. “The eateries will generate waste. As the corporation doesn’t collect waste regularly from the area, the place will resemble VOC Park soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/race-course-folk-slam-model-road-project/articleshow/77533696.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Goldsmith booked for cheating||Coimbatore: A goldsmith was booked for cheating gold to the tune of Rs 1.2 crore from a jewellery trader in Coimbatore. Ananthapadmanaban, 43, a jewellery trader from Savithri Nagar in Selvapuram had been giving gold bars to Ganesan, a goldsmith from Thyagi Kumaran Street in the same locality. Ganesan would make jewels and return them to Anandapadmanaban. In June, Anandapadmanaban had given 3.21kg gold bars to Ganesan and had placed orders for making ornaments. In his complaint, Anandapadmanaban said that Ganesan had had returned jewellery made of 96 sovereign gold so far. When he sought jewels for the remaining gold, Ganesan was evasive.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/goldsmith-booked-for-cheating/articleshow/77533697.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Schools prepare for admissions||Coimbatore: Schools in the district are preparing for conducting admissions for classes I, VI and IX from Monday.An official communication from the chief education officer (CEO) to schools said that steps should be taken to ensure that Covid-19 guidelines are maintained during the admission process.Government and government-aided schools are ready for the procedure, a teacher said. “Usually we would have around 200 application forms ready during admissions. This year also, we have kept the forms ready.” As transfer certificates would be given through Education Management Information System (EMIS), a portal that connects all schools, teachers are preparing TCs for students who have to shift schools. “The portal has all details of students, including identification marks. We would prepare TCs using that.”Meanwhile, representatives of private schools said they were waiting for parents to turn up on Monday for admissions. However, they don’t expect a big rush, as due to the pandemic, migration between schools would be minimal.R Visalakshi, president of the Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association, said they were open for admissions for Classes I to IX. “But as movement between districts has been limited due to the lockdown, there would not have been transfers for parents, and there would also not be a rush for admissions,” she said. “Because of this, we can easily manage those who turn up for admissions. If a few tens of parents turn up, we can spread them out in classrooms to ensure distancing. We will also make sure that they wear masks and use hand sanitiser.”Government schools have been provided with textbooks, which would be distributed to students on the admission day. Private schools, meanwhile plan to use PDFs of books and offer online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/schools-prepare-for-admissions/articleshow/77533716.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Godavari in spate, threat of flood looms||VIJAYAWADA: Heavy rainfall upstream of Prakasam Barrage has raised the spectre of flood in the state. On Thursday, it received 20,000 cusecs of water after the Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar reservoirs received heavy inflows, forcing officials to lift 12 gates of the barrage by one feet. Besides, officials also released 13,500 cusecs of water to the eastern and western canals for drinking purpose. Officials estimate that an additional 7,500 cusecs of water will enter the barrage by Friday morning. Meanwhile, 19 villages on the banks of river Godavari were cut off following the incessant rains on Thursday. The water level reached 24.75 meters at Polavaram project. Officials restricted the movement of people and vehicles on the Kothuru causeway. The river received 2.37 lakh cusecs of water at Dowleswaram near Rajahmundry and officials discharged 2.38 lakh cusecs; at Srisailam over Krishna river, officials discharged 57,000 cusecs of water while the inflows stood at 50,000 cusecs. They have also started discharging the water from Nagarjuna Sagar. They discharged 8,210 cusecs of the 35,432 cusecs inflows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/godavari-in-spate-threat-of-flood-looms/articleshow/77532234.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Jaipur||Robbers decamp with cables worth Rs 60 lakh||Jaipur: At least 20 armed robbers decamped with aluminum cables worth Rs 60 lakh from a site near Rajaldesar in Churu district. Police said the dacoits overpowered two guards of the private company involved in manufacturing cables and locked them in a room before decamping with 2700 metres of cables in two trucks. According to police, the incident took place around 12.30 am on Thursday when at least 20 armed robbers arrived at the site where a lot of raw materials including 765 kv electric cables were lying. “They tied the two guards on a chair placed in a room. They brought two trucks to load the cables. According to the complaint by the manager of the private company, the cables were worth nearly Rs 60 lakh,” said Tejwant Singh Barad, station house officer, Rajaldesar police station in Churu district. Police recorded the statements of the guards. They appeared to be from Uttar Pradesh in terms of the language they were using. We have got some concrete clues on the whereabouts and we are sure to crack the case and recover the cables,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/robbers-decamp-with-cables-worth-rs-60-lakh/articleshow/77534862.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Micro & small industries seek help with loan||Coimbatore: Representatives of micro and small industries on Thursday sought the help of the district administration to get bank loans to tide over the lockdown-induced financial crisis.Members of the Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations (Focia), in a representation to the district collector, said they had collected loan request forms from 412 members and submitted to regional managers of 10 banks and the general manager of the district industries centre. But, the regional heads of some banks refused to accept the forms and asked them to hand them over to branch managers, they said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/micro-small-industries-seek-help-with-loan/articleshow/77533701.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||I-Day: Tricolour sales plunge as Covid-19 plays spoilsport||Coimbatore: With Independence Day celebrations across the district likely to be a low-key affair this year due to the pandemic, manufacturers and dealers of national flags and accessories in the city are staring at deep losses.The Gandhiji Kadhar Store at Town Hall, which supplies flags in bulk not only across the state but also to Kerala and Karanataka, has reduced its production from the usual 3 lakh flags to around 50,000 flags this year. R Rajendran, a worker at the store, who oversees printing of khaddar national flags, said they usually start production a day after May Day. “But this year, we started only by July-end. We have produced only around 50,000 flags, as we didn’t get our usual orders from Puducherry, Kerala, and Karnataka due to the lockdown and e-pass strictures. Sales are tepid this year,” he said.The store, a pioneer in the business, buys khaddar cloth from Erode and Tirupur, stitches and prints it into flags. Rajendran said there are more than 1,000 workers from the district involved in the business.Retailers such as paper marts and stationery stores across the district, who sell flags, badges, and other trinkets connected with the national day, admitted sales were lukewarm this year. “We stocked up flags. Usually, residents’ associations and schools buy them. But this year there has been no such business,” said proprietor of a stationery shop in RS Puram.NGOs and clubs which would observe Independence Day at rural schools have not planned any event. “Usually our member Rotaract clubs would hold I-Day events in around 15 panchayat union middle schools, where we distribute flags and sweets to around 2,000 students. But due to the pandemic, this year we are not conducting any such events,” said Ajai Shankar, a former Rotaract representative. Speaking of the overall trend among stationery shops in the city this year, C Balasubramanian, president of Paper and Allied Merchants Association, Coimbatore, said stationers had bought materials for Independence Day from Mumbai and Delhi, and had stocked them up. “But this year, there has been only around 10% of our usual sales. Stocking up was a waste this year,” he said.The state elementary school directorate has asked offices of CEO, DEO and schools to hold low-key Independence Day events at their premises, with all safety measures in place.The district administration has also planned a low-key event, with just a parade and felicitation of frontline workers, and no big crowds or cultural events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/i-day-tricolour-sales-plunge-as-covid-19-plays-spoilsport/articleshow/77533728.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||City bridges named after Jaitley, Swaraj||Ahmedabad: The AMC standing committee on Thursday named five bridge in the city. Amul Bhatt the chairman of the committee said that the railway overbridge at Ranip will be named as Atma Nirbhar Gujarat Railway Flyover while the flyover at Income Tax will be named after late Arun Jaitley and the one at Anjali Crossroads will now be called Sushma Swaraj Bridge. Bhatt said that the bridge at Dinesh Chamber in Bapunagar will be named Maharana Pratap Flyover while the Hatkeshwar flyover will be known as Chhatrapati Shivaji Flyover.  Bhatt said slaughterhouses in the city will be closed from August 15 to August 23, like every year, for Paryushan.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-bridges-named-after-jaitley-swaraj/articleshow/77532229.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Army welfare housing body delays sale deed to residents||Coimbatore: Nearly 400 ex-servicemen and war widows, who paid lakhs of their lifetime savings and pensions to buy apartments constructed by the Army Welfare Housing Organisation, say the sale deed has not been transferred to their names even three years after payment of their last instalment.Around 25 of them protested at the project office on Thursday by maintaining social distancing. The protesters say the Army Welfare Housing Organisation has also refused to give them break-up of their costs - land price and cost of construction.According to them, the project was floated in 2007-'08. The Directorate of Town and Country Planning then granted them approval to construct 496 apartments on 33.5 acres, of which five acres was set aside as open space reserve. Narasimhan, one of the residents, said, “They sold five types of dwelling units - row houses, modern apartments, super deluxe, deluxe and small family apartments - which were priced in the range of Rs 19.67 lakh to Rs 46.55 lakh.”Another resident, Col Sunny Joseph, said while he had paid the last instalment for his two-bedroom apartment in November 2018, the sale deed was yet to be transferred to his name. “Other residents had completed payment earlier. Their situation is also the same.” TOI had earlier reported the four-year delay in handing over the project. The residents say they still haven’t been told how much land they would own as part of the housing unit. “They are now trying to sell the vacant land to another constructor to build 400 apartments more. They are trying to split the land into two portions, which is not allowed,” Col Joseph said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/army-welfare-housing-body-delays-sale-deed-to-residents/articleshow/77533731.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris cop bags national award||Udhagamandalam: The Union ministry of home affairs has selected a woman police inspector from the Nilgiris for a special medal in recognition of her intense investigation into a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012. The medal will be handed over to her at a function to be held in New Delhi soon.A Ponnammal, inspector of police with the prohibition and enforcement wing in Ooty, is the only police officer to be selected for the medal from the western region of Tamil Nadu. “It is an encouragement to dedicate myself more to my profession and do my best to bring justice to the victims,” she said.Ponnammal was honoured for her handling of the case registered under Section of 5(1) and 6 of the Pocso Act on September 12, 2017 while she was attached to the Coonoor all-woman police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-cop-bags-national-award/articleshow/77533760.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Vijayawada||5 main roads inundated after heavy rains in EG||Rajahmundry: Continuous heavy rains lashing the four merged mandals of Chinturu ITDA in East Godavari district has led to five major roads being blocked, disrupting normal life in the area. Shokileru stream is overflowing three feet above the main road between Chinturu and VR Puram, Atha Kodallu stream is overflowing, and a flooded Kondrajupalli stream has blocked the road between Kondrajupeta and Tekulaboru. Speaking to TOI, project officer, ITDA Chinturu, Akula Venkata Ramana, said the police and revenue officials have restricted traffic of people and vehicles on the roads inundated by flooded streams. But although five roads have been blocked the villages are not completely inaccessible as there are alternative routes. These have been used to move pregnant women to safer places and transport three-month ration. He added that local schools have been identified to rehabilitate people in case of floods. Meawhile, satellite phones have been given to tahesildars to reach out to places where phone connectivity has been disrupted and VHF sets have been given to authorities in 15 places and another 15 sets will arrive soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/5-main-roads-inundated-after-heavy-rains-in-eg/articleshow/77532245.cms||Samson Raj
August 14, 2020||Bareilly||40-year-old woman run over by tractor-trolley in Pilibhit village, husband escapes unhurt||Pilibhit: A 40-year-old woman, identified as Sushila Devi of Bhikharipur village under Sungarhi police station, was run over by a tractor-trolley at Rafiapur crossing under Neuria police station around 8pm on Wednesday. The woman was on her way to Ainthpur village under Amaria police station on a bike with her husband when the incident took place. Police have sent the body for autopsy and lodged an FIR. Notably, her husband, who was riding the motorcycle, escaped unhurt while the woman died on the spot, said police, adding that the tractor was impounded while the driver escaped the scene. In the ensuing protest, locals blocked the Pilibhit-Majhola road and the blockade that lasted for about an hour was lifted only after Pilibhit city circle officer Praveen Malik intervened. Neuria police station SHO Kheem Singh Jalal said following a written complaint filed by deceased’s husband Khem Karan, police lodged an FIR against the unidentified tractor driver under section 304A (death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/40-year-old-woman-run-over-by-tractor-trolley-in-pilibhit-village-husband-escapes-unhurt/articleshow/77529927.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Techie mom brings together breast milk donors, gives hungry premature babies new lease of life||Coimbatore: Roopa Selvanayaki Senthilnathan, a software engineer employed in Tidel Park here, had launched Amirtham, an online forum that promotes breast milk donation, in November 2016. Now, the group has over 1,100 members spread across Coimbatore, Tirupur and the Nilgiris.A 29-year-old BE graduate from Avinashi in Tirupur district, Roopa is the mother of Ashvika, a toddler. “I came to know about the importance of breast milk when I was pregnant and learned that thousands of premature babies were deprived of this elixir of life. I wanted to help them and started a WhatsApp group - Amirtham. Now, there are nine groups that have pregnant women and breast milk donors as members. We are also creating awareness about breast milk donation and pregnancy care,” she told TOI.Thanks to Amirtham, premature babies at the neonatal intensive care unit of Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) now have access to breast milk. “Members of our group collect their milk and store in their refrigerators. A team collects it in the last week of every month and take it to the neonatal intensive care unit, where doctors pasteurize the milk. It is then tested at the microbial lab before fed to the babies,” said Roopa. “Breast milk is essential for the development of the immune system. So, new mothers, who have excess milk, should come forward to donate some to save premature babies.”However, there are still a lot of social taboos associated with milk donation, said R Kalaivani, mother of a 14-month-old girl, who has been donating breast milk for the last 11 months. “Initially, my family and in-laws were reluctant. It took some time to educate them about the plight of premature babies. Now, my family members are creating awareness about milk donation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/techie-mom-brings-together-breast-milk-donors-gives-hungry-premature-babies-new-lease-of-life/articleshow/77533772.cms||A Subburaj
August 14, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Vizag needs Rs 200cr to boost security infra’||Visakhapatnam: The eight-member committee set up by the government to enhance resources in the Visakhapatnam police department met recently. The chairman of the committee and the outgoing city police commissioner Rajeev Kumar Meena said that the city police needs more funds to strengthen its various wings. The committee would submit its report next week. The government had reportedly appointed the committee to add more men and equipment to the proposed executive capital. Speaking to TOI, Meena said they have discussed various issues pertaining to traffic, crime and security, besides logistics. “The city needs more funds to strengthen its various police wings. In my personal opinion, it needs more than Rs 200 crore to get required equipment, including CCTV cameras, vehicles and modernised technology, besides sufficient manpower,” he said. The main focus should be on traffic, crime and security aspects, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vizag-needs-rs-200cr-to-boost-security-infra/articleshow/77532259.cms||Siva G
August 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Rain threatens to mar I-Day celebrations||Vijayawada: Continuous rain since Wednesday has raised apprehensions among Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and district administration, who are busy making arrangements for state-level Independence Day celebrations at the Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium (IGMS). Thursday witnessed parts of the stadium turning into pools and officials were seen filling pits to drain the water. Meanwhile, DGP Gautam Sawang on Thursday inspected the arrangements and watched the armed forces rehearse. As per plans, chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy will hoist the flag on the eve of 74th Independence Day. Officials have been directed to make arrangements keeping Covid-19 in mind. VMC commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh directed the officials to make seating arrangements following physical distancing — a six-feet gap must be maintained between chairs. The number of invitees have been reduced in view of the pandemic and a special health camp will be established at the ground. On the other hand, information and public relations department is co-ordinating with other departments on finalising the tableaus. The state government announced that the tableaus will reflect the efforts made by various departments in preventing the spread of Covid-19 and helping the patients. “All together ten tableaus were finalised for this year. Health and family welfare department will present five tableaus, which will explain how the government is testing, treating the Covid-19 patients. Besides, there will be a special tableau on masks being manufactured by women and another tableau explaining the education reforms,” said information department commissioner T Vijay Kumar Reddy. Meanwhile, the assembly secretary in a press release said legislative council chairman MA Shariff and legislative assembly speaker T Sitaram will hoist the flag at the assembly compound in Velagapudi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rain-threatens-to-mar-i-day-celebrations/articleshow/77532255.cms||Venu Lanka
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Two killed as trucks collide||Coimbatore: A truck driver and a cleaner died after a speeding tanker truck collided with their vehicle on L&T bypass road here in the early hours of Thursday.The Chettipalayam police identified the deceased as G Kumaravel, 35, of Dhali in Tirupur and V Yobu, 20, of Manupatti in the same district.An investigation officer said the duo used to transport vegetables to Kerala from Tirupur. The incident took place when they were returning home from Kerala. Kumaravel was at the wheels.“When they neared Chettipalayam on L&T bypass road around 3.30am, the tanker truck, which was on its way to Kerala from Salem with soap oil, hit their vehicle, killing them on the spot,” the officer said.According to him, tanker truck driver N Sekar, 40, of Kolathur in Salem, had lost control over his speeding vehicle, causing the accident. “He is admitted to a private hospital in Sundarapuram with injuries.”When alerted, the Chettipalayam police sent the dead bodies to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. The bodies were handed over to their kin after autopsy in the evening.Police have registered a case against the tanker truck driver under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 (A) (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-killed-as-trucks-collide/articleshow/77533765.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Heritage narrow gauge track chugs into history||Lucknow: For 100 years, India’s only two-foot wide and 200km long narrow gauge railway line in the plains has been a vital mode of transport for thousands of villagers between Gwalior and Sheopur Kalan. But, the heritage track would soon be dismantled to build a broad gauge to cater to more passengers. Set up by maharaja Madho Rao Scindia in 1893, the two-foot gauge line of Scindia State Railway (later rechristened as North Central Railway) connects over 200 villages between Gwalior and Sheopur Kalan.  The railway board has sanctioned the project and the toy train line will be replaced with broad gauge till Kota. To preserve the heritage of the royal railway line, NCR zone general manager Rajiv Chaudhary will release an online documentary in Prayagraj this Independence Day . “In 1893, Scindia started his two feet gauge line within palace ground at Gwalior, his capital city. From Gwalior, three branches to Sheopur Kalan (199km), Bhind (83Km) and Shivpuri (118 Km) were built by 1909 and an isolated Ujjain Agar section was also built by Maharaja in 1932 and was managed by one system (Gwalior light railway). In 1942, the title was changed to Scindia State Railway and in 1951 the ownership passed to central railway. Today, it’s part of Jhansi division of NCR,” said an official. “Scindia State Railway or Gwalior light railway (GLR) is the only narrow gauge railway line of two feet in India, which has served a population in plains for about 100 years. A section of about a hundred miles has been spared and you can hear the little trains tooting impatiently and racing with auto-rickshaw and tongas as they run through crowded localities, their carriages crammed to capacity, stopping at little stations which themselves look no bigger than ordinary railway carriages,” he added. Gwalior-Sheopur Kalan was opened from 1904 to 1909 and about 200km is covered in nearly 10 hours covering 28 stations. Eight trains are operated on the stretch daily. “Considering the importance of the rail network for local residents, the railway had approved to convert the heritage narrow gauge to broad gauge, which will extend up to Kota,” said chief public relations officer, NCR, Ajit Kumar Singh. PRO, Jhansi division, Manoj Singh, said, “The narrow gauge stretch between Gwalior and Sheopur Kalan will be dismantled for broad gauge.” CPRO Ajit Kumar Singh said, “To preserve the heritage importance of the royal narrow gauge railway, NCR zone will release an online documentary on Independence day from Prayagraj by general manager Rajiv Chaudhary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/heritage-narrow-gauge-track-chugs-into-history/articleshow/77534921.cms||Arvind Chauhan
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Councillors of East Delhi civic body seek transfer of officials in building department||NEW DELHI: The councillors of East Delhi Municipal Corporation on Friday demanded the transfer of officials in the building department, especially those who have been posted there for a long time. The issue was raised in a standing committee meeting by leader of the House Parvesh Sharma, who was supported by former mayor Bipin Bihari. He alleged that there was corruption in the department as the officials had not been transferred for a long time. “We are getting so many complaints about corruption in this department. It’s high time that these officials are transferred. Even when they are shifted to another department, they make arrangements and return,” said Sharma. Bihari said that illegal construction was rampant and the department was intentionally not taking action. “We have requested the commissioner to take immediate action, otherwise the graph of illegal construction will go up. The department avoids action against the builder mafia, but unnecessarily creates hurdles by highlighting flaws in the plan if a common man tries to rebuild his house. Their intention is simply to make money. Councillors get blamed for their corruption,” he added. An EDMC official, however, said there was a procedure for transfers and it couldn’t happen all of a sudden. Earlier, the issue of corruption in the building department had been raised by councillors in the north and south corporations. The commissioner then issued an order to prepare a list of engineers facing corruption charges and remove them. The building department is considered one of the most lucrative postings in the corporations. Engineers allegedly demand money from both real estate developers and people building homes and extensions illegally. On Friday, the roof of an under-construction building in Trilokpuri’s Block-28 collapsed. Officials admitted that the construction was being carried out illegally. The owner of the building has been issued a show-cause notice. “No one was injured in the incident,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/councillors-seek-transfer-of-officials-in-building-dept/articleshow/77554201.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||BJP protests for rollback of 5% water tariff hike||Nagpur: About 60 of the 108 BJP corporators staged a demonstration outside the chamber of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Thursday demanding rollback of annual 5% water tariff hike.Ruling party leader Sandip Jadhav led the peaceful agitation. Jadhav told TOI that BJP had given three days to the administration to roll back its decision to effect the 5% water tariff hike. “We are not demanding to cancel the hike, but not to levy this year as it would burden the already distressed citizens,” he said. Now, we would decide the future course of action against Mundhe-led administration, Jadhav added.Meanwhile, NCP termed the agitation by the ruling party as misleading. The proposal to increase water tariff every year was passed by the BJP-ruled House which was opposed by the NCP, said former party corporator Vedprakash Arya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-protests-for-rollback-of-5-water-tariff-hike/articleshow/77529975.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 14, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Man loses friend in fight over missed calls||VADODARA: Push did not just come to shove but resulted in the death of a 30-year-old man in Karjan. A fight between two friends over a harmless prank of making missed calls on cellphone escalated so much that the caller pushed his friend into a pit, which resulted in his death. According to the details of the incident, 21-year-old Jayesh Patanwadiya, a resident of Osalam village, had been making repeated blank calls from his new mobile phone to his friend Satish Patanwadiya. The harassment irked Satish so much that the duo had a verbal altercation on phone. Cops said that Satish was angered as the missed calls used to disturb him when he was playing a game on the mobile phone. The two friends decided to meet at their village’s bus stand on the evening of August 11 to settle the issue. When they met, Satish hurled abuses at Jayesh. Jayesh warned him to not use any foul language, but when Satish continued, they had a minor altercation of pushing each other. During the melee, when Jayesh pushed Satish little hard, he lost his balance and fell into a seven-foot deep pit. Jayesh and Satish’s cousin Jignesh Thakor, who was also present there, rushed to his help, but Satish was unconscious. Jayesh then fled from there. “Satish died due to brain haemorrhage. Although Jayesh did not intend to kill him, we have booked him for murder since the man died due to his action, ,” a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-loses-friend-in-fight-over-missed-calls/articleshow/77531724.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Erode||Contract worker dies after earth caves in||Erode: A 25-year-old man died after earth caved in while digging up a pit for sewer system in the city on Thursday. The deceased has been identified as S Anand, 24, of Lakkapuram in the city. He was working as a contract labourer with the Erode municipal corporation. Anand was digging up a 10-ft deep pit at Marapalam in the city. “Suddenly a portion of soil caved in into the pit and Anand got stuck in it,” Surampatty police inspector S Manikandan said. Fire and rescue services personnel rushed to the spot and retrieved the body after two hours of struggle. “Doctors at the spot confirmed that Anand was dead,” the inspector added. The body was sent to the government hospital in the city for postmortem. The Surampatty police have registered a case and initiated inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/contract-worker-dies-after-earth-caves-in/articleshow/77533808.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Develop Amaravati as legislative capital: CM||Vijayawada: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Thursday directed officials to complete all pending projects in Amaravati. The chief minister held a review meeting with the officials of the Amaravati Metropolitan Development Authority (AMDA), which replaced the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) of the previous government. Minister for municipal administration and urban development Botcha Satyanarayana, chief secretary Nilam Sahwney, AMDA commissioner Lakshminarasimham and officials of municipal administration and urban development were present at the meet. The chief minister asked the officials to list the pending projects in Amaravati and take steps to begin developing it as the legislative capital. He emphasised that areas where farmers are to be given their due share of plots in return of their land must be developed on a priority basis. He also told them to focus on Happy Nest housing project, which was started by the previous government. Later, speaking to media persons, Satyanarayana said the government is committed to fulfilling the promises made to the farmers who parted with their land. “We will complete all buildings according to the availability of funds. Once completed, the government will decide what to do with them,” the minister said. He reiterated that the government is committed to Amaravati’s development and it was “not ready to do real-estate business, but will do what is necessary.” The minister blamed TDP and its chief Chandrababu Naidu for spreading false information among people, particularly farmers of Amaravati villages. “We are not here to do what the realtors want. We have our own priorities. The farmers who have given their land to the government are to be protected and the promises made to them are to be fulfilled,” the minister said. Satyanarayana said the government would lay the foundation stone for the capital in Visakhapatnam soon as the three-capitals Bill has been approved by the governor. “We have a plan to develop every region of the state. But the opposition is creating hurdles through litigations,” the minister said. But the government will overcome all the hurdles and ensure that the entire state is developed equally, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/develop-amaravati-as-legislative-capital-cm/articleshow/77532264.cms||Gopi Dara
August 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Suresh Babu files MLC nomination||Vijayawada: Senior YSR Congress leader from Vizianagaram district, P Suresh Babu, filed his nomination papers for the lone MLC seat on Thursday, the last date for filing of nominations. Accompanied by senior party leaders, Babu filed his papers with the returning officer in the assembly premises. Though the nomination process started on August 6, only Babu’s nomination has been received so far. Babu is the son of former minister P Sambasiva Raju, who died earlier this week due to long illness. Before filing his papers, he met chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy at Tadepalli, who issued the party’s B form to him. The MLC seat fell vacant after incumbent Mopidevi Venkata Ramana resigned following his election to Rajya Sabha. Suresh Babu would be elected to complete the balance period which will end on March 29, 2023. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/suresh-babu-files-mlc-nomination/articleshow/77532302.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Ganesh Chaturthi: HM to install 1.5L idols across TN||Coimbatore: Hindu Munnani state president Kadeswara C Subramaniam on Thursday announced that the organisation will install 1.5 lakh Ganesh idols across the state to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi. He criticised the state government for imposing restrictions on Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations.Subramaniam met reporters at the organisation’s office at Ram Nagar in the city on Thursday. He said, “We have been celebrating Ganesh Chaturthi for the last 36 years. We are going to install 1.5 lakh Ganesh idols across the state and we are ready to face government’s action.”He assured that the organisation would follow all prohibitory orders set by the government and won’t allow people to gather at one place.“We suggested that only five members from Hindu Munnani will take the idols for immersion. However, the government did not bother to consider our suggestions and imposed the ban. The state government provided relaxation to Muslims and Christians to celebrate Eid al-Adha (bakrid) and other festivals. But they are not supporting Hindus,” he added.He demanded that Dravidian party leaders and MLAs encourage Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. “A few MLAs and party functionaries of the Dravidian parties are interested to celebrate Ganesh Chathurthi as well,” he said.Subramaniam added, “A few bureaucrats with Naxalite ideology gave wrong suggestions to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami to ban Ganesh Chaturthi celebration.”He claimed that Dravidian parties were afraid of Hindu Munnani organisation’s growth in the state.On Thursday, the Tamil Nadu government announced a ban on installing Ganesh idols in public places and procession to immerse the idols in waterbodies. The government instructed people to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi at homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ganesh-chaturthi-hm-to-install-1-5l-idols-across-tn/articleshow/77533821.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Bengaluru||How many vehicles ply in Bengaluru? Transport department in dark||BENGALURU: The city may be infamous for its bumper-to-bumper traffic, but the transport department has no data on the actual number of vehicles on Bengaluru roads. While it maintains the cumulative number of vehicles registered over the years, it has no data on those that have been scrapped, are not in use or have been moved out/brought in from other places. TOI found several anomalies in vehicle registration figures uploaded on the department’s official website (transport.karnataka.gov.in). Records show the number of vehicles registered in Bengaluru till January 2020 was 85.5 lakh and till February 85.9 lakh. However, it increased to 86.4 lakh in March and to a whopping 96.1 lakh in April before dropping to 85.6 lakh in May. The abnormal variations raise doubts over authenticity of the data. The department also has no records of electric vehicles registered in the city. Experts say inaccurate vehicle data will have an adverse impact on infrastructure planning, including traffic and parking management. When contacted, additional commissioner for transport (administration) BP Umashankar said he will look into the issue. An official said vehicles that are more than 20 years old may not be plying now. “For instance, there were 14 lakh vehicles in 2000. If we subtract this figure, vehicles on city roads will be around 70 lakh. In addition to vehicles registered in Bengaluru, those registered in other districts of Karnataka as well as other states are also moving around here. But we don’t have any data on them so far,” the official explained. “Most owners discard their vehicles after 20 years due to lack of authorised service centres, non-availability of spare parts and poor performance and mileage. Some keep old vehicles because of the vintage factor or emotional attachment, but may not use them,” he said. Bengaluru’s road network spans around 14,000km. It has a total population of 85 lakh as per Census 2011; the current population is around 1.3 crore. “Ownership has increased from 284 vehicles per 1,000 persons in 2001 to 419 in 2011 and 640 in 2018. This means vehicle number is increasing at a much higher rate compared to that of population growth,” says the draft Comprehensive Mobility Plan prepared by BMRCL and DULT. However, CMP arrived at this conclusion based on transport department records. Database should be cleaned: OfficialA transport official said owners need to scrap their vehicles and get the registration certificate (RC) cancelled if they are not using it. “Most of them give away old vehicles to garages and only a few come forward for RC cancellation to avoid any legal issues or police cases later. Some opt for cancellation to claim insurance,” he explained. “The database should be cleaned as there’s double entry in some cases,” he admitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/how-many-vehicles-ply-on-city-roads-transport-dept-clueless/articleshow/77533015.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
August 14, 2020||Bareilly||10 Covid-19 patients under home isolationshifted to hospital after they flouted norms||Bareilly: As many as 10 asymptomatic Covid-19 patients placed under home isolation were shifted to a level one hospital after the health department received complaints that they were allegedly flouting the guidelines. Thirty-five patients were, meanwhile, admitted to a level two hospital after they developed symptoms. Bareilly reported 4,320 cases of Covid-19 till Wednesday, of these 1,809 are active cases. Over 1,400 asymptomatic patients are currently under home isolation in Bareilly. Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “If a Covid-19 patient under home isolation is staying with his family in the same house, he should stay in a separate room. We have received complaints that a few patients under home isolation are not following the guidelines set by the state government. After verifying the complaints, we shifted them to the hospital.” Officials, meanwhile, said after 35 patients under home isolation developed symptoms like fever and breathing problem, they were shifted to a Covid-19 level two hospital for better treatment. Giving details of the condition of home isolation, a senior official said, “Only asymptomatic patients with no other disease are allowed for home isolation. The patient should have a separate room with an attached washroom and a caretaker. The patient should have oximeter, thermometer and a smartphone on which he could download the app for home isolation. The patient will have to consult a doctor twice a day over the phone. Pregnant women and elderly people cannot opt for home isolation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-covid-19-patients-under-home-isolationshifted-to-hospital-after-they-flouted-norms/articleshow/77528936.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Biological E in tech transfer deal to make J&J’s vaccine||Hyderabad: Pharmaceuticals and biologics player Biological E Limited (BE) on Thursday said it has entered into an agreement with Janssen Pharmaceutica NV (Janssen), which is part of Johnson & Johnson (J&J), for manufacturing J&J’s Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Ad26.COV2.S. As part of the pact, J&J will be transferring the technology for manufacturing its Covid-19 vaccine candidate to Hyderabad-based Bio E. On the other hand, the Hyderabad-based company will create and enhance its capacities for the complete manufacturing of J&J’s vaccine candidate that is currently undergoing Phase 1/2a clinical trials. “We will be doing the end-to-end manufacturing of the vaccine, including fermentation, the drug substance (bulk antigen) and drug product (formulation and fill finish) for the vaccine,” Biological E managing director Mahima Datla told TOI. Though Datla refused to divulge the total capacity Bio E will be creating for the J&J vaccine for supply to India and global markets, she said the company is looking at a manufacturing capacity of 50-80 million doses per month of its own under development Covid-19 vaccine candidate that will go into Phase I clinical trials in September this year. “Given the magnitude of the Covid-19 pandemic, our ability to mount an effective response will be predicated on the ability to supply the vaccine globally and in significant quantities. This is best achieved through collaboration,” said Datla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/biological-e-in-tech-transfer-deal-to-make-jjs-vaccine/articleshow/77533458.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||BE inks pact with Baylor College for Covid vaccine||Hyderabad: Pharma and biologics player Biological E Limited (Bio E) on Thursday said it has entered into a licencing agreement with Baylor College of Medicine of the University of Houston, Texas, for the development of a safe, effective and affordable Covid-19 vaccine. The Hyderabad-based company said it has licensed the recombinant protein Covid-19 vaccine candidate developed at Baylor College and will leverage its past experience for further developing and commercializing the vaccine candidate that is currently produced using a proven yeast-based expression technology. The current focus is on the transfer of technology so that Bio E can initiate a scale-up of the manufacturing process and take up further development of the vaccine candidate, Bio E said. Dr Peter Hotez, professor & dean, National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor and co-director of Texas Children’s Center for Vaccine Development, said agreement was timely given “this week’s information that India has become the third-leading nation in terms of cases that has sparked concern that Covid will become a deadly infection across crowded urban areas of South Asia”. “We look forward to leveraging our capabilities for the development and manufacturing of this vaccine. If successful, we expect to make several hundred million doses of available annually,” said Narender Dev Mantena, director of BioE Holdings Inc, a subsidiary of Bio E.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/be-inks-pact-with-baylor-college-for-covid-vaccine/articleshow/77533510.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||8 held for illegally moving PDS rice||Hyderabad: South zone task force police along with civil supplies department officials on Thursday conducted a special drive to search various godowns. The team arrested eight persons from five different police station limits for illegally procuring and transporting rice from Hyderabad to Karnataka and Maharashtra. The team also seized 122 quintals of PDS rice. Among the arrested, three were from Rein Bazaar, two from Bhavaninagar, one each from Kalapather, Bahadurpura and Santoshnagar limits. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/8-held-for-illegally-moving-pds-rice/articleshow/77533676.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Auto driver held with ganja||Hyderabad: A 30-year-old auto driver was caught in possession of Rs 3,200 worth of ganja in Nacharam on Thursday. The accused, Ram Sakha — a resident of LB Nagar’s Bharathnagar had moved to Hyderabad from Uttar Pradesh eight years ago. In a move to make quick money, Sakha started selling ganja at higher rates. He would procure Rs 100 worth of ganja and sell it double that amount. He was nabbed while on his way to Mallapur with 32 sachets and was booked under NDPS Act. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/auto-driver-held-with-ganja/articleshow/77533661.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t venture out unless it’s necessary: Telangana health department||HYDERABAD: State health authorities have issued a special advisory asking people in the 21 to 50 age group to refrain from venturing outdoors unless absolutely necessary. The advisory comes in the wake of rising number of cases among the aforementioned category. Experts believe the advisory is aimed at curtailing transmission among persons of the age group who are deemed to be engaging in high-risk behaviour. “If you see the positivity rate among different age groups, 65% of the cases are being recorded in this age group (21-50). This basically means that people in this category are indulging in risky behaviour by going out, putting themselves at risk and contracting the disease. Hence, the state is focusing on the particular age group,” said infectious diseases expert, Dr Sunitha Nareddy. “In light of the high incidence of disease in this age group, people are requested not to go out, unless absolutely necessary. In case, they are required to go out, they should strictly exercise precautions including use of face masks, physical distancing and other sanitisation measures,” the state health department’s communique said. It also advised children below 10 years and senior citizens to continue remaining indoors to avoid exposure to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-venture-out-unless-its-necessary-health-dept/articleshow/77533619.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Rajkot||Lucky escape for 20 as bus submerges in underpass in Gondal||RAJKOT: Twenty passengers had a providential escape after the GSRTC bus in which they were travelling got submerged in an underpass in Gondal due to heavy rain on Thursday. The water in Umarva underpass swelled so fast that the bus, which was passing, could not move and got submerged. The passengers, some of whom climbed onto the bus’ roof, were rescued by the locals. A team of fire brigade also reached the spot and the bus was taken out using an earthmover machine. A Gujarat state transport bus got stuck in an underpass of #Gondal town of #Rajkot district. All passengers were re… https://t.co/bEHkwwj3gW— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1597313565000An ambulance and a private car also got stuck in the underpass during the day on Thursday. The patient in an ambulance was shifted in another vehicle but nobody was hurt. Saurashtra’s Surendranagar, Rajkot, Amreli, Junagadh and Gir-Somnath districts were pounded by heavy rain, leaving many villages marooned. According to reports, Vorakotda village. nearly 8km from Gondal town turned into the island due to incessant rainfall and flooding in Bhadar River. The water is flowing over the bridge that's the entry and exit point of the village. The Gondal fire brigade team found the dead body which was identified as that of Mansukh Solanki on Thursday. He drowned on Wednesday while passing from the causeway on Vasavadi river on cycle. Heavy rain in Porbandar district forced the administration to close down Porbandar -Jamnagar highway passing via Jam Khambhaliya and Jamrawal road. Jamraval village of Devbhumi Dwarka district turned into an island for a few hours after 10 gates of Vartu-2 dam were opened because of heavy rain in upstream areas like Bhanvad, Jamjodhpur and Salaya. According to the district administration, the village is located in the low lying area but the situation is under control and nobody is evacuated. Watch Watch: JCB machine pulls out bus stuck under waterlogged bridge in Gujarat’s Rajkot||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lucky-escape-for-20-as-bus-submerges-in-underpass/articleshow/77532337.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Passport collection a harrowing ordeal as scores gather at office||HYDERABAD: Retrieving their passports from local authorities has become a harrowing task for international passengers returning to Hyderabad. Directed to collect them from the Rangareddy district collector’s office in Lakdikapul, passengers say that they are forced to wait for hours and wade through huge crowds — with no social distancing norms in place — to collect the document. “When we reached the office around 2 pm on Wednesday, as was suggested by officials there, we were shocked to see at least 300 people waiting for their passports. Everybody was crowding around the counter with no distance between them. It was scary to stand there. Even the guard was not wearing a mask,” said a passenger who recently completed his 14-day quarantine period. “I returned without collecting my passport. I’ll go some other day now,” he added. As per norms, those undergoing institutional quarantine are handed over their passport at the hotel at the end of the seven-day period while those isolating at home have to visit the collector’s office for their passports after two weeks. The passports are collected from the passengers at the airport on arrival. While the Rangareddy collector could not be reached despite several attempts, an official from the collectorate TOI spoke to insisted that all precautionary measures were being taken while disbursing passports. “People are being made to wait outside the gate and let inside only in small batches. There is no reason for people to worry,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/passport-collection-a-harrowing-ordeal-as-scores-gather-at-office/articleshow/77533654.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP assembly monsoon session to be shortest||LUCKNOW: The forthcoming monsoon session of UP assembly commencing on August 20 could be the shortest ever in duration with just two working days of legislative work amid the corona pandemic. In view of the corona scare and the session being very brief, the strength of MLAs could also be bare minimum. The assembly secretariat released the schedule for the monsoon session on Thursday, specifying there would be condolence on the first day, August 20, and then no working on August 21 and 22 on account of Saturday and Sunday. On August 23, the bills for ordinances promulgated by the Yogi Adityanath government in the last six months will be presented. It is to be seen whether the House will be held on August 24, as there is no agenda for the last day in the schedule. Practically, the House could be in session for just one day, or maximum for two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-assembly-monsoon-session-to-be-shortest/articleshow/77534933.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||CCMB offers new & more economical dry swab-based RT-PCR, waits for ICMR nod||Hyderabad: The Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) has come up with a less complicated and less time-taking dry swab-based RT-PCR test. This testing method, which is similar to the regular RT-PCR test, is likely to get an approval from the ICMR. Importantly, the test is likely to cost Rs 1,000 instead of Rs 2,500 and above charged for the regular test. “We are waiting for the approval, which will happen any time. This will change the scenario of testing as it will take only six hours for examination instead of 12 hours taken in the regular RT-PCR test,” CCMB director Dr Rakesh Kumar Mishra told TOI. “We have also written to Telangana government to use this procedure. They must be waiting for the ICMR approval,” Mishra said. While the same RT-PCR machine will be used and swabs collected in the same manner, the difference in this new test will be non-use of virtual transport medium (VTM) liquid while packing the swabs into the VTM tube. In normal course, packing and unpacking of the swab itself takes four to five hours. In the dry swab RT-PCR method, no liquid is used and swab is collected in a simple protective tube and sent to the lab. During examination, there will be no necessity for using ribonucleic acid (RNA) isolation (which is a long procedure to detect the virus) from the swab. RNA isolation is replaced in a simple heat inaction method where sample is heated at 98 degrees for six minutes and switched on to the RT-PCR machine, an expert said. Because of these two short-cuts, instead of 12 persons being utilised for testing 100 samples in 12 hours, four persons can test the same amount of samples within four hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ccmb-offers-new-more-economical-dry-swab-based-rt-pcr-waits-for-icmr-nod/articleshow/77533248.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 14, 2020||Mangaluru||MLA assures plasma therapy centre for Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath said that efforts are on to start a plasma therapy centre in the city. The MLA stated on his Facebook page that a maximum of five people can be treated with plasma from one recovered person. Members of Wellness Helpline, a group of several like-minded NGOs who came together with a panel of doctors and district officials to fight Covid-19 had met the MLA on Thursday, and discussed setting up a plasma centre. Recently, two plasma donors who had recovered from Covid-19 travelled to the blood bank of HealthCare Global Enterprises Limited, Bengaluru, to donate plasma for a patient in Mangaluru, through Wellness Helpline. Meanwhile, Wellness Helpine has identified 10 donors, of whom four will be taken to Bengaluru during the week for plasma donation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mla-assures-plasma-therapy-centre-for-mangaluru/articleshow/77533579.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris dist records 7 fresh cases of Covid-19||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris logged seven new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, taking the tally to 996. As many as 49 patients recovered and were discharged on the day. The total number of patients discharged in the district stands at 902. The hill district is witnessing an increase in recovery rate since the past week. As on Thursday, the recovery rate stands at 90.4%. Of the seven new cases, four cases are contacts of earlier positive cases with travel history. A 63-year-old man from Ooty tested positive after visiting Trichy. In another case, a 67-year-old man from Anikorai village tested positive after visiting Chennai. The last case, a 24-year-old woman from Coimbatore district, who visited Ooty, tested positive. According to health officials, this case will be cross-notified to Coimbatore district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-dist-records-7-fresh-cases-of-covid-19/articleshow/77533837.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||450 RTC staff test +ve, min promises help||Hyderabad: Nearly 450 employees of the state road transport corporation (TSRTC) have tested positive for Covid-19 so far, while 14 have succumbed to the virus. While employees said Covid-19 cases have been consistently increasing after the corporation had resumed services post lockdown, transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar assured all help to employees. Calling upon those who had tested positive to stay strong, the minister said on Thursday they could get treatment from Gandhi Hospital or Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences. “It is very important that employees take necessary safety measures while discharging their duties. We will ensure that families of the deceased get all the support from government,” he added. Kumar also urged authorities to supply isolation kits to those who tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/450-rtc-staff-test-ve-min-promises-help/articleshow/77533530.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||With 298 new cases, GHMC records its lowest positive count since May||Hyderabad: Telangana on Thursday recorded 1,931 Covid-19 cases and 11 more deaths. With this, the total cases have now touched 86,475 while the death toll stands at 665. With as many as 1,780 more patients recovering on Thursday, the total recoveries have now gone up to 63,074 with the state now having 22,736 active cases. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area saw a sharp decline in number of positive cases with 298 compared to 479 cases recorded on Wednesday. Thursday’s count was the lowest so far since May. Fatality rate has come down further and is now at 0.76% for the state while the country average is close to 2%. New cases were recored in all 33 districts with Warangal (urban) recording the most new cases (144) followed by Rangareddy with 124 cases, Karimnagar with 89 cases, Sangareddy with 86 cases, Nalgonda with 84 cases, Medchal and Siddipet with 71 cases each, and Suryapet with 64 new cases. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-298-new-cases-ghmc-records-its-lowest-positive-count-since-may/articleshow/77533574.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt’s 40,000 Covid-19 tests/day plan quite a task||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government, during a recent cabinet meeting, decided to ramp up the number of Covid-19 tests to 40,000 per day in order to bring down the positivity rate. Such a move would require the state government to increase the number of testing facilities, including acquisition of test kits, in a massive way. To that effect, the government is now gearing up to procure up to 10 lakh additional antigen kits. This, in addition to the over four lakh kits which have already been used. According to state health minister Eatala Rajender, the government has increased the number of tests manifold. “RT-PCR machine was brought from the United States and installed at the Nizam’s Instittue of Medical Sciences (NIMS) to conduct more tests. All arrangements have been made to perform additional tests,” the minister said. Currently, the state conducts around 30% of tests using RT-PCR while the remaining are conducted through antigen tests. The government is buying these kits at an approximate rate of Rs 450 per kit from a Korean company approved the Union government. Meanwhile, experts are of the opinion that there is a need to set up a robust network of testing centres. While the state has 600 primary health centres (PHC), total number of rapid antigen testing centres is not more than 320. “These antigen centres conduct a maximum of 25 tests per day. This means, only 8,000 tests are being done on a daily basis. To reach 40,000 tests a day, Telangana needs more testing centres. As of now, antigen tests are not allowed in private labs,” an expert said. RT-PCR tests, which account for 30% of total testing, are done in 16 government centres and 23 private labs across the state. “Asking people to come to testing centres will involve only random testing. Not all potentially infected people will come. There has to continuous household surveillance to observe people with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) symptoms and conduct tests. Then, more people will be detected,” said Indian Institute of Public health professor and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) national task force member, Dr Giridhar R Babu. “In the last one-and-a-half months, testing has increased by 10 times. The result of this can be seen in the dipping positivity rate. The World Health Organization (WHO) has said that if the positivity rate is to be brought down to 5% from a rate of 12%, doubling of tests (up to 50,000) is required,” said public health expert and assistant professor at Narayana Medical College, Dr E Kishore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govts-40k-tests/day-plan-quite-a-task/articleshow/77533210.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||MSN Labs rolls out cheapest Covid-19 drug||Hyderabad: Generic pharmaceuticals maker MSN Group on Thursday announced the launch of India’s cheapest Covid-19 treatment drug Favipiravir 200 mg at Rs 33 per tablet under the Favilow brand. The city-based company also said it is gearing up to roll out Favipiravir 400 mg soon. The launch of MSN’s Favilow comes a little over a fortnight after Jenburkt Pharmaceuticals launched then India’s cheapest Favipiravir 200 mg, offering Favivent at Rs 39 per tablet. Cipla too has rolled out its Favipiravir under the Ciplenza brand at Rs 68, while Hyderabad-based Hetero Labs’ Favivir and Brinton Pharma’s Faviton are priced at Rs 59. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/msn-labs-rolls-out-cheapest-covid-19-drug/articleshow/77533488.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mysuru||Won’t reopen schools till Covid-19 crisis is under control, says Suresh Kumar||Mandya: Dismissing rumours of the Karnataka government planning on the reopening of schools from September, primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar on Thursday said, “We will not allow schools to reopen till the Covid-19 crisis is completely under control. We will soon launch two channels to impart classes and ensure continuity of children’s education.” Kumar, in Mandya on Thursday, said that the health and wellbeing of children was paramount for the government. Stating that the government was committed to children’s education, the minister said, “We are devising ways to continue the process of education, and are constantly thinking of evolving methods to overcome these challenges. The education department will launch two channels for conducting online classes. We have already drafted the curriculum for online classes. We will do all we can to instil confidence among students and parents.” The minister also lauded the efforts of teachers who were visiting the homes of students to impart classes. He urged other teachers to follow this example to play their part in ensuring that the learning process of children was not stalled owing to the pandemic. Stating that ill-founded reports, wherein it was being claimed that he was eager to initiate reopening of schools, had pained him, Kumar said that he would not allow educational institutions to start operations prematurely. “We are in the process of introducing ‘Vidyagama’, which we hope will turn into a model that will be emulated in other states,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/wont-reopen-schools-till-covid-19-crisis-is-under-control-says-suresh-kumar/articleshow/77533646.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Vadodara||BCA opens up for corporate sponsorship||Vadodara: This cricketing season, don’t be surprised if the Baroda Ranji players turn up on the ground sporting corporate logos on their t-shirts. The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) has decided to offer sponsorship of its teams to the corporate world. And for the first time, it has hired a Singapore-based firm to not just bring in sponsorship but also generate content about the players and tournaments. The association aims to earn over Rs three crore annually from the corporate deals. “The corporate sector will be offered sponsorship of our teams including Ranji, Under-19, Under-16, Under-14 and the Zaveri League squads. The company will be able to put their logo on the t-shirts, cricket kits and other products used by the players during the matches. Also, companies may get space along with the content we put on the BCA website,” said Satyajitsinh Gaekwad, BCA chairman, press and publicity committee. When asked if BCA has informed the BCCI for the sponsorship of its teams, Gaekwad said, “We have taken permission from the BCCI and the association will only commit those corporate sponsorship deals that the cricket board permits.” “The money generated from the sponsorships and other mediums will be used only for cricketers. The players would be given additional match fees apart from the one that the BCCI or BCA gives after the tournament. This will give a boost to our cricketers,” Gaekwad told TOI. Interestingly, the 1 Play Sports is foraying into cricket for the first time and they have done their first deal with the BCA. BCA officials said that in the five-year contract signed with 1 Play Sports, BCA and the firm will produce sports content around the cricket community and also live stream events on social media platforms. BCA CEO Shishir Hattangadi, who came up with the idea of hiring a firm for promoting Baroda cricket, said that it’s a landmark partnership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bca-opens-up-for-corporate-sponsorship/articleshow/77530980.cms||Tushar Tere
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||PD Act against one for seed mixing||Hyderabad: Rachakonda police invoked PD Act against one spurious cotton seed trader, Putta Venkata Ramana, on Thursday. Ramana is accused of procuring seeds from Kurnool in AP and shifting them to a godown in Abdullapurmet where they are mixed with other seeds. He and his associates would then fill adulterated seeds in branded covers and sell them in the open market. He has been detained at Cherlapally central jail. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pd-act-against-one-for-seed-mixing/articleshow/77533699.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hubballi||Panel to instil confidence among rape survivors: Pramila Naidu||Hubballi: State Women’s Commission chairperson R Pramila Naidu has said a committee would be formed at district-level soon to prevent rape victims from taking extreme steps like suicide. Pramila said on Thursday that rape victims are committing suicide after the crime and panel would try to instil confidence among the victims. Expressing grief over the incident at Begur in Dharwad district, in which a minor rape victim committed suicide, she said. “It is a very unfortunate incident. It hurt us a lot. Victims should fight against the atrocities and get justice. Many rape victims have successfully fought and rebuild their life.” “Parents of the victims have a bigger role in such incidents. They should instil courage in the victim and bring the horrific incidents to the notice of police immediately. Facilities have already been made for an immediate medical check-up, counselling from psychiatrists at hospitals for victims,” she said. Pramila said one-stop centres have been opened to provide legal and medical help to rape victims. An awareness programme would be conducted using the help of child development and protection officer and ASHA workers to prevent violence on women and protect them, she added. Pramila also expressed concern over increase in the number of domestic violence cases during the Covid induced lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/panel-to-instil-confidence-among-rape-survivors-pramila-naidu/articleshow/77533781.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Factory fire accident: Anticipatory bail denied||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has refused to grant anticipatory bail to seven employees of Bharuch-based Yashasvi Rasayan Pvt Ltd, where a blast and subsequent fire killed 10 persons and injured 77 others and relocated more than 2,000 people in June. The court said that the accused employees slept over the wrongful act for 24 hours. While refusing to grant any legal protection to seven employees including one Atalbihari Mandal, Justice Gita Gopi on Tuesday remembered the gas tragedies of Bhopal and Vizag and said, “It shakes the human conscience since the aftershocks could be seen even today, if one visits Bhopal.” The court observed that in the fire incident that took place in the chemical plant near Bharuch, the accused persons prima facie appear guilty of criminal negligence leading to culpable homicide. The high court took into consideration that the storage chamber containing dimythile sulphate (DMS) was connected with the hosepipe of the tanker containing nitric acid (NA) and the storage chamber containing NA was connected with the hosepipe of the tanker containing DMS, which led to a chemical reaction in the storage chamber containing NA and ultimately, led to the blast. It rejected the claim of innocence on part of the accused employees. The court said that the accused employees are “well versed with the chemical character of the liquids involved and are well aware of the consequences in the event of a chemical reaction arising out of a mixing of the two chemicals”. They are serving in a chemical processing unit on different technical posts requiring specialized knowledge and expertise to deal with such dangerous chemicals. The court further said that the accused were required to take immediate corrective measures for neutralizing the effect of the chemical reaction. “Instead of taking any corrective measures, the applicants slept over the wrongful act for about 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/factory-fire-accident-anticipatory-bail-denied/articleshow/77533876.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmland floods as storm drain clogs up with debris||Udhagamandalam: A piece of farmland below St. Mary’s Hill in Ooty has been flooded with rainwater after a storm drain was blocked by debris. Rainwater from the hillock, which was supposed to drain into the Ooty lake, was stagnated on the land that extend over an acre. S Mohan, owner of the land, said even mild showers leave his farmland waterlogged. “There is a storm drain leading to the lake but it is clogged. Since there was heavy rain this time, large tract of land was waterlogged compared to the previous years. The stagnated water could even flood the road leading to the lake,” he said. Mohan said several complaints to the Ooty municipality were not addressed.When contacted, Ooty municipal commissioner Saraswathi said officals would inspect the area. If there is a clog in the storm drain, we would take steps to clear it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmland-floods-as-storm-drain-clogs-up-with-debris/articleshow/77533884.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Lack of medical facilities pushing up toll in peri-urban areas, say experts||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu has seen a slight dip in fresh cases in August compared to the last 13 days of July. But the number of daily deaths rose sharply. Between August 1 and 13, the state reported 74,496 cases and 1,462 deaths. On an average this is 5,700 fresh cases and 112 deaths every day. In the preceding 13 days, the state had 80,145 cases and 1,087 deaths – average of 6,165 cases and 84 deaths a day. Health officials say comorbidities and age spurred deaths in urban areas after the lockdown was partially lifted, but epidemiologists cite lack of health facilities in peri-urban areas such as Tiruvallur and Chengalpet. There is a spillover of cases from the city to bordering areas, but the districts do not have adequate testing or treatment facilities. For instance, in Tiruvallur, a large number of cases are reported from Avadi and parts of Ambattur. "But unlike Chennai, this district does have many testing centres. So, results are delayed, and infected people are not isolated in time. Many of them are also admitted late to hospitals," said National Institute of epidemiology deputy director Dr Prabhdeep Kaur. The same problem exists in Chengalpet, or in Virudhunagar near Madurai in the south. "We must have the urban strategy of aggressive testing, isolation and early treatment in these areas," she said. Doctors argue that the state has managed to keep the case fatality rate low and recovery rate high. "Our fatality rate is 1.6%, which is nearly half the national average of around 3%. Our recovery rates are high despite having no drug of choice," said Dr K Senthil of the Government Rajaji Medical College and Hospital in Madurai. Health officials say case fatality rate is higher in cities such as Chennai, Madurai and Coimbatore – it is at least 2% -- because there are more people above the age of 60 and with co-morbidities is higher in these areas. At least 60% of all mortalities are among people above 60 years, although less than 15% of people from this age group have tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lack-of-medical-facilities-pushing-up-toll-in-peri-urban-areas-experts/articleshow/77533879.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Each industry in Andhra Pradesh to get Aadhaar-like number||VIJAYAWADA: The government has decided to conduct a survey of its industries and accord an Aadhaar-like number to each of them. Orders with regard to it were issued on Thursday directing the industries department to start the survey. The survey, which is called Andhra Pradesh Samagra Parisrama Survey 2020, (APSPS) will identify and map industries along with the occupier and categorise them. It would be conducted by engineering assistants supported by village and ward volunteers and secretariat staff. The survey would follow another survey by a team of experts to identify the resources required for the industries to help the government fulfil the new legislation of implementing 75% jobs to locals. Each of these industries would get a “Parishrama Aadhaar number” (industrial Aadhaar) after verification by departments concerned. The decision was taken following a series of industrial accidents reported in the last couple of months. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy told the officials to map all the industries and keep a regular check on them, besides engaging a third-party inspection as frequently as possible. The APSPS 2020 would profile every industry, survey employment potential, raw material availability and marketing facilities. The new industrial policy released by the government early this week also has an exclusive business centre by the state government to assist the industries in all aspects, from the point of employment to the raw material and marketing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/each-industry-in-state-to-get-aadhaar-like-number/articleshow/77532351.cms||Gopi Dara
August 14, 2020||Rajkot||Amreli cop to get best investigation medal||Rajkot: RK Karamta, in-charge police inspector of Amreli local crime branch (LCB), has been chosen for union home minister's ‘Medal for Excellence in Investigation.’ Karmata has been recognized for successfully cracking six unsolved loot and murder cases. The cases include those of a hundred-year-old Boji Manduria whom the robbers had beaten to death before robbing her of gold earrings on October 3, 2018, loot and murder of Lakshman Bharwad and his wife Sona Bharwad by five robbers on January 16, 2019. The other cases include the murder and loot of Sanjay Parmar by four robbers who robbed him of gold and silver jewellery on April 24, 2019, the murder of Jashu Donda by a dozen-odd robbers who robbed him of gold and silver jewellery, murder and loot of Anju Navadia who was attacked by three robbers who robbed her of cash and gold jewellery. The last case was reported on March 27 from Vatavachh village of Sayla taluka in Surendranagar district where Raisang Nanu and his wife Jamani Nanu were beaten to death by four robbers who robbed them of gold jewellery. The accused arrested in these cases include Chandu Jalia, Uji Bavali, Visu Jalia, Falji Sadhmiya, Haresh Jalia, Kalu Jalia, Kishan Vaghela, Mukesh Sadmiya and Mukesh Vaghela. Apart from Karmata, the other police officers selected by the central government for the best award in investigation include deputy superintendent of police Piyush Pirejiya, assistant commissioner of police Abhijitsinh Parmar, assistant sub-inspector Balwantsinh Bariya and Pinal Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/amreli-cop-to-get-best-investigation-medal/articleshow/77532392.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Over 200 relatives wish couple on their wedding||Mangaluru: Technology enabled a family in Bantwal taluk to have a wedding ceremony that was both intimate and safe – while regulations stipulate that such events can have no more than 50 guests in attendance, a virtual ceremony ensured that 218 people witnessed the wedding of a member of the Muguli family on Thursday in Bantwal, Dakshina Kannada. The Muguli family from Kanayana in Bantwal taluk is headed by Ahmed Ali Kambar, who has eight sisters and a brother, many of whom have left their hometown and started life elsewhere in the country or abroad. However, members of four generations of the Muguli family would not have either distance or Covid-19 preventing them from partaking of the merriment of a family member. Kambar’s niece Nafeesath Nahana, an architect, on Thursday, tied the knot with Ismail Rakhib of Chikkamagaluru, an industrialist, at Pattori in Konaje. At the venue of the wedding, only 50 guests were present in keeping with the norms prescribed by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19. However, an initiative undertaken by 15-year-old Zoya, among the younger members of the Muguli family, resulted in relatives spread across various continents blessed the couple. A 28-minute video that had Nafeesath’s relatives in the United Arab Emirates, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia and other states of India, wishing the couple a ‘happy married life’ was the highlight of the event on Thursday. After the video was played, a virtual meeting on Zoom, wherein Nafeesath’s relatives from the world over made their presence felt with their warmth that was expressed over the internet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/over-200-relatives-wish-couple-on-their-wedding/articleshow/77532422.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Charbagh stn gets lifts & escalators for passenger aid||Lucknow: The newly constructed escalator and lift connecting the footover bridge with the approach road will be commissioned soon by the divisional railway manager of Northern Railway, Lucknow, bringing relief to passengers arriving at Charbagh railway station. The facilities developed for Rs 2.8 crore will be beneficial to passengers, particularly the elderly, travelling with their luggage between the seven platforms of the station. The project was backed by defence minister Rajnath Singh, the Lok Sabha MP from Lucknow. The facility will drastically reduce the distance for passengers and ease congestion on platform one and main concourse. The lift is designed to carry 13 persons at a time. A ramp has been arranged for barrier-free approach. The escalator has a four step landing for safety of passengers. Speaking to TOI, Vikram Singh, public relations officer, Northern Railway, said, “The authorities have not yet decided the date for commissioning of the facilities, but it will be done soon.” Meanwhile, NR has also constructed a 650 metre long washable apron at platform number 5 at a cost of Rs 2 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/charbagh-stn-gets-lifts-escalators-for-passenger-aid/articleshow/77534946.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu govt sitting on proposal for Covid-19 death analysis||CHENNAI: The National Institute of Epidemiology submitted a proposal to the Tamil Nadu government on July 30 to undertake a Covid-19 death analysis to help authorities check the spiralling mortality rate and re-jig treatment protocols. More than two weeks later, the Tamil Nadu government is yet to clear the proposal. A quick in-depth investigation of Covid-19 deaths in comparison with patients getting successfully discharged would indicate a combination of factors that contributed to the mortality. This rigorous understanding would help medical experts improve their treatment strategies. NIE deputy director Prabhdeep Kaur, a member of the health committee constituted by the state government will head the team undertaking the analysis. The scientists will identify the risk factors associated with the Covid-19 death, compare survivors to those who died to understand what factors led to their death besides comorbidities, age and other prior health problems. They will analyse the health seeking behaviour on whether they reported on time when they developed Covid symptoms and look at treatment-related practices, including early start of oxygen, lab parameters and inflammatory markers or clinical severity of the virus. Some officials expressed scepticism saying the Covid pandemic had gone beyond academics. "Doctors are over-stressed. They don’t have time to collate data when patients are gasping for breath and dying," said a senior government medical expert. But several countries like the US, Italy, China and UK had undertaken such death analyses early during the epidemic to understand the mortality patterns. Private experts in India are strongly pushing for it. "If we know what went wrong in treatment, we can save lives. This is the way the dead can teach the living," said virologist Dr Jacob John. Acknowledging the NIE proposal, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said the proposal would be cleared soon. But it would be inaccurate to analyse and come to conclusions based on the widely varying reports given by states, said the officer. "Anyone coming to hospitals undergoes Covid test and an institutional death is disproportionately attributed to Covid as the cause of death for the predominantly institutional fatalities," said Radhakrishnan. But the proposed death analysis that would take a minimum of two months to conclude, may throw up vital pointers to help contain and manage a potentially dangerous and highly infectious disease, say scientists. Even while monitoring the scale, spread and impact of Covid-19 every day, an analysis would help understand factors that contributed to the death in terms of time, place and people. Comparing the various medical treatment and whether it contributed to a patient staying alive would also form a crucial aspect of the study. Meanwhile, in May, the National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research (NCDIR) of the ICMR added the Covid-19 related ICD (International Classification of Diseases)-10 codes to its E-Mortality software tool to record and assign cause of death codes. "Timely and proper recording of deaths in e-Mor will provide robust data for cause of death statistical analyses," said NCDIR director Dr Prashant Mathur. "The government machinery across the country is aimed at preventing avoidable Covid deaths. It is up to the government to facilitate undisturbed scientific enquiry to derive the reasons behind these deaths," said an NIE scientist, who would be part of the Covid death study team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-govt-sitting-on-proposal-for-covid-19-death-analysis/articleshow/77533887.cms||Jaya Menon
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man accused of 4 murders held||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat anti-terrorist squad (ATS) on Wednesday held a 48-year-old man, Govind Nandram Yadav, from Simthara village in MP, for the murder of four persons in 2004 at the Mahakali Mata temple on the outskirts of Utava village of Kadi taluka. Yadav had allegedly also stolen cash and jewellery worth lakhs and had been on the run ever since. He assumed a new identity and settled in the Vasant Vihar area of Delhi. The Gujarat government had announced a reward of Rs 51,000 for information on him at the time. Deputy inspector general of police Himanshu Shukla said the murdered NRI, Chiman Patel, 70, at the time, had built the temple and was one of its trustees. He had come to Kadi and stayed in the temple. “Besides him, Samtanandpurna Saraswati Mataji (35) and two sevaks, Mohan Luhar and Karman Luhar, also stayed in the temple for work that was under way. Yadav was the security guard of the temple and lived with his wife Rajkumari. He had changed his name to Mahendrasinh Govindsinh,” added Shukla. Shukla said that on the night of April 2, 2004, Chiman Patel’s daughter-in-law Sudha, the complainant, found him dead in the temple office with his throat slit. “Samtanandpurna Sarawati’s body was found in a pool of blood in the bathroom and the bodies of Mohan Luhar and Karman Luhar were found in a similar condition from a closed room of the ashram on the temple campus. Only the security guard, Mahendrasinh, and his wife were missing and the needle of suspicion pointed at them,” Shukla said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-accused-of-4-murders-held/articleshow/77533894.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Small farmers raise concerns over plan to repeal Tea Act||Udhagamandalam: Small tea farmers in the Nilgiris have expressed concern over the proposal of the central government to repeal the Tea Act, 1953.The Nilgiri Small Tea Growers & Farmers Development Society (NSTGFDS), in a press release, said that it will approach the central government with a request to safeguard the interest of small tea growers in the event of the Act being revoked.Stating that the proposal should be approached with a note of caution, founder president of NSTGFDS H N Sivan said, “The Act and its earlier versions were enacted primarily with a view to regulate the marketing of made-tea, with a focus on its export. The board was created with certain powers to attend to the issues pertaining to small tea growers. But as per the Act, there is no provision. However, over the years, the board, by way of executive orders, extended certain benefits to the welfare of small tea farmers. In recent times, the small tea farmers are coming forth to engage themselves in the manufacturing process also. The concept of mini and micro tea processing centres is being contemplated for their upliftment. Major setback to the small tea growers on this issue is marketing of product. They are being encouraged to take up the task of entrepreneurs.”At this juncture, if the Act is revoked, the tea industry would be jolted, said R Dharuman, managing trustee of Nelikolu Charitable Trust, an NGO concentrating on small tea farmers. “The most affected would be small tea growers, as they comprise over 50%. We will approach the government under the banner NSTGFDS,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/small-farmers-raise-concerns-over-plan-to-repeal-tea-act/articleshow/77533896.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Tech glitches, screen exhaustion make virtual coachings too taxing||Lucknow: Enrolments have dropped by half in various coaching institutes for competitive exams this session with students finding online mode of instructions difficult to grasp. Every July, classrooms in these institutes used to be jam-packed with students taking admissions in large numbers after declaration of class XII and graduation results. However, as institutes have moved to online teaching, enrolments have dropped. TOI spoke to about 20 big coaching institutes and all of them reported low enrolment. A few have closed down temporarily. At some places, new batches are attending virtual classes on the promise that these will be converted to physical ones soon, while at others some students are opting out, stating that studying at home on virtual classes is a challenge. “Our 2020 batch is to begin from July-end, but we are witnessing a 50% drop in the number of new admissions in comparison to the last year,” said Ashish, director of a private coaching institute. A leading coaching institute for civil service aspirants temporarily shut down as students weren’t taking online classes. “For the benefit of our students, we lowered the fees, provided material via conference calls and other modes. However, students were not serious. They said they suffered headaches and other issues. Compared to 200-plus students in three batches in previous years, only 10-13 students have got themselves enrolled so far,” said Ravi Mohan Srivastava, owner of an institute. Students said that though institutes are helping a lot, they are not satisfied. “We are not able to grasp lectures online as most of the time, lectures are halted due to technical glitches,” said Abhiraj, a NEET aspirant. “Teachers are doing their best, but online classes are not as effective as real ones. At times, cameras go off while classes are underway. Teachers go on teaching without an idea what students are doing,” said Parth Mishra, an engineering aspirant. Gurkirat Khurana, an MBA aspirant, said, “Students keep telling the teachers to speak out clearly or that the teacher is not audible enough. Also, we have a lot of distraction at home,” he added. Exhaustion due to laptop and mobile screens also remains an issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tech-glitches-screen-exhaustion-make-virtual-coachings-too-taxing/articleshow/77534970.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Handicapped man killed, one held||Ahmedabad: A handicapped man Manga Patna, 25, was found murdered at an isolated place behind Shyamdev Residence in Ramol on Wednesday. Police dug out his body from a heap of mud after finding his tricycle there. The cops have detained one Kamal Marwadi, a resident of Nikol, in this connection. According to a complaint lodged by the victim’s mother Roopasben Patni, Manga’s friends Marwadi, Manoj, Pintoo and Ditto had come to her house and had asked Manga to come with them. “Manga went with them on his tricycle and when he did not return home till late in the night, the family started a search for him,” said DCP, zone 5, Achal Tyagi. Manga used to sell grass in the morning near Shiv Temple at Somnath Chowk. “We have sent the body for post-mortem,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/handicapped-man-killed-one-held/articleshow/77533917.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Goa||Iffi will strain state coffers: Kamat to CM||Panaji: Questioning the state government’s financial wisdom to organise the 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (Iffi) this year, opposition leader Digambar Kamat urged chief minister Pramod Sawant to reconsider the decision. Kamat said that organising IFFI 2020 would put a huge strain on the state’s finances while bringing little or no benefit for the state exchequer. “This is not the right time to host festivals and celebrations,” Kamat said. “The government needs to re-look the actual benefits received by the state after partnering with the Centre to host the film festival.” “Sawant has himself admitted that the financial condition of the state is bad. The festival puts a huge financial burden on the state exchequer with hardly any returns and benefits for the local film fraternity. It is high time that the government release a white paper on the benefits of IFFI since 2004,” Kamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iffi-will-strain-state-coffers-kamat-to-cm/articleshow/77533901.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Goa||Zenito remanded in five-day police custody||Panaji: History-sheeter Zenito Cardozo, who is suspected to be the main conspirator in the Santa Cruz shootout case, has been remanded in five days police custody by the judicial magistrate frist class , Panaji on Thursday. He was arrested under various sections of the Indian Penal Code after he surrendered on Wednesday before the Panaji sub-divisional police officer. Cardozo had evaded arrest and was untraceable despite a police hunt across three states of Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka. His anticipatory bail was rejected by the district and sessions court on July 31. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zenito-remanded-in-five-day-police-custody/articleshow/77533940.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu continues to report 3-digit Covid casualties||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reported 119 Covid-19 deaths for the second consecutive day on Thursday. The state added 5,835 fresh cases taking the case tally to 3,20,355. The cumulative death toll stood at 5,397. On Thursday, 53,499 people were still under treatment compared to 52,929 on Wednesday. While nearly 56% of the patients under treatment were in the northern districts, a quarter of them were in south. The central and western districts had 10% of the active cases each. There was a marginal increase in the number of cases from 5,871 on Wednesday. The state tested 65,560 people using RT-PCR tests in the past 24 hours compared to 69,697 on Wednesday. Chennai continued to be atop the table with 989 cases and 18 deaths. The neighbouring districts – Chengalpet (453), Tiruvallur (390) and Kancheepuram (243) -- reported 1,086 cases and 17 deaths. The Chennai region recorded 2,075 cases and 35 deaths. Senior officials in the public health department said they were drawing up micro containment plans for peri-urban districts such as Tiruvallur and Chengalpet. Tiruvallur has 3,803 active cases and has reported 315 deaths so far, 2,994 people still under treatment in Chengalpet that has had 329 deaths. Seven other districts in the north added 864 cases and 17 deaths. Four -- Cuddalore (258), Tiruvannamalai (153), Vellore (143) and Villupuram (104) -- reported cases in three digits. While Kallakuruchi had 86 cases, Tirupathur and Ranipet reported 64 and 57 cases. Together, the 11 northern districts reported 50% of the total cases and 44% of deaths. The northern zone has 29,753 cases, including 10,868 in Chennai. The 10 districts in the south, meanwhile, reported 37 deaths and 1,538 cases. Except Sivaganga (65) and Ramanathapuram (60), all other districts had cases above 100. Theni (286) and Virudhunagar (219) had more than 200 cases, and they were followed by Tirunelveli (189), Kanyakumari (186), Madurai (151), Dindigul (141), Tenkasi (138) and Turicorin (103). Tirunelveli reported seven deaths, Kanyakumari six, while Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Theni reported five deaths each. There were 13,163 active cases in the region. On Thursday, the central zones reported 691 cases compared to 660 in the western region that had 17 deaths compared to 13 in the central region. Coimbatore reported 289 cases and seven deaths followed by 173 fresh cases and five deaths in Salem. In the central region, Thanjavur reported 154 cases and three deaths. Pudukottai had 131 cases and four deaths. Nilgiris (7), Krishnagiri (9) reported single-digit increase in fresh cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-continues-to-report-3-digit-covid-casualties/articleshow/77533907.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Rajkot||Tired of his beating, wife murders man||Rajkot: The murder of a paan shop owner, whose body was found on Jasdan Road on Tuesday, has turned out be a crime committed allegedly by his wife with the help of her paramour. On Thursday, police arrested the woman Rekha Kihla and her lover Dinesh alias Mahesh Makwana, who had killed and disposed of the victim Haresh Kihla’s body. Kihla, 32, and his wife lived in Khanpur village of Amreli’s Babra taluka. Rekha had then filed a complaint alleging that two persons - Shivku Darbar and Ramshi Rabarai - were harassing her husband over money lent to him. Police rounded up the two suspects but during their interrogation their alibi was found and police also verified from their mobile locations that they were not present at the spot of the murder. It was found that Darbar had spent the night at his friend Kamlesh Joshi’s house. Rajkot rural local crime branch (LCB) inspector M N Rana and Jasdan police inspector V H Joshi then formed separate teams to investigate the crime. On checking the call detail records of Rekha and through their informers, cops got to know that she was having an affair with Makwana who lived in the same village. Rana told reporters, “When confronted, Makwana confessed that Kihla used to often beat his wife and harass her mentally too. On the night of Monday, between 2am to 3am, Rekha repeatedly hit her husband with a thick heavy iron stick on his head when he was in deep sleep. Thereafter, she also strangled him with a rope and killed him.” After wrapping his body in a rug, she and Makwana went on a bike and dumped the body near Jasdan, around six km away. Police have also recovered murder weapon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/tired-of-his-beating-wife-murders-man/articleshow/77532437.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur reports most cases among 4 dists, surpasses Solapur||Kolhapur: The number of Covid-19 cases in Kolhapur district has soared past Solapur district, which had the highest cases in southern Maharashtra till Tuesday night. According to the data released by Kolhapur administration, the district had 12,278 positive cases till Wednesday night. Of these, 3,688 patients were from the Kolhapur municipal corporation limits. At the same time, Solapur district had 12,080 positive cases till Wednesday night. Solapur city and rural had 5,550 and 6531 cases, respectively. Official data from Kolhapur shows that the cases increased by around 12% in July, while it went up by 19% this month. Over the past couple of days, Kolhapur district has been recording minimum 500 cases every day. Kolhapur district has recorded 341 deaths, including 81 from Kolhapur city. The district has total 6,947 active patients and 4,990 people have been discharged. Solapur district has total 3,586 active cases and 7,922 have been discharged. Solapur district had recorded 573 deaths and 384 of them are from the city. This week, there has been a steady decline in cases in Solapur district. In fact, Solapur city has not crossed the three-digit mark in more than a week now. Two tehsils in both the districts have emerged as hotspots. In Kolhapur, Hatkanangale and Karveer tehsils have recorded 1,299 and 1,298 cases, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-reports-most-cases-among-4-dists-surpasses-solapur/articleshow/77531201.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara reports 279 fresh cases, 9 deaths||Kolhapur: Satara, Karad and Khandala tehsils of Satara district continue to record new Covid-19 patients every day. The district recorded 279 new cases on Thursday, surpassing Wednesday’s 261 figure. At present, the district has 6,504 positive cases. The district also reported nine Covid-related deaths, taking the death toll to 206. Officials of the district administration said that a large number of patients were reported from Karad town, Shirval, Mahabaleshwar and Kumthe village in Koregaon tehsil. Satara tehsil added 84 cases with as many as 44 of the them being registered from the town. Karad tehsil reported 81 new patients with 32 of them from Karad town. A few villages, where no positive case was found so far, have recorded cases on Thursday. According to the official data, Kalwade village has reported 11 cases. In addition, 36 patients were traced out from Khandala tehsil with 16 of them from Shirval town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-reports-279-fresh-cases-9-deaths/articleshow/77531175.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Chittoor: Sonu Sood steps in to help poor girl||VIJAYAWADA: In yet another heartwarming gesture, Bollywood actor Sonu Sood once again lent a helping hand to a farmer’s family after he passed away in a freak mishap at Kalagaturu village in Chittoor district on Thursday. On Monday, the farmer identified as Venkataramaiah suffered a grievous injury after his cow trampled him on his chest. He was taken to a private hospital where he eventually succumbed to the injuries the next day. However, the autorickshaw, which transported his body, left it on the road near Palamaner Bazaar street. The 50-year-old farmer’s daughter was seen weeping next to his body on the street. Learning about the news, Sood contacted the family members and expressed his condolences and announced that he would financially assist the girl and said that his team would be arriving at their place from Bengaluru by Friday to help them. This is the second incident in Andhra Pradesh where the actor has stepped in to help a person in distress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sonu-sood-steps-in-to-help-poor-girl/articleshow/77532404.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Birth certificate in dock: She’s daddy’s little girl no more||AMEDABAD: A woman approached the Gujarat high court disputing her father’s claim that she is a minor, to protect her husband from criminal proceedings for abduction and offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO) for eloping with her. The case pertains to Adalaj police station, where the woman’s father registered an FIR on June 5, accusing a man of abducting his daughter. Police invoked charges of abduction and the POCSO Act. The woman moved the high court questioning the FIR against her husband, asserting that she is an adult and walked out of her parental home on her own, because her father intended to marry her to a person not acceptable to her, and that she and the accused had lived together at different places and worked in factories. There was no abduction, she claimed. She also told the HC that her father got her birth registered using a false date of birth — May 11, 2004 — in Rajasthan on May 29, 2020. She alleged that she was projected as a minor so police could act against her husband. She told the HC that she did not want to live in a women’s protection home and would continue to live with her husband. After hearing her case, the high court stayed Adalaj police from taking any action against the petitioner’s husband. A reply has been sought from the police and the court further said, “Whether any proceedings need to be initiated against the complainant father or not, is an aspect which may be gone into by this court on the next date of hearing.” Further hearing has been posted for August 18. Similarly, in a separate case from Aravalli district, a person filed a habeas corpus petition for custody of his wife from her father, claiming that their marriage was registered on April 23, 2020 after the girl became an adult as she was born on March 3, 2002. However, his wife’s father insisted that she was born on June 26, 2003. The father placed a birth certificate issued by the Malpur gram panchayat in 2005. As the petitioner challenged his wife’s birth certificate, the high court called the register and the talati came up with a register with torn pages. The district judge expressed inability to verify the certificate because the births and deaths register was in poor shape. The HC got furious and observed that the talati-cum-mantri failed to maintain the register and discharge his statutory duty. The HC ordered the Aravalli DDO to conduct an inquiry into the improper maintenance of records and submit a report in court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/birth-certificate-in-dock-shes-daddys-little-girl-no-more/articleshow/77533945.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Start-up develops AI and ML-based smart ventilator||A city-based start-up, under the state government’s initiative — Hyderabad Security Cluster — has developed a smart ventilator which uses artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) to allow doctors to remotely manage a patient’s health. The ventilator, developed by Leven Medical, can also track a patient’s contacts, alert authorities and predict possible clusters that may develop, with its Covid tracking software. “The data curated during the current pandemic is a mine for future research and policy making. Our smart solution will predict patterns, provide inputs to government agencies and prevent data breaches. The innovation is a scalable model, shaped by inputs from the likes of UC Berkeley, Johns Hopkins and researchers around the globe,” said founder and CEO of Leven Medical, Zaki Qureshey. “The ventilator is a highly disruptive innovation in terms of technology and pricing. We are in talks with a few investors currently and are likely to start production by the next month. We are looking at producing 1,500 to 2,000 units per month,” Qureshey added. Speaking about the development, IT and industries principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said, “When Covid-19 cases started surging, it was reported that therewould be a major shortage of ventilators. Some hospitals and the government tried to import ventilators at the time but they were very costly and short in supply. This was a major cause of concern. But the innovation ecosystem rising up to the occasion has come as a relief.” “This is one great example of converting adversity into opportunity and shows the agility on how quickly our home-grown start-ups can develop the necessary technologies without compromising on any features and keeping in mind the cost-effectiveness,” the principal secretary said. “The capabilities that this innovation has in terms of tracking and providing data is the need of the hour. Take an example of a remote area where it is difficult to get doctors. This will allow a normal person to connect the ventilator to a patient and an expert sitting somewhere far can monitor vitals and provide necessary inputs. It can go a long way in saving lives,” said Verizon Asia-Pacific head of solutions and HSC founder, Prashanth Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/start-up-develops-ai-and-ml-based-smart-ventilator/articleshow/77533398.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 14, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu continues to report 3-digit Covid casualties||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reported 119 Covid-19 deaths for the second consecutive day on Thursday. The state added 5,835 fresh cases taking the case tally to 3,20,355. The cumulative death toll stood at 5,397. On Thursday, 53,499 people were still under treatment compared to 52,929 on Wednesday. While nearly 56% of the patients under treatment were in the northern districts, a quarter of them were in south. The central and western districts had 10% of the active cases each. There was a marginal increase in the number of cases from 5,871 on Wednesday. The state tested 65,560 people using RT-PCR tests in the past 24 hours compared to 69,697 on Wednesday. Chennai continued to be atop the table with 989 cases and 18 deaths. The neighbouring districts – Chengalpet (453), Tiruvallur (390) and Kancheepuram (243) -- reported 1,086 cases and 17 deaths. The Chennai region recorded 2,075 cases and 35 deaths. Senior officials in the public health department said they were drawing up micro containment plans for peri-urban districts such as Tiruvallur and Chengalpet. Tiruvallur has 3,803 active cases and has reported 315 deaths so far, 2,994 people still under treatment in Chengalpet that has had 329 deaths. Seven other districts in the north added 864 cases and 17 deaths. Four -- Cuddalore (258), Tiruvannamalai (153), Vellore (143) and Villupuram (104) -- reported cases in three digits. While Kallakuruchi had 86 cases, Tirupathur and Ranipet reported 64 and 57 cases. Together, the 11 northern districts reported 50% of the total cases and 44% of deaths. The northern zone has 29,753 cases, including 10,868 in Chennai. The 10 districts in the south, meanwhile, reported 37 deaths and 1,538 cases. Except Sivaganga (65) and Ramanathapuram (60), all other districts had cases above 100. Theni (286) and Virudhunagar (219) had more than 200 cases, and they were followed by Tirunelveli (189), Kanyakumari (186), Madurai (151), Dindigul (141), Tenkasi (138) and Turicorin (103). Tirunelveli reported seven deaths, Kanyakumari six, while Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Theni reported five deaths each. There were 13,163 active cases in the region. On Thursday, the central zones reported 691 cases compared to 660 in the western region that had 17 deaths compared to 13 in the central region. Coimbatore reported 289 cases and seven deaths followed by 173 fresh cases and five deaths in Salem. In the central region, Thanjavur reported 154 cases and three deaths. Pudukottai had 131 cases and four deaths. Nilgiris (7), Krishnagiri (9) reported single-digit increase in fresh cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-continues-to-report-3-digit-covid-casualties/articleshow/77536628.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu continues to report 3-digit Covid casualties||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu reported 119 Covid-19 deaths for the second consecutive day on Thursday. The state added 5,835 fresh cases taking the case tally to 3,20,355. The cumulative death toll stood at 5,397. On Thursday, 53,499 people were still under treatment compared to 52,929 on Wednesday. While nearly 56% of the patients under treatment were in the northern districts, a quarter of them were in south. The central and western districts had 10% of the active cases each. There was a marginal increase in the number of cases from 5,871 on Wednesday. The state tested 65,560 people using RT-PCR tests in the past 24 hours compared to 69,697 on Wednesday. Chennai continued to be atop the table with 989 cases and 18 deaths. The neighbouring districts – Chengalpet (453), Tiruvallur (390) and Kancheepuram (243) -- reported 1,086 cases and 17 deaths. The Chennai region recorded 2,075 cases and 35 deaths. Senior officials in the public health department said they were drawing up micro containment plans for peri-urban districts such as Tiruvallur and Chengalpet. Tiruvallur has 3,803 active cases and has reported 315 deaths so far, 2,994 people still under treatment in Chengalpet that has had 329 deaths. Seven other districts in the north added 864 cases and 17 deaths. Four -- Cuddalore (258), Tiruvannamalai (153), Vellore (143) and Villupuram (104) -- reported cases in three digits. While Kallakuruchi had 86 cases, Tirupathur and Ranipet reported 64 and 57 cases. Together, the 11 northern districts reported 50% of the total cases and 44% of deaths. The northern zone has 29,753 cases, including 10,868 in Chennai. The 10 districts in the south, meanwhile, reported 37 deaths and 1,538 cases. Except Sivaganga (65) and Ramanathapuram (60), all other districts had cases above 100. Theni (286) and Virudhunagar (219) had more than 200 cases, and they were followed by Tirunelveli (189), Kanyakumari (186), Madurai (151), Dindigul (141), Tenkasi (138) and Turicorin (103). Tirunelveli reported seven deaths, Kanyakumari six, while Madurai, Ramanathapuram and Theni reported five deaths each. There were 13,163 active cases in the region. On Thursday, the central zones reported 691 cases compared to 660 in the western region that had 17 deaths compared to 13 in the central region. Coimbatore reported 289 cases and seven deaths followed by 173 fresh cases and five deaths in Salem. In the central region, Thanjavur reported 154 cases and three deaths. Pudukottai had 131 cases and four deaths. Nilgiris (7), Krishnagiri (9) reported single-digit increase in fresh cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-continues-to-report-3-digit-covid-casualties/articleshow/77536626.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana clears final DPR of Metro rail link from Huda City Centre to other parts of Ggn||Chandigarh: To provide Metro connectivity to the residents of old Gurgaon, Haryana cabinet on Thursday accorded approval for final Detailed Project Report (DPR) of Metro Rail Connection from Huda City Centre to various important locations in Gurugram at a cost Rs 6,821.13 crore. Meanwhile, the monsoon session of Haryana legislative assembly will commence from August 26 at 2pm. A decision to this effect was taken in a meeting of the state cabinet held on Thursday. The total length of the corridor shall be about 28.80 km and will have 27 elevated stations with six interchange stations. This link would start at Huda City Centre and move towards Sector 45, Cyber Park, district shopping centre, Sector 47, Subhash Chowk, Sector 48, Sector 72 A, Hero Honda Chowk, Udyog Vihar Phase 6, Sector 10, Sector 37, Basai village, Sector 9, Sector 7, Sector 4, Sector 5, Ashok Vihar, Sector 3, Bajghera Road, Palam Vihar Extension, Palam Vihar, Sector 23 A, Sector 22, Udyog Vihar Phase 4, Udyog Vihar Phase 5 and finally merge in existing metro network of Rapid Metrorail Gurgaon at Moulsar Avenue station near Cyber City. This Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) project will facilitate maximum part of Gurugram city. It will interchange with MRTS Corridor at Subhash Chowk, with Bus Stand at Sector 10, with Railway Station at Sector 5 and with Rapid Metro at Moulsar Avenue Station. MRTS Corridor at Subhash Chowk will interchange with the yellow line at Huda City Centre, providing direct connectivity to a large part of Gurugram with Delhi. It will also interchange with RRTS stations at Hero Honda Chowk and Sector -22 and provide connectivity up to Sarai Kale Khan, New Delhi side and on one Shahjahanpur, Neemrana and Behror, Rajasthan on the other side. These linkages will enhance the efficiency of the transportation system in the National Capital Region. The daily ridership on the study corridor for years 2025, 2031 and 2041 is expected to be 5.34 lakh passenger trips, 7.26 lakh passenger trips and 8.81 passenger trips, respectively. The introduction of MRTS is expected to reduce the number of buses, Intermediate Public Transport, usage of private vehicles. This, in turn, will result in significant social benefits due to reduction fuel consumption, vehicle operating cost and travel time of passengers. Besides, it will also help reduce accidents, pollution and road maintenance costs. The cabinet also accorded approval to draft an ordinance or/and Bill for amendment in Section-421 of the Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, regarding the conditions governing appointment, removal or suspension of mayors elected prior to October 4, 2018. With this, removal and suspension of the municipal body office-bearers would be governed by the provisions of Haryana Municipal Corporation Act, 1994, that existed immediately before the Haryana Municipal Corporation (Second Amendment) Act, 2018, came into force. This amendment shall be deemed to have come into force from October 4, 2018, the day The Haryana Municipal Corporation (Second Amendment) Act, 2018, came into force. Similar amendment has also been made to govern the suspension and removal of the municipal council office-bearers. The cabinet also took up informal discussion on certain issues. It included 75% reservation to Haryana youths in state industries, 50% reservation for women in panchayat polls and 8% reservation to persons belonging to backward class-A category in panchayat elections. The government would also bring some new bills in the upcoming session of the state assembly. OTHER CABINET DECISIONS >> Amend the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act, 1961. With this, the penalty ranging from Rs 5, 000 to Rs 10, 000 per hectare will be raised to not less than an amount equal 1% of the collector rate of the land per year but not exceeding 10% of the present collector rate of the land, keeping in view the lease value of the land. >> Approved a proposal of the urban local bodies department to transfer 7.72 acre land of Municipal Corporation, Ambala, at Sadhopur village to women and child development department for construction of an integrated multiple complex that would include an observation home, special home, place of safety and a children’s home at current collector rate. >> Transfer the administrative control of Haryana Space Application Centre on ‘as is where is’ basis along with all existing assets and liabilities from science and technology department to citizen resources information department. >> Transfer of the subject of ‘Minor Irrigation and Ground Water’ from agriculture and farmers’ welfare department to the irrigation and water resources department on the pattern of Centre, where ministry of water resources is called jal shakti mantralaya, set up for the purpose of integrated water resource management. The decision has been taken so as to consolidate all water related subjects with the department of irrigation and water resources department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-clears-final-dpr-of-metro-rail-link-from-huda-city-centre-to-other-parts-of-ggn/articleshow/77535706.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand cabinet passes ordinance on madatory 30% salary contribution by MLAs for Covid-19 fight||Dehradun: The state government on Thursday introduced a new ordinance making it mandatory for all lawmakers to contribute 30% of their salary and perks to the state in its fight against Covid-19.The move comes after an RTI query filed by a Congress MLA revealed that several ruling party MLAs were contributing far less of their salary than what was unanimously decided upon by the cabinet in the early stages of the pandemic in the state.According to the new ordinance, all Uttarakhand legislators would have to give 30% of their salary and perks to the state government from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021 to help it in its fight against Covid-19.The basic salary of an MLA in Uttarakhand is Rs 30,000 per month and the total comes to over Rs 3 lakh per month with all the perks.Urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said, “There was some confusion amongst the MLAs and they were expected to inform the assembly about their contribution. Due to this, they gave only 30% of the basic salary and a portion of the perks was left out. To ensure complete transparency, we have brought an ordinance in this regard. The dues of the first three months will be deducted accordingly.”Meanwhile, launching a scathing attack on the ruling party, Congress MLA from Kedarnath, Manoj Rawat, who brought the matter to the fore, said, “This is perhaps the first example where MLAs of the ruling party are not aware of their own cabinet decision while opposition legislators are diligently following it. It is shocking that the BJP MLAs are unwilling to abide by the decision of their own government. As a result, the cabinet had to bring an ordinance to wake them up.”The RTI reply accessed by the Kedarnath MLA had stated that 16 BJP legislators were contributing Rs 30,000 per month, four Rs 12,600 and another 13, including state party chief Bansidhar Bhagat, just Rs 9,000. Opposition Congress MLAs were each contributing Rs 57,600 for the cause. The issue also sparked a verbal battle between both the parties forcing the government to issue a clarification stating that they would opt the ordinance route to enforce the decision.Incidentally, the CPM-led government in Kerala had also passed an ordinance in April making it mandatory for government employees to contribute six days’ salary every month till August to fund the state government’s Covid-19 fight. The move came after the high court stayed a similar directive issued earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-cabinet-passes-ordinance-on-madatory-30-salary-contribution-by-mlas-for-covid-19-fight/articleshow/77531213.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold price drops by Rs 1k in Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Continuing its plunge since the announcement about a vaccine for preventing coronavirus by Russia, gold price continued to decline for the third consecutive day. At Rs 54,000 per 10g, gold price fell by Rs 1,000 in Ahmedabad on Thursday, dropping from Rs 55,000 per 10g on Wednesday. Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion & Jewellers’ Association (IBJA) said, “Gold prices declined in the international market, plunging below $1,900 per ounce and consequently, riding on optimism after the announcement of the coronavirus vaccine by Russia. The positive hopes for further stimulus by the US government also fuelled optimism among investors. Many have also sold off gold for profit booking and as a consequence, the yellow metal prices declined.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-drops-by-rs-1k-in-ahmedabad/articleshow/77533982.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Consent of 5k cured patients to be taken||Aurangabad: Social group Bharatiya Jain Sanghatana (BJS), which is actively partnering with the civic administration for rapid antigen tests and sero survey, has announced that it would collect 5,000 consent forms from those who have recovered from Covid 19 for plasma therapy. BJS state executive member Pravin Parakh said that they have set August 15 as the deadline for collecting consent forms for plasma donation from across the state. “While our teams are working across the state, we have collected 20 consent forms from Aurangabad against the target of 500 so far. Those who want to donate plasma should contact BJS coordinators and volunteers,” said Parakh. The state government had asked for the use of plasma therapy in the areas worst affected by Covid-19 and had set June 15 as the deadline for starting clinical trails after necessary approval from the Central and state-level authorities. The Government Medical College and Hospital , Auangabad, which was among the 21 state-run health facilities identified initially for the therapy, is stil in the process of completing the necessary formalities. Meanwhile, Aurangabad Municipal Corporation and BJS together have completed around 25,712 rapid antigen tests in the city. “These tests are being conducted as part of the ‘Mission Zero’ Covid initiative which has been running for the last 22 days. As many as 838 patients have been identified through the rapid antigen tests. The patients have been admitted to hospitals for further treatment,” said district president of BJS, Aurangabad, Kishor Lalwani said. BJS has appealed to citizens to come forward for rapid antigen tests as well as the sero survey for early identification of the patients and effective management of the viral infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/consent-of-5k-cured-patients-to-be-taken/articleshow/77531211.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||India will take all measures to safeguard its sovereignty, territorial integrity: New envoy to UK||In the backdrop of more than 100 British Indian organisations writing to UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson to stop the planned protests by British Pakistanis, Kashmiris and pro-Khalistan British Sikhs outside the Indian High Commission in London on Independence Day to prevent a repeat of last year’s violence, TOI catches up with the new Indian High Commissioner, Gaitri Issar Kumar, who says New Delhi will take all measures at its disposal to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Excerpts from the interview: How do you plan to counter the aggressive propaganda offensive against India in London, in particular the challenge of the Pakistani-Khalistani nexus that is leveraging their numbers in select constituencies to impel British MPs to toe their line? The people of Punjab and the Government of India have worked together over the years to successfully root out the Khalistan ‘movement’ — extremist entities associated with Khalistan terrorism — in the early 90s in India. We are aware that many of these terrorist entities connected with the Khalistan movement continue their activities based in the UK and other western countries, where they had fled to. It is well known that they operate in close cooperation with Pakistan-backed perpetrators of terror to create instability in J&K and other parts of India. Our government has a number of institutional mechanisms for sharing relevant information on all these organisations with the UK, including regular dialogue and robust cooperation in a variety of areas related to our convergent security and defence interests. The British High Commission in Delhi recently made a statement on the so-called ‘Punjab Referendum 2020’ that US-headquartered ‘Sikhs for Justice’ is pushing, saying: “This is a matter for the government and people of India… We consider the Indian Punjab to be a part of India.” What is your reaction to the UK’s statement? We appreciate the position taken by the UK government on the Khalistan issue — that they see Punjab as an integral part of India. As for ‘Sikhs for Justice’, its supporters must be aware of this organisation’s involvement in serious terror-related and other illegal activities for which many are wanted in India. My government has officially sought the proscription of the terror entity ‘Sikhs for Justice’ in the UK. The legitimacy, credibility and background of the so-called ‘20-20 Referendum’ by ‘Sikhs For Justice’ is, in any case, highly questionable: it never had any support in India and there is virtually no support from Sikhs abroad. India will take all measures at its disposal to safeguard its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Last year, Khalistan terror elements based in the UK attempted to burn the Indian flag (which they had brought themselves) in front of the Indian High Commission even as the Indian community had gathered to celebrate Republic Day. To every Indian, the national flag is a symbol of Mother India. Burning of the flag, especially on that occasion, was seen for what it was, a provocation, which our people had the maturity and presence of mind to ignore. Full interview on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/india-will-take-all-measures-to-safeguard-its-sovereignty-territorial-integrity-new-envoy-to-uk/articleshow/77535707.cms||NAOMI CANTON
August 14, 2020||Goa||Goa DGP talks tough, vows to crack down on illegal parties||PANAJI: Taking a serious note of parties being held illegally in the state, director general of police Mukesh Kumar Meena said that Goa police will act against the organisers. “In Covid times there are a lot of restrictions (on parties), but there are some who are violating the law and we will act against those organising these parties. Such incidents have come to light and police have taken legal action,” the DGP said. Meena told reporters the crime in the state has come under control during the pandemic. Chief minister Pramod Sawant had directed police to crack down on parties and had appealed to people against hosting parties during the pandemic. However, foreigners in the state continue to hold parties. Recently, a farewell party hosted by a 22-year-old Russian girl for herself at a villa in Arpora turned violent after a group of youth got into a scuffle. Around 17 youth in the age group of 17 to 22 were at the party. Among them were those linked to high profile persons. The incident took place in the early hours of August 2 but came to the light only after a video of the party went viral on social media. Anjuna police booked two for causing hurt to one youth with a weapon. This is not the first party since lockdown. Sources said that in Ashvem some foreign nationals had organised a party in a stone quarry. Another was held in Arambol from where police seized some musical instruments. In April, foreigners planned rave parties in the jungles of Pernem’s coastal belt, but the attempt was foiled by Paliem and Arambol residents. Last month, Goa police arrested a Russian national for organising a party at Morjim, who was later released on bail. Earlier, a bash was held in Ozrant, Anjuna In July, police arrested a Russian national and a hotel owner for organising a party in the latter’s premises in Morjim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dgp-talks-tough-vows-to-crack-down-on-illegal-parties/articleshow/77533979.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Goa||Those opposing Mollem projects are ‘abroad’: Goa CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Reacting to the stiff opposition from people to three major projects at Mollem in Bhagvan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday claimed that these perons are from Africa, England and Russia. “Sometimes I don’t understand why people who do not know where Mollem is, express their views from foreign countries,” Sawant said. “Residents of Mollem feel that double tracking of railway and widening of road will benefit them,” he said. The chief minister said that a lot of people are hell-bent on criticising the government. “We want power and water 24x7. Along with good environment, we need good transport facilities and quality roads. The government is not here to destroy environment, we are here to preserve. If we cut 10 trees, we will plant 100 trees,” he said. He further said the government has decided to install charging stations across the state to encourage use of electric vehicles. He distributed subsidy to individuals and commercial establishments who have installed solar panels on their rooftop for power generation. Power minister Nilesh Cabral said that more than 55 people have installed solar panels so far. He said that government has made provision for providing subsidy to another 500 people to install solar panels. Cabral said that in future all the subsidies would be disbursed in time. “The government will come out with a new scheme to install solar water pump,” he said. “We will require people’s support to buy electric cars and have green environment realistically, unlike Delhi. We have equal population of vehicles and people in the state,” Cabral said. “We will come out with a scheme to increase purchase of electric cars to protect the environment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-those-opposing-mollem-projects-are-abroad/articleshow/77533949.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Dehradun||2 killed in rain-related incidents, 75 roads blocked in Kumaon||Dehradun/Nainital: Two persons, including an ITBP jawan, were killed in rain-related incidents in Uttarakhand since Wednesday night. The ITBP soldier was washed away by strong currents while he and his brother were trying to cross a swollen river on a bike in Bangapani area of Pithoragarh district. The victim was identified as Kailash Chandra Joshi (40), who was returning to his unit after completing his leave period. His brother Anil Chandra Joshi sustained grievous injuries and was rushed to a hospital where he is critical at present. An SDRF official said, “Both were trying to cross a swollen river when their bike got stuck in a pothole and strong currents swept them away. Even though locals managed to pull them out, one had already died and another was critical.” In another incident, a 20-year-old man was killed when lightning struck him in Chadogi village of Tehri district. The victim was identified as Suraj Singh, who was staying in a temporary shelter. Meanwhile, heavy rains in Kumaon and subsequent landslides blocked over 75 motorable roads in the region, including the Champawat-Pithoragarh national highway. According to government sources, the worst-affected areas were Nainital, Bageshwar and Pithoragarh districts. While 25 roads were blocked in Bageshwar, 21 were damaged in Nainital and traffic disrupted in over two dozen in Pithoragarh. An official from Bageshwar said, “The administration is working to open the blocked and damaged roads. While many of them have been cleared, there are some areas which are inaccessible due to heavy rains.” Most of the rivers were in spate due to heavy rains over the last couple of days. While both Gomti and Sarayu rivers in Bageshwar were reported to be flowing near the danger level (869m), the water level of Kosi in Nainital and Kali in Pithoragarh was also reported to have risen. The meteorological department officials said that heavy to very heavy rains are likely to continue in the state with isolated places receiving extremely heavy rainfall on Saturday. “Due to the intense rain spell, incidents of landslides and flash floods are likely in the hills while waterlogging may occur in the plains,” said Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre. Pointing to the extent of damage in cloudburst-affected areas in Munsyari and Dharchula, former chief minister and Congress veteran Harish Rawat said that “another disaster like the 2013 Kedarnath tragedy is waiting to happen if the government does not take adequate steps to prevent damage.” “I will meet the chief minister along with leaders from the affected areas and urge him to constitute an expert committee in this regard,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-killed-in-rain-related-incidents-75-roads-blocked-in-kumaon/articleshow/77531227.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 14, 2020||Goa||Governor urged to assist in restarting mining activities||Panaji: Representatives of panchayats in the mining belt met governor Satya Pal Malik and urged him to help them restart mining in the state. Sanvordem sarpanch Sandeep Pauskar told the governor that mining was their livelihood and requested him to restart the industry in a full-fledged manner. “We don’t want temporary mining, which starts and stops in two to three months. People from the mining belt have been suffering for the last eight years,” he said. Around 26 panchayats from the state have approached the Supreme Court with an interlocutory application (IA) seeking impleadment in the Goa mining case. “Populace of these 26 villages are closely dependent on the mining industry. Mining is and has been a mainstay of the people of Goa since its inhabitants have been employed in mining and ancillary activities for at least six generations,” the panchayats stated. “Ban on mining activities for the past 28 months has impacted people in the villages,” they stated. Mining stopped in Goa from March 15, 2018, after the Supreme Court quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases. Dharbandora sarpanch Swati Gawas Tilve said, “It is imperative that mining activities in the state resume immediately. The consistent cry of the people to resume their livelihood can yield results only with the supportive intervention of the state and the central government. We will not leave any stone unturned. We have even approached the Supreme Court. We are only praying for justice for our livelihood as we are suffering for many years.” The panchayat representatives blamed an NGO-Goa Foundation for stopping mining in the state. Based on the report of the Shah inquiry commission, then chief minister Manohar Parrikar had suspended the leases bringing mining operations to a halt. A large number of families in the state are surviving on huge borrowings, savings, and on small temporary jobs, and are battling financial crises, they stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/governor-urged-to-assist-in-restarting-mining-activities/articleshow/77533991.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||Contractor fined Rs1.92L for digging roads sans nod||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has imposed Rs1.92 lakh fine on a private firm — Govind Electrical and Developers — which is laying cables in Mohan Nagar area without permission from the civic body. Taking cognisance of TOI report ‘Road laid couple of months ago now dug up’ published on August 7 highlighting how internal roads in Mohan Nagar which were laid barely a couple of months ago at a cost of Rs20 lakh were dug up by a private company to lay electric cables. Dinesh Naidu, a resident, had filed a complaint through Nagpur Live City app but it failed to spur NMC’s Mangalwari zone office led by assistant municipal commissioner Harish Raut into action. After TOI highlighted the issue, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe directed the zone officials for spot inspection. Subsequently, a fine was imposed on the contractor. Mundhe also issued show-cause notices to zone’s executive engineer, deputy engineer and junior engineers for dereliction of duty. Residents thanked TOI and hoped that NMC zonal offices will at least act swiftly now on complaints lodged through the app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/contractor-fined-rs1-92l-for-digging-roads-sans-nod/articleshow/77534012.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 14, 2020||Goa||Melauli locals warn of massive stir||Valpoi: Criticising chief minister Pramod Sawant’s statement of exempting 45,000sqm of land, which includes a temple, from the 10 lakh sqm earmarked to construct the proposed IIT project in Melauli-Sattari, locals said that they are firm on their decision not to allow the IIT project in their village and warned the government of a massive Nylon 6,6 like agitation.  Convenor of Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan, Sashikant Savordekar said that exempting the temple’s land will never be the solution. Co-convenor Shubham Shivolkar refuted health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane’s statement that the villagers have never written to him opposing the project, and showed a copy of the memorandum they submitted to Rane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/melauli-locals-warn-of-massive-stir/articleshow/77534019.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mumbai||Be clear about files, BMC chief tells officials||Mumbai: Civic chief Iqbal Chahal wants subordinates to clearly state if a proposal is ‘recommended’ or ‘not recommended’. In an order to heads of department on Thursday, Chahal said files which come to his table for approval do not explicitly state if a proposal is recommended or not recommended. Instead, the subject merely states ‘Submitted for order’, ‘Submitted for directions’, ‘Submitted for advice’ or ‘Submitted for approval/sanction’. Very often, officials merely sign a proposal and forward it to the commissioner’s office, he said. “It is not expected for a file to be forwarded without clearly stating if a proposal is recommended or not recommended. It is expected that a file will be forwarded clearly stating reasons why a proposal is recommended or not recommended. There will be no exceptions. This is being reiterated and a serious view will be taken of those who do not follow it,” his order said. Chahal told TOI the system of merely pushing forward files creates problems and delays decision-making. “There is a whole plethora of officials processing a file and each must put it down in black and white why a proposal is being put up, otherwise it is just a story. There is no point in having so many officials to process a file if they cannot tell... This will aid speedy decision-making and help clear files quickly,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/be-clear-about-files-bmc-chief-tells-officials/articleshow/77534338.cms||Clara Lewis
August 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Hotelier booked for running business beyond permitted hours||rAurangabad: The Cidco police have booked a 40-year-old man for allegedly running his hotel beyond the permitted hours and serving food to the customers without wearing a mask. Police said while patrolling the area late at night on Wednesday, they found a hotel in Jadhavwadi New Mondha area, operating and serving food to the customers. Police reached the spot and questioned the hotel owner who was serving food without wearing a mask. Subsequently, he was booked him under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code for violating the norms by running his business beyond permitted hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/hotelier-booked-for-running-business-beyond-permitted-hours/articleshow/77531222.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Preacher Daduwal elected HSGMC chief||Kaithal: Sarbat Khalsa appointed jathedar of Takht Sri Damdama Sahib, Baljit Singh Daduwal has been elected as the president of Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC) on Thursday. The election was held at Gurdwara Patshahi Chhevin and Nauvin in Cheeka town of Kaithal district amid tight police security. Except for a halt of about one-and-a-half hour midway, due to an objection raised by Daduwal against the presiding officer Darshan Singh Barari, the election was a peaceful event. According to the information, all eligible 36 members of HSGMC from different parts of state arrived in Cheeka town to exercise their voting right. The contest was primarily between two candidates, Baljit Singh Daduwal of Sirsa and Jasbir Singh Khalsa of Dosarka, Ambala. While announcing the results, the election presiding officer Barari said, “A total of 36 members of HSGMC voted for president post on Thursday. Out of 36, jathedar Baljit Singh Daduwal received 19 votes and Jasbir Singh Khalsa received 17 votes. Accordingly, Daduwal has been elected as president of HSGMC.” HSGMC was divided into two groups: one of former president Jagdish Singh Jhinda and former senior vice president Didar Singh Nalvi. Daduwal had raised a written objection against voting rights to three members holding membership of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), Amritsar too and alleged that presiding officer Barari is doing partiality in favour of his rival Jhinda group. Following this, sub-divisional magistrates and nodal officers Guhla-Cheeka Shashi Vasundhra and Kaithal Sanjay Kumar halted the election process midway and left the gurdwara premises to consult HSGMC Act and law. But the voting process was resumed at 2.45pm as the time for voting was only till 3pm and nine members were yet to cast their vote. SDM Shashi said, “On the basis of facts presented by the presiding officer, the objection was overruled. Then we decided to continue the election and it completed peacefully.” Daduwal said, “Haryana committee came into existence in 2014 and for the last six years, Jhinda Sahib was running it and we had supported him and now we also expect complete support of his group. Our aim is to improve the management of all gurdwaras under HSGMC, propagation of Sikh religion, keertan darbars, and amrit sanchar (initiation of Sikhs) at large scale in all the regions of Haryana. We will also start a campaign against drugs in state. We will organise different competitions like turban tying, gurbani kanth (reciting gurbani from memory) at a large scale. Daduwal resigns as jathedar at Takht Damdama Sahib After getting elected as HSGMC president, Daduwal said, “On October 10, 2015, Sarbat Khalsa appointed me as jathedar of Takht Sri Damdama Sahib. As I have been elected as president of HSGMC, I urge Sarbat Khalsa organisations to find a deserving Sikh and appoint him as jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/preacher-daduwal-elected-hsgmc-chief/articleshow/77535708.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad sees incessant rain, more in store till Monday||HYDERABAD: The city on Thursday received light to moderate rains of up to 48 mm, resulting in a massive drop in the mercury levels. The maximum temperature nosedived from 29.7 degree Celsius on Wednesday to 23.8 degree Celsius on Thursday - six degree Celsius below normal. According to the Telangana State Development Planning Society figures up to 10 pm, Asifnagar received highest rainfall of 48.3 mm at Madhapur followed by 47.5 mm at Asifnagar, 42.3 mm at Khairtabad and Sardarmahal, 41.8 mm at Vengalrao Nagar, 41.5 mm at Vijayanagar Colony and 41 mm at Film Nagar. Southwest monsoon has been active across the state but the intensity of the rains has been relatively poor this year. “With no major systems over Bay of Bengal or north Andhra Pradesh, the intensity of rains that the city has received is relatively low this year. If there was frequent low pressure or depression, the intensity of rainfall would have been much higher,” said Rama Rao, consultant, TSDPS, and added that rainfall activity is normal so far across the state. As per the India Meteorological Department, Hyderabad, the city has received 15 per cent excess rainfall from June 1 till date. As against normal rainfall of 359.7 mm, the city has received 412.1 mm rains in the last 2.5 months. In districts, Bhadradri- Kothagudem and Mulugu received up to 154 mm of very heavy rainfall till Thursday morning. The IMD forecasts that the rainfall activity will continue as it has issued heavy rainfall warning at isolated places across the state till August 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-sees-incessant-rain-more-in-store-till-mon/articleshow/77532471.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu has treated 89 Covid cases with plasma: Health minister C Vijayabaskar||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu has successfully treated 89 patients with blood plasma as part of the national trial, health minister C Vijayabaskar said on Thursday. This is the maximum number of patients treated by any state in the country. Vijayabaskar was visiting the newly inaugurated plasma bank at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital where 40 policemen, who had recently recovered from the disease, donated plasma. In the past 20 days, 76 people have donated plasma to help other people recover from the viral infection. Convalescent plasma therapy is an experimental treatment recommended by the ICMR for people with moderate symptoms. People who recover from the infection develop antibodies — proteins the body uses to fight off infections — to the disease in their blood. The blood from people who have recovered is called convalescent plasma. Doctors believe that the plasma loaded with antibodies can help patients develop the ability to fight the virus and prevent them from becoming more ill. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami took to the social media to urge people who have recovered from Covid to consider donating blood through the government plasma banks. People can donate 500ml of plasma – up to two times in a gap of 15 days – two weeks after they recover from the infection. The 500ml plasma is administered to two patients. “The state has the Centre’s approval to set up plasma banks in three districts – Chennai, Madurai and Tirunelveli. We are setting up similar banks in six other districts,” Vijayabaskar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-has-treated-89-covid-cases-with-plasma-health-min/articleshow/77534018.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Buprenorphine scam: Defaulter de-addiction centres to upload records by Aug 17||Chandigarh: The three-member committee headed by the anti-drug special task force chief, ADGP Harpreet Singh Sidhu, probing misappropriation of 5 crore tablets of de-addiction drug buprenorphine worth around Rs 200 crore by private de-addiction centres in Punjab has directed 23 big defaulter de-addiction centres to put their records online by August 17. On the directions of the committee, deputy commissioners have also constituted 5-member committees to physically inspect records of these de-addiction centres for misappropriation of buprenorphine tablets between January 1 and November 11, 2019, and submit their reports. These district-level committees comprise an SDM, a DSP, a medical officer deputed by the civil surgeon, an expert in accounts and a drug inspector. These defaulting private de-addiction centres are in Patiala, Ludhiana, Tarn Taran and Hoshiarpur districts. The anti-drug STF has also attached one officer each with the districts committees in Patiala, Ludhiana and Tarn Taran because of the large number of defaulter de-addiction centres in these areas. The health department records reveal that there was a diversion of 48,23,401 buprenorphine tablets in a Patiala-based private de-addiction centre, a discrepancy of 42,22,370 buprenorphine tablets in a Ludhiana-based a de-addiction centre and a gap of 40,03,125 buprenorphine tablets in a Tarn Taran-based de-addiction centre. "After giving them an opportunity of personal hearing as per law, we have asked these 23 de-addiction centres to upload their entire record online by August 17. The committees set up by DCs will also submit their reports to us on August 17," said ADGP Sidhu. The three-member committee would compare the online record uploaded by these private de-addiction centres with the health department’s record besides examining the reports submitted by district-level committees and then arrive at a final conclusion. Sidhu said the committee would complete the probe before month-end in a "fair and transparent manner." The three-member committed also comprising Punjab food and drug administration commissioner Kahan Singh Pannu and director health services Avneet Kaur was constituted on June 29. Pannu is superannuating on August 31. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is also probing the money laundering angle in this case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The Case It was on December 2, 2019, that the Punjab health and family welfare department had detected misappropriation of 5 crore tablets of buprenorphine to unauthorized persons outside by private de-addiction centres. The misappropriation came out after the health and family welfare department collated data of buprenorphine procured, dispensed and its stock in hand submitted by private de-addiction centres to the state food and drug administration (FDA). The health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu had directed all the civil surgeons to probe the matter and submit a report. The health department had then issued show-cause notices to nearly 90 private de-addiction centres, but found major irregularities in the records of 23 de-addiction centres. During the budget session of the Punjab legislative assembly in February this year, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) had demanded an independent probe into the matter alleging that the state government was scuttling the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/buprenorphine-scam-defaulter-de-addiction-centres-to-upload-records-by-aug-17/articleshow/77535709.cms||Sanjeev Verma
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Panel set up to rein in pvt hospitals||Lucknow: The district administration constituted a committee on Thursday to ensure private hospitals designated as Covid facilities charge for treatment as per rates fixed by state government. “The decision was taken following complaints that a few private hospitals were charging arbitrarily. The committee will keep a vigil on the private hospitals,” said district magistrate Abhishek Prakash, while releasing the order of chief medical officer fixing the rates as directed by state government. He said action will be taken againt those charging more than fixed rates. For Lucknow (‘A’ category city), the state government has fixed Rs 10,000 per day for moderate patients(including supportive care and oxygen), Rs 15,000 per day for ICU (without ventilator support) and Rs 18,000 a day for ICU with ventilator support. These rates include cost of PPE kits. The order also said hospital will have to mention specifically in the bill given to a patient if it has charged extra for any special or extra treatment and must submit its copy to the chief medical officer’s office. The DM also directed hospitals to provide details of vacant beds every four hours to command centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/panel-set-up-to-rein-in-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/77534973.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Aurangabad||105 fresh cases, 5 deaths in Aurangabad dist||Aurangabad: As many as 105 fresh Covid-19 patients were registered in Aurangabad district on Thursday, taking the total number of active cases to 4,137. In addition, five patients succumbed to the contagion. The recent casualties were reported from the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) on Thursday. With this, the death toll of the district stands at 566. The district administration said that of the 105 recent cases, as many as 62 patients were reported from the limits of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) while 43 were registered from the rural parts of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/105-fresh-cases-5-deaths-in-aurangabad-dist/articleshow/77531215.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kochi||Swapna highly influential, says court||Kochi: Observing that Swapna’s ‘extreme influence in the corridors of power is evident from the available records’, ernakulam additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) court on Thursday dismissed the bail petition of Swapna Suresh, the prime accused in the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. The court through the same common-order rejected the bail petition of the eighth accused, Said Alavi E too. Dismissing the bail plea, Deepu C, additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM) made a strong observation that Swapna was not entitled to the benefit of being released on bail under CrPC 437, on the grounds of her being a woman. “Indian women are generally considered as weaker section of society. Therefore, discretion can be exercised in favour of women. A3 (Swapna) is an extremely influential lady as discussed here above. Even after her resignation from consulate, she continued to help top officials of the consulate. That apart, she managed to obtain employment in a project proposed by state government. Her extreme influence in the corridors of power is evident from the available records. Such a woman is not entitled to benefit of proviso to section 437 of CrPC (provision for granting bail in non-bailable offence),” the court observed. Opposing Swapna’s bail plea, customs special prosecutor had submitted that the accused’s journey from Thiruvananthapuram to Bengaluru when travel restrictions were in place shows her influence. “However, the court did not make any observation about the role of consulate officials. Alavi’s bail petition, filed on medical grounds, also got dismissed by the court. The court in the order directed the jail superintendent to closely monitor Alavi’s health status .  ACJM court on Thursday extended the judicial custody of eight accused persons in the case till August 25 after examining them via video conferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/swapna-highly-influential-says-court/articleshow/77531246.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||18% excess rainfall in Telangana up to July||Hyderabad: The state has received excess rainfall this monsoon up to July this year. The groundwater department on Thursday said 18% excess rainfall was received as compared to the normal rainfall during the same period. The status of groundwater level scenario report for 2020-21 up to July 2020 said the rainfall received was 439.8 mm as against the normal of 373.4 mm. Of 33 districts, 16 received excess rainfall, 15 received normal rainfall and two received deficit rainfall. Also, of the 589 mandals, 266 received excess rainfall (+20 % and above to normal), 249 received normal rainfall (-19% to +19%) and 74 received deficit rainfall (-20% to -59%). According to the groundwater department, Nizamabad and Nirmal received deficit rainfall. While the deficit for Nizamabad was – 24%, for Nirmal it was – 30%. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/18-excess-rainfall-in-telangana-up-to-july/articleshow/77532486.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 14, 2020||Madurai||Meenakshi temple festival cancelled||Madurai: The Aavani Moola festival of the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple will be cancelled this year due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown. Executive officer of the temple, K Chelladurai, said that the Aavani Moola festival was scheduled to be held from August 15 to September 1 this year. Many of these rituals require the deities to be taken out of the temple and carried in processions to various parts of the city. But since the temple is closed to the public and it is against the Covid-19 protocol to take the deities around in processions, the festival stands cancelled. However, special poojas and rituals would be held twice a day within the sanctum sanctorum , Chelladurai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/meenakshi-temple-festival-cancelled/articleshow/77534982.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Patients made to wait for several hrs for ambulance||Lucknow: Contrary to the directions of the district administration to shift Covid-19 patients requiring immediate medical supervision soon after the arrival of their reports or call about their deteriorating condition, several complaints have come to the fore where people had to wait for several hours before the ambulance arrived to take shift to a Covid facility. Sample this: A nine-month pregnant woman from Alambagh got tested at a private pathology in Chowk. The report was communicated to the 26-year-old at 11am on Tuesday. Her husband Shubham Nag said he immediately called the helpline and was assured that an ambulance would be sent soon. “However, when nothing happened, I called several times. Finally, an ambulance was allotted at 2.30pm and she was admitted to the hospital at 4pm,” he said. Similarly, another nine-month pregnant woman (25) from Ruchikhand had to wait for over three hours before she got a bed in a Covid hospital. She was tested positive on Saturday and opted for home isolation. “However, on Tuesday, she developed abdominal pain following which the family informed the Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) at 1pm. However, the ambulance arrived after three hours,” said patient’s sister Anuja Dubey Another patient in Dalibagh, who was in home isolation after testing positive, had to wait for over four hours on Tuesday. After he developed breathlessness, his doctor informed health officials at 8am that he needs to be shifted to a Covid hospital. But no ambulance arrived. Subsequently, the patient’s relative made several calls to officials. An ambulance was allotted but it broke down on the way and another was called which arrived at 12.30pm. The patient was then shifted to a hospital, said a relative. A government teacher, resident of Balaganj, allegedly died due to delay in shifting from a non-Covid hospital to a Covid facility on August 6. “She was under treatment in a non-Covid hospital, but was not shifted for four days despite several calls to the CMO. Finally, she was shifted to a Covid hospital on August 6 after I called ICCC. By that time, her condition had deteriorated and she died within hours,” said Brijesh Kumar, husband of the deceased. Officials said that the hospital and the husband were contacting authorities through a wrong channel. Chief medical officer Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh said, “We have now started allotting ambulances directly from ICCC for quick service. Earlier, they were routed through my office. We have also directed hospitals to immediately admit patients else action will be taken against them. Now, most of the patients are being shifted within an hour.” As many as 60 ambulances have shifted about 5,000 patients to hospitals in the past three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/patients-made-to-wait-for-several-hrs-for-ambulance/articleshow/77534988.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Demand to reduce college fees during Covid outbreak||Aurangabad: Amid growing voices for reducing fees of schools, now a similar demand has been raised for the benefit of college students. Student union Akhil Bhatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) has submitted a memorandum to the fee regulatory authority (FRA), a competent body, to slash fees of colleges by 30% during the current pandemic. ABVP state secretary Swapnil Begde on Thursday said that all colleges were operating with minimum resources, making a strong case of reduction in fees. “Colleges have no expenses towards guest lectures, study tours, lab consumables, electricity, college development and sports, which form crucial component of fees structure submitted to FRA. Therefore, at least 30% of annual fees must be waived off for all years,” Bedge said. In its official memorandum, ABVP has said that the FRA should immediately order colleges to present a revised fee structure and the same should be made applicable at the earliest. “Also, decision on approving fee structure and review applications tabled during FRA meetings held in March should be kept on hold and reduced fee structure should be announced,” Begde said. Among other demands raised before FRA, ABVP has sought provision for paying fees in installments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/demand-to-reduce-college-fees-during-covid-outbreak/articleshow/77531240.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farmers to get 40% subsidy on silage baler-cum-wrapper machines||Chandigarh: In a bid to promote the dairy development sector, the state government has launched a new scheme to provide 40% subsidy to farmers on silage baler-cum-wrapper machines through Punjab Dairy Development Board (PDDB). Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, minister for animal husbandry, fisheries and dairy development said the state government is making consistent efforts to modernise the production and maintenance of green fodder. With implementation of this scheme, the farmer who buys the machine will be provided with financial assistance of upto Rs 5.60 lakh by the government, he said. Bajwa said that increase in area under green fodder would not only increase milk production but also reduce area under traditional crops of wheat and paddy, which would help save ground water. The minister said availability of green fodder throughout the year is a major issue for dairy farmers who frequently face shortage of fodder. To tackle this problem, some progressive farmers are making silage from green fodder in a traditional way. However, it cannot be transported from one place to another or stored for a longer period. With the invention of advanced technology machines, silage balers made of green fodder can be easily wrapped and packed in bags as well as tubes and transported to small and landless farmers, urban dairies and green fodder deficient states, he said. “This would also provide new business and self-employment opportunities to farmers of the state,” the minister added. Inderjit Singh, director, dairy development, said after evaluation of offers of companies by an expert committee and field trials of machines, only three companies, Ujjawala Harvester Corporation, Dynamic Machinery and Equipment and Masers Bakhshish Industries were found to be in compliance with set standards. They can make bundles of 100 kg and 500 kg. The director requested all milk producers and entrepreneurs to get in touch with district or state-level offices to avail the benefits of this scheme. For more information, interested persons can contact the helpline number of the department, 0172-5027285 on any working day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-farmers-to-get-40-subsidy-on-silage-baler-cum-wrapper-machines/articleshow/77535710.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Aurangabad||3-year course in performing arts at SRTMU||Aurangabad: The Swami Ramanand Teertha Marathwada University (SRTMU) has decided to offer a three-year Bachelor of Performing Art course on its premises from this academic year. Ashok Kadam, a senior SRTMU functionary, on Thursday said that vice-chancellor Uddhav Bhosale has taken the initiative to start the new course to train students from the region in art forms like dance, music and drama. The students would also be introduced to the field of direction, and acting and related forms. Kadam said that after completing the course the students could explore opportunities in television, radio and film industry. “For now they could apply online for the course. Well-equipped facilities and faculties are already available on the campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-year-course-in-performing-arts-at-srtmu/articleshow/77531232.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Rajkot||14 shop owners booked||Rajkot: As many as 14 shop owners were booked for flouting government notification by keeping their shops open till late on Wednesday night in Rajkot. The shops are located in Gandhigram, Kotecha Chowk, 150 feet Ring Road, at Dholera Chowkadi, near Sterling Hospital, at Raiya Road Chowkadi, Sadhu Vasvani Road and Kalawad Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/14-shop-owners-booked/articleshow/77532491.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chennai||EIA draft in Tamil soon: Centre to Madras HC||CHENNAI: The Tamil translation of the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) notification is ready and it will be published soon, Madras high court was informed by the Centre on Thursday. The Centre’s submission follows a nudge by a division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha, which refused to stay the draft but suggested that translated version could be uploaded so as to enable rural people to offer their comments. Before the bench adjourned the hearing to August 19, additional solicitor-general of India R Shankaranarayanan said: “I was informed that since the Centre is facing multiple litigations in connection with the issue in various high courts, the government has moved a special leave petition in the Supreme Court. It is supposed to be taken up for hearing today, but I am not sure whether it was taken up.” The issue pertains to a plea moved by Meenavar Nala Sangam (fishermen welfare association) to direct the government to translate the draft EIA 2020 notification in vernacular languages and provide sufficient time to submit objections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eia-draft-in-tamil-soon-centre-to-hc/articleshow/77534039.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chennai||Customers vocal for local, finds survey||Chennai: During the initial days of the lockdown, Anjana P bought stock from regional brands for rava and pulses because only those were available. But she is sticking on to them although the bigger brands are back on the shelves. “They are less expensive and of good quality,” she said. These brands saw better visibility among customers during the lockdown as they were available in kirana stores and supermarkets, a survey across the country has found. Retailers estimate that around 30% of the customers have stuck to local brands. They add that for staples such as rava and pulses, customers ask for specific brands. “Even if we hand in other brands, some prefer Naga or Anil because even if the lockdown is imposed again, it is easier to procure them. Besides, they are of good quality,” said Sudha K, owner of Sri Vari Supermarket in Lakshmipuram. Padmasingh Issac, MD, Aachi Foods, said during the early days of the lockdown they could reach out to new customers because their distribution network was strong. “The business is good now and we have 30%-35% new customers who chose us during the lockdown and continue doing business with us.” he said. A survey from Snapbizz – a platform that provides tech support to kirana stores -- shows that regional brands are present in the buyers’ basket even after the lockdown was relaxed and the stock situation went back to normal. “A lot of regional brands had their trials conducted during the lockdown when national brands weren’t easily available. Being cheaper but quality alternatives, some customers are buying these brands,” said Prem Kumar, founder, Snapbizz.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/customers-vocal-for-local-finds-survey/articleshow/77534047.cms||Aparna Desikan
August 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Passenger trains to remain suspended: SCR||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has clarified that regular passenger and suburban train services will continue to remain suspended until further notice. The clarification has been issued by SCR in the wake of rumors being spread about the resumption of the train services concerned. Chief public relations officer of SCR Ch Rakesh said that 230 special trains, which are running at present, will continue to operate. “The occupancy of special trains is being monitored on regular basis. Additional special trains may be run based on the requirement,” he said. As far as Aurangabad is concerned, Nanded-Amritsar-Nanded Sachkhand Express is the only special train that runs via city. Meanwhile, railway activists have demanded partial resumption of train services in Marathwada. Railway activist Omprakash Varma said that a few more trains must ply as the Centre as well as the state has formally announced unlock process during the current pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/passenger-trains-to-remain-suspended-scr/articleshow/77531262.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Rajkot||Seven booked for attacking temple priest, his daughter||Rajkot: Seven persons were booked on Thursday for allegedly injuring a temple priest and his eight-year-old daughter by pelting stones and soda bottles at them in Nava Thorala locality of Rajkot on Wednesday night. Police said the accused — Kano Rathod, Hiren Khimsuria, Ramesh Khimsuria, Ragho Gulli, Sabu Khimsuria, Ajay Jadav and Ajay Khimsuria — had launched an attack on a group of dozen people.“The accused wanted to hit Ashwin Mundhava and Dhaval Mundhava with whom Hiren had a fight on the same day afternoon. However, instead of Ashwin and Dhaval, the soda bottles hit temple priest Shantilal Ramanandi and his eight-year-old daughter Dharmishta,” said P D Jadav, sub-inspector with Thorala police station. Both Ramanandi and his daughter were rushed to Rajkot Civil Hospital where their condition is said to be out of danger. Apart from attacking the father-daughter duo, the accused vandalized three cars and two SUVs. The accused attacked when Ashwin and Dhaval along with the members of their community were preparing for Janmashtami festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-booked-for-attacking-temple-priest-his-daughter/articleshow/77532514.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kochi||26 child survivors of Kerala landslide left to grapple with their fate, alone||IDUKKI: Plus II student Gopika, and Hemalatha, studying for a degree course, were in Thiruvananthapuram in the wee hours of August 7 when about 280km away, in their home district, a massive landslide wiped off their house in Pettimudy killing their parents. They were among the 82 people living in a residential colony of tea plantation workers who were swept off and buried under massive mounds of earth and slush in a matter of few minutes. Fifty-five bodies have been recovered so far. Like Gopika and Hemalatha, Annalakshmi and Saranya, both studying in Tamil Nadu, also survived the disaster. But their parents too were among those who died in the disaster. As many as 18 children of the colony have perished or are missing while 26 others who luckily survived the devastation have been orphaned or rendered homeless. Samagra Shiksha Kerala, Munnar has called for immediate measures to rehabilitate and support the traumatized children. “Four children from the colony lost everything, including both their parents. Eleven other have no homes to return to and 11 more are in trauma. They are shattered,” said Hepsi Christinal S, programme co-ordinator, SSK. The SSK has written to the district legal services authority (DLSA) to initiate counselling for the surviving children. “We visited the kids. They are still in shock. They were just sitting quietly, sad and confused. Government intervention is urgently needed to ensure them psychological counselling. The education of the 26 students must be continued and they must also feel secure and safe. The district legal service society has already assured assistance and we hope more kind-hearted people would step forward to help them,” said Christinal. Children as young as Darshini of Class III and Sruthi and Ganeshkumar of Class IV are among the children who have survived the incident. Hadlee Renjith, one of the volunteers helping with rescue and recovery operation, said school bags and books were found scattered along the banks of the Kanniyar River. “It was a heart-breaking sight,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/26-child-survivors-left-to-struggle-with-their-fate/articleshow/77531261.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||Covid +ve Amravati MP Navneet Rana taken to Mum hosp||Nagpur/Amravati: Navneet Rana, member of Parliament from Amravati who tested Covid positive on August 6, was shifted from Wockhardt Hospital in Nagpur to Lilavati Hospital in Mumbai after she developed fever and breathing trouble, said sources close to her family on Thursday. Navneet, accompanied by her MLA husband Ravi Rana, was rushed to Mumbai in an ambulance by road. Ten members of Ravi Rana’s family, including daughter, son, parents, sister, son-in-law, maternal nephew and nephew, had tested Covid positive at Amravati on August 3. While Rana’s parents were rushed to Wockhardt Hospital in Nagpur on August 4, his daughter and son had stayed at their Amravati home as they were asymptomatic patients. The MP-MLA couple had tested negative in the first test. Ravi Rana and Navneet, however, tested positive on August 6 in their second test. Both were asymptomatic. While Ravi Rana was admitted to Wockhardt Hospital in Nagpur on August 7, Navneet had stayed back at Amravati home to take care of her children. After undergoing treatment, Ravi Rana was declared cured on August 11. As Navneet started showing symptoms, she was brought to Wockhardt Hospital the same day. On Thursday, Navneet got fever and faced breathing difficulties following which doctors attending to her decided to shift her to Lilavati Hospital, said family sources. While the Rana couple’s children are under treatment in Amravati, other Covid patients from the family are either in Amravati or Nagpur hospitals and recovering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-ve-amravati-mp-navneet-rana-taken-to-mum-hosp/articleshow/77534051.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm bodies oppose expert group’s suggestions to revive economy||Bathinda: Several farm organisations of Punjab have termed the recommendations made by a group of experts formed to devise a strategy for post-Covid revival of the state’s economy as “anti-farmer” and “anti-farming”. The group of experts, headed by noted economist and former deputy chairman of the Planning Commission, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, submitted to the state government its first set of recommendations in the form of a report on July 31, while the final report is expected by year-end. The farm bodies said the report “Medium and long-term post-Covid economic strategy for Punjab — A multi-sectoral approach to building resilience and recovery” is more focussed towards corporate houses, industrialists and businessmen than farmers. They have urged the Punjab government not to implement the report, saying this will further hamper their interests. Farmer organisation Krantikari Kisan Union (KKU) president Darshan Pal said, “The experts have suggested framing of laws for leasing out lands of farmers to corporate houses and big companies and also suggested changing the laws for leasing out lands for 30 years instead of the present five years. It has also been suggested to amend laws to allow the agricultural lands to be used for non-agricultural purposes.” He further said the suggestion of experts to decrease the subsidy bill by decreasing the area under paddy is also anti-farmer. “The subsidy provides some relief to farmers, which, if withdrawn, would be disastrous as there is no marketing mechanism for diversified crops like maize. The suggestions are not much different than those suggested in the ordinances brought by the Union government, which we are already opposing. The committee’s suggestions point towards privatisation of marketing and for closing the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs),” said Pal. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal also opposed decreasing the farm subsidy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-bodies-oppose-expert-groups-suggestions-to-revive-economy/articleshow/77535713.cms||Neel Kamal
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Despite farm bodies’ protests, govt notifies rules of FPTC ordinance||Amritsar: In spite of state-wide protests by various farmers’ organisations, the central government has taken the first a step towards the implementation of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, and has notified rules to this effect in the Gazette of India. These rules primarily deal with the payment procedures and the dispute settlement mechanism involving trade in farmers’ produce in the trade area, as well as, over the electronic trading and transaction platform. The government has claims that these rules would ensure transparency and quick payment of the amount of the scheduled farmers’ produce traded, and there were prescribed penalties for the contravener also. While talking to TOI on Thursday, RBI Chair Professor at Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) Satish Verma said unlike the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) market, there was no provision of a commission agent as regards in the trade area or over the electronic trading and transaction platform. Various farmers bodies have already been demanding rollback of the FPTC Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinances claiming that they were against the interests of farmers and will make farmers puppets in hands of big corporate houses. However, Verma explained, “The payment procedure is the same for raw produce sold in the trade area. Some additional relaxations in payment, however, are allowed to farmer producer organisations (FPO) and the cooperative societies, as aggregation or purchase in their case may involve value addition and hence some delay in receipt of payments and their disbursal to the farmers.” He opined that the trouble might arise if the transaction involved exports which in their case was an identified value addition activity under Rule 4 (i). “Interestingly, the FPO may enter export domain also, while the ordinance relates intra and inter-state trade only,” he added. Prof Verma said quick, time bound and transparent three-layered dispute settlement mechanism through mutually acceptable solution would provide a fair deal in transactions in the trade area. “Unlike the institution of a commission agent who dominates such dealings in the government notified APMC markets, its absence in the trade area should provide a ground for the active involvement of the farmer in remunerative price discovery of the produce at convenient terms and conditions,” he said. For stricter implementation, pecuniary penalties had been prescribed, but these were stringent for the persons operating the electronic trade and transaction platform, he said . He said the rules would ensure payment of mutually agreed price, but lacked utterly in any provision of a fair price to farmers. “This is the flip side as the farmer organisations are arguing that the big corporates (traders) under the ordinance will be able to exploit the farmers by unscrupulously playing the supply and demand forces in the trade area,” said Verma. He said the para 5 (1) of the Ordinance provided for guidelines about fair trade practices to be prepared and implemented by the person operating the electronic system. “But rules notified in the gazette are silent about it. Moreover, such a provision should exist for sale and purchase of farmers’ produce in the trade area also,” he observed. A lot still needs to be done to ensure fair trade practices in this market, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/despite-farm-bodies-protests-govt-notifies-rules-of-fptc-ordinance/articleshow/77535711.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 14, 2020||Madurai||Rs 1.6 crore sanctioned for dredging work at Thengapattanam fishing harbour||Kanyakumari: Following complaints of silt deposit, the fisheries department on Wednesday allotted Rs 1.6 crore to undertake dredging work at the Thengapattanam fishing harbour in Kanyakumari district. The fund will be used to clear 64,440 cubic metres of silt from the harbour after rough seas at the entrance claimed the lives of three fishermen in July, and damaged 12 motorized fishing boats.The harbour constructed at Rs 97.4 crore in May 2019 was put to use from June and was the main landing centre for more than 500 mechanised deep sea fishing and 300 motorised fibre boats. Department officials said the harbour has an 800m-long channel or the approach path from the inner harbour towards the sea and the width ranges from 250 to 150m, while its entrance towards the sea is 90m wide.Fishermen have been complaining for long about silt deposit in the channel and mouth of the harbour as huge and rough waves were formed at the entrance of the harbour when the sea hit piles of silt below. While dozens of boats were tossed in the air, many were retrieved by the fishermen. The waves destroyed 12 boats during the last two months.Three fishermen Antony, 68, Shibu, 25, and Ignatius lost their on July 23, 24 and August 7 respectively. They died after suffering injuries as their boats were tossed while their fellow fishermen survived with injuries. These incidents attracted strong protests to dredge the harbour.Officials in the fisheries engineering department had initially sent a proposal to dredge the harbour at Rs 3 crore. But it was revised to Rs 1.5 crore due to financial constraints to carry out the work on a war-footing to avert further loss to life and property. The dredger has to be brought from Nagapattinam and it would take 60 to 75 days to complete the work.An official said that dredging will be affected when the water is rough. Focus will be desilting the traffic area of boats and the nearby areas as it is carried out on an emergency basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs-1-6-crore-sanctioned-for-dredging-work-at-thengapattanam-fishing-harbour/articleshow/77534992.cms||M K Ananth
August 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Pvt coaching teachers protest online MPSC exam||Aurangabad: A group of teachers working in private coaching classes who staged an agitation at the office of the Maharashtra State Competitive Examinations Teachers Sanghatana in front of the Yashwantrao Chavan Natyagraha on Thursday was prevented from shaving their heads by the police. The aim of the agitation was to draw the attention of the government towards the plight of the tuition teachers and to their demand of holding offline examinations for the Maharshtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) instead of conducting online exams. Vinayak Patil, vice president of the Sanghatana, said this year, the MPSC had decided to conduct online examinations which was not a feasible option considering that many students appearing for the competitive exams came from the rural areas. Speaking to newsmen, Patil and other office-bearers of the Sanghatana said that the teachers who were working with various coaching classes have been in dire straits following the outbreak of Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdowns which were introduced to curb the spread of the virus. “We are economically distressed. The coaching class operators too have become financially weak as they don’t have students. With all sources of income drying up, we don’t even have money to pay our rents. Landlords are threatening us of eviction as even they do not have any means of sustenance. Hence, we had decided to shave our heads as a mark of protest,” said Patil. Krushna Jadhav and Ajay Chavan said that the government needed to come with some policy to waive the rent of the buildings in which the coaching classes are held and allow the teachers to conduct tuitions by observing social distancing norms. Chhatrapati Ranher, another office-bearer of the Sanghatana, said that though the police obstructed them from shaving their heads, he still got his head shaved to protest against the apathy of the government towards their condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pvt-coaching-teachers-protest-online-mpsc-exam/articleshow/77531249.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Panel begins probe into girl’s rape, meets family||Hyderabad: A high powered inquiry committee appointed by women and child welfare department (WCWD) on Thursday met the family members of the rape victim, who succumbed at Niloufer Hospital on Wednesday. The WCWD has also directed the Director of Medical Education to appoint a forensic team at Osmania General Hospital to conduct the post mortem. The committee is probing the case against the relative of the girl and is likely to submit an inquiry report on August 20. “The doctors have said the girl died of multiple organ failure. Patencheru police are investigating the case,” said Jeedimetla inspector Balaraju. “The DGP has been requested to combine all FIRs into one and appoint a single investigating officer, not below the rank of ASP or ACP. The department has been coordinating with the women safety wing of the police department, child welfare committee and SCPCR to ensure detail investigation in the case,” said a senior officer from the WCWD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/panel-begins-probe-into-girls-rape-meets-family/articleshow/77532510.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ludhiana||‘We feel bad when people don’t come to us for Covid testing’||From ensuring better isolation facilities to sampling of suspected patients, providing medicines, logistics and clinical support, rational use of healthcare manpower, to ensuring infection control, etc., Dr Hitinder Kaur Sohal, senior medical officer (SMO)-cum-nodal officer for Covid-19 at the civil hospital faces tough challenge of managing things. She talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on the latest scenario on Covid front. Q: How many patients you have in isolation ward of the civil hospital and how big is the challenge to manage patients? A: In the isolation ward with related facilities meant for 150 patients, we have around 111 patients as of now. Of these patients, 99 are Covid patients while the rest are awaiting reports. We have 28 mild cases and the remaining are having moderate symptoms. Of the positive patients, 17 are on oxygen support. It is a challenging job as in normal wards a relative remains with a patient to feed him, give him medicines, wash his clothes, etc. But here we have to take care of everything. There is no single staff member for each patient and then apart from this work, we have to do other routine jobs as well. Our staff members have also tested positive and then their contacts (healthcare workers) also need to be isolated till we don’t get test reports. Q: How many healthcare workers have tested positive at the isolation centre of the civil hospital? Are you getting proper kits for the staff members? A: About 15 to 20 of our staff members have tested positive till now. They include two to three doctors, laboratory technicians and class IV employees. We sent them on 17-day quarantine and also traced their contacts. So far as PPE kits, masks and gloves availability is concerned, we are getting that all from the government and there is no shortage of such protective stuff. Even we are giving N95 masks to our administrative block employees, including computer operators, etc. Q: What obstacles you face in handling patients, especially Covid ones? A: It has been seen that people come to us late as they hide their symptoms due to stigma but as soon as anyone gets symptomatic he/she should rush to hospital. The other obstacle in the path of management of Covid patients is that they come to us after visiting three to four nursing homes/small hospitals, which have refused to keep them or they are unknown migrants brought here by public ambulance and we accept them and try to take care of them immediately. In addition, sometimes attendant of the patient after getting him admitted don’t turn up or pick up the phone, and if the patient dies doesn't even claim the body. Our nodal officer for mortuary Dr Rohit Rampal with the help of district administration gets the body transferred through Samvedna Mortuary Van. Samvedna Trust is dedicated to transporting the Covid dead from the whole district. Q: How do you see the present Covid scenario in Ludhiana district. How are you preparing with the challenges coming your way in the coming time? A: We have been getting sick patients in the last about a week and now it appears that the peak will come in Ludhiana district in next 15 days. As per my own estimate, the peak will start flattening in Ludhiana in September. Under the guidance of civil surgeon, the facility is going to provide high flow nasal oxygen, which will be made operational soon and already we have started providing non-invasive ventilation, and has cured many patients through this and Bipap facility. 90% of the cases have been cured with these techniques and didn’t required to be put on ventilator support. Further, we have 70 oxygen points, which will shortly be increased to 100. Q: What about the availability of staff at the isolation centre? A: We had shortage of staff before, but the civil surgeon got us more staff from the field from dispensaries, community health centres, etc., so we have adequate staff now. Q: What is the message that you want to give to Ludhiana residents? A: There are many but the foremost one is that if a patient tests Covid positive, he/she shouldn’t be stigmatised. A patient should come to us and get the test done and if he has symptoms, we will treat him and if he doesn’t have any symptoms, they can be given permission for home isolation after the officer deputed by the administration checks the facilities at the patient’s home. Secondly, there are patients who don’t come to hospital as they fear that they would be locked in isolation centre till the time they get very sick. So, we request that a patient whenever has fever and other symptoms should come to the hospital and get themselves tested. Health team is for their service and we are for their help. When people lock their doors saying that they don’t want to come to us, we do feel bad. Q: There are allegations by many persons that suspects, including pregnant women, had to wait for long to get their sampling done? A: It is not so always as sometimes we do have a large number of people coming for getting sampling done, but it may be on a particular day when factory workers turn up for such tests. We are working 24x7 and samples are being taken all through the day. We also try to ensure social distancing among people coming for testing. There are two doctors and a pharmacist for each of three shifts at the flu corner. Q: There are allegations that test reports come late? A: We send 1,000-1,500 samples for testing to the GMC Patiala and as some of staff there had tested positive, so there was delay in getting reports of samples. However, now since Gadvasu has started testing the time taken to get test reports will be reduced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/we-feel-bad-when-people-dont-come-to-us-for-covid-testing/articleshow/77532566.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Rajkot||Two held with pistols, cartridges in Rajkot||Rajkot: Two anti-social elements were nabbed when they were travelling in a car with arms and ammunition from the outskirts of Rajkot on Thursday. Police said they had received a tip-off that Ishan Joshi (28) and Bhima Gareja (36) were going in their car to kill Digubha Manjaria. “We had received the registration number of the car, on the basis of which we intercepted it and arrested the accused. From the possession of the accused, we seized two country made pistols, 23 live cartridges, one empty magazine, a pouch of chilly powder meant to be thrown in the eyes of the target, a knuckle duster and the car,” said H D Hingroja, sub-inspector with Rajkot rural special operation group. During his interrogation, Joshi said that Manjaria had visited his house three days ago and picked up a fight with his brother Vishal Joshi. Before leaving from the spot, Manjaria had vandalized Joshi’s car by smashing its windscreen. “In order to teach Manjaria a lesson, Joshi and Gareja had decided to murder him and had set out in their car with arms and ammunition,” added Hingroja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-held-with-pistols-cartridges-in-rajkot/articleshow/77532571.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Madurai||Water released from Mullaperiyar dam||Madurai: Water from the Mullaperiyar dam was released for irrigation of the double crop after the level crossed the 137ft mark. Theni district collector Pallavi M Baldev released the water on Thursday. As much as 300 cusecs is being discharged from the dam, of which 200 would be used for irrigation of 14,707 acres in Cumbum valley region and 100 cusecs to meet the drinking water needs of Theni district. The discharge would be regulated by the public works department (PWD) based on the storage level in the dam for the next 120 days. There has been good inflow to the Mullaperiyar dam following rains in its catchments including Vandiperiyar, Sapathu, Upputhurai and Karingul. Usually, water is released from the dam for the first crop in Cumbum valley covering an area of 15,000 acres in the first week of June. But, this year as the water level during that period was only 115ft, it was not released. Meanwhile, the water level in the Vaigai dam stood at 44.55 feet with an inflow of 1,985 cusecs of which 72 was discharged from it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/water-released-from-mullaperiyar-dam/articleshow/77535014.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Convict who fled from OGH held after 13yrs||Hyderabad: A murder convict who escaped from a city hospital in 2007 was brought back to India from Abu Dhabi and produced before the court in Hyderabad on Thursday. Afzal Hussain was convicted for life in 2006 along with three other associates for killing his brother-in-law in Humayun Nagar limits over a personal dispute. While the other three were sent to jail, Hussain managed to escape from OGH in 2007.  TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/convict-who-fled-from-ogh-held-after-13yrs/articleshow/77532552.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 1,538 cases, 37 deaths; 691 & 13 in central region||Madurai/ Trichy: The death toll in three southern districts - Theni, Kanuyakumari and Tirunelveli - crossed the 100 mark as 37 deaths were reported in the region on Thursday with 1,538 new positive and 13,163 active cases. With this, the total cases till date in southern districts have climbed to 71,439. Meanwhile, the central region reported 691 fresh cases taking the tally to 20,651, which included 5,225 active cases. The region also reported 13 more deaths taking the toll to 263. Out of the total deaths on Thursday, Dindigul recorded two, Kanyakumari-six, Madurai-five, Ramnad-five, Sivaganga-one, Tenkasi-four, Theni-five, Tirunelveli-seven and Virudhunagar-two. Though there was a decline in the overall number of cases in southern districts for the last one week, seven out of the ten districts saw more than 100 cases on Thursday. Madurai recorded 151 new cases and five deaths on Thursday taking the toll to 308. However, Madurai Covid-19 monitoring officer Dr B Chandramohan said that the number of active cases in the district was coming down in the last two days. Theni continued to have the highest number of cases in the southern district with 286 new cases and five deaths, taking the death toll to 104. Health department sources said that the death toll was increasing because people who were receiving treatment at private hospitals in other districts were getting admitted to the government hospital at a terminal stage. They also had a case of a man, aged about 45, who had home quarantined himself without medical supervision although he had developed symptoms. He was rushed to the hospital when he developed breathing issue, but died on the way. Theni and Virudhunagar were the only districts to see more than 200 new cases on Thursday with 219 cases and two deaths. This takes the total cases in the district to 10,849 with 1,425 active cases. Tirunelveli reported 189 new cases and seven deaths while and Kanyakumari 185 new cases and six deaths. In the central region, 147 more positive cases than Wednesday were registered on Thursday. Pudukottai reported four deaths and Thanjavur three, while Karur and Trichy recorded two deaths each. One death each was reported in Ariyalur and Tiruvarur. With 161 fresh cases, Trichy tops the list in the region, which took the toll to 5,550. Meanwhile, a total of 43 people were discharged from Trichy on Thursday. Thanjavur recorded 154 new positive cases, taking the tally to 4,561. Number of cases in Thanjavur has been going up. Covid cases were also reported in Nagapattinam (71), Tiruvarur (27), Pudukottai (131), Ariyalur (76), Perambalur (31), and Karur (40).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-1538-cases-37-deaths-691-13-in-central-region/articleshow/77535007.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mumbai||Reopen gyms immediately in Maharashtra, says Devendra Fadnavis||MUMBAI: Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday demanded that the government immediately allow gymnasiums to reopen. He said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government did not seem to have any plan to open up economic activities. “If liquor shops can resume, why not gymnasiums? Along with precautions against spread of novel coronavirus, the government must open up the economy,” he wrote in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Fadnavis said gym owners suggested measures to prevent spread of the virus. The government, he said, could add to it but allow them to open immediately. Meanwhile, BJP state president Chandrakant Patil demanded a CBI enquiry into transfers during Covid-19 despite a moratorium by finance ministry. Patil alleged the moratorium was partially lifted to allow 15% transfers, which was used by MVA ministers to award plum postings to favoured officials for a price. The transfers had caused hardships to officials who found it difficult to secure school admissions for children as schools are closed. Patil also questioned the decision to extend deadline for transfers from July 30 to August 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/reopen-gyms-immediately-says-fadnavis/articleshow/77534340.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Madurai||Less emphasis on marks for entry to Class XI, polytechnics||Madurai: Schools and polytechnic colleges are trying to accommodate students to their groups and courses of choice without laying much emphasis on marks after all Class X students were declared pass this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In government schools, Class XI admissions are set to begin from August 24 while most private and aided schools are almost done with admissions unofficially and have begun online classes. “Suggestions for groups were done based on students capabilities and seats were allotted. We considered students and patents’ choices too,” said the principal of a private school. Schools are also not shying away from providing the choice of groups, even if it meant creating additional sections. In government schools, headmasters said they are expecting more students to join Class XI this year and they will be accommodated as per their choice. “Even if students had scored less compared to usual years, the marks can still help us gauge their capacity for studying,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. Polytechnics are also witnessing demand for diploma courses like computer science and electronics. “This year, we are expecting more applications. However, uncertainty over reopening has been worrying especially for institutions like ours where practical classes gain prominence,” said S Arul, principal of Latha Mathavan Polytechnic College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/less-emphasis-on-marks-for-entry-to-class-xi-polytechnics/articleshow/77535024.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 14, 2020||Madurai||GRH introduces polysomnography||Madurai: The Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai has introduced polysomnography to help treat patients with sleep disorders. Polysomnography, also called a sleep study, is a test used to diagnose sleep disorders like sleep apnea, chronic insomnia, narcolepsy etc. It records brain waves, oxygen level in blood, heart rate and breathing, as well as eye and leg movements during the study. The equipment worth Rs 20 lakh was inaugurated at the sleep laboratory (sleep disorders centre) of the ENT department by the hospital dean Dr J Sangumani, in the presence of senior doctors, on Wednesday. Polysomnography, which costs between Rs 3,000 to Rs 5,000 in private hospitals, can be availed at the GRH for free of cost under the chief minister’s comprehensive health insurance scheme (CMCHIS). The equipment can also be used for recording EEG, EOG, ENG, ECG and SPO2, which involves diagnosis of various functions of organs associated with sleep disorders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/grh-introduces-polysomnography/articleshow/77535015.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Covid snuffs out 11 more lives in city||Lucknow: Coronavirus continues to snuff out lives as 11 Covid-19 patients died in the state capital in the past 24 hours. Of these two belonged to Lucknow, pushing the city’s toll further up to 170. Of the total Covid casualties in city, 74 (43%) have taken place in August till now. The state government bulletin stated 14 Covid-19 deaths in Lucknow but chief development officer Manish Bansal, supervising Covid containment in Lucknow, said only 11 deaths had taken place in 24 hours.  “Two of them were city residents and nine were from other districts but undergoing treatment here. We will request the state health authorities to correct the figures,” he added.  Both the Lucknow residents died due to respiratory failure and were admitted on August 10 in advanced stages. A 63-year-old man from Sitapur Road died at Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital. “The patient was admitted with severely damaged lungs and double pneumonia,” said principal Prof M M Faridi. The other death was reported from a private hospital where a 51-year-old woman having diabetes and hypertension died due to lung failure. The other nine deceased had been referred from various district hospitals. Five of them died at KGMU due to respiratory failure and had comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-snuffs-out-11-more-lives-in-city/articleshow/77535025.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||No I-Day celebration at Golconda this yr||Hyderabad: For the first time since Telangana formation day, the Independence Day celebrations will not be held at Golconda Fort this year. The event is likely to be held at Pragati Bhavan with limited number of guests. In the wake of the recent arrest of NSUI protesters who tried to barge into Pragati Bhavan, adequate security will be provided around the venue. Every year prior to the Independence Day celebrations at Golconda Fort, the state government agencies used to do a rehearsal of various programs 15 days ahead of the event. However, due to the pandemic, this year no such rehearsals took place and government sources confirmed that the Independence Day celebrations are not going to be held this year at Golconda fort. On Thursday, Advanced Security Liaison team that inspects the venue ahead of VVIP’s visit, went to Parade Grounds in Secunderabad, where CM will lay wreath at Martyr’s Memorial before attending the Independence Day celebrations. Police personnel comprising of task force, special branch, traffic and law and order wings will be deployed to ensure I-Day celebrations happen without any trouble||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-i-day-celebration-at-golconda-this-yr/articleshow/77532575.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||8 of 11 Vid districts report Covid deaths||Nagpur: The Covid-19 death scenario is worsening and deaths are now being reported from all parts of the region. On Thursday, eight of the 11 Vidarbha districts reported Covid deaths, the first time since the pandemic began. Nagpur reported 20 deaths followed by Akola (4), Amravati (2), Yavatmal (2), Buldhana (2), Bhandara (1), Chandrapur (1), and Washim (1). The death toll of Vidarbha reached 786 on Thursday. In the first 13 days of August, the region has seen 399 deaths. But as cases are also increasing, the case fatality rate (CFR) is still stable at 2.6%. This is higher than the national average which is less than 2% now. All five districts of Amravati division reported deaths on Thursday. Total 1,330 new cases were detected in Vidarbha. Once again, Nagpur reported highest (901) cases. These include 704 from Nagpur municipal Corporation (NMC) limits, 92 from Nagpur district, and 105 from other districts/states. Nagpur was followed by Amravati (76), Yavatmal (74), Washim (67), Chandrapur (44), Akola (44), Buldhana (38), Wardha (30), Gadchiroli (24), Gondia (19), and Bhandara (13). With this, Vidarbha’s total case count reached 28,528. As many as 492 patients recovered in a day. These included Nagpur (189), Amravati (93), Yavatmal (66), Akola (60), Washim (23), Chndrapur (18), Gadchiroli (18), Bhandara (10), Gondia (10), Wardha (3), and Buldhana (2) taking the total number of such patients to 15,774. Vidarbha’s recovery rate came down to 55.3% which is lower than state as well as national averages. AMRAVATI: Two deaths and a spike of 76 cases took the district’s death toll to 94 and count to 3,467. A CS office report said that a 79-year-old man from Laddha Plot, Badnera, and a 75-year-old man from Arvi died at the Covid hospital. On the other hand, 93 patients got discharge that took the number of recovered patients to 2,296. The number of active cases is 1,077, including 21 referred to Nagpur. The rural belt accounted for 45 of the day’s 77 cases to take its count to 895. The youngest of the day’s cases were two five years old girls from Konark Colony and Kalyannagar, while the oldest was an 82-year-old man from Badnera. AKOLA: Two patients died at private hospitals acquired by Akola district health administration while two deaths in the past were added to the tally after reconciliation on Thursday. This took the death toll of the district to 131. Those who died on Thursday are a 52-year-old woman from Pachmori area of Akola and a 47-year-old man from Ganga Nagar. Total 500 reports were received on Thursday of which 39 tested positive. On the other hand, 60 patients recovered. This took the total cases in Akola to 3168, including 2,518 recovered, 131 deceased and 519 under treatment. YAVATMAL: There was no respite regarding either deaths or new positive patients in Yavatmal. On Thursday, two more deaths were reported —one of a 61-year-old man from Dalit Society and the other of a 51-year-man from Shivaji Nagar of Darwha. However, 66 patients were discharged. Total 74 new positive patients were reported in the last 24 hours of whom 46 are men and 28 women. Currently, 152 persons are in the isolation ward of GMC Yavatmal, said medical superintendent Dr RP Rathod. Yavatmal now has 2,034 cases, including 1,347 recovered, 55 deaths and 632 patients under treatment. BULDHANA: A 50-year-old man from Nandura and a 70-year-old man from Chaitanyawadi area died during treatment in the district. This took the death toll of the district to 38. Buldhana received 250 reports of suspects of which 38 tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 2,067. Only 2 patients recovered and were discharged on Thursday. Now, Buldhana has 795 patients under treatment. WASHIM: A 70-year-old man from Karanja Lad who was under treatment died on August 6. This death was added to the tally of Washim on Thursday taking the total number of deaths to 20, including 1 suicide. Total 67 new cases were detected in a day while 23 patients recovered and discharged. The district now has 1,088 Covid-19 cases, including 698 recovered, 20 deaths and 370 under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: Yet another death of a 65-year-old woman from Ballarpur raised the death toll in Chandrapur to seven. The district has reached the total of 988 as 44 new patients were detected during the day. Thursday also witnessed discharge of 18 new patients taking the total of cured patients to 579. As many as 400 active patients under treatment. There were two other deaths of outsider patients in district, but they have not been accounted to Chandrapur. The 24 new patients found during the day include nine from Ballarpur city, five from Gondpipri, three from Chandrapur and one each from Rajura, Nagbhid, and Gadchandur. BHANDARA: A 74-year-old woman from Bhandara, who was admitted in Nagpur since July 24, died on August 11. This death was included in Bhandara district’s death tally on August 13. Now, Bhandara has 3 deaths. With 13 new cases detected, Bhandara’s case count reached 463. Ten patients recovered and were discharged taking total the number of recovered patients to 273. As many as 187 patients are under treatment. GONDIA: 19 positive cases were registered in the district while 10 patients recovered. Of the 19 new cases, 7 are from Tirora and four each are from Gondia, Amgaon and Goregaon tehsils. Gondia now has 718 cases, including 428 recovered, 8 deaths and 282 patients under treatment. GADCHIROLI: Total 24 new cases were detected in the district, taking the total to 801. These include 3 from Gadchiroli, 1 from Bhamragarh, 2 from Sironcha, 7 from Aheri, 1 from Chamorshi, 7 from Dhanora, 1 from Armori and 2 from Korchi. Total 18 patients recovered taking their number to 629. With one death reported in May, total 171 patients are under treatment here. WARDHA: The district saw 30 positive cases on Thursday. This is the highest single day jump in cases so far. Total 14 cases were detected in Suguna foods company of Hinganghat. 14 of Suguna foods and other 3 cases are from Hinganghat. Wardha city has not registered any case on Thursday. Now, 82 active patients are undergoing treatment in the district. On Thursday, district collector Vivek Bhimanwar directed the health department to avail the facilities for home isolation for those who with mild or no symptoms. The district health department has appealed to patients having mild symptoms to undergo treatment at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/8-of-11-vid-districts-report-covid-deaths/articleshow/77534091.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 14, 2020||Ludhiana||PPE manufacturers await announcement for export quota||Ludhiana: In a setback for personal protective equipment (PPE) manufacturers, the result of applications for export quota of July has still not been announced by the directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT). In another development, which may cause delay in the announcement of the result for export quota of PPE suits for August, the date of receiving applications was extended till August 8. The reason for this said to be some technical glitches with regard to the website where applications were supposed to be filed. Expressing disappointment over the delay, Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, said, “Till date, there is no clarity over the results of the applications of export quota for July. It has been almost two months now since the announcement to open export of PPE suits was made but till date there has been no update on the results. If the government does not want us to export PPE suits, we should be clearly told or the entire process should be expedited so that the true objective of allowing the exports is met. Already PPE manufacturers have suffered huge losses due to huge quantity of leftover stocks which could not be sold due to drop in demand locally.” According to Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, “There is big confusion over the process of PPE exports. Earlier, also the applications of all PPE manufacturers were rejected and applications were recalled and now when the applications were called again, the results have not been declared. Further the date of receiving applications for August was also changed to August 8. So, there are lot of complexities in the current process of PPE export which is proving to be a huge setback for the manufacturers. It will be in the interest of manufacturers and government if the quota system is scrapped and unrestricted export of PPE suits is allowed.” Meanwhile, repeated attempts to contact DGFT officials for their take on the issue turned futile as no response was received from the department on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ppe-manufacturers-await-announcement-for-export-quota/articleshow/77532586.cms||Mohit Behl
August 14, 2020||Nashik||Panel concerned over apathy towards tribals||Nashik: Chairman of state-level tribal area review committee Vivek Pandit, who visited Katkari Vasti at Ubhade in Igatpuri taluka on Wednesday evening during the last day of his Nashik tour, expressed displeasure over the administration and tribal development department’s lackadaisical approach towards providing basic needs to the tribals.Pandit, besides visiting the hamlets of Katkari community, also went to the hamlets of Bhilla community at Pimpalgaon Dukra, Nandur Vaidya and Nandgaon villages where it came to fore that people were living in make-shift arrangements without any basic utility made available to them.The tribals do not have any kind of employment in the area they live due to which they are forced to move across the state for jobs. “Due to lack of ration cards they are unable to buy food grains at subsidized rates and at the same time in the absence of caste certificates, they are deprived of benefits of the various tribal schemes,” Pandit said.The committee, therefore, called up upon the authorities to make special arrangements that will first ensure the names of every family member was noted on the ration cards at their place of residence and then issue caste certificates to all the people that can be used by tribal development department for providing benefits under various schemes.The committee also took the note of tribals being thrown out from their areas by local landlords as a result of which they are left in lurch.In case of the people who were displaced because of the construction of Bham Dam, the committee has asked the officials concerned to ensure that all the issues regarding their rehabilitation was completed at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/panel-concerned-over-apathy-towards-tribals/articleshow/77531313.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 14, 2020||Mumbai||Whale shark caught in net in Mumbai may have died of suffocation||MUMBAI: The 25-ft whale shark found at Sassoon Dock shores on Wednesday noon died of suffocation after getting dragged in trawler nets. It was later cut into pieces of one-ft each to sell in the fish market as food, a postmortem and preliminary probe revealed. The metropolitan magistrate court granted custody of fish trader Jan Bahadur Yadav (50), a fish trader, and Sham Rajaram Dhar (35), a tempo driver who helped him transport the pieces, till August 18, range forest officer Suresh Warak told TOI. “An inquiry on whether the trawler and its owner deliberately fished it out or it unknowingly landed in the net while returning is being conducted. We have zeroed in on those in the trawler and spoke to the trader,” senior mangrove cell officials told TOI. The whale shark is an endangered species. Protected under Wildlife Protection Act, normally such fish, if found closer to shore or a dock, is pushed deep inside by fishermen. When forest officials itervened on Wednesday afternoon, the fish was cut into pieces and was being transported in a tempo, which has been seized. Officials are expected to nab the trawler owner or those involved in fishing and selling the shark. If the crime is found purposefully done, those involved can get imprisoned for 3-7 years and fined Rs50,000 to Rs 2 lakh. In case of the second offence, the fine ranges from Rs 5-25 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/whale-shark-caught-in-net-may-have-died-of-suffocation/articleshow/77534344.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
August 14, 2020||India||Ex-Prez Pranab Mukherjee is comatose, responding to drugs||NEW DELHI: Former President Pranab Mukherjee is slowly responding to medical treatment and all his vital parameters are stable though he remains deeply comatose. Sources said his pupils had started responding to light. He was admitted to the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in New Delhi on August 10 and was operated upon to remove a clot in the brain. He also tested positive for Covid-19.  The hospital said in a bulletin on Thursday, "The condition of Pranab Mukherjee remains unchanged this morning. He is deeply comatose with stable vital parameters and he continues to be on ventilator support." His son Abhijit tweeted, "My father is and has always been a fighter. He is slowly responding to medical interventions and all his vital parameters are stable. I urge upon every well- wisher to pray for my father's speedy recovery. We need them." He added: "My father is still alive and haemodynamically stable."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ex-prez-pranab-mukherjee-is-comatose-responding-to-drugs/articleshow/77536033.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chennai||‘TN saw agri, industrial growth while battling Covid’||Chennai: Even as the state administration was battling the Covid pandemic, Tamil Nadu government did not lose sight of agriculture and industrial sectors. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami gave special attention to these two sectors to help economic revival in the state, even while monitoring the state’s fight against the coronavirus, state revenue, IT and disaster management minister R B Udhayakumar said. “When the first lockdown started, chief minister directed the authorities to address the issues of farmers. From getting them to sell vegetables directly to consumers to the use of MGNREGA workers for kudimaramathu through PWD and local bodies, the focus was on agriculture. Our CM is personally visiting districts and is reviewing kudimaramathu works, which are 80% complete. The rest will be completed before the northeast monsoon. As a result, the crop coverage has increased drastically, leading to prospects of higher production of food grains and cereals as well as vegetables and fruits this year in Tamil Nadu,” Udhayakumar told TOI. He said the focus was not just on production, but also to ensure that the farmers realize better prices for their produce. “CM ordered better utilization of cold storage and other facilities at concessional rates. Linking the produce to markets received special focus. Farmers today are thanking the CM for providing vehicles, through horticulture department, to carry vegetables to the consumers directly and have requested him to make it a permanent feature by offering them loans to buy vehicles,” he said. The state helped farmers cover larger area under food grain cultivation and it also doubled the number of procurement centres, not just in the Cauvery delta but also in districts like Madurai, where the number has gone up to 250 from 125. With ample rains and storage of surplus water from Karnataka, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh in reservoirs, we are in for bountiful two crops, if not more, this year,” Udhayakumar said. In the case of industries, the state has been consistently converting MoU projects in GIM to actual implementation, thereby leading to employment generation, he said. “Every problem of the industry is being addressed. While a special committee headed by former RBI governor C Rangarajan is working on suggestions for long-term sustained economic revival of the state, a task force headed by the chief secretary is ensuring that the state does not miss out on even a single investment opportunity. This is reflecting in the surveys, by various agencies, that are projecting higher growth for Tamil Nadu,” Udhayakumar said. “Tamil Nadu is showing the way for other states on how to handle a pandemic and revive economy,” he said, while recalling the huge number of tests Tamil Nadu has been carrying out, achieving low mortality and high recovery rates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-saw-agri-industrial-growth-while-battling-covid/articleshow/77532658.cms||D Govardan
August 14, 2020||Madurai||Madurai toll crosses 300, death rate higher than state, national average||Madurai: Even as the number of Covid-19 cases in the district shows signs of decline, Madurai district’s death rate of 2.5% remains the highest in the state. The death rate is also higher than the state (1.7%) and national (1.96%) averages. Though the active cases have come down to around 1,000, the high death rate has been a cause for concern in the district. Madurai has 12,366 Covid-19 cases, including 1,056 active cases and 308 deaths. The total Covid-19 deaths crossed the 300-mark in Madurai on Thursday. With 57 Covid-19 deaths in August, the district is seeing an average of four deaths per day. In July, Covid-19 cases were witnessing a huge spike in Madurai with 208 deaths, averaging six deaths per day. More than 60% of the deaths have occurred at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). An overwhelming 88% of the Covid-19 deaths were of patients with various co-morbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, kidney disease or other illness. A possible reason for the increase in deaths could be that there are more severe Covid-19 patients than asymptomatic patients. According to a data from district officials, out of the 1,056 active cases in Madurai, 746 patients were admitted to hospitals. As per the Covid-19 triaging by government, only moderate and severe cases are admitted to hospitals, while asymptomatic and mildly-symptomatic patients can either go to Covid-19 care centres or be in home isolation. In July however, a majority of the active cases were patients in to Covid care centres or home isolation. Meanwhile, the head of treatment protocol committee, Dr K Senthil, observed that Covid-19 is a deadly disease but still best efforts are being made to save patients. “It must be stressed that Covid-19 is a disease with high mortality. The disease is highly unpredictable. Many of the referral cases we are getting are severely-ill patients, which give us little time to save them. At the same time, we have saved even patients with 70% pneumonia,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-toll-crosses-300-death-rate-higher-than-state-national-average/articleshow/77535037.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 14, 2020||Nagpur||15 doctors, nurses at VNIT CCC test +ve||Nagpur: Fifteen front-line Covid warriors, including 10 doctors and five auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) deployed at VNIT Covid Care Centre (CCC) tested positive on Thursday. They were monitoring close to 200 positive asymptomatic patients at the CCC. Now, the only working staff remaining at the CCC are its two nodal officers who didn’t get the RT-PCR test done. The 15 CCC staff had got the test done as per protocol for professionals coming directly in contact with positive patients. As per officials, the nodal officers were planning a test at a later date. “Having no symptoms, they felt there was no urgency. They will be soon tested,” said officials. Health workers are taking the test after every 15 days to stay alert as well as prevent spread at home and in society in case they are asymptomatic carriers. The positive doctors and ANMs were shifted to Lata Mangeshkar Hospital, which has started treating Covid patients. “Two of them are symptomatic,” said officials. Civil surgeon Dr Devendra Patturkar said health and police personnel are the most exposed to the infection and therefore they are turning positive. “They were taking all precautions but it is happening everywhere. It can’t be exactly said where they got infected, at home or CCC,” he said. District health officer Dr Deepak Selukar’s office has been assisting the administration in running 18 CCCs in city and across 12 tehsils. The CCCs are led by doctors from the public health department and supported by pooled in staff. The officials had pooled in doctors and ANMs mainly from Rashtriya Bal Swastha Karyakram under the National Health Mission and ayurveda colleges. Of the 30, only 15 had joined. Officials said the rest would be asked to immediately report to VNIT CCC on Friday. “One nodal officer, a couple of medical officers and nurses have been working in a shift at VNIT,” said officials. Besides VNIT CCC, another doctor from Kuhi CCC has tested positive and admitted to a city hospital. Around 12 medical workers under the civil surgeon have tested positive so far. Around 12 nurses and as many resident doctors each from IGGMCH and IGGMCH have also tested positive in the last one month. A deputy district health officer, some civic medical officers and nurses too have been infected with Covid during the same period. Government doctors are baffled as all those testing positive among them were dealing with non-Covid work. “It can’t be clearly said that they got infected at the hospital. Covid and non-Covid duties are rotated to protect them from falling ill. Yet, some who didn’t work for longer period in Covid wards are now testing positive,” they said, adding that this happened despite doctors and nurses strictly following all guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15-doctors-nurses-at-vnit-ccc-test-ve/articleshow/77534130.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 14, 2020||Nashik||Industries to provide kits to ESIC hosp||Nashik: The Nashik Industries Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA) has offered to help Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Hospital with material required to fight Covid-19. The delegation of the members of industries met Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare, offering their assistance. “We want to help the health department and the administration in the fight against Covid-19. Since the government provides all the important and basic facilities including medicines for Covid-19 patients, we decided to support the health department with other essentials that government may not be able to provide,” said Shashikant Jadhav, NIMA president. He said they would be providing the ESIC hospital with sodium hypochlorite for sanitization, N95 masks, PPE kits, surgical gloves, disposable caps, steamers and nebulizers, liquid soaps with dispensers, three-layer face mask for patients, X-Ray view box, lead apron, batteries for pulse metres, bio medical waste bags, set of pulse oximeters, blankets, kettles, induction coil, plastic buckets. The hospital has provided a list of 36 items and the association will be supplying this material for monthly and three-monthly use. The industries has already providing services at Covid Care Centre raised at Thakkar’s Dome.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/industries-to-provide-kits-to-esic-hosp/articleshow/77531378.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 14, 2020||Bareilly||10-year-old boy mauled by stray dogs in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A 10-year-old boy was mauled to death by a pack of stray dogs in Pilibhit district on Wednesday when he was going to his father's farm. Aziz Raza - a Class V student - succumbed to his injuries while being shifted to a medical facility. Bisalpur SDM Chandra Bhan Singh, on Thursday, sought the assistance of forest and wildlife division as well as the department of animal husbandry to trap these stray dogs from Rasiakhanpur village in Bisalpur tehsil. Raza’s father, Ahid Khan, said these stray dogs attacked over two dozen villagers in the past three months. His son was studying in a village school and was meritorious in studies. Locals rushed to help him, but the dogs had already caused multiple wounds by then. "Some villagers throw bones after cooking which attracts these stray dogs. Their tendency to feed on meat may be a factor behind their abnormal behaviour of attacking children in the village," the SDM said. "I have asked the block development officer, the veterinary officer of Bisalpur and the nayab tehsildar to visit the village to review the situation. The animal husbandry department can catch these dogs and shift them to a more secluded place," the SDM added. However, chief veterinary officer Dr Akhilesh Kumar Garg said, "These stray dogs can only be trapped by trained dog catchers who are not available in his department. They are usually brought from other places, whenever required."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/10-year-old-boy-mauled-by-stray-dogs-in-pilibhit/articleshow/77530161.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Don’t penalise innocent traders in bogus billing cases’||Ludhiana: With the rising cases of bogus billing and forged GST refund, taxation experts are expressing huge concern over the way innocent businessmen are being penalised despite no involvement in these scams. They had made genuine purchases from the traders, who further got these from anyone in the chain of scamsters. In all such cases of forged refunds and bogus billing by a person, the traders in the supply chain below him too are sent notices and forced to pay back the input tax credit (ITC) claimed by them. Even those firms which have made genuine purchases and are not part of the scam in this chain too are forced to pay back the ITC. According to tax professionals, the situation is discouraging the honest and innocent businessmen and therefore government and taxation departments should change the practice of punishing those who are not part of such scams. Shedding more light on the issue, tax expert N K Thamman of Thamman Associates, said, “Under GST, fake and bogus invoicing has become a big issue. Every other day raids are conducted by central and state GST authorities to unearth these billing scams. In a large number of cases, there are instances where innocent industry, business houses are entrapped and have to suffer though they were not party to any such scam. An example of such a case — suppose a trader (named B) located in Delhi possesses material but he does not have a bill of the same as he has procured the material in piecemeal from a number of small traders. He procures GST paid bill from some other trader or manufacturer (named A) located in Gujarat without receiving any material. Trader B supplies the material lying with him on his bill which has been issued on the basis of procured bill to another trader (named C) located in Ludhiana. This trader C sells the material to manufacturer (named D) located in Ludhiana, who avails ITC, uses the material for the manufacture of his final product and pays GST on the final product after using ITC of purchased material and pays rest from his own pocket. In this case, the manufacturer D knows only about trader C. He has no link with trader B or A. Now when the investigation agencies of GST formations trap any of the above in the chain, they ask manufacturer D to reverse ITC, along with interest and penalty.” He added, “The investigating agencies are taking the help of Section 155 of CGST Act, 2017 which provides that the burden of proving entitlement to ITC lies on assessee. In the above transaction, manufacturer D located at Ludhiana can ensure genuineness only of the immediate preceding trader C from whom he has actually purchased the material. The Government should come out with a provision to fix the liability of manufacturer D to check the genuineness of transaction & authenticity of supplier only up to his immediate preceding stage. There is another blunder in such transactions as the investigating agencies ask all the traders and the manufacturer in this whole chain to reverse ITC at their end.” According to Jaswinder Thukral, president of Janta Nagar Small Scale Manufacturers Association, “The issue of innocent businessmen who are party of supply chain under any trader involved in bogus billing or availing forged GST refunds are being penalised by taxation department despite they not being involved in such scams. On one side the government is giving slogans like make in India or ease of doing business but on the ground the plight of businessmen is pitiable.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dont-penalise-innocent-traders-in-bogus-billing-cases/articleshow/77532635.cms||Mohit Behl
August 14, 2020||Madurai||Three more southern dists cross 100 deaths||Madurai: As the total Covid-19 deaths in south Tamil Nadu rose to 1,148 on Thursday, Theni, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari districts crossed 100 deaths. With this, the death toll in five of the 10 southern districts has crossed 100 and the other districts 50. Among the three, Tirunelveli had the highest death rate of 1.5%. Tirunelveli district collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish told TOI that efforts were on to bring down the mortality by early identification of cases through fever camps. “More awareness is needed as early referral to hospital can definitely reduce mortality. Around 150 camps are being done every day and hotspots are being analysed. To reduce the burden of Tirunelveli MCH, we have ensured use of Covid-19 care centres for mild and asymptomatic cases,” she added. “Death audits are being conducted regularly. Even siddha doctors are working with allopathic doctors to boost immunity of patients. We had a few cases of silent hypoxia at night time which led to deaths, so we increased the number of nurses to better monitor patients at night time,” she said. Similarly, Kanyakumari had seen a jump in mortality rate to 1.5%, from 0.1%. District health officials meanwhile said that all measures are being taken to reduce incidence of cases, which in turn can help reduce mortality as well. In all three districts, the total cases had also drastically increased in the two weeks between July 31 and August 13. While the mortality rate had jumped as well in Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari, in Theni though it had marginally declined, the number of cases had spiked higher than the other two districts. Theni district health department sources said the death toll was increasing because people who were receiving treatment in private hospitals in other districts were coming and getting admitted to the government hospital at the terminal stages. They also had a case of a man aged about 45, who had home-quarantined himself without medical supervision despite having symptoms, rushed to the hospital when he started becoming breathless but he died on the way. The district now has 400 beds with an oxygen facility and plans to increase it by another 150 soon. (With inputs from Padmini Sivarajah)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/three-more-southern-dists-cross-100-deaths/articleshow/77535048.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Flights to 5 cities from Amausi to resume soon||LUCKNOW: With demand for air travel increasing, Airports Authority of India Lucknow unit has given its assent for resumptions of flight operations for at least five destinations. Flights will now resume for Chandigarh, Jaipur, Dehradun, Raipur and Bhopal thrice a week. Assistant general manager at Lucknow airport Nitin Kadiyan said, “These flights will be operated by IndiGo.” “The flight for Chandigarh will operate at 7am from August 25 on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. The Jaipur flight will begin from August 26 on Monday, Wednesday and Friday at the same time,” said Kadiyan. The Dehradun flight will take off at 4.45pm on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday from August 20 and for Raipur, the flight will leave at 4pm from August 25 on the same days. Lastly, the Bhopal flight will take off at 4pm from August 26 Monday, Wednesday and Friday, he added. An IndiGo official said passenger occupancy rate had increased from 30% to 85% since last week. As of now, flights are operational for Chennai, Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Kolkata. While there is one flight daily for Chennai, Mumbai and Hyderabad, five flights leave for Delhi everyday. For Bengaluru and Kolkata, there are two flights a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/flights-to-5-cities-from-amausi-to-resume-soon/articleshow/77535062.cms||Arvind Chauhan
August 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Meat sellers find slaughter house unviable||Ludhiana: Even as MC officials are claiming that the slaughter house will become operational soon, shopkeepers say that the proposal will not be viable for them. According to them, 90% of buyers prefer freshly slaughtered meat and chicken. Moreover, the slaughter house is far off and shopkeepers in other areas of the city will not be allowed to get birds and animals there for slaughtering. The shopkeepers also claimed that now no shopkeeper will get a licence for slaughtering as last year the district health department did not give any licence. President of Ludhiana Wholesale Non-Veg Association Bhupinder Singh said, “There are at least 3,000 shops in the city where chicken, mutton and even pork is available and it is not practical on the part of the MC to ask all to get slaughtering done at the slaughter house on Hambran road. Besides, buyers are not going to buy meat if they see it’s kept in a freezer. Senior veterinary officer Dr YP Singh said there was no problem in implementing the same as there would be strict action against those who would not follow the rules. He said they want to take the slaughtering at a distance from the city area as residents found it to be a nuisance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/meat-sellers-find-slaughter-house-unviable/articleshow/77532666.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kochi||Augmenting hosp infra needof the hour as demand surges||Kochi: The demand for augmenting health infrastructure, in terms of hospitals and centres, is steadily increasing as Covid-19 positive cases with moderate and severe symptoms have been going up in Ernakulam district. As many as 658 of the total 1,360 ICU beds, which are available for Covid treatment in both government and private sectors, are occupied. Also, of the 394 ventilators available in the district, 94 are already in use. A total of 2,401 of 4,560 rooms are currently occupied. And of the 10,149 beds earmarked for Covid patients at various facilities in the district, 3,674 are occupied. All these numbers are much higher than they were a fortnight ago. Given the pace of increase in number of patients with moderate and severe illness, facilities in the district may reach saturation point soon. “We will be upgrading two Covid first line treatment centres in the district into centres where category B patients and patients with moderate symptoms could be treated. At Adlux Convention Centre in Angamaly, there are around 300 beds. Adlux will be one of the CFLTCs which will be upgraded to treat patients with moderate symptoms,” said Dr N K Kuttappan, district medical officer, Ernakulam. “Once patients with moderate symptoms are shifted to CFLTCs, the load on Government Medical College, which is the only Covid hospital in the district now, can be reduced. Then, treatment of patients with severe illness can be done at the medical college with more focus,” he said. At present, 1,355 patients are undergoing treatment at various facilities in the district. According to district administration, Ernakulam is in fifth stage of the pandemic where 1,000 to 1,800 patients are expected. And as per their surge plan, officials project that there would around 1,440 patients with mild and 270 with moderate symptoms. Though patients with severe symptoms were anticipated at 90, the number of patients has already touched 94. This means, the district administration has to change plans to meet the challenges. According to health department officials, the second Covid hospital would start functioning at PVS hospital soon. The government had taken over a few hospitals for Covid treatment a couple of months ago. “We are completing certain maintenance work. The hospital would start functioning soon after,” Kuttappan said, adding that district administration has expedited its work. Moreover, officials with the health department said burden on CFLTCs too would come down if asymptomatic patients could undergo home care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/augmenting-hosp-infra-needof-the-hour-as-demand-surges/articleshow/77532687.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
August 14, 2020||Mumbai||Zydus brings out anti-Covid drug priced almost 50% cheaper||Mumbai: Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila announced the launch of its anti-viral Remdesivir drug at Rs 2,800 per injection, making it the “most economical” brand in the country. The move may trigger a potential price war in Covid-19 therapy. Zydus’ price of its drug, Remdac, is nearly 50% cheaper than Hyderabad-based Hetero’s drug at Rs 5,400, which was the first entrant in June. Cipla’s drug costs Rs 4,000, and Mylan has priced it at Rs 4,800 per vial. Recently, Jubilant Life Sciences launched it's version at Rs 4,700 per injection. Industry experts say a further reduction in prices is expected over the next few weeks, as economies of scale kick in, with higher volumes being manufactured. The reduction, however, may not follow the same trend as the one being witnessed in another potential Covid-19 drug, Favipiravir, where nearly a dozen players have launched affordable versions, they added. This comes at a time when concerns have been raised regarding shortage and “black marketing” of Remdesivir, a problem that has compounded due to rising Covid-19 cases, and only a few doses are available in the market. A minimum of six vials are required to treat a patient suffering from severe Covid-19 symptoms, as per the protocol. India continues to see a surge with over 50,000 Covid-19 cases being reported daily, since August 4. “We have been able to launch it at an economical price as the entire production is in-house, including the active pharmaceutical ingredient. The production will be at our US-FDA approved plants at Vadodara and Ahmedabad,” a Zydus Cadila official told TOI. The manufacturing process involves “lyophilization” or freeze-drying, which is a complicated and expensive process. Zydus has been able to price the drug lower, possibly because it is doing lyophilization in-house while other firms are outsourcing it. It is probably carrying out certain key manufacturing processes by itself too. Also, key starting materials bought by companies earlier in April- May were more expensive, leading to a higher cost of production at that point of time. Industry experts pointed out that Remdesivir prices are lower for procurement by institutional and public hospitals. Remdesivir is a US-based Gilead Sciences’ drug, which has been granted emergency-use authorization by the US Food and Drug Administration for treatment of hospitalized patients with severe Covid-19. Gilead has extended a license to domestic companies, including Cipla, Hetero, Jubilant Life Sciences, Zydus Cadila, Dr Reddy’s, Mylan and Biocon, to manufacture and market the generic version. Multiple international Phase 3 clinical trials are evaluating the safety and efficacy of Remdesivir for the treatment of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, while Gilead recently submitted a new drug application to USFDA seeking approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/zydus-brings-out-anti-covid-drug-priced-almost-50-cheaper/articleshow/77535545.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
August 14, 2020||Chennai||DMK dismisses rebel MLA Selvam||Chennai: The DMK on Thursday dismissed rebel MLA K K Selvam from the primary membership of the party and all other positions he held for indulging in anti-party activities. “Selvam, who was removed from the post of headquarter office secretary and from the party executive council, is now being dismissed from the party and its primary membership,” DMK said in a statement. The action was necessitated as Selvam’s actions brought disrepute to the party. Besides that, he did not maintain party discipline, the DMK statement said. Elected from the Thousand Lights assembly constituency in Chennai, Selvam was recently suspended from the party after he met BJP national president J P Nadda in New Delhi on August 4. The next day, he participated in a puja at the BJP office in Chennai, held when PM Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for Ram temple in Ayodhya. Selvam also raised the issue of “family dominance” in the DMK and said seniors like him did not have a future in the party. When the DMK suspended him, Selvam challenged it to expel him from the party. In his reply to a notice issued by the DMK, Selvam said the party had suspended him without hearing his side. His explanation for his actions was not satisfactory, the DMK said in a statement. A party veteran, Selvam was miffed when he was overlooked for a district secretary post that fell vacant following the death of DMK MLA J Anbazhagan in June. Further, Udhayanidhi Stalin, DMK’s youth wing secretary and son of party president M K Stalin, has reportedly set eyes on the Thousand Lights constituency to contest in the elections expected to be held early next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-dismisses-rebel-mla-selvam/articleshow/77532716.cms||D Govardan
August 14, 2020||Ludhiana||MC seeks 6 months for setting up rendering plant||Ludhiana: The MC has sought six months from the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) chairman to establish the rendering plant at its newly upgraded slaughter house on Hambran Road. The issue of the rendering plant has become a bone of contention between both departments as civic body officials are refusing having information about any such plant before hand while PPCB officials claimed they had told them about the same. Recently, MC officials were given a hearing by chairman, PPCB, through video conferencing where they were told that the plant was a must. However, the chairman had asked the officials when they would be able to construct this plant. The officials claimed that they would require at least six months for the same. However, the officials have requested that they should be given permission to operate this plant by that time, but PPCB officials raised the question on managing the waste. The MC officials claimed that as of now they could get it lifted by a biomedical waste company or some other arrangement can be done so that it does not go in the sewrage. Senior veterinary officer of MC Dr YP Singh said they would require at least six months to establish this plant and that too if they got permission to construct it now. He said they had no clue about the rendering plant earlier. The only question mark on this ongoing tussle is that the MC was planning this project for a long time and they visited many slaughter houses before finalizing the detailed project report. The sources said when officials had seen all those plants, nobody told them about the importance of rendering plant. Moreover, the company that upgraded this plant also did not tell the officials about any such plant. Meanwhile, the civic body officials are tight lipped over these issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-seeks-6-months-for-setting-up-rendering-plant/articleshow/77532692.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Call details records won’t help cops in contact tracing||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The police decision to track the call details records (CDR) of the Covid-19-infected to prepare their route maps is not only illegal, but also a futile exercise, according to officials who have used CDRs in the past to crack crime cases. “The CDRs offer two things, those who have been contacted over the phone which has nothing to do with Covid-19 contact tracing, and tower location of the places that he has visited, which is what the police is claiming to use in this case,” a senior police officer said. The tower location itself is a large area with a radius of three to 10km. “This is a vast area and a person’s location could be anywhere in this area,” he said. The only benefit by retrieving the CDRs is that, if the infected person misses out any place where he had travelled, he can be reminded of the place. “But the question is whether such an illegal act should be performed by the police for reminding a person about the places he had travelled, when there are legitimate ways. Also, even after retrieving the CDR, the police will have to depend on the person’s words to know who all had he/she met,” sources said. Meanwhile, medical experts say that the whole exercise of tracing the contacts and preparing route map is futile as there has been a silent community spread in the state, which is evident from the increasing number of cases and clusters. “There is no point in preparing the route maps when there is a clear spread of virus. Asking the infected for contacts by the policemen is much different than the same task undertaken by a health worker. They may be reluctant to speak in confidence about their contacts with a police officer,” Indian Medical Association (IMA) state president Dr Abraham Varghese said. According to the Section 5 (2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, the central government or a state government can retrieve CDRs of an individual in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the state, friendly relations with foreign states or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of an offence. There are certain laid out procedures in this regard, and the rule 419A of the Telegraph (amendment) rules, 2007, had made the procedure for retrieving CDRs as stringent as interception of telephonic conversation. “In the case of the latest decision, there are no such reasons to cite. Limiting the CDRs to contact tracing alone and ensuring that there will be no breach of privacy, is easier said than done,” police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cdr-wont-help-cops-in-contact-tracing/articleshow/77531409.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Design logo for Atal Univ, win cash prize||Lucknow: The Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University being set up by the state government in memory of the former prime minister announced a logo design and slogan writing competition on Thursday. Vice-chancellor Prof. A K Singh said the last date for sending the entries is August 31 and the best ones will be given a cash prize. A sum of Rs 20,000 will be given to the designer of best logo, and Rs 8,000 to the best slogan writer. The top five entries will be given a certificate of appreciation. Dr Singh said the entries can be sent to e-mail id logoforabvmuup@gmail.com. The entries will be judged on the basis of their uniqueness, originality, simplicity in design and sentence, explicit in presentation and conveying message, reproducible in various mediums of stationery, banner, poster, painting etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/design-logo-for-atal-univ-win-cash-prize/articleshow/77535118.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||MCH orders probe after victim’s body falls off trolley||Kolkata: The body of a Covid victim fell from the trolley while it was being shifted from the Green Building at Medical College Hospital to the mortuary on Thursday afternoon. Since it was a Covid victim no one came forward to help lift the body back onto the trolley. A two-member committee has been constituted to investigate why the body was being ferried on a trolley and not in a covered van that the hospital has kept ready for the purpose. According to hospital sources, the patient had died in the Covid ward located in the Green Building in the afternoon. When the body — wrapped in plastic sheet — slipped from the trolley, the Group-D employee, who was ferrying the body, had to fetch his fellow staffers in PPE from the Covid ward to lift it back onto the trolley. The body lay there for around 10 minutes.Bodies of Covid victims are generally shifted from the ward and kept in the mortuary till authorized personnel from the Kolkata Municipal Corporation take them away for cremation.“There are dedicated covered vans for the moving the bodies. It is not clear yet why a patient trolley was used to transfer the corpse,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mch-orders-probe-after-victims-body-falls-off-trolley/articleshow/77534191.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kochi||Kerala witnesses spurt in cadaver organ transplants||KOCHI: Kerala’s cadaver organ donation programme that came to a standstill in 2017 has gained momentum again. In the first six months of 2020, state, despite being hit by Covid-19 pandemic, witnessed two heart transplants, 15 kidney, one pancreas and eight liver transplants from nine donors. There were two hand transplants as well. In contrast, from January to June 2019, there were only seven donors. Ironically, state has seen a drop in live organ transplants during Covid period. From January 1 to June 30, 2019, there were 365 live kidney transplants and 72 live liver transplants. During the same period in 2020, there were 295 kidney transplants and 44 liver transplants. However, transplant experts confirm that live transplants came to a standstill in the state in March, just before nationwide lockdown was announced. “Because of exemplary disease containment in Kerala in the initial phase, the transplant programme was not much affected. But now, we are entering a new phase in our fight against the virus. With our Covid numbers surging, it is a new challenge for the transplant community,” said Dr Praveen Varma, head, division of cardiac surgery, Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences, Kochi and author of report on ‘organ transplantation in Covid times in Kerala’. “It will be important to prioritize transplant surgeries based on urgency,” said co-author Nisha Sreedharan. According to Kerala Network for Organ Sharing (KNOS), while kidney transplant patients can wait because they have a dialysis option, it’s not the case in liver transplant. The authors talk about several areas — immunosuppressant medications that can also prolong recovery from Covid-19 with patients having potential to become super spreaders, shortage of manpower and PPE resources, besides the concern of selecting Covid negative donors and recipients. “There is a need to revive transplant programme. Depending on the Covid situation, we will decide an action plan,” said KNOS nodal officer Dr Noble Gracious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-witnesses-spurt-in-cadaver-organ-transplants/articleshow/77532775.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mumbai||Water-loving solution on masks may cut Covid risk: IIT-Bombay||MUMBAI: A coating of a water-loving solution on face masks and personal protection equipment (PPE) could reduce the risk of Covid-19, said IIT-Bombay scientists. The logic behind the recommendation is that a water-loving surface, scientifically known as hydrophilic, takes less time to dry. As Covid-19 mainly spreads via droplets, chances of transmission are reduced if droplets on surfaces be it a glass top at home or PPE of a healthcare worker dry faster. “The Teflon pan is hydrophobic as it repels water, but its underside is hydrophilic and water drops here dry faster,” said Dr Rajneesh Bharadwaj, who along with Dr Amit Agrawal, published a research article on this topic in ‘Physics of Fluid’ journal brought out by American Institute of Physics. “We can chemically treat material used for PPE and face masks so that droplets containing the novel coronavirus dry up faster, breaking the transmission chain,” said Dr Agrawal. Since Covid-19 virus spreads through respiratory droplets, researchers explored how droplets deposited on face masks or frequently touched surfaces, like door handles or smartphone touch screens, dry. The droplets are tiny, around twice the width of a human hair, and studies have shown a substantially reduced chance of infection once they dry. “We wanted to quantify the droplet drying time on various surfaces and make a recommendation for ideal types of surfaces for masks and PPE based on drying time,” said Agrawal. Their calculations showed droplets dried roughly four times faster on hydrophilic surface than on the one that repels water. Two months back, Bhardwaj and Agarwal published a paper to show that Covid-19 spread less in cities where cough or sneeze droplets took less time to dry due to higher temperature and lower humidity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/water-loving-solution-on-masks-may-cut-covid-risk-iitb/articleshow/77534346.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nashik||No. of symptomatic cases drops by 20%||Nashik: Even as the number of Covid-19 patients in the district are increasing by the day, there has been a sharp reduction in the percentage of symptomatic patients between July 24 and August 6. This comes as a major relief for the health department, administration and citizens in particular, said district collector Suraj Mandhare.“Interestingly, the percentage of symptomatic patients in the distr has dropped from 54% on July 24 to 34% on August 6 and this is despite the rise in Covid-19 cases by 55% during the same period,” Mandhare said. He referred to the periodic statistics that includes patients from Nashik city, Nashik rural and Malegaon. The study of patients on July 24 shows that of the 10,969 patients, 1,478 (54%) were symptomatic. However, on August 6, of the 18,444 patients, the number of symptomatic patients was 1,552 (34%). This sharp decline in symptomatic cases further cuts down the requirement of oxygen cylinders and ventilators, and thus, is a healthy sign for the society and health department, Mandhare said.During the said period, the number of patients requiring oxygen cylinders dropped from 22% to 14% and those requiring ventilators, too, reduced from 2.5% to 2%. This is a major relief for the entire district given that number of tests has gone up from 764 on July 24 to 1,710 on August 6. It also indicates the manner in which the health department has been able to cut down on the spread of the disease. .Additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane said that lesser the load of symptomatic patients, better the chances of patient management and even for the society. “The statistics clearly figure out that 65% people do not require any kind of intervention directly from health agencies despite they being Covid-19 positive. These people can treat themselves at homes with the medicines provided by the doctors and have good protein-rich diet,” Saindane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-of-symptomatic-cases-drops-by-20/articleshow/77531424.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 14, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Squatters along Metrowater line on New Avadi Road to be evicted soon||CHENNAI: Squatters have taken over stretches of the city’s oldest giant pipeline that brings water from Red Hills to Kilpauk Water Works. Hundreds of huts and shops dot the pipeline along New Avadi Road. The structures on top of the pipeline could damage the structure and cause loss of several thousands of litres of water. The Metrowater pipeline can carry up to 270 million litres of water a day. A Metrowater official said they had enumerated the encroachments along the line in January and February. “Efforts are on to get slum board tenements to rehabilitate a section of the squatters who have built small houses on the conduit,” said the official. The official said around 4,000 encroachments have been identified. Of them, most have built houses and shops that sell fruits and vegetables. In January, the Chennai collector was informed about the encroachments, he said. Last December, Metrowater removed encroachers along the pipeline at Kakkanji Nagar. Subsequently, they planned to clear the 4,000 encroachers on New Avadi Road but could not as the lockdown was imposed. “Once the lockdown is completely lifted, the process of removing the encroachers from the conduit will begin,” the official said. Nearly 2,500 families lived in Kakkanji Nagar near the Gandhi Nagar Slum Clearance Board tenements. They were given alternative accommodations at tenements in Perumbakkam and Athipattu near Ambattur. After the area was cleared, Metrowater fenced the area, the official said. In 2018, 1,000 squatters were removed between Red Hills and Rajamangalam. The 5km stretch was fened to prevent further encroachment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/squatters-along-metrowater-line-on-new-avadi-road-to-be-evicted-soon/articleshow/77534239.cms||P Oppili
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||On city’s C-zone wish list: Daru, cigs, dog food...||Kolkata: Unlike the cops in Delhi and Hyderabad, they have never been attacked by those residing inside containment zones. But that does not mean that cops on duty near the containment zones in Kolkata have an easier task. Cigarettes, liquor and even tinned food for pets — the list of demands put forth by some residents from containment zones are testing the patience of officers manning the containment zones.“It is one thing to plead to go out. But it is entirely different when residents believe they can ask us to bring such stuff to their doorstep,” said an IPS officer who has handled a containment zone in Ballygunge.A cop in Patuli spoke of a recent incident from M-block. “A man sent a text, which I forwarded to my junior without a second glance assuming it to be something important. My junior came to me asking if I really wanted him to buy what had been demanded in the message: alcohol,” said the officer, who then removed the man from the common WhatsApp group. At I Block, cops received an SOS for dog food. “The dog owner even called up to direct our man to the shop,” an officer said.At Behala Sakherbazar, cops said they were surprised by the number of requests for sanitizers. “We later realized there was a dearth of sanitizers in the area. The KMC, though, took good care of the other basic needs,” said an officer.At Bhowanipore, police said they had received calls for snacks like chanachur and biscuits along with bread and milk at regular intervals. “We had maintained a ledger book. Most families paid in advance. The ward coordinator’s acquaintances helped KMC in the distribution,” said an officer.The cops said they have now informed residents that they will now arrange only essential items like medicines. Lalbazar said it has asked the cops to walk the extra mile but be strict when it comes to handling unfair demands.The cops on ground said that such residents were few. “There were several who never asked for anything. They would merely talk to us just to kill their boredom. Many of them have become friends — especially the senior citizens. Others would text and even politely ask if they were not disturbing us,” said an officer posted at Maniktala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-citys-c-zone-wish-list-daru-cigs-dog-food-/articleshow/77534209.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 14, 2020||Chennai||E-passes make domestic travel during unlock a hassle||Chennai: The lack of uniformity in e-pass rules and requirements across the country has made domestic travel a hassle, especially for those having to travel at short notice. Airports have a counter for arriving passengers to fill details for a pass, but, those in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Maharashtra – the most-travelled destinations – insist passengers carry an e-pass on arrival. Telangana does not ask for a pass at all. Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka, Himachal and Chhattisgarh ask travellers to take e-pass before arrival while UP, Maharashtra, Andhra, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Uttarakhand, Meghalaya want them to register. Such varying policies, which inconvenience hundreds of passengers, also come in the way of attempts to boost growth of domestic travel even during the unlock period. Applying for an e-pass online for travelling at short notice is fraught with many hassles even for flyers. It’s tougher or near impossible for those planning to go by road. Authorities in TN keep rejecting applications, citing reasons like inadequate documents and non-emergencies, though allowing emergency visits and business travel for 48hours. In Kerala, passes are issued immediately but the website has snags that prevent people from submitting applications. Similar issues plague the system in states like Maharashtra. TN tightened its rules under its travel guidelines for August, insisting that passengers arriving at airports including Chennai have an e-pass. “Air passengers often wonder about the need for an online pass as the details and documents asked online can be filed at a counter on arrival at the airport. Only those with emergencies travel anyway,” said an airline official. Chennai resident Ranjani Ayyar had to apply seven times for a TN e-pass to come from Bengaluru before it was cleared. “I wanted to pick up my child from Bengaluru and return. Karnataka issued the pass; it’s more like a registration. But TN kept on rejecting e-pass. I applied with different travel dates leaving a gap of two days to more than a week. The reasons given were ‘trip is not an emergency’ and ‘documents uploaded are not suitable’ though I uploaded the ones they had asked for,” she said. Under pressure from governments like in Kerala, airlines often refuse to take on board people who do not have e-pass. Behram Mehta, joint president of the Air Passengers Association of India, said that once the ministry of civil aviation approves air travel, passes should be issued on arrival at airports. “It can be like visa-on-arrival. Need for an e-pass before travelling domestic should not be pre-mandated. They can easily exempt travel for funeral or medical emergencies from e-pass,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/e-passes-make-domestic-travel-during-unlock-a-hassle/articleshow/77534220.cms||V Ayyappan
August 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Amid CDR row, police to take Janamaithri route||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Amid the mounting criticism from various corners regarding the overarching powers given to the police for tracing contacts and managing containment zones with an iron fist, the police have taken the Janamaithri route. The latest order by state police chief Loknath Behera in this regard shows a clear change in the strategy. “As a strategy of policing to contain Covid-19, we have decided to implement the concept of partnership between the community and the police as envisaged in Janamaithri policing programme. The activities of policing will be centered in empowering citizen groups in the society, including housewives, students, etc. in bringing a change in the methodologies adopted for enforcing social distancing, etc.,” the message by the state police chief to all the district police chiefs, DIGs, IGs and ADGPs said. The DGP also sanctioned Rs 67.5 lakh for awareness programmes through Janamaithri police. Each police district has been sanctioned an amount ranging from Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 5 lakh. All the activities will be coordinated from various Janamaithri centres. The funds will be used for printing banners, posters, notices, etc. The shift in the approach comes close on the heels of disaster management department clarifying that the police are responsible only for enforcing the restrictions imposed in containment and micro-containment zones, and not identifying them. “The Kerala state disaster management authority is responsible for identification and delineation of containment zones and micro-containment zones in consultation with the police that is responsible only for enforcing the restrictions imposed in containment and micro-containment zones,” the circular issued by principal secretary (revenue and disaster management) A Jayathilak on Wednesday said. The circular has been addressed to all district collectors, police, land revenue commissioner, disaster management authority commissioner and the KSDMA member secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/amid-cdr-row-police-to-take-janamaithri-route/articleshow/77531429.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mumbai||UAE Interpol detains builder’s son based on red corner notice||MUMBAI: A month after nabbing developer Laxman Bhagtani in Abu Dhabi, UAE Interpol has detained his son Mukesh (40) on the basis of a red corner notice. The notice was issued by Mumbai economic offences wing (EOW) police. The duo are accused in over half a dozen housing fraud cases amounting to Rs 427 crore. Interpol National Central Bureau (NCB), Abu Dhabi, alerted its Indian counterparts about Mukesh’s detention on August 10. The notice was issued against Mukesh, director of JVPD Properties Ltd, in November 2018. The Bhagtanis collected money from 2,500 home-buyers but did not deliver flats. Cheating cases were later registered against them. Mumbai police will send an extradition proposal as per Article 8 of Extradition Treaty. EOW last week sent a 1,697-page extradition proposal to Interpol and ministry of home affairs (MHA) to bring back Laxman to Mumbai. While the proposal for Laxman contains information about eight cases, EOW will have to send a fresh proposal for Mukesh. Mukesh’s brother, Dipesh, was earlier arrested by Mumbai EOW and charge-sheets were filed against him. Dipesh had surrendered before EOW in January 2018 after Bombay high court cancelled interim protection he had been given in August 2017. He did not appeal in Supreme Court. Charge-sheets were filed in a Mumbai court. Crucial chapters from the charge-sheets (with English and Marathi translations) were attached to the extradition proposal for his father. Buyers have been waiting for flats since 2014. Police had frozen 125 bank accounts of Bhagtanis and their firms, JVPD Properties Ltd and Jaycee Homes Pvt Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uae-interpol-detains-builders-son-based-on-red-corner-notice/articleshow/77534347.cms||Mateen Hafeez
August 14, 2020||Nashik||SPPU starts MBA prog for executives||Nashik: The Nashik sub-centre of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) launched its maiden executive MBA programme for working professionals in Nashik region. Vice chancellor Nitin Kalmalkar, who launched the programme online on Thursday, said that the programme would start from this academic year. The programme has been designed for young professionals and mid-level managers employed in industries and corporate houses in the Nashik region. Initially, the varsity will hold an entrance exam to select 60 candidates for the course. The classes will be held in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sppu-starts-mba-prog-for-executives/articleshow/77531431.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||A Covid household’s diary: How 13 members of 1 family survived 15 days of quarantine||The last fortnight has taught us — 13 members of a joint family living in an 80-year-old north Kolkata house — two valuable lessons. First, for all the information glut, when Covid strikes, you are always unprepared. Second, it helps to have a network of well-meaning friends and compassionate relatives to hand-hold you, even if remotely, through a fortnight of suffering that is more mental than physical. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/how-13-members-of-a-family-survived-15-days-of-quarantine/articleshow/77538919.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-covid-households-diary-how-13-members-of-1-family-survived-15-days-of-quarantine/articleshow/77534230.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: New schemes for a cleaner Salt Lake in Covid times||KOLKATA: At a time when there is no respite from Covid-19, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation is launching a slew of measures on Friday to make Salt Lake a cleaner city. Among them are waste segregation scheme across 10 wards in Salt Lake and the introduction of an advanced drainage outlet cleaning machine. The waste segregation at source scheme will start in wards 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 37, 39, 40 and 41, which include the wards of the Bidhannagar mayor and the chairperson. Civic officials said that this scheme had started as a pilot project but would now be implemented across Salt Lake. “Each household will be given a blue-and-green bin to segregate and dispose biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste,” said a civic official. The collected waste are presently being dumped at Dhapa. The authorities will also introduce an advanced cleaning machine that will clear the chocked drainage lines in the township. “This will help drain out the excess rainwater after heavy showers to prevent waterlogging,” said a civic official. The civic body had earlier procured a road sweeping machine to clean the roadsides. The authorities will also introduce online birth and death registration system. Civic officials said that till now, one needed to visit the borough office to apply for a birth or death certificate if the hospital or nursing home fell within the Bidhannagar civic body area. “From now on, the application process can be done online and the birth or death certificates will be issued online,” said a civic official. The civic authorities will also throw open a one km stretch off VIP Road, moving parallel to the canal at Kestopur — it has been named Barnaparichay. It will also inaugurate the newly revamped BD market in Salt Lake. Work to revamp the market has been going on in phases and three phases of work have been completed. Some work in the last phase is still on, civic officials said. Civic authorities said they were also planning to introduce a hearse of their own to collect Covid victims bodies for cremation. The authorities have been distributing PPE kits and masks to the civic health and conservancy workers to conduct their day-to-day work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-schemes-for-a-cleaner-salt-lake-in-covid-times/articleshow/77534259.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19 cases in Vadodara crosses 6K-mark||Vadodara: With 107 new Covid-19 cases being reported in the city and district since Wednesday evening, the total number of cases reached 6,005. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also confirmed one more death due to Covid-19. The new cases in the VMC limits were reported from Nizampura, Chhani, Amitnagar, Karelibaug, Harni Road, Khodiyarnagar, Fatehpura, Polo Ground, Navapura, R V Desai Road, Rajmahal Road, Lalbaug, Gorwa, Tandalja and Subhanpura areas. The north zone of the city was the worst affected with 57 cases being reported from the area. This was followed by the east and west zones where nine cases each were detected. Only three cases came to light in the south zone of the city. The areas of the district outside VMC limit saw 29 more persons testing positive. These cases were reported from Savli, Dhaniyavi, Asoj, Bajwa, Bhayli, Padra, Karjan, Gandhara and Dabhoi. With 148 more being discharged from various hospitals or home isolation, the total number of patients discharged so far reached 4,686 including those who tested positive, but died due to comorbid conditions being the primary reason. This leaves 1,204 persons under treatment. Those under treatment include 57 on BIPAP machines or ventilators. As many as 152 others are on oxygen support even as the condition of 995 persons is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/covid-19-cases-in-vadodara-crosses-6k-mark/articleshow/77531253.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mysuru||Boy killed as truck runs over him||Chikkamagaluru: A boy was killed after a truck rammed into the front yard of his house where he was playing. The incident took place on Thursday at Jenugadde village in Balehonnur police station limits. Victim Suresh was playing with his brother Abhishek when their parents, working at a coffee plantation, were not at home. A truck loaded with vegetables rammed into the front yard as the driver lost control over the vehicle. While Suresh was killed on the spot, Abhishek was admitted to Koppa hospital. Balehonnur police have registered a case. The truck driver surrendered after the incident. Woman drowns in river A 55-year-old woman slipped into Hemavathi river and died on Thursday at Kadidalu village of Mudigere taluk. Her floating body was recovered by villagers 2kms away from the accident spot. Victim Devamma had gone to the river with other women. She slipped into the river and drowned. Villagers and police recovered her body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/boy-killed-as-truck-runs-over-him/articleshow/77533252.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hubballi||Recovered patients must be doubly careful: Doctors||Hubballi: “It’s been two weeks since I recovered from Covid-19, I am experiencing extreme fatigue and am unable to do my regular work. Based on the suggestion of my friend, I visited a physician, who checked my parameters, and advised me to take some pills and to consume nutritious food and do mild exercise,” says a-46-year old. He works in a private company, and had mild symptoms. Many patients who recovered from Covid-19 are facing one or another problem. A-55-year old woman who recently recovered from Covid-19 is suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) after being discharged from the hospital. She was in the ICU in KIMS Covid hospital for seven days, and on oxygen support, as she developed an acute breathing problem. “When I close my eyes, a picture of the ICU comes before me. The deaths of patients used to come to my mind, and hence I was unable to sleep properly,” she says. Doctors from Dimhans diagnosed her with PTSD and advised her mild tranquillisers and some exercises to calm her mind. Dr G B Sattur, a physician and cardio-diabetologist from Hubballi, said that patients who recovered from Covid should be extra vigilant, as they may develop some complications. Dr Sattur advised patients who recover from Covid to take a six-minute walk test. They should walk for six minutes, and check the saturation level in the pulse oximeter, if the saturation level dips below 90, then they should seek medical help, he said. He also advised patients to do breathing exercises to increase the capacity of their lungs. He said that heart-related complications were also noted in the post recovery stage in patients. Dr Pradeep Kallolimath, a neurologist from Huballi, said Covid-19 increases the risk of thrombosis in the body. “This can lead to ischemic stroke and myocardial infarction. Neurologists have also come across cases of cerebral venous thrombosis and brain haemorrhages during Covid. The virus can also cause encephalitis and meningitis. Cases of GB syndrome were reported following viral infection in some parts of Karnataka,” he said. “Patients who have recovered from a severe case of Covid-19 may develop memory problems and pulmonary fibrosis, which might have long term implications,” said Dr Kallolimath. Doctors are advising Covid-19 patients to get a detailed health assessment done to avoid future complications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/recovered-patients-must-be-doubly-careful-doctors/articleshow/77533725.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||BEd entrance test was in interest of students: Edu dept||Lucknow: Conducting the BEd entrance examination despite the surging Covid-19 pandemic showcases the sensitivity and caution of the state government and sets the trend for upcoming competitive exams during Covid times, said higher education department’s additional chief secretary Monika S Garg. In an interaction with TOI, Garg reacted to the debates over whether the Uttar Pradesh BEd joint entrance examination should have been held or not at a time when cases of coronavirus were rising in the state. Admitting students based on their final-year marks and without an entrance test would have been an injustice to them, she said. The decision to conduct the test was taken in the interest of students so that everyone gets an equal opportunity, Garg added. “There were debates that the government should have done away with the examination in view of safety or admitted students on merit basis. However, that would not have been fair for the student community,” said Garg. She added that admissions based on final-year marks was not a standardized process across universities as marking is often done on a bell curve based on the student pool of that university. Thus, the top few students from each university are expected to score higher, irrespective of how they compare with students across the state. This is why conducting an entrance examination was something in students’ interest, she added. “We had considered online examination but the digital divide in areas across the state and access issues were deterrents. A zero academic session would also have been difficult as students were already struggling,” she said. The additional chief secretary shared how from increasing the number of centres to social distancing norms, conducting examination only at government colleges to prevent unfair means and adopting innovative ways like digital face detection helped in smooth conduct of the examination. “Last year, the exam was conducted in only 15 districts with 60 to 130 centres in a district. This year, there were the twin targets of minimal movement and adequate social distancing. It was decided to host the entrance exam in almost all districts for ease of candidates,” Garg said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bed-entrance-test-was-in-interest-of-students-edu-dept/articleshow/77535127.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy visits house, turns emotional||BENGALURU: “I’ve lost all my valuables and my house has been burnt. I don’t need anything. My only humble request is if anyone has found my mother’s taali (mangalsutra), please return it,” an emotional Akhanda Srinivasamurthy, Congress MLA from Pulakeshinagar, said on Thursday after returning to his Kavalbyrasandra residence. Two days earlier, it was the target of mob violence. He was accompanied by his wife and children and scores of supporters. The two-time MLA and his family were in tears as they stood in front of the house. Once inside, they literally began picking up pieces of their old life. The followers joined the MLA and his family in the search and soon the mangalsutra was found and returned to him. His children, nephews and nieces scoured the rubble for their marks cards but they had been reduced to ashes. He and his brothers lived in their ancestral residence. Srinivasamurthy said it was a planned attack. “All communities in this area live in harmony. It is still unclear why my house was attacked though the mistake was by someone else. What have I done to those who burnt my house? What if something had happened to my wife or children?” Asked whether the upcoming BBMP elections was the reason for the attack, he said, “What have I got to do with corporation elections? A special investigation agency needs to probe this incident.” He said the house had been built by his father and he was born and brought up there. “The mob that attacked my house is not from this area. If police cannot provide security to an elected representative like me, how can I protect my constituents? I’ve been calling the city police commissioner, but he is yet to take my calls and share information,” he added. Srinivasamurthy, meanwhile, has been receiving support from across the political spectrum. “Deputy chief minister Ashwath Narayan, revenue minister R Ashoka, Member of Parliament Shobha Karandlaje, former chief minister Siddaramaiah, KPCC president DK Shiva Kumar and former ministers KJ George and Ramalinga Reddy have extended their support to me during these tough times,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pulakeshinagar-mla-visits-burnt-house-turns-emotional/articleshow/77533116.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 14, 2020||Hubballi||Stakeholders cry foul over govt’s move mandating adoption of schools by MLAs||Belagavi: On the one hand, the state government’s directive to its 224 MLAs, asking each of them to adopt three government schools in their jurisdiction may, on paper, appear to be a move aimed at improving the lot of these neglected institutions, but stakeholders fear that this may lead to undue political interference in the functioning of schools. The order is in keeping with chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s proposal in his budget. The rationale behind the proposal was to ensure allocation of money from the local area development (LAD) funds that each MLA is entitled to. This would effectively mean that 672 schools would be funded and supervised by legislators. Education policy expert Niranjanaradhya VP, who was instrumental in the formation of School Development and Monitoring Committees (SDMCs) in the state, said that the order violated Sections nine, 21 and 22 of the Right to Education (RTE) Act. “Section of RTE empowers local authorities to administer the schools, while Section 21 stipulates that parents constitute a majority of the SDMC, and Section 22 enjoins on the management of schools to design and seek approval for a development plan from the local administrative bodies,” Niranjanaradhya said. Questioning the need for the new system when there was a properly functional set-up, one that was constitutionally valid, Niranjanaradhya said, “Bringing in MLAs to run schools will dismantle the existing decentralised structure, wherein SDMC plays a vital role. SDMC is a legitimate body, and there is a clear framework that allows for government to provide funds to the schools through the gram panchayat. With MLAs at the helm, the SDMC will be run by their followers, contracts for development of schools given to their patrons. This will undercut the role of both the local administration and the school management.” Syed Hafizullah, a North Karnataka activist, feared that the CM’s order may well herald the beginning of the end of the existing set-up. “It is three schools now, but it can quickly become the norm. Role of the legislators must be limited to monitoring the implementation of government policies,” Hafizullah said. An official in the education department admitted that the move would result in the dilution of the powers of the SDMCs, while members of the respective gram panchayat too would lose their say in the management of local educational institutions. “This may lead to MLAs appointing their handpicked members to SDMCs in all the schools, which will effectively signal the end of the RTE,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/stakeholders-cry-foul-over-govts-move-mandating-adoption-of-schools-by-mlas/articleshow/77533932.cms||Shreyas HS
August 14, 2020||Mysuru||No March-past, cultural event this I-Day||Mysuru: The 74th Independence Day celebration will be without march-past of police personnel and cultural events by schoolchildren, said deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar. Police troops will be stationed and present only to salute when the National Anthem is played while unfurling the national flag. Only personnel aged below 50 will be selected for the event, said police commissioner Chandragupta. There will be limited guests and a big gathering of public isn’t allowed as a precaution. Though teachers are told to celebrate the day at schools by hoisting the national flag, children aren’t allowed. School development monitoring committee members and villagers willing to take part may be allowed following all Covid norms including social distancing. Covid warriors are likely to be invited and felicitated. Schoolchildren will also not be participating in the parade. Only police teams, home guards and fire and emergency service personnel will take part in the celebration at Bannimantap Parade grounds. About eight platoons of police, each consisting 31 members, will be present. This time they will maintain a two-arm distance unlike the earlier one-arm distance, said Chandragupta. One platoon each team from CAR, DAR, Civil police, Traffic personnel, KSRP, women cops and Homeguards will participate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/no-march-past-cultural-event-this-i-day/articleshow/77533460.cms||Lawrence Milton
August 14, 2020||Nashik||Onion prices up 30% as supply falls at Lasalgaon||Nashik: The average wholesale onion prices at the Lasalgaon APMC has increased by 30%, from Rs 750 per quintal on Monday to Rs 975 on Thursday, in the past three days due to shortage of supply prompted by the rain. Farmers are, however, unhappy as the latest rise in the prices of onions is slightly above the production cost of Rs 900 per quintal. Officials at the APMC said the arrival of onions has reduced to 12,000-15,000 quintal a day at Lasalgaon, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, as against 20,000 a day in the last week of July, said APMC officials. “The arrival of the kitchen staple dropped to around 10,000 quintal a day in past three days and it was only 6,000 quintals on Thursday, which led to the increase in the prices,” said the officials. The minimum and maximum wholesale prices were recorded at Rs 500 and Rs 1,164 per quintal, respectively, on Thursday at the market. “The production cost for growing onions is around Rs 900 per quintal. Farmers incur losses if the product fetches anything below this. Farmers have incurred heavy losses in the last four months as they have sold 70% of the produce in the price range of Rs 400 to Rs 700 per quintal,” said Bharat Dighole, president, Maharashtra state onion growers’ association. Although the prices have increased by Rs 150 to Rs 975 per quintal in the last two-three days, the average wholesale price is slightly above the production cost . “Farmers will gain only if they get Rs 2,000 per quintal for onions,” he said. Moreover, there is no fresh onion crop right now. The onions coming to the market are of summer variety, harvested in March and April, that is stored by farmers. “Around 20% of the stored produce has already got spoilt. Hence, we want the Centre and the state government to take measures to give relief to onion farmers,” added Dighole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-prices-up-30-as-supply-falls-at-lasalgaon/articleshow/77531439.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||New high of 1,564 cases in a day||Thiruvananthapuram: The state on Thursday reported 1,564 Covid positive cases, the highest in a day, taking the total to 39,708. The state capital recorded 434 cases, which is also the highest in the district-wise daily figure. With three more deaths reported, the toll has reached 130. Lizzie Sajan, 55, of Thiruvananthapuram, Radhakrishnan, 80, of Kozhikode and Abdul Rehman, 63, of Malappuram are the deceased. There were 1,404 contact cases on Thursday, including 428 in Thiruvananthapuram. It includes 15 healthcare workers, five Indo-Tibetan Police Force personnel, and four from the coast guard. To date, 25,692 have been cured of Covid and 13,839 are under treatment. The district-wise cases are as follows: 202 each in Palakkad and Malappuram, Ernakulam, 115, Kozhikode, 98, Kasaragod, 79, Pathanamthitta and Thrissur, 75 each, Kollam, 74, Alappuzha, 72, Kottayam, 53, Idukki, 31 and Wayanad and Kannur, 27 each. As for cases through contact, Malappuram follows the state capital with 180. The others are, Palakkad, 159, Ernakulam, 109, Kozhikode, 83, Thrissur, 73, Kasaragod, 71, Kollam, 64, Alappuzha, 59, Pathanamthitta, 44, Kottayam, 43, Wayanad, 27 and Kannur, 21. Thiruvananthapuram had 197 recoveries followed by 109 in Ernakulam, 73 from Kollam, 70 in Alappuzha, 67 from Palakkad, 61 in Malappuram, 47 from Thrissur, 30 in Wayanad, 28 from Kasaragod, 25 in Kannur, 22 from Idukki, 17 in Kottayam, 12 from Kozhikode and eight in Pathanamthitta. Cases may surge: Shailaja Health minister K K Shailaja has warned that the cases might surge in the coming days and the next month is going to witness the maximum surge. The experts have pointed out that the daily reporting of the cases itself might cross 5000 and may up go up to ten thousand in a day. The death rate will also go up. Hence everyone has to ensure social distancing and make a habit of wearing masks. Only through self-protection can we prevent the spread. The health department is ready to meet any emergency, said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/new-high-of-1564-cases-in-a-day/articleshow/77531456.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Seabird blown ashore, rescued||Mangaluru: A masked booby, a large seabird, that was blown ashore, is being treated at the Reef Watch Marine Conservation Centre in Kundapur. Dr Shantanu Kalambi, veterinarian, Reef Watch Marine Conservation, said the bird was blown ashore near Udupi and suffered some mild muscle damage in its wings, possibly due to gales. “Volunteers found the bird on Monday and brought her to the centre. After taking some time to adjust, she is responding well to treatment, and has begun eating. The forest department has been informed and the bird will be released in a day or two,” he said. Masked boobies are found across most tropical oceans, but are occasional vagrants to the western coast of India. “There have been reports of at least five of them being washed ashore in various parts of India, including Mumbai and Kerala, in the recent past,” said Dr Shantanu. Providing details about the bird, he said that the bird is a little under three feet in length, and its wingspan is a little over five feet. Range Forest Officer Prabhakar Kulal said the bird is expected to be released on Friday, depending on its health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/seabird-blown-ashore-rescued/articleshow/77533763.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru riots: How turf war among 4 leaders fuelled a minor issue||BENGALURU: Turf war between four politicians, including three former ministers, might have led to the snowballing of a petty issue into a full-blown riot in east Bengaluru on Tuesday night, police sources said citing preliminary investigations. “The three former ministers felt threatened by the growth of the local MLA, Akhanda Srinivasamurthy. The trio is suspected to have used a former corporator as a cat’s paw to corner the lawmaker. The former corporator too felt his influence was on the wane due to the MLA and saw a chance to resurrect himself by joining forces with the three ex-ministers,” a senior police officer explained. “The MLA’s growing clout in awarding government and civic tenders was resented by the trio. A few days ago, posters announcing that the MLA was missing along with his photograph had appeared all over Kavalbyrasandra. The matter even reached police, who took an undertaking from the man who distributed and pasted these handbills,” he said. A Facebook post offending a community’s sensibilities put up by the MLA’s kin provided a perfect opportunity to gang up against the elected representative, he said. “Till 7pm things were normal. There was only a demand for legal action against the FB post and the aggrieved approached both the MLA as well as police. But in no time the mobs swelled. The mobs’ tactics had a guerilla element to them, raising doubts that they were planned in advance,” the officer argued. One of the 19 prime accused named in the FIR is a close confidant of one of the ex-ministers. “The accused had direct links with the ex-minister and his office when the latter was in power,” the officer said. According to senior police officials, a former mayor too is on their radar for his nexus with one of the suspects. The BBMP’s term is coming to an end next month and two ambitious youth leaders are aspiring to be the next corporator from Sagayapuram ward, where most of the violence took place. One of them is Naveen, nephew of Srinivasamurthy, while the other is Muzamil Pasha from the Social Democratic Party of India. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said police suspect local political rivalry to be behind this incident. “There are many political factions in that area and their rivalry could have culminated in the violence. The organised attack on the local MLA also suggests that it was a pre-planned one. Only in-depth investigations can unravel the truth.” Some local Congress leaders suspect the rivalry between Naveen and Pasha might have played a role in the violence. Pasha, who had unsuccessfully contested the municipal polls once, had been working to consolidate Muslim votes and he allegedly made use of the controversial FB post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/political-rivalry-turned-minor-issue-into-full-blown-riot-say-cops/articleshow/77533084.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Doorstep service to resume soon in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Services provided under the Delhi government’s doorstep delivery scheme, which were suspended in March because of the Covid pandemic, are likely to resume soon. The government has asked the private agency delivering services like ration card, driving licence and income certificate to the doorsteps of citizens in the capital, to resume its services. With the Covid-19 situation under control in Delhi, the government now wants to resume the facility so that citizens can avail the services from the safe environs of their home. “We have asked VFS Global to resume the doorstep delivery of services,” said revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, who added that the services would be restarted soon. The doorstep delivery of services is outsourced to VFS Global, a private agency, which operates a centralised call centre and delivers the services in a time-bound manner through mobile sahayaks. It will be a big relief for Delhiites, especially thousands of students who need income certificates, caste certificates and domicile certificates for their admissions. The government has asked the agency to ensure that everyone engaged in the delivery of services maintains social distancing and takes all preventive measures to keep the coronavirus threat at bay. E-commerce companies have already been delivering all articles at the doorstep and no undesirable impact of it has been witnessed on the efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus so far. Over-the-counter making of certificates at SDM offices across the capital was halted from March till the beginning of July due to the coronavirus pandemic raging through the capital. Most of the manpower engaged in preparing certificates were then involved in Covid management activities. “Now, all such services are available and a huge rush is being witnessed at the SDMs’ offices. There is a huge backlog and the demand is growing due to ongoing admissions in colleges and schools where income certificates and caste certificates are required. Officials are, however, doing their best to clear the backlog,” said a revenue department official. A total of 100 services are currently available under the doorstep scheme. The scheme was launched in September 2018 with 40 services and 30 services were added in August 2019. By the end of the last year, 30 more services were added because the scheme instantly became popular among the people and demands were high. According to the latest estimate, the scheme has over 91% success rate. Applicants just need to dial 1076 to book an appointment for the services. The mobile sahayak arrives at the applicant’s residence to verify the documents and scans and uploads them on the system for a minimal fee. The certificate is delivered at the applicant’s address in due time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/services-at-doorstep-wait-over-soon/articleshow/77534272.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mumbai||Goodwin Jewellers brothers held in Rs 3.4 crore cheating case||MUMBAI: Goodwin Jewellers promoters Suneelkumar Akkarakaran and Sudheerkumar Akkarakaran were arrested by L T Marg police few days back. The brothers are facing six cheating cases collectively amounting to over Rs 10 crore. They were first arrested by Thane EOW in December 2019 in a cheating case. Later, Chembur police and Mumbai EOW registered cheating cases against them. “A court remanded them to police custody till August 17. We are interrogating them in connection with the first case where they duped a jeweller of Rs 3.4 crore. Their custody will be sought in five other cases too,” said an officer. He said the brothers took gold chains, gold rings and earrings from jewellers, promising to display them at their stores. They promised to repay the money on a profit-sharing basis after selling the jewellery. Initially, jewellers would get money, but later they stopped payments and did not return the money. FIRs were then filed against them. They told police they suffered due to monetisation and could not get bank loans after the Nirav Modi case. Thane EOW police had sealed properties in Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Maharashtra. After shutting down 12 branches in Mumbai, Pune and Kerala, they went underground, which created panic among investors, and complaints were filed. They surrendered in a Thane court in December last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/goodwin-jewellers-brothers-held-in-rs3-4cr-cheating-case/articleshow/77534349.cms||Mateen Hafeez
August 14, 2020||India||Cyber firm, govt spar over Aarogya info theft risk||NEW DELHI: Data of over 150 million Indians shared with the Aarogya Setu app runs a “significant risk of theft or abuse”, a security audit firm working with the ambitious contact-tracing programme has alleged, claiming that it was not heard when it warned the government on the potential weaknesses. While the government was quick to dismiss the claims, published by security audit firm ShadowMap in a blog that has now been taken down, as “completely unethical and in violation of the terms of engagement with the project”, the issue assumes serious proportions considering the large amount of vital data that the app has gathered and possesses. ShadowMap (digital risk management firm) is a sister firm of Security Brigade, a company which had originally worked on the network security aspects of the Aarogya Setu app. In a blog post, Yash Kadakia, ShadowMap founder and Security Brigade CTO, said his company managed to get access into Aarogya Setu and was able to discover the source-code for entire platform, including back-end infrastructure. The company said that by managing to pass the two-factor authentication process, it was able to access a host of critical technical data housed within the Aarogya Setu website. In an official statement (that was withdrawn after the blog was taken down), the government had said that Security Brigade had “misused their engagement with Aarogya Setu code review”. The government claimed that a security audit of the app was also made through Data Security Council of India, and also by Security Brigade. “Pulishing an article on issues that they came to know as part of the code review violates the basic principles of ethics and propriety and seems to be done with a malicious intent of creating a sensation and attract attention to the firm… (it) is complete breach of trust,” the statement said. ShadowMap, however, said that they had shared the breach with senior officials of government agencies. “However, we did not receive any response from them. The issue was silently fixed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cyber-firm-govt-spar-over-aarogya-info-theft-risk/articleshow/77536066.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nashik||NMC proposes once-a-day water supply from Aug 17||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) administration has drawn up a proposal, seeking permission from the general body to carry out water cuts in the city due to the dip in water level in the dams. The civic administration has proposed once a day water supply with 10% water cut in the city, from August 17 if there is no adequate rain and water level in the dams do not increase by August 15. At present, 510 million litre per day (MLD) of water is supplied, which will be brought down to 460 MLD from August 17. A call regarding this will be taken in the general body meeting on Friday. Gangapur dam complex and Mukane are the major sources of drinking water. Of the 510 MLD of water being supplied, 382 MLD is supplied from Gangapur dam complex and remaining water from the Mukane dam.  Gangapur dam complex includes three dams – Gangapur, Kashyapi and Gautami. The Gangapur dam caters to 75% of the water requirement of the city, while the remaining 25% comes from Mukane and Darna dams. Currently, the water level in Gangapur dam complex and Mukane dams are 46.67% and 43%, respectively, whereas in the last year, the water levels in Gangapur dam complex and Mukane dam was 92.51% and 94%, respectively. NMC commissioner Radhakrishna Game said, “We have submitted the proposal of the water cut in the city to the general body, which will take a call on the issue during the meeting on Friday.” During the water review meeting held on July 31, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal had directed all the authorities, including NMC, to use water judiciously considering inadequate water level in the dams. The water resources department recently sent a letter to NMC, giving instructions about the use of water judiciously and to resort to water cut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-proposes-once-a-day-water-supply-from-aug-17/articleshow/77531457.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||HC sets aside CAT order on Sree Chitra director||Kochi: The high court has set aside Central Administrative Tribunal’s (CAT) order staying the extension of service granted to Dr Asha Kishore as director of Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology. A division bench of Justice AM Shaffique and Justice P Gopinath issued the order after considering a petition by Dr Asha through senior advocate K Jaju Babu. She had challenged CAT’s order on a petition filed by Dr Sajith Sukumaran. The court has asked CAT to consider the case before it again on September 23 after hearing the parties before it. It was on June 2 that the term of Dr Asha was extended for five years, while her service was scheduled to end on May 12. A stay was issued by the CAT on August 5 on the petition alleging that service was extended without the permission of the central government. At the high court, Asha contended that her original appointment did not require the permission of central government’s Appointment Committee of Cabinet and therefore her extension also does not require its approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hc-sets-aside-cat-order-on-sree-chitra-director/articleshow/77532836.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Bhopal||Safety first: Five participants only at each Independence Day function in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Collector Avinash Lavania on Thursday partially modified his order on Independence Day celebrations during the pandemic. In addition to offices of the central and the state government, flag hoisting will take place in offices of local bodies and panchayat. Individuals can hoist the national flag at their residence as well, while following the Covid safety norms — wearing masks and following social distancing. In privately organised Independence Day functions, not more than five people can participate. Bhopal commissioner, Kavindra Kiyavat will hoist the national flag at the commissioner's office at 7.30am and collector, Avinash Lavania, in the district collectorate on 7.40am. The main function will be held at Lal Parade Ground, where the chief minister will take salute from a parade of eigh companies. He will also address the people of the state after hoisting of the national flag. The function will be telecast live on regional news channels and social media platforms. Top administrative and police officials watched the full dress rehearsal on Thursday ahead of the Independence Day programme. Outline of the entire programme as planned for August 15 was presented during the full dress rehearsal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/safety-first-5-participants-per-function-cap-for-i-day/articleshow/77532821.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nashik||646 new Covid cases in Nashik dist||Nashik: The district has reported 646 fresh Covid-19 patients, including 334 from Nashik city, in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 22,485. 20 patients have succumbed to the infection on Thursday, including 10 from the city. The death toll stands at 668 in the district, including 381 in the city. A total of 571 patients were discharged in the district on Thursday, of which 385 patients are from Nashik city. Of the 4,864 active cases in the district, 3,177 are in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/646-new-covid-cases-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/77531474.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||Helpline run by docs, med students attends to 50,000 calls in a month||Kolkata: Just a month ago, 15 students of various medical colleges, interns and doctors started a call centre to help Covid-19 patients and their families by providing counselling and guidance. A month down the line, the helpline is being run by a team of nearly 175 students and interns and it has become one of the lifelines in the state for patients who seek help — whether for counselling or getting guidance on home quarantine. In a month’s time, the team attended nearly half a lakh calls from Covid-19 patients and their kin. Covid Care Network, an initiative by the Covid winners and others, decided to come up with a helpline number that will act as a social support system. “I received a few calls when patients were tested positive and did not know what to do next. Some of them were victims of social stigma as well. We decided to create a platform through which we can address these issues,” said Diptendra Sarkar, surgical oncologist at SSKM Hospital. It started with a 15-member team with doctors, interns, MBBS students and some members of the civil society. They went through a week’s training before the volunteers started taking calls. “In the next few weeks, we got flooded with queries. Many of them were trying to figure out if they are asymptomatic. Many were clueless about the next step after their report came positive. Many of them have not even heard of a fever clinic. We started guiding them through each step,” said Mostafi Ahmed, an intern at Sagore Dutta Hospital. “Since we were running a 24X7 operation, we divided the volunteers from medical colleges like SSKM Hospital, R G Kar Hospital, Sagore Dutta and North Bengal Medical College in five major groups. Each group was given five phones that could receive any incoming call to the helpline or calls diverted from other numbers as well. Work roaster was also made. They in turn divided the job among themselves so that whenever the phone rang, there was someone to take the call,” said Mainak Maitra a senior resident doctor in Malda. As call volumes increased to around 500 per day, the group needed more volunteers. Managing so many volunteers and allotting responsibilities was not an easy task for the doctors. “I remember, we started with two volunteers at the SSKM Hospital. We decided to divide the day’s schedule among ourselves. If we fall short in number, someone will chip in,” said Somdatta Satpathi, an intern at the SSKM Hospital. “The entire team is motivated as it is their direct exposure to humanity in distress. They are not treating patients over phone, but providing social support,” said Sarkar. “When we started, none of us were prepared for handling 25-30 calls per hour at times. But I am happy the team is managing it now,” Sarkar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/helpline-run-by-docs-med-students-attends-to-50000-calls-in-a-month/articleshow/77534273.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 14, 2020||Nashik||Poor response to auction of stalls||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has received poor response to its auction of stalls for sale of Ganesh idols held at all six divisional offices in the city as only 15 out of the total 321 stalls were auctioned on Thursday. The civic body earned a revenue of Rs 82,270 through the auction of 15 stalls for sale of Ganpati idols, including seven in Panchavati, five in Cidco and three stalls in Nashik Road division. The NMC received a minimum bidding price of Rs 4,060, while the maximum was Rs 15,500 “We received poor response for the auction of Ganpati stalls. Now, we will allot the remaining 306 stalls on first-come-first-served basis,” an NMC official said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/poor-response-to-auction-of-stalls/articleshow/77531466.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 14, 2020||Bhopal||No Ganesh procession or Tazia this year, says MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister said on Thursday that recovery rate from coronavirus in the state has touched 74.7%. Addressing a coronavirus review meeting in the state through videoconferencing, he asked officials to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol of wearing mask and maintaining social distance, as it is an effective tool to check spread of infection. He said that proper facilities for ‘home isolation’ and ‘institutional quarantine’ should be ensured across the state. The CM reiterated that public celebration of Ganesh festival and processions on occasions like Moharram will not be allowed and said if large Ganesh idols or tazias are being made, the administration must immediately stop such activities. Expressing concern over spread of coronavirus infection in jails, he said it must be checked immediately. Chouhan said that safety of front line corona warriors must also be ensured. The chief minister also enquired about the circumstances leading to Urdu poet Rahat Indori's death on Wednesday. The officials informed the CM that that the total number of cases had touched 42618 in the state, out of which 31,835 have been cured, while 9718 patients are undergoing treatment. The number of daily tests has gone past the 20,000-mark. ACS of health Mohd Suleman informed the CM that detailed guidelines on home isolation and institutional quarantine has been sent to the districts. The coronavirus situation in several districts, including Rajgarh, Singrauli, Morena, Khargone, Neemuch, Mandsaur, Ratlam, Sagar, Indore and Jabalpur, was discussed at the meeting in detail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-ganesh-processions-tazias-this-year-says-cm/articleshow/77532825.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Janmashtami blackout: UP CM Yogi Adityanath orders STF probe||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath ordered a probe by the special task force (STF) into the blackouts on Janmashtami, when power supply snapped in scores of households with smart meters following a snag in billing software. A three-day deadline has been set for completing the probe. This comes hours after energy minister Shrikant Sharma wrote to the CM seeking a thorough investigation by STF into the episode, which left UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) brass rattled amid the growing emphasis on smart meters to curb line losses. UPPCL sources said, the billing software displayed households as erring on bill payment, following which the disconnection command was initiated at the level of Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) — nodal agency for installation of smart meters. Larsen and Toubro handles installation of smart meters in the state. Blackouts were reported across various cities, including Lucknow, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Ghaziabad and Noida on Wednesday afternoon despite these households footing bills, UPPCL sources said. Though power supply was restored late evening, the damage was done. Sharma has already asked UPPCL chairman, Arvind Kumar, to launch an inquiry. Venkatesh Dwivedi, director (projects), Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) tweeted that due to a technical error, some smart meters were inadvertently disconnected, despite non-pendency of bills. UP head of EESL, Adesh Saxena and project manager of L&T, Shashikant Agarwal were suspended late Wednesday. President of UP Upbhogta Parishad, A K Verma, met the energy minister and sought blacklisting of the company which supplied smart meters. He said arbitrary snapping power may potentially put the grid in danger. Verma said, the inquiry into smart meters registering jumping of reading was still pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/janmashtami-blackout-cm-orders-stf-probe/articleshow/77535147.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai may get heavy rain on Sun, Mon||Mumbai: Indian Meteorological Department has issued an orange alert (heavy to very heavy rain) for Mumbai, Thane and Palghar for Sunday and Monday. The rest of the week have been marked with a yellow alert (heavy rain can be expected in isolated areas). The weather bureau said a low pressure area had formed over northwest Bay of Bengal, off north Odisha and West Bengal coasts, and associated cyclonic circulation extended to upper tropospheric levels. It is likely to persist over the region and become more organized over north Bay of Bengal on subsequent 2-3 days, bringing widespread rainfall over Konkan coast, ghat areas and central Maharashtra. IMD issued a yellow alert for the city for Thursday, but there was only light rain. IMD’s Santacruz observatory recorded 7.2mm rainfall between 8.30am-8.30pm on Thursday. Colaba recorded 4mm in the same period. In the 24 hours ending at 8.30pm on Thursday, Santacurz observatory recorded 42mm rainfall. While 2.5-15.5mm rain is considered light, IMD classifies rain between 15.6-64.4mm as moderate. “Mumbai recorded isolated heavy rainfall and Thane recorded very heavy rain in the 24 hours ending on Thursday morning. The city received moderate rain in the day but it picked up in the evening. Satellite and radar images indicate rainfall is likely to continue over the region. Mumbai, Thane will receive slow and steady rain, with heavy showers occasionally,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director-general (western region), IMD. Neighbouring Thane and Navi Mumbai recorded 15.2mm and 13.4mm rain respectively. For the next 48 hours, wind in the city could reach 45-55kmph occasionally and moderate to heavy rainfall is expected, IMD said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-may-get-heavy-rain-on-sun-mon/articleshow/77534350.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 14, 2020||Bhopal||Donations drop during ‘stay-at-home’ times, places of worship face fund crunch||Bhopal: As the visit of devouts to places of worship dropped drastically post-lockdown, temples, mosques, gurudwaras and churches are facing problems in meeting their daily expenses. The limit of a maximum five persons at a religious place at one time is also being questioned by their management, contending that normally temples, mosques, gurudwaras and churches have enough space to accommodate more people even while observing the safety norms. “We, led by the archbishop, would represent to the state government that the limit of five persons in a church at a time be relaxed. We used to have Sunday mass in several rounds with 15 to 25 persons in each round. I don’t know who gave them the idea of five persons. We are following all protocol. Social distancing would be there even if there are more than five persons at a time in a church,” said Fr Maria Stephens, PRO of Catholic Church (MP & Chhattisgarh). He also admitted that the drop in the visit of people to churches both due to restrictions imposed by the administration during lockdown and even now has led to a drastic fall in the collection of donations and churches are finding it difficult to meet maintenance expenses — salary, electricity, sanitation etc. Gurucharan Singh of the Bittan Market Gurudwara said, “There was an antim ardas at the Hamidia Road Gurudwara today. Only 40 to 50 persons turned up for the big event, which in normal circumstances would have attracted at least 500 people. Visits to gurudwaras or temples or mosques for that matter have gone down ftom 100 to 10 and collection through donations has also gone down in the same proportion. Keertan is going on, Granthis are reading out the Guru Granth Saheb, but Sangat (audience) is not there.” He further said that langar (feast) at some gurudwaras are going on, but in some others, it has been discontinued. Head priest at Birla temple, K K Pandey, said, “I never saw it before. Yesterday was Janmashtami and the temple was empty except for a brief period in the evening.” He, too, said that considering the space in the temple, more than five persons can be allowed in the temple at one time.” When asked whether the temple is facing financial crunch, he said, “I have stopped taking out money from the donation box since March 16. Maintaining a temple like Birla temple takes a lot of money. Earlier, donation used to help us a great deal while some funds came from the management as well, but now, we are totally dependant on the management for all our expenses,” he said. Despite attempts, Shahar Qazi, Syed Mustak Ali, could not be contacted for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/donations-drop-during-stay-at-home-times-places-of-worship-face-fund-crunch/articleshow/77533000.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||State official: Involve public representatives in Covid fight||Hyderabad: Commissioner of health and family welfare Vakati Karuna has asked district collectors to take the assistance of public representatives in the fight against coronavirus. The commissioner held a meeting with Jayashankar Bhoopalpalli district collector Mohd Abdul Azeem and health officials on how the Covid situation was being handled and what more needs to be done to prevent the spread of the virus. The commissioner advised that by involving public representatives, stronger measures can be taken and enforced so that there is no spread of the virus. “There are more cases in towns than villages and more measures have to be taken in towns. In addition to public representatives, municipal staff and revenue staff should also be involved and a combined effort should be made to effectively handle the situation,” she said. The commissioner told officials that the staff should first certify whether a Covid positive patient can stay in his/her house for the home isolation period. “The staff should verify if the patient has a big enough house with rooms and toilet facilities to be in home isolation. If it is certified that the place is suitable, he can be allowed to stay at home or else he or she has to be sent to a Covid care centre,” she told health officials. She said every ANM working should also be given a scooty and this can be done making use of the subsidies bein given by the government. Collector Mohd Abdul Azeem said for the first three months, there were only three cases in Jayashankar Bhoopalpalli district but after the lockdown was relaxed, cases had increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-official-involve-public-representatives-in-covid-fight/articleshow/77534301.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 14, 2020||Nashik||Residential buildings ground zero now||Nashik: The trend of Covid-19 cases has changed in Nashik city from slums to residential buildings. All the 1,255 active containment zones in the city as on Thursday are residential buildings. The numbers of active containment zones has doubled in just a week, from 635 by August to 1,255 on Thursday. These 1,255 buildings in the city have 3,238 active patients. Since the pandemic was announced, as many as 2,783 containment areas were drawn in the city. Of these, 1,528 have been released after the patients recovered and no new cases were reported. Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials said that Covid-19 spread in the slum pockets of Phule Nagar, Ram Nagar, Datta Nagar has been brought under control through increased tracing, testing and treatment of the patients. “The slums areas are under control due to various measures taken to curb the Covid-19 spread. The trend has now changed. The patients are now coming from residential buildings, societies or apartments,” said NMC commissioner Radhakrishna Game. He added that much like in the slums, the administration has increased training and testing in residential areas. “We are also conducting antigen tests in the affected buildings for early detection and providing immediate treatment to the patients,” said Game. Samir Chandratre, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Nashik, said some people are not taking Covid-19 seriously and not following safety protocols. “They should wear face masks and maintain physical distancing, but this is not happening. People should learn to take care of themselves and others too,” he said. The city has recorded 5,370 new positive cases during last 12 days, taking the tally from 9,441 cases on July 31 to 14,811 cases by August 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/residential-buildings-ground-zero-now/articleshow/77531492.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 14, 2020||Mumbai||One killed in Mumbai house crash as repairs on||Mumbai: A person died and five were injured after a one-storey structure collapsed when repairs were being carried out as it was raining at Kurla Thakkar Bappa Colony slum on Thursday. One of those injured is critical. The house owner, Chandrabhaga Kshirsagar, had hired a contractor for major repairs. During work, the upper floor collapsed, seriously injuring her 60-year-old relative, Prabhu Khandare. Contractor Ayub Shaikh and three workers, who were on the upper floor, sustained serious injuries. Neighbours took the injured to hospital, where Khandare died, and Shaikh’s condition is critical. Kshirsagar’s 12-year-old relative, who sustained minor injuries, was discharged from hospital after treatment. Nehru Nagar police are probing the crash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/one-killed-in-mumbai-house-crash-as-repairs-on/articleshow/77534352.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kochi||Kerala nun rape case: Charges framed against Bishop Franco Mulakkal||KOTTAYAM: A court here framed charges against Bishop Franco Mulakkal in the nun rape case on Thursday. Additional district court 1 judge G Gopakumar read out the charges. Mulakkal denied the charges against him. The case was adjourned to September 16 when the trial of the case will begin. The court has sent summons to the survivor in the case to appear before court on that day for cross examination. The court had earlier given strict directions to Mulakkal to be present in court during the case trial. Coming out of the court, Mulakkal told reporters, “Let the truth which is before God be proved in court.” Charges against Mulakkal are under IPC sections 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 376C (sexual intercourse by person in authority), 377 (unnatural sex), 506 (1) (punishment for criminal intimidation), 376(2) (k) (being in a position of control or dominance over a woman, commits rape on such woman), 376 (2) (n) (commits rape repeatedly on the same woman) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty). The chargesheet in the nun rape case was filed on April 9, 2019. Mulakkal, who faces charges of wrongful confinement, rape, unnatural sex and criminal intimidation in the case, can get life imprisonment or imprisonment of not less than 10 years, if proved guilty. The survivor in the case had filed a complaint with Kottayam police chief about the sexual abuse during 2014-16 on June 27, 2018. The next day, June 28, the statement of the survivor was recorded. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/charges-framed-against-franco/articleshow/77532892.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: After sudden spurt, areas in Patuli, Beliaghata may get back C-zone tag||KOLKATA: Covid-19 positive cases are far from being over in Patuli-Baghajatin and Beliaghata-Phoolbagan belts even as the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police have removed eight containment zones from these two belts. The fact that Covid positive cases are on the rise in Patuli-Baghajatin belt was clearly established on Thursday after a rapid antigen test conducted on Covid suspects at a camp in Patuli revealed that out of 90 people, who underwent the test, 27 tested positive. Last Monday, eight out of 60, who had undergone antigen test, had reported positive. Sources in the KMC Covid response team and cops said they were also worried over frequent emergence of Covid positive cases from Beliaghata (close to Subhas Sarobar) and Phoolbagan areas after lifting containment zones in the belt. Police sources on Thursday indicated that a few blocks of Rabindra Pally in Patuli and some blocks near Subhas Sarobar in Beliaghata could again be brought under a containment zone after a surge in positive cases in the past 72 hours. There are five containment zones still operational in these two areas. The local OCs, KMC coordinators and KMC executive health officers usually discuss bringing new areas under containment and then forward the proposals to KMC headquarters and Lalbazar. Besides enforcing containment rules, the cops and KMC ward coordinators are planning to set up safe houses within the containment zones to shift Covid-positive patients with mild symptoms to these houses. “At Patuli, we have decided to forward a proposal to set up a 200-bed safe home. We are trying to ensure that instead of keeping some people in home isolation, where there are lack of amenities, we can shift them to this facility here,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-sudden-spurt-areas-in-patuli-beliaghata-may-get-back-c-zone-tag/articleshow/77534326.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Billboard put up against T-origin US mayor for advocating masks||Hyderabad: The Telugu-origin mayor of Manhattan in Kansas faced backlash for her support to the need to mask up. A huge billboard has come up against mayor Usha Reddi, who has been instrumental in handling the pandemic. Speaking to TOI, Usha Reddi said, “The Kansas governor mandated face masks about six weeks ago to reduce the spread of the virus. A great majority of communities opted out of it, but I pushed it forward in the city of Manhattan and was able to get two other commissioners out of the five to vote for it. We received many emails for and against it. There are many that are still against it and think we are terrible people.” Tweeting an image of the billboard, Reddi (@UshaReddiKS) wrote: “We’re on a billboard. I guess someone had enough disposable income to let us know they don’t like the face mask ordinance. #maskup.” The billboard called her ‘Radical Reddi’. The two other commissioners supporting the move were called ‘Alcohol Aaron’ and ‘Lost Linda’, adding that they were the most ‘useless commissioners’. The Telugu community have however come out in support of the mayor. Vamsi Krishna, a resident of Kansas, though not of the area said, “People have been flouting rules regarding masks. They do not understand the severity of the crisis. Leaders like Reddi must be saluted for their unflinching commitment to safety.” Another resident, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, “Many residents are looking to have fun without seeing the larger picture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/billboard-put-up-against-t-origin-us-mayor-for-advocating-masks/articleshow/77534331.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mumbai||Nine days rain adds three months stock in Mumbai lakes; total 60%||MUMBAI: Nine days rainfall added over three months stock in seven lakes that supply potable water to the city. The stock was 5 lakh million litres or 35% of total supply capacity as on August 4, which increased to over 60% or 8.7 lakh million litres on Thursday. But the 20% water cut in the city will continue and BMC will take a decision after examining the level next month. The cut was imposed from August 5 to ensure lakes have water till the next monsoon. BMC supplies 3,850 million litres daily (MLD) potable water to the city and the lakes need 14.5 lakh million litres to fulfil the demand till the next monsoon. The lakes release water daily, which goes to filtration plants, BMC’s local reservoir and then taps. Two small lakes in the city limit are overflowing. The other five bigger lakes are outside the city limits, in Palghar, Nashik, Thane districts, and their catchment areas also received good rainfall in the last few days. Officials expect more rainfall in catchment areas, which may increase water levels. The catchments area of each lake is over 100 sq km, and rainfall in these areas leads to the lakes, a civic engineer said. Although it rained heavily in the city in July, rainfall in catchment areas of the five lakes outside the city (Bhatsa, Tansa, Upper, Middle and Lower Vaitarna, also known as Modak Sagar) was very poor. As on July 31, the stock in these lakes was nearly 5 lakh million litres (around 34%) of their capacity. Last year, till July 31, the stock in the seven lakes was 86% and a year before 83%. It started raining heavily in nearby districts and in the city from August 3. During the pandemic, BMC maintained regular water supply despite closure of most commercial and non-residential (schools, colleges and offices) premises, indicating that residential premises were consuming more than usual. But poor rainfall in July forced it to impose a water cut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/9-days-rain-adds-3-months-stock-in-mumbai-lakes-total-60/articleshow/77534353.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 14, 2020||Goa||With no fresh cases, Panaji fish mkt bldg to be unsealed on Sunday||300 words Panaji: Over three weeks after the building above the Panaji fish market was sealed following the spurt of Covid-19 cases among its tenants, the building will be unsealed on Sunday. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar informed that no fresh cases have been reported from the building. There were 35 people living in an accommodation inside the building. After one person was tested positive last month, the rest of his housemates also underwent the test. After the results were out, more people from the building were found to have contracted the virus. TOI had earlier reported that there is already a drop in footfalls at the fish market after the building housing it was sealed following coronavirus reports. The fish market located on the ground floor of the building, the Panaji municipal market complex and surrounding areas are being sanitised on Friday to ensure cleanliness for Ganesh Chaturthi shoppers. “This may bring us some respite besides clearing apprehensions among buyers who are hesitant to visit the fish market,” a fish vendor said. In addition to this, the St Inez bandh area which was cordoned off will also soon be unsealed. About 22 to 25 workers of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) from St Inez bandh will resume activities from Monday, Madkaikar said. Last month, at least 220 residents of Camrabhat, Chimbel and St Inez bandh, who work for CCP, were instructed to stay home as a precautionary measure against the spread of Covid-19. Residents of these areas are employed as door to door garbage collectors, drivers and cleaners at CCP. While 90 CCP workers from Camrabhat recently resumed their duties after almost a month of living in the sealed area, the workers from Chimbel, however, have been asked not to report for duty until further notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-fresh-cases-panaji-fish-mkt-bldg-to-be-unsealed-on-sunday/articleshow/77534325.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kochi||UC College’s alumni assn launches digital challenge||Kochi: Offering a helping hand to students who are struggling to access online classes, old students association (OSA) of UC College, Aluva, has started a campaign called ‘Gandhimavu digital challenge’. The campaign aims to donate digital gadgets to more than 200 needy students in the college who were selected through a survey. A cheque for Rs.3 lakh was handed over to college principal David Saj Mathew by the OSA vice-president Ayub Khan on Wednesday. The campaign was started by OSA as a tribute to the college which will turn 100 next year. The campaign was named after a 95-year-old mango tree on the campus named Gandhimavu, as it was planted by Mahatma Gandhi during his visit to the college in 1925. The college plans to organise elaborate celebrations for the centenary from January 2021. “The campaign also aims to provide 15 laptops to postgraduate students and deserving students can take the laptops home for completing project work. The campaign also plans to set up an advanced digital studio on the campus. Funds were also collected to offer free internet packs to those students who don’t have the money to do it for ensuring online education up to one year. OSA’s Kuwait chapter has already offered help for the purpose,” said the principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/uc-colleges-alumni-assn-launches-digital-challenge/articleshow/77532937.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Dehradun||Education department to hold meeting for faster implementation of NEP||Dehradun: The state higher education department has decided to hold a meeting for the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 in Uttarakhand. Higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat will discuss the implementation with various university’s vice-chancellors and education officers in a meeting scheduled for August 17. The department is going to discuss the implementation, along with considering the specific needs of the education system in the state.Meanwhile, Arvind Pandey, minister for primary education, has appointed a task force to prepare a draft proposal for the implementation of NEP 2020 in the schools. The draft will would be later presented in the cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/education-department-to-hold-meeting-for-faster-implementation-of-nep/articleshow/77531523.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 14, 2020||Dehradun||3 deaths, 416 Covid-19 positive cases reported in Uttarakhand||Dehradun: Three Covid-19 deaths and 416 positive cases were recorded in Uttarakhand on Thursday, taking the state’s death toll to 143 and the number of cases to 11,302. Two men, aged 72 and 78, died at AIIMS-Rishikesh due to Type I respiratory failure and multiple other physical ailments, including novel coronavirus. A 26-year-old woman alsodied due to acute respiratory distress syndrome in the same hospital. The highest number of cases surfaced from Udham Singh Nagar (192), followed by Haridwar (107), Dehradun (36), Champawat (16), Nainital (15) Tehri (16), and Uttarkashi (15). The districts which recorded single digit cases include Almora (1), Bageshwar (9), Pauri (5) and Rudraprayag, Pithoragarh and Chamoli had no cases reported. Meanwhile, 327 people were cured of the coronavirus, taking the tally of cured and discharged to 7,014. Uttarakhand has the highest Covid load in Haridwar (2,678), followed by Dehradun (2,272) and Udham Singh Nagar (2,176). The highest deaths have so far been recorded in Dehradun with 82, followed by Nainital (27) and Udham Singh Nagar (11).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3-deaths-416-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/77531533.cms||Shivani Azad
August 14, 2020||Bhopal||MP notches up highest single-day count of 1,014 COVID-19 cases||Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh registered the highest single-day count of 1,014 COVID-19 cases, which includes a parliamentarian. With this, the state’s tally has touched 42,618 cases, according to the health bulletin released here on Thursday. The coronavirus fatality figure rose to 1,065 after 17 more patients died due to COVID-19 during the last 24 hours, the health bulletin said. Coronavirus infections continue to trouble the state BJP. After Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, BJP state president VD Sharma and other ministers, on Thursday it was confirmed that the newly elected Rajya Sabha MP, Sumer Singh Solanki, and BJP MLA from Niwari, Anil Jain, have also been diagnosed with the infection. A local BJP leader in Bhopal and spokesperson, Durgesh Keswani, also tested positive for COVID-19. Earlier, ministers in the BJP government — Tulsi Silavat, Vishwas Sarang, Omprakash Saklecha along with BJP organisation general secratary Suhas Bhagat — as well as many leaders and MLAs have been diagnosed with COVID-19. Rajya Sabha MP Sumer Singh Solanki shared the information through Twitter and appealed to all those in close contact with him to get a COVID-19 test. done Chief medical and health officer of Barwani district, Dr Anita Singare, confirmed that Solanki’s sample had tested positive. He is the second Rajya Sabha MP from the state to be corona positive. Earlier, BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP, Jyotiraditya Scindia, was also found infected. COVID-19 has not been limited to the BJP, a few in the MP Congress have also been infected. MLA Kunal Chaudhary, former minister and MLA PC Sharma and others have been diagnosed with the infection. Local BJP leader Durgesh Keswani, based in the state capital, underwent the test after he reported a cold and mild symptoms. Most of the new infections were reported from Bhopal, Indore and Gwalior. 188 cases were reported from Indore, 110 were infected in Bhopal and 76 found positive in Gwalior. There has been no decline in the daily number of corona patients in large cities. COVID-19 cases are also increasing continuously in Jabalpur, Indore and Sagar. Harda was the only place amongst 52 districts of MP which did not report new COVID-19 infections on Thursday. During the last 24 hours, coronavirus infection in the state led to the death of four patients in Bhopal, three each in Indore, Guna and Jabalpur and one each in Gwalior, Khargone, Vidisha and Shivpuri, a health report said. Out of a total of 42,618 infected people in the state till date, 31,835 patients have recovered and there are 9,718 active cases. *** New Cases In Top Five Cities Indore – 188 Bhopal – 110 Jabalpur – 83 Gwalior – 76 Sidhi – 41||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-notches-up-highest-single-day-count-of-1014-covid-19-cases/articleshow/77532944.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||Centre’s probe honours for five Bengal, two Kol cops||Kolkata: Seven police officers, five from state police and two from Kolkata Police, have been awarded the “Union Home Minister’s Medal for Excellence in Investigation” for 2020. The awards will be given to 121 police personnel pan-India, including 21 women officers. On the Bengal award list, inspector Shukla Sinha Ray of cyber crime cell of Kolkata Police and sub-inspector Barnali Sarkar, OC of Bankura Sadar PS, share honours with their colleagues’, inspectors Denis Anup Lakra (also a cyber crime investigator), Subir Karmakar and Bijay Kumar Yadav, and sub inspectors Supriya Bannerjee and Pradip Paul. The West Bengal Police in a statement said, “These officers investigated heinous crimes such as murder, rape, dacoity and human trafficking very efficiently and quickly secured convictions. We, at West Bengal Police and Kolkata Police, would like to congratulate all officers who have made us proud.”Ray and Lakra, both cyber crime investigators of Kolkata Police, had been involved with high-profile probes in busting fake call centres in Kolkata that duped several thousand US and UK nationals in the name of Microsoft. The fraudsters had impersonated themselves as Microsoft agents and cheated victims saying they needed to pay to repair their computers which have been hacked. Inspector Lakra had probed the case that had prompted London police cyber crime head, Jonathan Frost, to call up Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma to congratulate him personally.Ray’s probe involved busting a cyber blackmail racket, involving two city youths. Sarkar, the Bankura Sadar OC, had led investigations in a sexual assault of a minor, tracking down the accused and putting him on trial. Dhupguri inspector-in-charge, Karmakar, headed probe into the 2018 gang-rape of a tribal woman. The probe was completed in 72 hours and a chargesheet filed. The case is now in the last leg of the trial stage. An MHA statement said, “Among the personnel receiving these awards, 15 are from CBI, 10 each are from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra Police, 8 are from Uttar Pradesh Police, 7 each are from Kerala and West Bengal Police. The remaining are from other States/UTs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/centres-probe-honours-for-five-bengal-two-kol-cops/articleshow/77534354.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||All 18 police ranges of state get cybercell||Lucknow: To tackle the spike in cybercrime, the state home department on Thursday sanctioned a cyber police station in every police range. Among the 18 police ranges of the state, cybercells are only in Noida and Lucknow. The home department will soon roll out vacancies for 7,000 police personnel to be deployed in these police stations. According to reports from National Crime Records Bureau for 2018, Uttar Pradesh had recorded the highest number of cybercrime cases—6,280—in the country for the year. In June 2019, then-DGP OP Singh had sent a proposal to set up a cybercell police station in each police range. SP cybercell at DGP headquarters Satyarth Anirudh Pankaj said that so far, 100 cops have been deployed in these police stations while 256 others have been sanctioned. All 18 police stations and the workforce in them would be working under IG cybercrime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/all-18-police-ranges-of-state-get-cybercell/articleshow/77535170.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Delhi||Signs of revival: IGI’s share in passenger handling up to 23%||New Delhi: Indira Gandhi International Airport’s overall share in terms of handling passengers and airlines has increased after the resumption of commercial operations. It is now handling 23% of the total passengers handled by all airports in India — a rise from 18% in pre-Covid time. The international segment has also shown a spike, with the daily average international traffic after the resumption of commercial operations increasing from 3% to 14%, airport data showed. Prior to Covid-19 lockdown, Delhi airport was holding 27% share of India international passengers. Between April and May — during which mostly international relief flights were operated through India — the airport attained 36% of international passenger traffic of India, which was the highest among all Indian airports. “With the largest domestic network in India, IGI airport has been able to connect thousands of passengers to their respective hometowns or business locations,” Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO-DIAL. said. “Even during the Centre’s repatriation efforts during the lockdown, Delhi airport played a significant role in handling thousands of passengers flying in and out of India. With international operations imminent, the airport’s connectivity to all Indian cities will provide inherent advantages to international airlines. We are confident that with the resumption of international flights, passenger numbers will be restored to pre-Covid level very soon,” Jaipuriar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/signs-of-revival-igis-share-in-passenger-handling-up-to-23/articleshow/77534421.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Relief for H-1B holders stuck in T & AP as US eases norm||Hyderabad: The Trump administration has given relief to H-1B visa holders stuck outside the country with those keeping their old jobs being allowed to return. The move is a major relief to hundreds of Telugus stuck in the two states since the lockdown began. Promod, who has been stuck in Karimnagar, is among the 174 IT professionals who filed the lawsuit against the June 22 presidential proclamation on H-1B visas that prevented them from entering the US. “This (the current development) is a result of our lawsuit. There was a status quo call for our case yesterday and they made exemptions in the morning and submitted an affidavit to the court later afternoon. The case has been moved to a different judge who is handling a similar case,” he said, speaking to TOI. There is another hearing expected tomorrow. Those stuck here cannot be happier. For Krishna Anumolu, who travelled to Hyderabad with his 14-year-old son, this is a chance to reunite back with his wife in Virginia. “I hope they prioritize the cancelled US consulate appointments in March. I have been patiently waiting for the consulates to open so I can get my visa stamped and get back to my wife along with my kid. I can’t wait to make my family whole again,” said the IT professional. His son is need of medical attention for some pre-existing conditions. Also thrilled is Anusha Polineni, who had arrived in the city on February 17 to get married. While her husband was able to head back to the US, she has been stuck here since then. However, she too raised concerns regarding when the US consulate will open to finish processing of visas. While visa application centres have opened up, the consulate still has to officially open. In its advisory, the US State Department said H-1B and L-1 visas can now be issued for employees who are “seeking to resume ongoing employment in the United States in the same position with the same employer and visa classification.” While many say the development is the result of the lawsuit filed by H-1B holders, others even feel Kamala Harris’ nomination as the Democratic vice-presidential candidate may have led US president Donald Trump to appease Indian-Americans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/relief-for-h-1b-holders-stuck-in-t-ap-as-us-eases-norm/articleshow/77534359.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Mangaluru||DK cops stay alert to defuse communal tension, prevent violence||Mangaluru: Against the backdrop of a raging controversy in Bengaluru, where three people have died following violent protests against an allegedly derogatory post against Muslims, Dakshina Kannada police continue to keep vigil over ‘communally sensitive’ posts in the district, which has been witness to many a flare-up in the recent past. In 2020, as many as eight complaints have been lodged in Mangaluru city seeking action against posts deemed offensive to members of a religious community. However, such posts have not triggered any violent incidents in the coastal city. These posts on social media portals malign religion, and deities of respective faiths, in addition to being very insulting of political personalities, including the Prime Minister. However, Dakshina Kannada police said that such expressions of hate on the internet had not been allowed to escalate into violent clashes as was happening in Bengaluru. “Police remain very alert and ensure that such situations do not escalate. No sooner do we receive information on such posts than we switch into damage control mode,” said a senior Dakshina Kannada police officer. Another senior cop in Dakshina Kannada said that many of those posting such derogatory messages on their social media pages were abroad, mostly people sitting in the Gulf and making inflammatory remarks on the web. In the aftermath of the violent protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the National Registry of Citizens (NRC), wherein one of the agitators was killed in police firing in December last year, there was a rash of inflammatory messages that proliferated on various social media portals. Mangaluru police had planned a course of action called ‘Letters rogatory’, which was later abandoned owing to the tedium involved in carrying out the process, the senior police officer added. He said that, while the spread of communal hatred through such vitriolic messages had initially been restricted on Facebook, had subsequently found traction on Twitter, Instagram and WhatsApp. “We constantly monitor websites and social media accounts that are infamous for such messages. We arrest those indulging in the incitement of communal hate, which we hope will send a strong message, but such things keep recurring,” the cop rued. Mangaluru city police commissioner Vikash Kumar said that as many as 29 cases had been booked in the past five years appertaining communal sensitive messages on social media portals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-cops-stay-alert-to-defuse-communal-tension-prevent-violence/articleshow/77533987.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru cops say majority of rioters lost jobs and had no income||BENGALURU: Preliminary investigations have revealed the pandemic-induced lockdown played a major role in the violence that rocked KG Halli and surrounding areas in Bengaluru on the night of August 11 (Tuesday). Police say people’s pent up frustration over being confined to their homes without income for months together saw them vent their fury. Hundreds of men hit the road and attacked police as they marched towards KG Halli station where a mob had staged a sit-in demonstration over a Facebook post that offended a minority community. After smashing streetlights and forcing police to stumble around in the dark, the men used all sorts of objects — from stones and bricks to flower pots, wooden logs and gunny bags loaded with old vessels — as missiles, raining them down on the force and targeting whatever caught their eye. Vehicles bore the brunt of the assault, while tyres were set on fire. Police, who went to question residents in the lanes where the attacks were mounted, found that most of the men had fled their homes fearing arrest. Womenfolk, with whom police interacted, revealed more than 85% of the men in the area were without jobs or a steady income. “These localities are dotted with slums and shanties and there is poverty all around,” a senior officer privy to the investigations said. “People residing here are daily-wage workers. They work in eateries or as carpenters, masons and assistants at shops, while some sell vegetables on pushcarts. During the first phase of the nationwide lockdown between March 23 and May 4, they were forced to remain indoors. After lockdown restrictions were lifted, many lost their jobs and they could not find new ones. They ran out of whatever money they had saved and finding a source of income became difficult as there was no helping hand.” The officer went on to say, “Schools launched online classes from mid-June and they directed parents to pay their wards’ fees. Most parents had no money to pay. These factors only pushed them into depression and disgruntlement.” These areas have long been cauldrons of resentment. From issues like the Citizenship Amendment Act and the Ram Mandir, their sense of persecution has had a long history, the officer pointed out. “If one remembers, residents of KG Halli and DJ Halli were most active during protests against CAA,” the officer said. “People here would participate in one rally or another. Now, with no such rallies and government restricting protests, they are under the impression that they have lost the battle and fear further marginalisation. Their poor financial status has only made matters worse.” The officer said, “These men were easy pickings for instigators, who had their own axe to grind. They were simply a tool to attack the police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/post-lockdown-frustrations-proved-fertile-ground-for-riots/articleshow/77533074.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 14, 2020||Dehradun||3D gallery, state-of-the-art library to come up at CTR||Dehradun: The Corbett Foundation of the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) has allocated Rs 35 lakh for the setting up of a 3D gallery and state-of-the-art digital library in the reserve. The gallery and the digital library will come up at the reception centre of the CTR in Kotdwar for those who enter the reserve from the Pakhro gate. This step is being taken to bolster the influx of tourists through innovative approaches and help generate livelihood options for the local youth of Pauri. Usually visitors enter the reserve from Ramnagar. "The aim is to apprise the tourists with the rich flora and fauna of Corbett through latest technology so that the visitors enjoy and contribute to protecting the forests and wildlife. At the digital library, the tourists will also be given knowledge about the behaviour of animals found in Corbett reserve and their essence in the eco-system of this landscape,” said Harak Singh Rawat, forest minister. Kotdwar is also the constituency of the forest minister. The recreational centre would help the youngsters and those curious to get into the profession related to forest and wildlife, according to the director of CTR, Rahul (who goes by his first name). "It will be a kind of a recreational centre which will have a collection of three movies all related to Corbett, its history, the present state and what it holds for future,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/3d-gallery-state-of-the-art-library-to-come-up-at-ctr/articleshow/77531555.cms||Shivani Azad
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||Presi gives a second chance to aspirants, reopens admissions||Kolkata: Students who hoped to study at Presidency University but missed the earlier opportunity had reasons to cheer on Thursday, when the admissions committee decided to reopen the application process for their 16 undergraduate programmes. The university will flag off its admission process once the West Bengal Joint Entrance Examination Board (WBJEEB), which was scheduled to conduct admission tests in April, cancels the notification for the exams owing to the pandemic. This year, the Presidency entrance tests were to be held ahead of the usual date, as a result of which many had to give it a miss as they were preparing for the HS exams in March. While the government advised all universities to begin admissions from August 10, the process at Presidency can only begin after WBJEEB cancels its notification for earlier admission tests. “Since the same UG admissions can’t have two notifications, the first one has to be cancelled for the new to be issued. We will then decide on a date to publish the merit lists,” said Presidency registrar Debajyoti Konar. Going by the government request, the university will not charge any application fee. “We discussed the difficulties in holding admission tests now. It was decided to prepare merit lists, based on Class-X and XII scores. The formula has been framed, according to the admissions committee’s decision,” said vice-chancellor Anuradha Lohia. The university had been holding entrance tests since 1970s. “The admissions committee chalked out a formula that can judge the applicants’ merit in the best possible manner,” said Lohia. The Presidency University Admissions Committee will consider a candidate’s Class-X boards scores because it will give an understanding of the person’s overall merit. “In the absence of actual evaluation in some important subjects due to the suspension of multiple Class XII boards papers, only those who have been consistent in their performance will be able to find a seat,” said a teacher. Several science exams in HS and some major subjects in ISC and CBSE were suspended owing to the pandemic and so, the Class-X marks would be considered, said an official. A senior Bikash Bhavan official said since all state-run universities had been told to open admissions from August 10, Presidency could not have been an exception.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/presi-gives-a-second-chance-to-aspirants-reopens-admissions/articleshow/77534361.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Chat between Cong MLC & lady cop goes viral; SP orders probe||Lucknow: An audio purported to be between a Congress MLC from Rae Bareli and a woman sub-inspector went viral on social media on Wednesday night. In the audio, Congress MLC Dinesh Singh and sub-insepctor Rekha Dubey can be heard talking about the arrest of Chhedi Singh, an accused in a case registered at Sarauni police station in the district. In the two-minute audio, the MLC insists that he would send Chhedi to the police station on 11th as he would be busy in his son’s wedding. However, the sub-insepctor scolds him, saying she needed to close the case at the earliest. This leads to a heated argument between the two. Later, the lady cop is heard telling the MLC that if he has any problem with the arrest, he may speak to Rae Bareli SP. The MLC then says, “You don’t know how to talk to an MLC.” Senior police officials said prima facie, it has come to fore that the audio seems to be eight month old. Dubey is now posted in Mahila Samman Prakosth (MSP). SP Rae Bareli, Swapnil Mamgain, said to check the veracity of the audio and reason it surfaced now, a probe has been handed over to additional superintendent of police Nityanand Rai. “Rai has been three days to probe the audio and submit a report,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chat-between-cong-mlc-lady-cop-goes-viral-sp-orders-probe/articleshow/77535176.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Nashik||Satara district authorities fear huge influx of people during Ganeshotsav||Kolhapur: Satara district administration has expressed concern over the possible arrival of a large number of people to their native villages and towns in Kolhapur district during Ganeshotsav. Sources said that around 20,000 people have already arrived in the district since August 1 and that the number is expected to increase by a few thousands in the coming week. Officials estimate that around 40,000 people are likely to arrive in to Satara district on the occasion of Ganeshotsav.According to officials, they had estimated influx of approximately 40,000 people in the district in view of the applications they had received for e-pass. Besides, district administration authorities also fear that a large number of people may enter the district without having the necessary permission. Officials point out that thousands of families from the district, which are settled outside for jobs, come to their native villages every year during this time as a family commitment. Schools and jobs are closed in Pune and Mumbai at present, giving them an opportunity to come to their native villages, they said. Considering the possible situation, all village-level committees have been asked to maintain strict vigilance and monitor movement of people in their respective villages. Officials also said that home quarantine is mandatory for every person entering the district. Around 2.50 lakh people have officially come to Satara district since April this year, officials said, adding that many had entered district without valid permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/satara-district-authorities-fear-huge-influx-of-people-during-ganeshotsav/articleshow/77531563.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Forum makes fresh demand to raise govt workers’ retirement age to 60||Aurangabad: The state-level forum of gazetted officers has renewed its demand for increasing the retirement age of government employees, linking the proposal with current pandemic. In a memorandum submitted to the state government, the forum has claimed that the state exchequer can save Rs 28,000 crore if retirement age increased by two years to 60 years. “The government will have to shell out Rs 28,000 crore towards retirement benefits of employees, whose services would get superannuated in next two years. The money saved can be used for developmental works as there is paucity of funds, linked with the outbreak of Covid 19,” G D Kulthe, founder and chief counsellor of the forum said. Kulthe said the state government must take immediate steps to increase the retirement age and make it par with that of central government employees. “Even the Class IV staffers in Maharashtra government have retirement age of 60 years. The gazetted officers must be superannuated from services at the same age considering increased life expectancy in the country,” Kulthe said.Among other demands, the aforesaid forum has also raised the demand for filling over alleged 2.5 lakh vacant posts at different government establishments in Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/forum-makes-fresh-demand-to-raise-govt-workers-retirement-age-to-60/articleshow/77531579.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||Govt waives application fee for colleges||Kolkata: The higher education department on Thursday decided to waive all costs while applying to government and government-aided colleges as well as state-run universities. Education minister Partha Chatterjee in a video message said the decision was taken, considering the financial stress during the ongoing pandemic. A day earlier, A the government had told state-run universities to cap the charge of each form, along with the processing fees, at Rs 150. “For scanning or uploading documents for online UG admissions and for providing or making available the application forms and the prospectus of admission in UG level courses, no charge can be taken from students,” read the new higher education department circular. A state university VC said the new announcement would lead to chaos. “The application process started at several universities from August 10. What will happen now? How will we refund the application form fees to thousands of students who have applied till now? The decision should have been announced before the process started,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-waives-application-fee-for-colleges/articleshow/77534364.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Def min launches 2 missile test equipment||Hyderabad: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday launched the Konkurs missile test equipment and Konkurs launcher test equipment which have been indigenously designed and developed by Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL). Earlier, these products were being imported from Russia. The two indigenised products were virtually launched by the minister from Delhi. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, defence secretary Ajay Kumar, secretary (defence production) Raj Kumar, senior officials from the Ministry of Defence and CMD, BDL, Commodore (retired) Siddharth Mishra, directors and senior officials were present. According to officials, the two products were launched as part of Atmanirbhar Bharat week being celebrated from August 7-14. The Konkurs missile test equipment is designed for checking the serviceability of Konkurs-M anti-tank guided missiles. Konkurs launcher test equipment is designed and developed for checking the serviceability of Konkurs-M missile launchers. The realisation of these indigenous equipment will take forward the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan initiated by the Government of India and will lead to substantial foreign exchange savings for the country in the future, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/def-min-launches-2-missile-test-equipment/articleshow/77534367.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 14, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand cricket board celebrates first anniversary of BCCI membership, awards players||Dehradun: The Cricket Association of Uttarakhand (CAU) on Thursday awarded players in Dehradun for performing well for the state in the domestic tournaments played in the last season. The ceremony was held to mark the occasion of completing a year since getting the full membership of the BCCI. The state association awarded 14 players with different awards while seven potential young cricketers were handed out scholarships. The awards and scholarships were distributed virtually. The scholarships were given to a mix of female and male cricketers namely Shagun Chaudhary (U-19), Nisha Mishra (U-19), Kamal Singh (U-19), Ankit Manori (U-19), Vanshraj Chauhan (U-16), Mohammad Farhan (U-16) and Paritosh Rana (U-14).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-cricket-board-celebrates-first-anniversary-of-bcci-membership-awards-players/articleshow/77531593.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 14, 2020||Bhopal||Two international boat championships to be held in MP called off||BHOPAL: The World Dragon Boat Championship and Asian Dragon Boat Championships, scheduled to be organised in Madhya Pradesh in November this year, have been cancelled due to Covid-19. Officials claimed that MP has suffered a loss of Rs 25 crore and requested the state government to help bring back the championship to the state. ICF World Dragon Boat Championships was to be held from November 12 to 15 while Asian Dragon Boat Championships 2020 was scheduled from November 16 to 18. Both championships were to be organised in Indore. IKCA, Indore Municipal Corporation, MP Kayaking and Canoeing Association and the MP government had started preparations for the past one year by procuring different motorboats. The importance of the championship could be gauged from the fact that around 1,500 athletes, officials and others were expected to participate from 40-45 countries. “This is undoubtedly a big loss for Madhya Pradesh. Around Rs 25 crore would have been contributed to the state economy by hotel bookings, transport and others. As of now, the championship is not allotted to any other country. We request the MP government to help us in bringing back the championship to the state,” said Prashant Kushwaha, secretary-general IKCA. Executive member, Madhya Pradesh Olympic Association, BS Kushwaha, posted on his social media account about the heavy losses incurred due to the cancellation of the championship. “IKCA paid the bid fee to the International Canoeing Federation and called a meeting of experts and technical officials from USA, Germany, Japan, Hongkong and several other countries to visit the venue and inspect the infrastructure and logistics at Indore,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/2-intl-boat-cships-to-be-held-in-mp-called-off/articleshow/77532956.cms||Ramendra Singh
August 14, 2020||Dehradun||Heavy rain hampers repair works on Mussoorie-Dehradun Road||Mussoorie: Heavy rain has hampered the repair works on Dehradun-Mussoorie Road which was to be closed for traffic from 3pm on Thursday.Pushpendra Kumar, junior engineer of Public Works Department said that the traffic was not stopped on Thursday as the repair works could not be conducted due to heavy rain. PWD officials had planned to stop traffic on the route from 3pm on Thursday to 7am on Friday to undertake the necessary repairs. He said,“We will wait for the weather to improve before conducting the repairs. However, the construction of the retaining wall below the washed away road is going on.”Kumar said that the stretch is heavily damaged and traffic must be stopped effectively by police, allowing only one vehicle at a time, for conducting the repairs properly.A commuter said, “There is no proper policing on this route and even heavy vehicles are allowed to move on the stretch despite it being damaged.”Mussoorie station house officer Devendra Aswal could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.It may be recalled that a 50-metre stretch near Kolhu Khet on Mussoorie-Dehradun Road had caved in on Monday evening due to heavy rainfall. After this, the movement of heavy vehicles was stopped on the stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heavy-rain-hampers-repair-works-on-mussoorie-dehradun-road/articleshow/77531607.cms||Anmol Jain
August 14, 2020||World||Trump, Biden trade barbs on coronavirus response||WILMINGTON: President Donald Trump on Thursday attacked Joe Biden for calling on governors to mandate that all Americans wear masks for the next three months, accusing the Democratic presidential candidate of politicizing an issue Trump himself has used for political gain in recent months. Trump claimed Biden has been wrong about the coronavirus pandemic at every turn, ``ignoring the scientific evidence and putting left-wing politics before facts and evidence.`` Trump went on to falsely say that Biden was advocating for the president to use executive power to institute a nationwide mask mandate and that Biden was in favor of ``locking all Americans in their basements for months on end.'' ``To Joe, I would say stop playing politics with the virus,`` Trump said at the White House press briefing. Biden did not call for an executive order, but did at an earlier campaign event call for the institution of ``a mask mandate nationwide, starting immediately.'' Biden clarified, however, that it should be left up to the governors to make mask-wearing mandatory. He said nothing about keeping Americans indoors, but has argued that economic reopenings in states have been rushed and without proper guidance from the federal government to keep Americans safe. Trump spent the early months of the pandemic refusing to wear a mask during public appearances, ridiculing reporters who wore them, and retweeting messages making fun of Biden for wearing a mask and implying that he looks weak. Trump first wore a mask in public about a month ago, during a visit to a military hospital, and has since expressed support for them at times. On Thursday, he said it's patriotic for Americans to wear masks, but added, ``maybe they're great, and maybe they're just good. Maybe they're not so good.'' Biden, at his earlier event, said all Americans should wear masks, citing health experts' predictions that it could save 40,000 lives from the coronavirus over the next three months. The Democratic presidential candidate also responded to those who push back against such mandates. ``This is America. Be a patriot. Protect your fellow citizens. Step up, do the right thing.'' The back-and-forth marked a new line of attack from Trump, who is trailing Biden significantly in most nationwide and swing-state surveys. Biden has made what he says is Trump's mishandling of the pandemic _ which has now caused the deaths of 166,000 Americans _ a centerpiece of his attacks on the president. While the president has charged that if Biden were elected he would cause everything from a stock market crash to a surge of crime in the suburbs, he has largely avoided taking Biden on when it comes to the pandemic, choosing instead to deflect blame for the deaths and economic damage. On Wednesday, when the U.S. reported 1,499 new coronavirus deaths, the highest number in a single day since May, Trump pushed for schools and businesses to continue opening, and called for college football to go on despite several leading leagues deciding to cancel this year's season. On Thursday he again dismissed critics who say he was too slow to react to the pandemic in the U.S., saying on Fox Business Network that ``nobody blames me.'' ``Look, we got hit by the China plague and we're not going to forget it. We got hit by the China plague,'' he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-biden-trade-barbs-on-coronavirus-response/articleshow/77536080.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||RKM, BJP deny monk’s poll entry rumours||Kolkata: The Ramakrishna Math and Mission has categorically dismissed speculations that a senior monk of the order has been approached by BJP for the chief ministerial candidate in the 2021 assembly elections. The news, doing the rounds in social media, revolved around Swami Kripakarananda who belongs to the city and is currently posted in Varanasi. He is a doctor and extremely popular among devotees.The BJP leadership in Bengal has also debunked the claims that the monk had been approached by senior BJP leaders to contest elections in Bengal and lead the faction-ridden party against the formidable Trinamool Congress. According to the reports, the RKM monk’s choice was inspired by the success of projecting Yogi Adityanath as CM candidate in the UP elections in 2017. Known as Debotosh Chakraborty in his pre monastic life, Kripakarananda was a brilliant student at Narendrapur RKM and ranked in the top-10 at both Madhyamik and Higher Secondary examinations. He did his MBBS from Nilratan Sarkar Medical College. He is also a trained classical singer. “There is not an iota of truth in this. It saddens me to say that some vested interests are at play and are deliberately planting such news. As monks of the order, we cannot be involved in any form of party politics and this has been mandated for the order by Swami Vivekananda himself,” said Swami Suvirananda, general secretary of RKM. “Kripakarananda has told us in no uncertain terms that the speculations are baseless,” he reiterated.A link was shared by the RKM where Kripakarananda has dismissed the news. “We are bound by the rules that have been set for us by Swami Vivekananda himself. He had decreed that we desist from politics of any colour because we believe in a different call in life, a different path to serving humanity. We have to make ourselves worthy of those ideals before we are called upon to serve the order,” Kripakarananda said.BJP said it was not responsible for the rumours doing the rounds. “I don’t think that the monk in question met any BJP leader. We are aware of the news and it seems to have just come out of the blue. People have started asking us about its veracity. The opposition is desperate for a campaign against the BJP and is weaving fictitious stories,” said Raju Banerjee, vice president of the BJP in Bengal. “The party normally doesn’t project anyone as a chief ministerial candidate, while fielding them. This is decided much later,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rkm-bjp-deny-monks-poll-entry-rumours/articleshow/77534403.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 14, 2020||Mangaluru||MCC council reduces water tariff, SWM user fee||Mangaluru: At the first meeting of the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) council, held nine months after the election, a major decision was taken to reduce the drinking water tariff and the solid waste management user fee on Thursday. The drinking water tariff was revised when the MCC was under the district administration’s control on June 15, 2019. Accordingly, in the first slab (from 0l to 8,000l), the tariff was Rs 7 per 1,000l. In the second slab (from 8,000l to 15,000l), the tariff was Rs 9 per 1,000l. In the third slab (from 15,000l to 25,000l), the tariff was Rs 11 per 1,000l and Rs 13 per 1,000l for all consumers whose consumption crosses 25,000l per month. The council meet held on Thursday revised water tariff based on complaints from the public. As per the revised tariff, the minimum charge will be Rs 60 for the consumption of 10,000l per month. In the second slab (from 10,000l to 15,000l), the tariff will be Rs 7 per 1,000l. In the third slab (from 15,000l to 25,000l), the tariff will be Rs 9 per 1,000l. In the fourth slab (from 25,000l to 30,000l), the tariff will be Rs 11 per 1,000l and Rs 13 for all consumers whose consumption crosses 30,000l per month. Mayor Divakar from the BJP said many people have raised objections to the water tariff revision made by the administration in 2019. “Hence, I have decided to revise the tariff so that it will not be a burden on people,” he added. Opposition leader Abdul Rauf and other Congress leaders however opposed the revision, and demanded a roll back of tariff existing prior to June 15, 2019. Praveenchandra Alva, corporator from the Congress, said the minimum charge for water consumption was Rs 65 for up to 24,000l per month in the tariff prior to June 15, 2019. Meanwhile, Rauf demanded the water bills of people in the city should be waived for three months from April, due to the Covid crisis. The council meet resolved to reduce the user fee per month from each waste generator in the city for solid waste management, based on the built up area of their properties. The fee for properties up to 500 sq ft built up area, which was Rs 50 per month, has been reduced to Rs 30. The fee for properties from 501 sq ft to 1,000 sq ft has been reduced from Rs 75 to Rs 60. For properties from 1,001 sq ft to 1,500 sq ft, the fee has been reduced from Rs 100 to Rs 80.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcc-council-reduces-water-tariff-swm-user-fee/articleshow/77531632.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Dehradun||In a first, government sanctions 312 new traffic police posts||Dehradun: In a first, the state government has sanctioned 312 new traffic police posts for better management of traffic in Uttarakhand. The decision was taken in the wake of the growing number of vehicles on the roads and rising road accidents in the state. A proposal in this regard was earlier sent to the government by the state traffic directorate. Traffic DIG Kewal Khurana said, “This is for the first time in the 20-year history of Uttarakhand that separate posts are being announced for traffic police, that too, over 300 of them. The current strength of traffic police in the state is insufficient and that’s why the decision was taken.” The total 312 posts comprise of two senior technical experts, six assistant technical experts, 98 traffic sub-inspectors and 206 traffic constables. The notification for filling the new posts will be issued soon, added Khurana. At present, there are 21 posts of traffic inspectors, of which around 15 are vacant. Out of the total sanctioned traffic sub-inspector posts in the state, two are lying vacant, according to sources in the traffic directorate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-government-sanctions-312-new-traffic-police-posts/articleshow/77531618.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Probe ordered into land grabbing by slain ganglord||Lucknow: Slain ganglord Vikas Dubey planned his crimes so meticulously that in 2007 he decided to own a college and tried to grab the campus of Vinodini Devi Kailashnath Inter College near Bikru village in Kanpur. However, when the manager-cum-owner of the institution Rajesh Pandey resisted, Dubey allegedly asked his aide Govind Dubey to eliminate him. Pandey was shot dead in 2007 and an FIR was lodged against Govind. The accused surrendered but soon walked out of the jail after getting bail. Recently, Pandey’s son Bharat gave a written complaint to IG Kanpur range Mohit Agarwal apprising him about the grabbing of the school land by Dubey. Agarwal confirmed to TOI that he has received Bharat’s application and ordered a probe by an ASP rank officer. Bharat is a resident of Kalyanpur in Kanpur. Rajesh Pandey was an accountant. “We had 2.5 bigha land in Zindpur village in Chaubeypur. My father had planned to build a school in the memory of his parents. The school was named Vinodi Devi Kailashnath Inter College. But one Akhilesh wanted to grab the land and sought help from Vikas Dubey,” Bharat said. Dubey’s henchmen started threatening my father and then shot him in June 2007. Our 2.5 bigha land was grabbed by Dubey, he added. Later, on Dubey’s insistence Govind Dubey surrendered in the court and only then police lodged a case against him. “He was imprisoned for life in 2008 but walked out free on bail,” said Bharat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/probe-ordered-into-land-grabbing-by-slain-ganglord/articleshow/77535198.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Manpower booster dose for Covid system||KOLKATA: The state health department is likely to induct nearly 3,400 doctors, apart from more than 9,000 healthcare workers, as it strengthens its hospital infrastructure to tackle the pandemic. A major portion of the recruitment process is likely to be over by end of the year. The walk-in interview for the recruitment drive has started after chief minister Mamata Banerjee had announced the decision last week. According to sources, 1,171 general duty medical officer (GDMO) and 1,374 specialists will be recruited through the special recruitment drive. Apart from that, 9,333 nurses will also be inducted by the year-end. “We have already started the process to induct 4,400 nurses. Rest of the nurses and healthcare workers will be recruited from September,” said Nirmal Maji, president of the West Bengal Medical Council. TimesViewThis step is absolutely vital; manpower is essential to fight a pandemic. Several innovative measures have been taken to add to the deployment on the ground temporarily; volunteerism, too, has contributed significantly. But a long-term beefing-up of healthcare logistics is important.“We can see a lot of enthusiasm among the doctors and healthcare professionals. The interviews are being taken in batches and nearly 80 interviews are being conducted every day. This will help us bridge the gap during the pandemic,” said Maji. The Municipal Service Commission will also appoint 53 doctors and 18 medical technicians for Kolkata Municipal Corporation. The recruitment drive comes at a time when hospitals and doctors have raised concerns over a shortage of healthcare professionals. “There is enough number of beds in hospitals, but beds do not take care of patients. It is doctors and nurses who take care of them and they are in short supply. Unless we take a dramatic decision, we may land in trouble,” renowned cardiologist Devi Shetty had said in a virtual conference organized by ECHO India. According to Rupak Barua, group CEO of AMRI Hospitals, there was a country-wide shortage of doctors and nurses but the reality of the situation has become more apparent due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Now, while demand for doctors and nurses are increasing, many of them are getting infected with Covid-19 and are being forced to stay away from duty,” he said. “One possible solution is regularizing resident doctors awaiting their post-graduate exams through internal assessment,” Barua said. “We are assessing each of the aspects while keeping the possibility of a shortfall in mind. We hope to complete the recruitment process by the year-end and that will substantially ease out the pressure,” Maji said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/manpower-booster-dose-for-cov-system/articleshow/77533019.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||For kin, finance as big a worry as virus||Kolkata: Hefty hospital bills have been catching Covid patients’ kin off-guard in recent weeks, often forcing them to resort to crowd-funding or plead for discounts that have been hard to come by. Even though hospitals argue that ICU treatment spikes bills while the rest are paying in the range of Rs 1-1.5 lakh for a five-six-day stay, patients’ families have often pointed at lack of transparency in the billing system and alleged they were kept in the dark about the escalating cost of treatment. A study of a cross-section of cases across hospitals, experts said, would reveal that Covid treatment charges vary widely, from Rs 60,000 in mild cases to a steep Rs 18-Rs 20 lakh for patients who need ventilation. Take the case of Pradip Bhattacharya — a popular doctor from Shyamnagar – who was treated at the ICU of Medica Superspecialty Hospital for 23 days. Bhattacharya died on Wednesday and his family was slapped with a bill of Rs 18,344,952. After an appeal from the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, Medica extended a discount of Rs 3.6 lakh. The family. still had to raise Rs 15 lakh. Even as families of some Covid patients continue to complain about bills, the treatment cost for patients who do not need ICU care could range between Rs 60,000 and Rs 1.5 lakh for a 10-day supportive treatment, maintained hospitals. A 20-year-old old patient from Baruipur who was admitted in Ruby General Hospital in late-June was discharged after five days and the family had to shell out Rs 30,394 for the treatment. “But there is an uncertainty in the cost which gets high and it keeps mounting if the patient is in ICU. We are seeing that Covid patients are staying on ventilation for higher number of days,” said Subhasish Datta, chief general manager (operations) of Ruby hospital. Doctors said that when a patient is in ICU, they need to conduct a host of tests. Such patients also need costly medications and steroids which adds to the bill. For example, an MRI will cost about Rs 10,000 while a CT scan will cost around Rs 4,000. Drugs like ramdesivir and tocilizumab used on critical patients are costly. “The bill will naturally be high for ICU patients. Otherwise, the average cost of treatment in our hospital per patient is Rs 1.25 lakh based on the assessment of the 450 odd patients who have been treated in our hospital,” said peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. AMRI Hospitals group CEO Rupak Barua said that hospital is working out on modalities on making the billing system more transparent. “There are two allegations — one is over-billing and the other is costly tests being repeated. Most complaints pertain to patients in ICU care. But doctors need to repeat certain tests to gauge on patient marker,” said Barua. The cost goes up if the patient gets therapies like ECMO support and CytoSorb. For example, the family of a 40-year-old patient who had been on ventilation for 24 days and 10 days on ECMO support had to pay a hefty bill of little over Rs 20 lakh when the patient was discharged from AMRI Dhakuria on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-kin-finance-as-big-a-worry-as-virus/articleshow/77533025.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Identifying rioters a challenge||BENGALURU: Police arrested 147 people in connection with Tuesday night’s violence in east Bengaluru until Thursday, although the number of rioters was between 3,000 and 4,000. Sources said they are finding it difficult to identify the other rioters as most of them were wearing masks. “There aren’t many CCTVs in these areas,” a police officer said. “Also, a majority of the rioters wore masks and identification is difficult.” Police have collected about 400 CCTV videos from KG Halli and DJ Halli police station limits and are also collecting video footage and stills from the media. A total 11 teams has been assigned the task of identifying miscreants. “If one has covered his/her face with a mask, identification will take some time as we have to use technology. We will identify all the miscreants as quickly as possible,” a senior officer said. Meanwhile, police scaled up presence in DJ Halli and KG Halli areas on Thursday, deploying Rapid Action Force (RAF) personnel and additional Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) platoons. Senior police officers including additional commissioners and deputy commissioners are camping in the area. Police commissioner Kamal Pant visited the area twice and took stock of the situation. No untoward incidents were reported. Local police accompanied by RAF and KSRP sleuths carried flag march in affected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/identifying-masked-rioters-a-challenge-say-bengaluru-police/articleshow/77533016.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Goa||Smart City begins cycling survey, plans route from Dona Paula||Panaji: Imagine Panaji Smart City Development limited (IPSCDL) has launched a survey to understand people’s needs and views regarding a proposal to make the capital city cycle friendly. Panaji, which is participating in the India Cycles4Change challenge, is exploring means to encourage the use of cycles for local commute. IPSCDL plans to set up a 9.6km cycling route from Dona Paula circle to Ribandar Patto junction. Cycling events are proposed to be held every Sunday for three hours from September 13. “IPSCDL shall help by providing the minimal infrastructure, including pop-up cycle lanes and refreshment counters,” said an official. The survey looks at the purpose why people cycle, the hurdles that prevent locals from using cycling as a medium of transport and what could make cycling convenient and safe in Panaji. According to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, need for personalised forms of transport is expected to increase as a response to COVID-19. A recent survey by the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) India Programme shows that cycling would increase by 50-65% as cities come out of lockdown. Among the interventions suggested by ITDP, pop-up cycle lanes, designated slow zones, cycle sharing systems and community initiatives could help promote cycling. In 2015, stakeholders in Panaji had initiated discussion about legislation to protect the interests of cyclists, dedicated lanes for cyclists, share bike kiosks and safe parking of bicycles. In 2018, IPSCDL floated a request for proposal (RFP) for a bicycle sharing service (PBS) which had proposed to provide 560 bicycles and at least 30 docking stations in Panaji. Panaji has registered for the India Cycles4Change challenge, which was launched on July 10. The challenge, which is open to all smart cities, state capitals, and cities with a population of over 5 lakh, aims to promote cycle-friendly interventions in cities in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Of the 141 eligible cities, the top 11 cities will be granted Rs 1 crore each to promote cycling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/smart-city-begins-cycling-survey-plans-route-from-dona-paula/articleshow/77663717.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Bareilly||‘How was a wounded tigress not spotted for 10 days?’ Forest dept initiates inquiry into Dudhwa tigress death||Bareilly: A team of senior forest officials has started an investigation to find out why and how a badly wounded tigress with a nylon wire around her neck for 10 days was not spotted and rescued before she died. The tigress, from the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, had been found dead on a farm in Hardua village on Tuesday. “Where was she trapped? Why did no one in the patrolling team report it? Was it deliberately suppressed by a staff member? These are questions we are trying to answer,” chief conservator of forests (wildlife), western zone, Sunil Chaudhary told TOI. He is leading the team of forest officials. The tigress had been ensnared in a wire trap meant for snaring deer and wild boars, and was able to free herself from the trap but not the wires. She moved around, the wire strangling her, and died in a village just outside the forest. There were maggots in her wounds when the body was found. On Thursday, Chaudhary arrived in Kheri and inspected the spot where she had died. He held a meeting with field director of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve Sanjay Pathak, deputy director Anil Patel and veterinarians. “It is a terribly sad case. She died in pain, without food or water for days. We are trying to find out how this came about to make sure nothing like this ever happens again … The autopsy report and the pictures clearly show the wound was old. I have spoken to all officials individually and gathered information through my own sources. We will submit a report soon,” Chaudhary said. Forest department has arrested five poachers along with a trap in which the tigress was caught and injured. The trap was meant for snaring deer and wild boars but the tigress accidentally trapped in it and got injured. So far, five people have been arrested. “We have seized the broken net (in which the tigress is believed to have been trapped) from them. All the accused had earlier been engaged in poaching. Records of the tigress that died were not found in our database. She may have moved here from another forest,” Patel told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/how-was-a-wounded-tigress-not-spotted-for-10-days-forest-dept-initiates-inquiry-into-dudhwa-tigress-death/articleshow/77531678.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 14, 2020||Kolkata||After no-show, glimmer of hope for charter flights to Kolkata||KOLKATA: Charter flights to bring back Bengal residents stranded abroad are set to begin next week. The first international arrival after a month and a half is likely to be a GoAir flight from Kuwait City on August 17. There is also some good news on the domestic front with one-way flights lined up for Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai from Sunday. Flights between these and three other cities — Pune, Nagpur and Ahmedabad — have not operated since July 6, barring the odd one-way flights to Delhi. Speaking to TOI on Indians desperately wanting to return home, a state government official said several airlines had submitted proposals and the state had given its in-principle nod to the flights, subject to them fulfilling pre-conditions laid down in the revised SOP issued on August 6. The two primary riders are that all Kolkata-bound passengers have to furnish a recent Covid-negative report and the Indian embassy there has to give its approval to the flight. “We have been approached by IndiGo, SpiceJet, GoAir and Emirates for charter operations. There are several formalities involved and so it has taken a little time to start. But we are hopeful the first flight will arrive next week,” the official said. Originally, the first charter flight was to arrive from Dubai on Thursday, followed by a flight from Abu Dhabi on Friday and Sharjah on Saturday. But delay in approvals led to their cancellation. If everything proceeds smoothly from now, GoAir will operate four fights from Kuwait City on August 17, 18, 19 and 20. On August 18, Emirates will also operate a flight from Dubai while IndiGo will operate a flight from Muscat on August 23. IndiGo also plans to operate a charter from Singapore but there is no confirmation of the date yet. SpiceJet is yet to declare its flights. Meanwhile, alerted by regular pleas over social media from frequent fliers, IndiGo is set to resume one-way domestic flights from Kolkata to Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi. Starting Sunday till the end of this month, the airline will operate one flight daily to Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi between afternoon and night and four morning flights a week to Delhi, barring lockdown days.“All three afternoon and evening flights to Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi are full for August 16. For other days too, we are getting good response,” said an IndiGo official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-no-show-glimmer-of-hope-for-charter-flights/articleshow/77533029.cms||Subhro Niyogi
August 14, 2020||Lucknow||Mukhtar Ansari, Atiq Ahmed, other dons under ED lens||LUCKNOW: Enforcement Directorate has sought details from the Uttar Pradesh police about financial dealings of a handful of top mafia and gangsters. Although, senior police officials remained tight-lipped about the development, sources in ED said that criminals like don-turned politicians Atiq Ahmed and Mukhtar Ansari and Bhati gang members along with slain ganglord Vikas Dubey and others were under the scanner of the Enforcement Directorate. The ED is likely to register an ECIR against Ahmed and Dubey, said that officers privy to the probe. The list includes gangster like Badan Singh ‘Badoo’, who carries a cash reward of Rs 2.5 lakh on his head and was also sentenced to life imprisonment in connection with the murder of a lawyer in Ghaziabad, but has been absconding since February 2019. Others include members and associates of Bhati gang. Senior police officers at the DGP headquarters said that the ED was taking cognisance of the top gangsters, while citing the example of Vikas Dubey. On the other hand, ED confirmed to TOI that they were seeking details of most-wanted gangsters in the state. The sources also said that police have been asked also to give details of associates of gangsters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mukhtar-atiq-other-dons-under-ed-lens/articleshow/77535213.cms||---
August 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Himachal likely to have a new party before 2022 assembly polls||Shimla: A regional party is likely to emerge in Himachal Pradesh before the 2022 assembly elections. Ex-minister government and former Kangra MP Rajan Sushant, who left BJP years ago, has started the process to launch a new regional party in the state. Sushant’s announcement to form a new regional party has generated some heat in the politics of the hill state that has generally witnessed two party system with an occasional rise and fall of regional parties. Sushant said Himachal has scope for a third front, as the state has been witnessing a “friendly match” between BJP and Congress since 1977. According to him, regional parties were formed a few months before the assembly elections and after elections, leaders returned to their parent parties. For instance, he said, had Sukh Ram not merged his Himachal Vikas Congress with Congress, the third front would have emerged stronger in the state. According to the ex-MP, he started preparing for the 2022 assembly election three years in advance. He said the party would be floated with participation from all sections of the society. “We will ask the people of the state what should be the vision for the state,” he said. adding that worker, leader and high command of the party will all be equally important. Sushant has already started visiting different parts of state to mobilise support. Box Regional parties of HP Although real race for power remained between Congress and BJP, Himachal had its share of regional parties >> Before the Emergency, Thakur Sen Negi from Kinnaur had floated Lok Raj Party in 1967 (when Kangra was part of Punjab). In 1972, it had contested on 16 seats and won two seats with 5.02% vote share of total votes polled >> In 1998 assembly polls, former Union minister Sukh Ram had launched Himachal Vikas Congress (HVC) in 1997, after leaving Congress. It had contested on 62 assembly seats and won five by securing 9.63% of total votes polled. As Congress and BJP both had 31 seats each, for the first time in HP, a coalition government of HVC-BJP led by Prem Kumar Dhumal was formed. The 2003 assembly election was the beginning of its end, as HVC could win only Mandi out of 49 seats it contested and 41 of its candidates forfeited their deposits. Before the 2007 assembly election, Sukh Ram merged his party with Congress, though many of its leaders joined BJP >> Before the 2012 assembly election, former Mandi MP and former BJP state president Maheshwar Singh floated the Himachal Lokhit Party along with some BJP dissidents. The party contested on 36 seats (out of 68), but could win only Kullu and its 35 candidates forfeited their deposits. Maheshwar merged the party with BJP in October 2016, right before the 2017 assembly election||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/himachal-likely-to-have-a-new-party-before-2022-assembly-polls/articleshow/77534423.cms||Anand Bodh
