August 15, 2020||Jaipur||This I-Day, Jaipur retailers are offering huge discounts to attract shoppers||While the demand for non-essential goods has come to a screeching halt as consumers are mostly focussing on stocking up on the basics and essential items, many are also making the most of this situation by buying items that are available on huge discounts at shops in Jaipur. There are an enormous number of goods that are already sitting on retailer’s shelves and the shopkeepers in a bid to sell out their items are offering huge discounts, going all the way up to 60-70%. Rohan Malhotra had made a wish list of items that he wanted to purchase. However, because of the coronavirus pandemic, he was hesitant to spend his saving on electronic goods. But now, Rohan tells us that the amazing deals he is getting on top brands clubbed with Independence Day offers made him change his decision. “I wanted to purchase a laptop and a few gadgets. Considering the kind of discounts that the brands are offering in Jaipur, I couldn’t stop myself from buying the items that I wanted. I might not get the same discount later in the year or once the coronavirus pandemic gets over,” he says. Priyanka Gupta got an opportunity to update her wardrobe on a budget. “Independence Day offers are great. In fact, I have ended up saving a lot of money,” she says as she checks out ethnic wear collection at a shop in Malviya Nagar. Radhika Agarwal, one of the shoppers bought three pairs of footwear for herself from a shop in Raja Park. “I got a 50% discount on the shoes I bought. Nowadays, only a handful of people are coming out for shopping. Thus, you won’t find many people in the shops. This way, the shopkeepers are attending the customers in a much nicer way without any rush,” she shares. Anil Jain, one of the shopkeepers at GT Bazaar, says, “We hardly have any customers this time. Thus, in order to attract buyers, we are offering huge discounts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/this-i-day-jaipur-retailers-are-offering-huge-discounts-to-attract-shoppers/articleshow/77546506.cms||Neha Chaudhary
August 15, 2020||Goa||AIFF may settle for shorter I-League this season||PANAJI: The All India Football Federation (AIFF) has suggested curtailing of all leagues this season to ensure that players’ safety is not jeopardised in times of the coronavirus pandemic. The Indian Super League (ISL), I-League and even Second Division I-League will all be played at a single venue this season. While ISL will choose between Goa and Kerala, West Bengal is the preferred venue for I-League and second division. “I am clear that we have to be very careful about player safety. If that means curtailing of leagues, we have to do that,” AIFF general secretary Kushal Das told TOI after the league committee meeting on Friday. Curtailed leagues, for now, would be reducing the length of the competition. From five months to four, for the ISL, and even shorter for I-League. No change in format has been agreed upon by either league, but Das said, “if it’s possible, we are all for it.” “My view is let’s not get into a situation where we are compromising the safety of players. If that means a new format, that is fine. Nothing matters more than the players health,” said Das. At the meeting, AIFF provided an example of the Chinese Super League where a normal seven-month league was sought to be wrapped inside less than three months. The Chinese Super League 2020 kicked off in July, seven months into the new year and five months after it was originally scheduled. According to the new format, the league is split into two groups of eight teams who will compete in a championship-style structure. According to reports, during the group stage, clubs will face each other twice before getting split into two. The top four teams in each group face off in the quarterfinals, while the bottom teams get sorted into a bottom-half relegation quarterfinal. “We are thinking of changing the league format for the I-League and bringing down the number of matches, but the decision has not yet been taken. We may have two groups or have a single-leg league. It will be difficult for us to maintain the Covid bubble for such a long time,” a senior AIFF official told TOI. A decision on the ISL has been left for FSDL to take. A 12-team normal league would mean 132 games for I-League, while ISL has 95 matches, which includes 90 in the league stage and five for playoffs. “The league department has already prepared the SOP which is to be strictly followed. The onus this year is not on the clubs, but on AIFF and the concerned state associations since we have already decided that the leagues would be held in one venue. “We need to adhere to all safety protocols to ensure that not a single player or official gets infected. We need to leave no stone unturned and have a number of workshops to educate all stakeholders as we are currently working against all odds,” league committee chairman Subrata Dutta said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aiff-may-settle-for-shorter-i-league-this-season/articleshow/77553558.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 15, 2020||World||Imran Khan says Pakistan's economy heading in right direction||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan's economy is heading in the right direction after two "very difficult" years, Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Friday, as he vowed to tackle the electricity problem so that the country's industries could compete with nations like India and Bangladesh. In a televised message on the occasion of Independence Day, he said the confidence of the business community on the economy was returning. "We had a very difficult two years. We didn't have foreign exchange and couldn't pay our debts...We have avoided a huge crisis because we didn't default. But I know it hasn't been easy for the people," he said. He said that improvement was visible from the recent upsurge in the stock market and revenue collection. "Despite the pandemic, our tax collection in June exceeded our targets," he said. Khan said exports also were up, despite the coronavirus crisis that has wreaked havoc on the global economy. He said the tax collection during the last month remained more than the target. The Prime Minister said his government gave an unprecedented incentive package to the construction industry which would help to uplift at least 40 other allied industries. He also said that Pakistan successfully coped with the threat of Covid-19 and it would also help to enhance economic activities. But Khan warned that "this does not mean we have won this battle" as he urged people to follow the official guidelines. Referring to the power sector, Khan said Pakistan was generating expensive electricity due to the agreements signed in the past, which resulted in an increase of circular debt. However, he said that the government had reached an agreement with independent power producers which would lead to a reduction in the cost of electricity production. Khan said Pakistan's industries could not compete with other nations in the region, like India and Bangladesh, as their cost of production was low due to cheap electricity. He said that Pakistan was created to become an Islamic welfare state where the law was supreme and everyone had equal rights regardless of their race, caste or religious beliefs. Khan said the country would realise that dream. The Prime Minister also showed solidarity with the people of Kashmir, vowing to continue diplomatic and moral support to their struggle for their right to self-determination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/imran-khan-says-pakistans-economy-heading-in-right-direction/articleshow/77553649.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Youth held for duping people||PATNA: Police on Friday arrested one Someshwar Singh (22) from Police Lines Chowk under the Ahiyapur police station area in Muzaffarpur for allegedly duping people by creating a fake Instagram profile of former PM Manmoham Singh. According to police, the arrested man was duping people by collecting funds on the pretext of creating a digital team for countering BJP’s propaganda of maligning Manmohan Singh’s image. ADG (EOU) J S Gangwar said the action was taken after DGP Gupteshwar Pandey received a tip-off. “Police have begun an investigation to find out how much money Someshwar has received through his digital wallet. Someshwar’s Instagram account had 90,000 followers. People used to send money to his digital wallet by scanning QR code,” the ADG added. Police said Someshwar is a ‘soil science’ student at a private institute in Dehradun and his fake account is named ‘Office of Dr Manmohan Singh’. According to police, he used to tell people to donate for creating digital contents to counter BJP campaign to malign the former PM’s image. “He had used two sim cards and one was issued in his mother’s name. The same numbers were used in bank and the Instagram account. He is being interrogated,” the ADG said. Gangwar said the accused says the former PM was his ideal and that he had created the account just a few days back. “Muzaffarpur police is taking further necessary and legal action in the case. An FIR has been registered there in this connection,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/youth-held-for-duping-people/articleshow/77552783.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 15, 2020||Allahabad||At 69, Prayagraj has highest Covid-19 cases among health workers||PRAYAGRAJ: With Covid-19 cases in the Sangam city breaching the 5,000-mark, Prayagraj range now has the highest number of health staffers infected by the disease. According to the health department, 96 health workers have been infected by the coronavirus, including doctors , nurses and paramedics in the range. While 69 corona warriors have tested positive in Prayagraj, 12 cases each were reported from Pratapgarh and Fatehpur. Three medical staffers tested positive in Kaushambi. The tally of containment zones in Prayagraj has crossed the 1,450-mark — the highest in the range. In fact, containment zones in Prayagraj are more than twice the combined count of Kaushambi, Pratapgarh and Fatehpur, the remaining three districts in the range. As per the statistics, Prayagraj has 1,453 containment zones, followed by Fatehpur (335), Kaushambi (139) and Pratapgarh (138). In Prayagraj, 873 out of 1,453 containment zones are in urban and semi urban areas and remaining in trans-Ganga and Yamuna areas. Additional director, health, Dr Sudhakar Pandey told TOI, “ More corona warriors have been diagnosed with Covid-19 in Prayagraj compared to the neighbouring districts.” “The number of Covid patients in Prayagraj district has already crossed the 4,942-mark, where as 1,048 and 539 positive cases were detected in Pratapgarh and Kaushambi districts respectively,” he added. Testing of over 94,000 people has so far been done in Prayagraj district, while 24,000 and 30,000 people have been tested in Pratapgarh and Kaushambi respectively. Prayagraj has around 1,900 active cases, while active cases in Pratapgarh and Kaushambi are 592 and 183 respectively. As many as 2,188 patients have been cured and recovered in Prayagraj, followed by 450 in Pratapgarh and 334 in Kaushambi. While Prayagraj has registered 88 deaths till August 13, Pratapgarh and Kaushambi witnessed 21 and four respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/at-69-prayagraj-has-highest-covid-19-cases-among-health-workers/articleshow/77554013.cms||Kapil Dixit
August 15, 2020||India||Police, CRPF personnel in J&K ops walk away with 57% of gallantry medals||NEW DELHI: Jammu & Kashmir Police and CRPF personnel engaged in counter-terror operations in the Union territory walked away with 122 or nearly 57% of the total 215 police medals for gallantry awarded this Independence Eve. The honour for police and paramilitary personnel fighting terror threat emanating from the western front came on a day ITBP also announced that it had recommended 21 of its personnel who displayed “raw courage” on the Indo-China front during faceoffs in Eastern Ladakh in May-June 2020, for police medals and rewarded 294 others with Director General’s commendations. J&K police got the highest haul of 81 gallantry medals this I-Day eve. The valiant acts of 55 CRPF bravehearts, including 41 in J&K and 14 in Left-wing extremism-hit zones, were also honored. Uttar Pradesh police ranked third with 23 gallantry medals, while Delhi received 16 medals. The only Central force other than CRPF to be rewarded for gallantry was BSF, which got 1 medal in this category. A total 926 police medals were announced on Friday, including 215 police medals for gallantry, 80 President’s police medals for distinguished service and 631 police medals for meritorious service. No President’s police medal for gallantry was rewarded. While 123 gallantry medals are for actions in J&K, 29 are for actions in LWE areas and eight in the northeast region. Among the gallantry awardees this year is late Delhi Police inspector Mohan Chand Sharma, who was martyred in the 2008 Batla House encounter that had triggered the downfall of Indian Mujahideen. However, the latest gallantry honour for Sharma, his seventh, is for a 2007 joint encounter in Jammu by Delhi Police special cell and J&K police, in which Jaish commander Saifullah alias Qari, was neutralized. Saifullah was the mastermind behind a foiled terror attack on the makeshift Ram Lalla temple at Ayodhya in 2005. Sharma had tracked Saifullah’s hideout in Jammu based on interrogation of two Jaish terrorists caught in Delhi. Another Delhi Police officer Dharmender Sharma, who was also in the Batla House strike team, has received a gallantry award for the same operation. Among the J&K police personnel decorated for bravery is DIG Atul Kumar Goel who was in charge of the intelligence-based operation that led to the arrest of then J&K police deputy SP Davinder Singh with two Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists from a car intercepted on the Jammu-Srinagar highway. Naresh Kumar, assistant commandant in CRPF, scripted history by receiving his 7th police medal for gallantry in a span of four years. Kumar has led the CRPF Valley quick action team (QAT) in Srinagar. UP police personnel received 23 police medals for gallantry, 6 President’s police medals for distinguished service and 73 police medals for meritorious service. Among the bravehearts honored is IPS officer Asim Arun and six others who killed ISIS-inspired terrorist Saifullah in an encounter at Kakori, Lucknow in 2017. Saifullah’s associates had earlier carried out a blast in a train at Bhopal. The prominent counter-Naxal actions that earned gallantry recognition include the capture of 15 hardcore Maoists including senior area committee member Sunil Manjhi in an operation at Giridih, Jharkhand; and a 2017 encounter with Maoists in Ghadchiroli, Maharashtra, that left two female Maoists dead. Among the Central police organisations, CRPF got a total haul of 118 medals, BSF 52, IB 36, CBI 32, CISF 25 and ITBP 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/independence-day-2020-govt-announces-police-medals-jk-tops-gallantry-list/articleshow/77553961.cms||Bharti Jain
August 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Online gaming addict minor who faked his own kidnapping handed over to mother||PATNA: A 14-year-old online gaming addict minor boy, who had allegedly faked his own kidnapping in order to extort Rs 5 lakh from his mother, was handed over to her by police on Thursday night. The mother, a widow, had lodged an FIR of boy's kidnapping with Patrakar Nagar police station in Patna on August 10 after she received an SMS from son’s cellphone asking her to pay Rs 5 lakh ransom. The minor, a student of Class-X of a nationalised central government school, had left his home with Rs 2,000 and a cellphone on August 9 after informing her mother that he was going to meet one of his friends but didn’t returned. Patrakar Nagar police station SHO Pramod Kumar said a written undertaking was taken from the boy's mother. “We would wait for direction of senior authorities for further course of action in the case,” he said. SHO said the minor, who was recovered from bus stand under Khajanchi Hatt police station area in Purnia district on late Wednesday night, had plans for seeking admission in a cricket academy in Delhi or Mumbai using the ransom money. “He had also planned to purchase a costly cellphone,” the SHO said adding he was addicted to online games like PUBG. In course of investigation, police had also found that the minor also had an eye on Rs 3.5 lakh loan taken by his mother. The minor has a brother and sister, both younger to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-online-gaming-addict-minor-who-faked-his-own-kidnapping-handed-over-to-mother/articleshow/77554200.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Emotional choreography 'Unsung Heroes' showcased on Jawahar Kala Kendra's social media page||On the eve of the 74th Indian Independence day, a poignant and intense choreography ‘Unsung Heroes’ was showcased on the Facebook page of Jawahar Kala Kendra on Friday. Directed and choreographed by Anish Popli, the production was a choreographic portrayal of the intense experiences of Indian soldiers during World War I. It was developed after the dancers underwent intensive training and interactions with army personnel that provided a first-person insight into the demanding army way of life, defence techniques and tactics and handling rifles. The choreography was produced by Choreotheque School of Contemporary Dance, Delhi. Historically relevant, it gives a voice to all those Indian soldiers who died fighting Britain's war. The inspiration for ‘Unsung Heroes’ stemmed from a series of letters sent and received by the Indian soldiers during the war. All the music scores were specially sourced or created for the performance. The dancers of the production included – Inder Jot Singh, Romina Romano, Vikas, Shashank, Anmol Tyagi, Arshiya Arora, Aditi Rao, Rahul Ray, Arman, Shiv, Sonu and Amit. Vocalists included – Imran Nizami Niazi, Nizami Brothers, Sumeeta Chopra and Aparna Suri. The lights were designed by Andrew Hammond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/emotional-choreography-unsung-heroes-showcased-on-jawahar-kala-kendras-social-media-page/articleshow/77554835.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Varanasi||Lockdown blues for youngsters moving back in with parents||With work from home arrangements being operational and colleges closed due to Covid-19 pandemic, a lot of youngsters have returned home. Safe haven and ghar ka khana could be the brighter side to this shift but nagging parents and lack of personal space is the flip side, for some of them. On a different thinking zone Aishwarya Verma, pursuing MBA from India Institute of Forest Management, Bhopal, is staying with her parents in Varanasi, ever since her institute was closed due to the pandemic in March. “Despite the closure of our institute, regular online classes are being held on a daily basis, but my family does not realize the seriousness of the situation. They feel as if I am on a holiday, so I have an added responsibility of contributing in the daily household chores and also helping my younger sister in her studies.This at times makes me compromise on my daily online classes and also other additional assignments which is part of the curriculum. My family and I are in a different thinking zone which is making things difficult for me,” says Aishwarya. (BCCL)Too many questions askedDivya Singh Rathaur, a marketing professional, who is back in her hometown from Delhi, says, “I have no job right now, so there was no reason for me to stay back in Delhi, where I have been living for a long time. But this change has been rather difficult for me. I have been used to living an independent life but at home I have to explain everything to my parents. You can’t really explain to them as to why I use three types of face wash or reason with them on my rather frequent online parcels arriving at our doorstep. It is still more difficult to explain to them that I need to have my own space when I lock my room. This is resulting in unnecessary arguments with them, laments Divya. No personal spaceRavi Shankar Mishra, who is pursuing Law from Delhi University, has returned home as the classes have been suspended. “I was looking forward to coming back home and spending some time with my parents but soon I started having adjustment problems. Staying in a hostel, I have become more of a night person. Remaining awake till the wee hours and getting up late in the morning was something I was used to, but at home this is not possible. My parents start nagging if I sleep till late. Moreover, if I need to do some personal talk with any of my friends it is tough to find a space for myself since my younger siblings are around who don’t realize that I need to be left alone for sometime,” rues Ravi Miss hanging out with my friendsAnanya Singh, a college student who has returned from Delhi to her home in Prayagraj, is facing her own share of problems She says, “It is good to be back home but I miss my friends. We not only had a lovely time in college attending classes and participating in extracurricular activities but also hanging out in the city during weekends. All this is not possible at home, so I feel really bored though I am trying to spend a lot of time with my parents." No talking to the girlfriendGaurav Saxena (name changed), a computer graphics professional, who has recently moved back to Prayagraj from Gurgaon, says that his parents insisted that he should come back as they were really scared about so much talk about the pandemic. “Now that I am back, they want me to be constantly with them. So even when I am making video calls to my girlfriend they are around and keep tabs on what I am talking and with whom. That has made me switch from video calling to texting her, which is taking a toll on our relationship."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/lockdown-blues-for-youngsters-moving-back-in-with-parents/articleshow/77548436.cms||Meera Vohra
August 15, 2020||Kanpur||Lockdown blues for youngsters moving back in with parents||Little did youngsters coming back home from different cities know what was in store for them. Hoping that things will be fine within a few weeks, most of them are now stuck at their homes with family members for months. Youngsters, who were working or studying in other towns and are now at their home in Kanpur are facing problems like parental interference, lack of privacy, among other things. TIME TIME KI BAATMonty Roy, a software engineer working with a software development company in Nodia, now wants to get back to Noida. “I deal with US based clients and that’s why I have to work during night hours. By the time I wrap up my work it’s time for my parents to wake up. Since i go to sleep at that time, my father tells me that I am either sleeping or working where as my mother keeps waking me up for food. This is leading to a lot of conflict in the house,” he shares. FOOD FOR THOUGHT!Vishal Dixit an MBA final year student is facing an altogether different problem while staying at home. “My parents are strict vegetarians and they have no idea that I eat non-vegetarian stuff. So now, I crave non-veg food but woh ghar pe milta nahi hai. So one day I ordered biryani and kebabs for myslef but my mother got to know of it and she threw a real fit whihc made things quite uncomfortable for all of us at home,” says Vishal. (BCCL)DAD’S THE WAY?Vijay Bajpai, working as an interior designer with an infrastructure development company, was in awkward situation when he faced a blooper during an online meeting. He shares, “I was on a video meeting with my boss and colleagues. Everything was going fine till my father, unknowingly, entered the frame behind me in bermudas and a vest. Seeing him on screen everyone was laughing and I found it so embarassing.” BACK TO SCHOOL WALI FEELINGA software professional Sonal Agarwal, who was working in Hyderabad, says she feels as if she’s back in school with her parents constant checks on her. “I know that the situation of Corona is really bad in Kanpur but I want to meet my few friends but my mom and dad are completly against the idea. They keep checking me for things!” says Sonal. NO TALKING TO GIRLSKapil Mishra, working as an investment consultant in Bangalore says, “I never thought that my stay at my home would get so long. I hardly have friends in Kanpur. Recently, when I was on a video call with some of my friends, my mother noticed that I was speaking to two girls. As soon as the call ended, she objected to the call. I tried explaining to her that they were just friends to me but she was in no mood of understanding. I felt as if my privacy was being intruded upon and now I really want to go back to Bengaluru.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/lockdown-blues-for-youngsters-moving-back-in-with-parents/articleshow/77547336.cms||Sumit Jha
August 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s amputee motorcyclists celebrate a decade of freedom||Four wheels move the body, two wheels move the soul’ — a biker saying that truly applies to this group of amputee motorcyclists in the city. They love getting onto their machines in any weather and take off on a ride. They are a part of the first specially-abled bikers club in India and on Independence Day, are all set to celebrate 10 years of being on the road. We caught them at Bandra, enjoying the rains on their wheels. When rejection spurred him to fulfill his biking dreamVinod Rawat lost his left leg at the age of six. After an unsuccessful surgery to get an artificial limb, he got his first prosthetic limb in 1997. “All through my growing up I had only one passion — to ride a bike,” he says. His wheels gave fruition to his dream during a monsoon trail to Rajmachi, Lonavala. “The trail is called ‘Mini Ladakh’ among the riders. I rode with all the riders on the stretch and no one knew I had a prosthetic limb till I removed it in the night. They said, ‘Sorry brother we can’t take you with us. You are disabled and if something happens, we will be responsible’. I was so shattered, but I made up my mind to do something for riders like me. So, I formed a group of specially-abled people whom society had rejected, so that they can ride their dream.” Many years down, they’ve hit the 10th year milestone and now have seven chapters in their club all over India. They have also chased different trails since — some scenic, some for a cause. Overcoming challengesBandra resident and state government officer Vishal Gosavi (37) didn’t let polio in his right leg come in the way of his riding. “No one offered me a ride on their bike when I was in college. Today, he rides two wheelers and sports bikes and also owns three heavy bikes. “I had heard about the specially-abled bikers’ group on social media and I joined them. The rides that we embark on regularly, gives us such a sense of freedom,” he says. He still has to deal with some challenges. “Putting the bike in the middle stand is not easy as it takes more strength. It’s the same while shifting the bike from left to right and balancing it. My family used to worry about me and my brother used to sit at the back to give me support till a few years ago. I have been riding solo now and I love it.”  Mira-Road and Western Railways employee Mahendra Pitale has a prosthetic arm. He shares, “I lost my arm in the bomb blasts of July 11, 2006. I ride my bike with the clutch (which was shifted from left side to right), brakes and accelerator using one arm. It’s not easy, but am able to manage it with practice.” ‘We are not becharas’The bikers dislike being seen as different. Says Vinod, “We are not becharas.” He goes on to add, “A motorsport isn’t everyone’s cup of tea, but with perseverance and courage you can do it. I was called an apang in the past, but I proved them wrong. Every morning I look at the mirror and tell myself that I am a hero, because the first thing you need to do is believe in yourself.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-amputee-motorcyclists-celebrate-a-decade-of-freedom/articleshow/77554868.cms||Ismat Tahseen
August 15, 2020||Mumbai||#UnlockingDiaries Mumbai malls’ safety rules stress on going contactless||Despite the continuous rains, shoppers are still heading to their favourite malls that have given their safety measures an overhaul on resumption after 140 daysThe malls reopened on August 5 as a part of Mission Begin Again and the subsequent phased unlocking process (Unlock 3.0), and Mumbaikars have been heaving a sigh of relief ever since as they get to walk into their favourite malls after nearly five months of closure. Mall authorities, across the city, are also going all out to ensure utmost safety of the customer and their staff — right from installing sanitisation mats to clean footwear and thermal optical character reading at entrances, to UV scanners for pre-post shopping and putting markers of 1.5 meters in place for social distancing markers. Rashmi Sen, the chief operations officer of a chain of malls in Lower Parel and Kurla, said that they were fully prepared to welcome their ‘guests’ with the new safe shopping experience. “Our malls have incorporated the highest quality standard operating procedures (SOPs) to ensure the safety of our customers, retail partners and employees across our properties.The Maharashtra government’s decision to reopen malls and shopping centres will give a much-needed boost to the state’s retail industry. This is a positive step towards rekindling India’s consumption story,” she said. ‘Only serious shoppers are coming to the shopping malls now’If you’ve already visited a mall in your neighbourhood, you may have noticed that not all shops in it have opened. “Almost 80 per cent of retailers in the shopping mall have opened their stores with all readiness,” informed Susil S Dungarwal, senior personnel from a mall. Talking about the response of the crowd, Santush Kumar Pandde, who heads one of the biggest mall chains in Mumbai, said, “We have received around 15 per cent footfalls as compared to pre-COVID days. The conversions are high as all of them have visited the mall with a purpose, which is captured at the time of registration and appointment scheduling to visit the malls. We expect the footfall numbers to go up as the incessant rain and flooding in Mumbai subsides.” Dungarwal seconded him, adding, “Only serious shoppers are now coming to shopping malls and over the next couple of weeks, we see this trend getting better. I am sure the consumers who have been waiting for the shopping malls to open will take advantage of this situation and come out to spend.” It does seem like the rains have not been able keep shoppers away from the malls. Malvika Gada, a suburban resident and entrepreneur, shared, “Despite the heavy rains, I visited two malls the day they opened. After all, it’s been more than four months! They have made fabulous safety arrangements and it was a great experience for me. With social distancing and precautions in place, shopping was fun.” ‘From entry to exit, the mall has been made contactless’Mall officials believe that Mumbai malls could play an important role in creating a good safe shopping environment since it is a controlled space. Sachin Dhanawade, chief operating officer of a mall in the western suburbs, said, “We have made all arrangements to make sure that the mall is 100 per cent safe for our staff and customers. We have adapted the mandatory protocols of the new normal and enhanced cleaning and pest control standards by adhering to all the SOPs laid down by the government authorities. We have created a trained staff force that will assist and guide customers to follow all the do’s and don’ts. Among the various safety measures, we have installed UV lights in the baggage scanners to disinfect bags and thermal cameras to track footfalls and movement throughout the mall, ensuring there is only one person in every 75 square foot as mandated. From entry to exit, the mall has been made contactless at various touchpoints.” Some malls are also discouraging the entry of 65-plus and under-10 visitors. ‘Digital payments and blocking of alternate spaces for parking’Parking system, too, has undergone a change right from the entry. Vehicles entering a mall parking lot will be disinfected by authorities. Rajendra Kalkar, President of the West Region of a high-end mall chain, elaborated, “We have introduced contact-free parking and payments with the help of digital systems for parking as well as for all retail counters.” Sachin added, “We have blocked alternate parking spaces in the parking area to ensure adequate social distancing is followed there, too. We have also automated the parking entry ticket dispenser and implemented digital payments for parking, making the process totally contactless.” Some malls might still allow cash payments, but only after sanitisation. PLANNING TO GO TO THE MALLS? GET TO KNOW OF THESE PROTOCOLS Thermal scanners at entrances Aarogya Setu app to be checked UV scanner at entry to disinfect handbags UV box to disinfect shopping bags after shopping Temperature screening at entry points Mall staff wearing masks and gloves Floor markers 1.5 metres in malls, elevators Mandatory wearing of masks inside the mall Hand sanitisers & sanitising stations in the mall Sanitisation mats at the entry to disinfect customer’s footwear Sensor-based taps and contactless soap dispensers and water spouts Acrylic shield barrier at all desks where the staff interacts with customers Constant escalator handrail cleaning Pre-sanitised shopping bags, trolleys and baskets made available to shoppers WHAT’S TOPPING THE SHOPPING LIST  Clothes Cosmetics Electronics Sportswear||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unlockingdiaries-mumbai-malls-safety-rules-stress-on-going-contactless/articleshow/77554948.cms||Debarati S Sen
August 15, 2020||India||'Invites down to one-fourth': Covid precautions in place for Independence Day event at Red Fort||NEW DELHI: Special arrangements have been made to maintain the sanctity of the Independence Day flag-hoisting ceremony at Red Fort on Saturday while factoring in requisite precautions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The defence ministry said the measures range from quarantining the armed forces personnel who will present the guard of honour to PM Modi to inviting NCC cadets instead of young school children to witness the event. Special coverage: Independence Day 2020“All ceremonial drills have factored in social distancing norms as well as other precautionary measures. The guiding principle for seating has been ‘do gaz ki doori’ or a six-feet distance between any two guests seated during the event,” an official said. The number of invitees has also been curtailed to around one-fourth the normal. The MoD said only about 4,000 invites have been issued to officials, diplomats and members of the public this time. Independence Day 2020: Live updatesSimilarly, only the senior-most cabinet ministers will sit on the upper dais on the ramparts of the Red Fort during the ceremony and the PM’s address to the nation. Major Shweta Pandey will assist the PM in unfurling the national flag. Read AlsoPM Modi to address nation from Red Fort on 74th Independence DayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will unfurl the national flag and deliver his seventh consecutive Independence Day speech from the iconic Red Fort on Saturday. According to a Defence ministry statement, the prime minister will also receive the Guard of Honour contingent, consisting of one officer and“Additional door frame metal detectors, with adequately spaced markings have been provided to avoid queuing and to ensure smooth passage for all the invitees,” the official said. Along with thermal screening at all entry points, medical booths have been established at four locations to cater to any attendee who is detected having any Covid-19 symptoms. “While all invitees have been requested to wear masks, thorough sanitisation of the premises inside and outside the Red Fort is also being carried out on a regular basis,” he said. Watch Independence Day 2020: PM Modi receives guard of honour at Red Fort||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/invites-down-to-one-fourth-covid-precautions-in-place-for-independence-day-event-at-red-fort/articleshow/77555199.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Mumbai||Terraces are the new art spaces for Mumbai collegians||They say art has no boundaries. It would also deem fit to add that it has no address, for sketches, caricatures and drawings are known to spring up just about anywhere. In cities like New York and London, people dabble in deck painting and trellis art with entire street walls hosting murals, while in Berlin, the underground subway doubles up as a famous graffiti-inspired gallery. Mumbai, too, has seen streets and local walls around the city turn into a façade for art — take the recent wall mural of the late actor Irrfan in Bandra. The recent addition to that is the trend of terrace art among Mumbai collegians, who are taking to their buildings and home terraces to create a few colourful artworks… ‘People in our building welcomed the idea of giving the terrace an arty makeover’A terrace art work in progressWadala resident, Varad Keni headed to his building terrace with a paint and brush. Says the third-year engineering student of Vidyalankar Institute of Technology, “I’ve been seeing numerous pictures and videos of people creating public art abroad. I especially love the street-painting style, which we tried emulating on the BMC wall at the Wadala Station for a school project, prior to the lockdown. Since colleges were shut and there were no lectures now, I thought why not do the same with our building terrace and give it an arty make-over.” He and a few friends took the required permission for it. “Dabbling in terrace art on our premises was hardly an issue with the people of our building; in fact, they welcomed it. The only thing is we had to buy the oil paints and other art materials from a hardware store. Since all the shades were not available, we just bought a few primary ones and mixed them to make different shades,” he adds. They began drawing on the walls after washing and applying a white base coat on them. They painted them in the early morning hours and in between spells of rain. “We used to play games and perform yoga on the terrace, so we thought the walls should depict all. On the other side of the wall, we created a unique streetwall painting with spray paints to get the graffiti effect.” Adds second-year engineering and biotechnology student at DY Patil University, Vaishnavi Joshi, who also created Warli art on a terrace, “I had heard about this from a friend. I’m not great with art, but this is something anyone can do. You don’t need to be perfect at it. What’s more, it’s not only destressing to paint, but it gave my building a nice warm look. Now, we might even create art at another friend’s terrace soon.” A building terrace at Prabhadevi got graffiti-inspired artGraffiti-inspired terrace art of a building in PrabhadeviGraffiti is a popular art form that Raj Patil decided to explore on the terrace of his building in Prabhadevi. The first-year mass media student from Khalsa College says, “I love hip-hop music from the 90s, which includes my favourites like 50 Cent, Tupac and Biggie. This kind of art is usually done on streets and corners, but I decided to create hip-hop graffiti on a vacant wall on our terrace.” He picked up spray cans online and took off on his terrace wall. “Everyone loved the artwork,” he says, adding, “Many even come up there to take selfies and do shoots. I have plans to create more art with font design on the terrace. Having elements like this in our urban spaces add freshness and fun to life.” When the outdoors is the canvasA mural in NYPublic art, which adds beauty to the city, has found its way into so many spaces and nooks, most of which are hotspots with Instagram users. These are: Artworks in the boroughs in New York  Traffic signal box street art in different cities  Giant shuttlecocks on the lawn of the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art Painted steps are another major attraction — like in Philadelphia, Chile and Rio de Janeiro Buildings have transformed into canvases for large-scale florals in Texas, Cincinnati and Ohio||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/terraces-are-the-new-art-spaces-for-mumbai-collegians/articleshow/77555197.cms||Ismat Tahseen
August 15, 2020||India||President Kovind will host some really special guests ‘At Home’ today||NEW DELHI: A man who ferries wood for funeral pyres, sanitation workers who have worked back-to-back shifts at Delhi’s government hospitals, police personnel, security guards, and about 20 medical professionals from doctors to nursing staff and ASHA workers involved in India’s fight against Covid will be among the special guests at President Ram Nath Kovind’s Independence Day ‘At Home’ function this August 15. The annual guest list of over 1,500 people, a gathering of who’s who from across the country, has been pruned in light of the Covid pandemic this year. And with President Kovind deciding to recognise them for their efforts, the spotlight this year will be on India’s corona warriors. Independence Day 2020: Live UpdatesThe 26 handpicked guests, among the 90 who will be hosted by the President this year, will be part of a guest list that includes PM Narendra Modi, diplomats, top ministers in the government and captains of the media industry among others. Read AlsoPresident Kovind addresses nation on Independence Day eve: Key quotesNEW DELHI: President Ram Nath Kovind on the eve of 74th Independence Day extended his greetings to the countrymen. Addressing the nation, the President expressed his gratitude towards the freedom fighters who struggled for India's Independence and reminisced the sacrifices they made. Here are theSources told TOI the corona warriors were identified for their exceptional efforts and commitment to fight the pandemic. With the coronavirus mandating physical distancing, the President’s ‘At Home’ will be different in that guests will not be able to mingle freely like they used to in the years before. In the convention centre, four guests will be seated at each table, where they will be seated and served. Special coverage: Independence Day 2020Sources said Kovind is likely to deliver a welcome address since he will not be able to meet guests individually. The mandate to trim the guest list will also see diplomats from representative blocs, instead of individual countries, being invited. Apart from the Dean of Diplomatic Corps, diplomats representing the European Union, ASEAN, and BRICS, are some of the guests who will grace the Independence Day gathering at the Rashtrapati Bhawan. Watch 74th Independence Day: President Ramnath Kovind to host some special guests 'At Home'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/president-kovind-will-host-some-really-special-guests-at-home-today/articleshow/77555277.cms||Swati Mathur
August 15, 2020||India||Bhushan guilty of contempt for 'false, malicious' tweets: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday discarded its traditional "dogs may bark, the caravan will pass" approach and made an example of advocate Prashant Bhushan by holding him guilty of criminal contempt of court for his two "false and malicious" tweets. In their unanimous 108-page judgment, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said Bhushan's tweets — one accusing the CJI of riding a Rs 50-lakh motorbike while keeping the SC closed and the other saying that the present and four former CJIs played a role in the destruction of democracy in the last six years — were a calculated attempt to scandalise the CJI and the SC and denigrate the institution of judiciary in the eyes of the people to shake their intrinsic faith in it. Pronouncing the judgment and thereby indicating he was its author, Justice Gavai read out just one sentence, "We hold Prashant Bhushan guilty of having committed criminal contempt of this court." The bench asked Bhushan's counsel Dushyant Dave to address the court on the quantum of punishment on August 20. Interestingly, the SC did not resort to the Contempt of Court Act, 1971 in convicting Bhushan. It used its inherent powers under Article 129 of the Constitution to punish for contempt of itself. While the Contempt of Court Act provides a maximum sentence of six months for criminal contempt, Article 129 does not provide an outer limit. Referring to Bhushan's motorbike tweet, the SC said, "The said tweet is capable of giving an impression to a layman that the CJI is enjoying his ride on a motorbike worth Rs 50 lakh belonging to a BJP leader at a time when he has kept the Supreme Court in lockdown mode denying citizens their fundamental right to access justice." The SC said courts were never closed, except that physical hearing was suspended due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "From March 23 till August 4, various benches of the court have been sitting regularly and discharging their duties through video-conferencing. During this period, the court has heard 12,748 cases. In the said period, this court has dealt with 686 writ petitions, including many PILs which were argued by Bhushan," it added. The bench said Bhushan also personally moved the SC challenging registration of an FIR against him in Rajkot and had got protection from arrest. "Making such wild allegations… is malicious and scandalous. It has the tendency to shake the confidence of the public at large in the institution of judiciary and the institution of the CJI and undermining the dignity and authority of the administration of justice. We are unable to accept the contention of Bhushan that the said statement was a bona fide criticism made by him on account of his anguish of non-functioning of courts physically," Justices Mishra, Gavai and Murari said. On Bhushan's tweet on destruction of democracy and role of the present and previous four CJIs, the SC said an ordinary citizen would perceive that "when historians in future look back, the impression they will get is that in the last six years, democracy has been destroyed in India without even a formal Emergency and that the Supreme Court had a particular role in the said destruction and the last four Chief Justices of India had more particular role". "Bhushan being part of the institution of administration of justice, instead of protecting the majesty of law has indulged in an act which tends to bring disrepute… Bhushan is expected to act as a responsible officer of this court. The scurrilous allegations… are not expected from a person who is a lawyer of 30 years' standing…" it said. "The tweet has the effect of destabilising the very foundation of this important pillar of the Indian democracy… and directly affronts the majesty of law," it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bhushan-guilty-of-contempt-for-false-malicious-tweets-sc/articleshow/77555486.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 15, 2020||India||Can’t use free speech to malign courts, says SC||NEW DELHI: In convicting activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan for contempt, the Supreme Court on Friday tread cautiously in dealing with the age-old clash between right to free speech and contempt of court to rule that free speech was important but could not be used to maliciously interfere with the administration of justice. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said a citizen was entitled to make fair criticism of judges and the judiciary but free speech must remain entrenched within the boundaries of reasonable restrictions listed under Article 19(2). “If a citizen, while exercising his right under Article 19(1), exceeds the limits and makes a statement, which tends to scandalise the judges and the institution of administration of justice, such an action would come in the ambit of contempt of court,” it said. The bench laid down two more characteristics of free speech that would amount to contempt of court. “If a citizen makes a statement which tends to undermine the dignity and authority of this court, the same would come in the ambit of ‘criminal contempt’. When such a statement tends to shake the public confidence in judicial institutions, the same would also come within the ambit of ‘criminal contempt’,” it said. The bench clarified that criticism of a judge, as an individual and not as a judge, would not fall in the ambit of contempt. “However, when the statement is made against a judge as a judge and which has an adverse effect on the administration of justice, the court would certainly be entitled to invoke the contempt jurisdiction,” it said. Read AlsoBhushan guilty of contempt for 'false, malicious' tweets: SCThe Supreme Court on Friday discarded its traditional "dogs may bark, the caravan will pass" approach and made an example of advocate Prashant Bhushan by holding him guilty of criminal contempt of court for his two "false and malicious" tweets.“No doubt that while exercising the right of fair criticism under Article 19(1), if a citizen bonafidely exceeds the right in the public interest, this court would be slow in exercising the contempt jurisdiction and show magnanimity. However, when such a statement is calculated in order to malign the image of the judiciary, the court would not remain a silent spectator. When the authority of this court is itself under attack, the court would not be an onlooker,” Justice Gavai, who authored the 108-page judgment, said. “The court will act with seriousness and severity where justice is jeopardised by a gross and/or unfounded attack on the judges and where the attack is calculated to obstruct or destroy the judicial process,” the bench said and quoted a judgment by Justice Krishna Iyer on this issue. “Justice Iyer further observed that after evaluating the totality of factors, if the court considers the attack on the judge or judges to be scurrilous, offensive, intimidatory or malicious beyond condonable limits, the strong arm of the law must, in name of public interest and public justice, strike a blow on him who challenges the supremacy of the rule of law by fouling its source and stream,” the bench said. Giving another dimension of contempt of court, the bench said, "This jurisdiction may also be exercised when the act complained of adversely affects the majesty of law or the dignity of courts. The purpose of contempt jurisdiction is to uphold the majesty and dignity of the courts of law. This jurisdiction is not to be exercised to protect the dignity of an individual judge, but to protect the administration of justice from being maligned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cant-use-free-speech-to-malign-courts-says-sc/articleshow/77555525.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 15, 2020||India||Day after Israel pact, UAE minister calls to brief Jaishankar on peace pact||NEW DELHI: UAE foreign minister Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan spoke to external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Friday and briefed him on the historic peace agreement signed by the Gulf nation with Israel for normalisation of ties. Soon after the conversation, Jaishankar tweeted, “Deeply appreciate the call today from FM HH Abdullah bin Zayed of UAE. Discussed the full normalisation of relations between UAE and Israel announced yesterday.” The Indian government has openly welcomed the agreement, saying, “India has consistently supported peace, stability and development in West Asia, which is its extended neighbourhood. In that context, we welcome the full normalisation of ties between UAE and Israel. Both nations are key strategic partners of India.” The MEA spokesperson was keen to assert that welcoming the deal would not have any impact on India’s “traditional support for the Palestinian cause”. The spokesperson said, “We hope to see early resumption of direct negotiations to find an acceptable two-state solution.” Thursday’s historic deal opens the doors to the first big rapprochement between traditional adversaries in West Asia—Israel and the Arabs. UAE is seen as a rising power in the Gulf and normalisation of relations with Israel will give it an edge in regional politics. Israel has agreed to shelve its plan to annex the West Bank which would have been deeply destabilising for the region and a blow to plans to secure some kind of peace with the Palestinians. With the UAE deal, Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu pockets a clear diplomatic victory that would have implications for Israeli domestic politics as well. The deal gives India a unique entry in regional stability — New Delhi’s views on the Gulf and West Asian security are largely compatible with Israel and UAE, inspite of India having a close strategic relationship with Iran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/day-after-israel-pact-uae-minister-calls-to-brief-jaishankar-on-peace-pact/articleshow/77555565.cms||Indrani Bagchi
August 15, 2020||India||Indian envoy to China meets PLA brass, seeks restoration of status quo on LAC||NEW DELHI: As the India-China military stand-off in Ladakh entered its 100th day this week, and with the disengagement process having stalled, India’s envoy to China Vikram Misri met senior People’s Liberation Army officers in Beijing to explain India’s position on the border situation that has sought restoration of status quo as before the confrontation began in early May. Misri’s meeting came even as an unsigned article in the Chinese embassy bulletin quoted Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi as blaming India for the Galwan Valley clash of June 15, asking New Delhi to conduct an investigation into the incident and “hold violators accountable, strictly discipline frontline troops and immediately stop provocative acts”. This, Indian officials said, was China’s usual tactic of blaming India for actions that PLA troops were responsible for. But while the Chinese foreign office spokesperson has said so often enough, it was more unusual for the hardline quotes to be attributed to Wang, who is also the state councillor. The Indian ambassador’s meeting with the Chinese military brass was also unusual. “Ambassador Vikram Misri today met Major General Ci Guowei, director of the office of International Military Cooperation of the Central Military Commission, and briefed him on India’s stance vis-a-vis the situation on the borders in eastern Ladakh UT,” the Indian embassy tweeted. In Beijing, Misri has been meeting think tanks and foreign ministry officials to apprise them of India’s views. Earlier this week, Misri met Liu Jianchao, deputy director of the office of the CPC Central Committee Foreign Affairs Commission, an influential official in the party. The idea behind the meetings is to let the Chinese know how important the border resolution is for India and that a prolonged standoff could completely crater the bilateral relationship. Asked about the current situation, the MEA spokesperson said “some progress (on disengagement) had earlier been made”, comments that served to highlight the current impasse. “While we would like the ongoing disengagement process to be completed at the earliest, it is important to bear in mind that achieving this requires agreed actions by both sides. We, therefore, expect the Chinese side to sincerely work with us towards the objective of complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” he said. Another round of military commanders’ talks will be held next week, which will be followed by another meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. The Chinese bulletin in Wang’s reported comments said, “The adventurism of the Indian Army seriously violated agreements on border issues between the two countries and severely violated basic norms governing international relations.” The only thing the Indians and Chinese agree on is that the Galwan Valley clashes broke the agreement of June 6 between the military commanders, though both sides have blamed the other. Indian officials say that while Indian troops were surprised, Chinese troops came armed with reinforced sticks with nails and stones wrapped in barbed wire indicated a premeditated design. The MEA spokesperson stressed the importance of “complete disengagement along the India-China border areas”. This, he said, was “in accordance with the agreement of the Special Representatives of India and China that early and complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas in accordance with bilateral agreement and protocols and full restoration of peace and tranquillity was essential for the smooth overall development of bilateral relations”. Watch LAC row: Indian envoy to China meets PLA brass, seeks restoration of status quo||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indian-envoy-to-china-meets-pla-brass-seeks-restoration-of-status-quo-on-lac/articleshow/77555662.cms||Indrani Bagchi
August 15, 2020||World||Indian envoy to China meets PLA brass, seeks restoration of status quo on LAC||NEW DELHI: As the India-China military stand-off in Ladakh entered its 100th day this week, and with the disengagement process having stalled, India’s envoy to China Vikram Misri met senior People’s Liberation Army officers in Beijing to explain India’s position on the border situation that has sought restoration of status quo as before the confrontation began in early May. Misri’s meeting came even as an unsigned article in the Chinese embassy bulletin quoted Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi as blaming India for the Galwan Valley clash of June 15, asking New Delhi to conduct an investigation into the incident and “hold violators accountable, strictly discipline frontline troops and immediately stop provocative acts”. This, Indian officials said, was China’s usual tactic of blaming India for actions that PLA troops were responsible for. But while the Chinese foreign office spokesperson has said so often enough, it was more unusual for the hardline quotes to be attributed to Wang, who is also the state councillor. The Indian ambassador’s meeting with the Chinese military brass was also unusual. “Ambassador Vikram Misri today met Major General Ci Guowei, director of the office of International Military Cooperation of the Central Military Commission, and briefed him on India’s stance vis-a-vis the situation on the borders in eastern Ladakh UT,” the Indian embassy tweeted. In Beijing, Misri has been meeting think tanks and foreign ministry officials to apprise them of India’s views. Earlier this week, Misri met Liu Jianchao, deputy director of the office of the CPC Central Committee Foreign Affairs Commission, an influential official in the party. The idea behind the meetings is to let the Chinese know how important the border resolution is for India and that a prolonged standoff could completely crater the bilateral relationship. Asked about the current situation, the MEA spokesperson said “some progress (on disengagement) had earlier been made”, comments that served to highlight the current impasse. “While we would like the ongoing disengagement process to be completed at the earliest, it is important to bear in mind that achieving this requires agreed actions by both sides. We, therefore, expect the Chinese side to sincerely work with us towards the objective of complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas,” he said. Another round of military commanders’ talks will be held next week, which will be followed by another meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on India-China border affairs. The Chinese bulletin in Wang’s reported comments said, “The adventurism of the Indian Army seriously violated agreements on border issues between the two countries and severely violated basic norms governing international relations.” The only thing the Indians and Chinese agree on is that the Galwan Valley clashes broke the agreement of June 6 between the military commanders, though both sides have blamed the other. Indian officials say that while Indian troops were surprised, Chinese troops came armed with reinforced sticks with nails and stones wrapped in barbed wire indicated a premeditated design. The MEA spokesperson stressed the importance of “complete disengagement along the India-China border areas”. This, he said, was “in accordance with the agreement of the Special Representatives of India and China that early and complete disengagement of the troops along the LAC and de-escalation from India-China border areas in accordance with bilateral agreement and protocols and full restoration of peace and tranquillity was essential for the smooth overall development of bilateral relations”. Watch LAC row: Indian envoy to China meets PLA brass, seeks restoration of status quo||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/indian-envoy-to-china-meets-pla-brass-seeks-restoration-of-status-quo-on-lac/articleshow/77555713.cms||Indrani Bagchi
August 15, 2020||India||Covid cases cross 25 lakh; 3rd highest spike on Friday||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 caseload crossed 25 lakh on Friday, just eight days after going past the 20-lakh mark, even as more than 65,000 fresh infections were reported for the third straight day while daily the death toll from the virus remained close to 1,000. Only the US and Brazil have recorded more Covid-19 cases than India. In August, India has so far added nearly 8.3 lakh cases, the highest in the world. The gap between second-placed Brazil and India, which was 9.7 lakh cases on July 31, has since narrowed to 7.7 lakh. On Friday, 65,269 fresh cases were added across the country, the third highest single-day count so far, taking the total caseload to 25,23,480, as per data collated from state governments. Of these, recoveries stood at 18 lakh, 71% of the total, while active cases were over 6.7 lakh. There were 985 deaths reported on Friday, also the third highest so far, taking the total toll past 49,000 to 49,054. The highest deaths on the day were reported from Maharashtra (364), Tamil Nadu (117), Karnataka (104), Andhra Pradesh (97), Bengal (60) and Uttar Pradesh (59). The highest number of cases was again added by Maharashtra (12,608, its third highest count), followed by Andhra Pradesh (8,943). At least six states reported their biggest single-day jump in cases, led by Karnataka, which recorded 7,908 fresh infections. The other states were Bengal (3,035 new cases), Kerala (1,569), Rajasthan (1,278), Punjab (1,077) and Sikkim (149). Assam, which had reported a huge spike of 4,593 cases on Thursday, recorded a relatively low 2,796 infections. Remarkably, the daily count of fresh infections in Haryana has shown a variation of just nine cases over the past seven days, with the numbers ranging from 789 to 798. As Covid-19's march across Maharashtra continued, Mumbai, which was the country's coronavirus hotspot until two months back, breached the 7,000-mark in deaths. In the 158 days since the virus has been active in the financial capital, it has claimed an average of 44-45 deaths every day. Maharashtra reported a daily toll of 364 deaths and 12,608 cases, its third highest spike in cases and deaths reported in a single day so far, taking the total cases to 5,72,734 and the 19,427 fatalities. Telangana on Friday reported nine deaths and 1,921 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 88,396. While the number of active cases in the state stood at 23,438, so far 674 people have succumbed to the virus in the state. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), a hotbed for the coronavirus over the last few months, continued to witness less number of infections, with only 356 cases recorded on Friday. Bihar is on the verge of touching the 1 lakh Covid-19 cases mark with 3,911 new cases on Friday taking the total count to 98,370. With 65,307 recoveries so far, the active cases stand at 32,561. The death toll also continued to rise with former MLC and JD (U) state general secretary Ravindra Kumar Tanti being among the 16 fatalities reported on Friday, taking the toll to 500. Tanti was undergoing Covid-19 treatment at AIIMS-Patna. The state, meanwhile, is ramping up testing with 1,21,320 samples tested in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-cases-cross-25-lakh-3rd-highest-spike-on-friday/articleshow/77555748.cms||---
August 15, 2020||India||PM Modi to address nation from Red Fort on 74th Independence Day||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will unfurl the national flag and deliver his seventh consecutive Independence Day speech from the iconic Red Fort on Saturday. According to a Defence ministry statement, the prime minister will also receive the Guard of Honour contingent, consisting of one officer and 24 men each from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Delhi Police. Major Shweta Pandey will assist the prime minister in unfurling the National Flag. On his arrival at 7.18 AM in front of the Lahore Gate of the Red Fort, the prime minister will be received by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar. Independence Day 2020: Live updatesThe defence secretary will introduce the General Officer Commanding (GoC), Delhi Area, Lt Gen Vijay Kumar Mishra to the prime minister. The GoC Delhi Area will then conduct the prime minister to the Saluting Base where a combined inter-services and police guards will present general salute to him, following which he will inspect the Guard of Honour, the statement said. The Guard of Honour will be positioned directly in front of the National Flag across the moat below the ramparts. Read Also'Invites down to one-fourth': Covid precautions in place for Independence Day event at Red FortSpecial arrangements have been made to maintain the sanctity of the Independence Day flag-hoisting ceremony at Red Fort on Saturday while factoring in requisite precautions due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The defence ministry said the measures range from quarantining the armed forces personnel whoThis year, Army being the coordinating Service, the Guard of Honour will be commanded by Lt Col Gaurav S Yewalkar. Army contingent in the prime minister's Guard will be commanded by Major Palvinder Grewal, the Navy contingent by Lt Commander K V R Reddy, while Squadron Leader Vikas Kumar will lead the Air Force contingent and the Delhi Police contingent will be led by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Jitender Kumar Meena. After inspecting the Guard of Honour, the prime minister will proceed to the ramparts of the Red Fort where he will be greeted by the defence minister, Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane, Chief of Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh and Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria. The GoC Delhi area will conduct the prime minister to the dais on the rampart to unfurl the National Flag. After the tri-colour is unfurled by the prime minister, the National Guard will give 'Rashtriya Salute' to the National Flag, the statement said. The unfurling of the tri-colour will synchronise with the 21 Gun Salute fired by the gunners of the elite 2233 Field Battery (Ceremonial). The ceremonial battery will be commanded by Lt Col Jitendra Singh Mehta and the Gun Position Officer will be Naib Subedar (AIG) Anil Chand. The National Flag Guard comprising 32 men and one officer each from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Delhi Police will present 'Rashtriya Salute' at the time of unfurling of the National Flag by the prime minister. Read AlsoPresident Kovind will host some really special guests ‘At Home’ todayThe annual guest list of over 1,500 people, a gathering of who's who from across the country, has been pruned in light of the Covid pandemic this year.Major Surya Prakash from the Army will be in command of this Inter-Services Guard and Police Guard. The Naval Contingent for the National Flag Guard will be commanded by Lt Commander Vivek Tingloo, Air Force contingent by Squadron Leader Mayank Abhishek and Delhi Police contingent by Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police Sudhanshu Dhama. After unfurling the National Flag, the prime minister will address the nation. After the speech of the prime minister is over, the National Cadet Corps cadets will sing the National Anthem. A total of 500 NCC cadets (Army, Navy and Air Force) from different schools will be taking part, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-to-address-nation-from-red-fort-on-74th-independence-day/articleshow/77555864.cms||---
August 15, 2020||India||‘Warrior’ Pilot by his side, Gehlot wins trust vote||JAIPUR: The more-than-a-month-long suspense on the stability of Ashok Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan, following a rebellion within the state Congress, ended with the ruling party winning a trust vote in the Assembly on Friday. The BJP neither moved a no confidence motion, which the party had declared on Thursday, nor demanded voting on the government’s confidence motion, which was passed by voice vote. Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who had pushed the Gehlot government into a crisis with his revolt last month, helped the ruling party sail through by supporting the confidence motion. Gehlot, who had claimed his government would have won the trust vote without Pilot and his 18 loyal MLAs, said in the Assembly, “The BJP was determined to topple my government, while I was determined not to let it fall at any cost.” Gehlot said the crisis ended “beautifully” but left the BJP “bruised”. Though Pilot was not among the speakers from the ruling side, he intervened twice during the debate when opposition leaders Gulab Chand Kataria and Rajendra Rathore tried to take a dig on the tussle between him and Gehlot. “They are taking my name repeatedly. I have been seated on the border with the ruling party on one side and the opposition on the other. I pondered on the new seating arrangement and asked myself, who is sent to the border? The answer is — the strongest warrior,” said Pilot, prompting the treasury benches to thump tables in appreciation. Pilot’s seat in the House was moved behind that of the ministers in the second row since he was removed as the deputy chief minister. Earlier, he used to sit next to Gehlot in the front row. “With time, things will get clear. I am not here to make a speech. Be it me or my colleagues, we have shared our ‘ailment’ (grievances) with the ‘doctor’ (Congress leadership). We have entered the House after putting an end to all that. Now, despite the heavy ‘bombardment’ here, I will defend my government like a warrior, with armour, shield, spear and mace,” said Pilot, to more table thumping. Pilot intervened for the second time when Kataria attacked the government, saying it has been taking credit for the increase in employment under MNREGA during the pandemic but failed to give credit to Pilot who held the panchayati raj and rural development portfolios. “Please leave that to me and my party. You concentrate on what you have to,” Pilot told Kataria. Gehlot later tweeted: “Winning the trust vote in the Assembly is a message to the forces that are trying to destabilise elected governments in the country. All their tactics failed in Rajasthan. It is the people’s unwavering trust in us and the unity among Congress MLAs that brought this victory.” Once the House was adjourned for the day, Pilot went up to Gehlot and congratulated him for the victory. Outside the house, Pilot said, “The government winning the trust vote in the Assembly has put an end to all speculations. Despite attempts made by the opposition, the government won with solid majority.” Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje was present in the House but did not participate in the debate. During the debate, Gehlot blamed BJP for misusing ED and CBI to topple state governments, while Kataria and Rathore accused his government of misusing the SOG and the anti-corruption bureau to threaten legislators. The opposition accused the government of illegally tapping phones of elected representatives, while Gehlot alluded to Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in reference to audio clips on horse-trading of MLAs. The opposition objected when Gehlot accused Union home minister Amit Shah of toppling elected state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/warrior-pilot-by-his-side-gehlot-wins-trust-vote/articleshow/77555873.cms||Bhanu Pratap Singh
August 15, 2020||World||Trump stokes ‘birther’ conspiracy about Kamala||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Thursday breathed life into right wing conspiracy theories about Kamala Harris’ eligibility to run for vice-president, saying he “heard it today that she doesn't meet the requirements” and that he’d “take a look” into the matter. In an astonishing echo of the ugly birther controversy he amplified for years against former President Barack Obama, suggesting he was not born in the United States, Trump attempted to do the same against Harris, declining to reject rightwing theories about her ineligibility, and instead describing a political hack who wrote a dodgy essay on the subject as a "very highly qualified, very talented lawyer." In what was purportedly a set-up at the White House briefing, Trump was told about "claims circulating on social media that Kamala Harris is not eligible to be -- to run for Vice President because she was an 'anchor baby'," and asked if he can definitively say whether or not Kamala Harris is eligible and meets the legal requirements to run as Vice President. Anchor baby is a disparaging term for a child born to immigrant, non-citizen parents in the U.S. Rightwing nativists have argued that since Kamala’s (Indian) mother and (Jamaican) father were not U.S citizens when she was born in Oakland, California, she is ineligible to become vice-president. Instead of shooting down the question as most legal and constitutional analysts outside of fringe elements have done, Trump said: "So, I just heard that. I heard it today that she doesn't meet the requirements. And, by the way, the lawyer that wrote that piece is a very highly qualified, very talented lawyer. I have no idea if that's right. I would've -- I would have assumed the Democrats would have checked that out before she gets chosen to run for Vice President." He further attempted to put words in the reporter’s mouth saying, "but that's a very serious -- you're saying that -- they're saying that she doesn't qualify because she wasn't born in this country?" The reporter corrected him, saying, "No, she was born in this country, but the claims say that her parents did not receive their permanent residence at that time." Trump: Yeah, I don't know about it. I just heard about it. I'll take a look. The U.S Constitution says "To serve as president, one must be at least 35 years old, have been a resident of the United States for at least 14 years, and be a natural born citizen." Constitutional scholars and legal experts say there is no doubt Kamala Harris is a natural born citizen; her parents’ status is irrelevant in bestowing an automatic citizenship for her by virtue of birth in the U.S. The issue was also vetted during the time she ran for the Democratic nomination and there remains no doubt about her eligibility -- except among racist wingnuts. The mainstream US media too bluntly called out Trump's mischief. Washington Post headlined its fact-checking story "Trump promotes false claim that Harris might not be a U.S. citizen" with a separate analysis headlined "Trump questions the American-ness of another non-White candidate." The New York Times headline was "Trump Encourages Racist Conspiracy Theory About Kamala Harris".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-stokes-birther-conspiracy-about-kamala/articleshow/77555874.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
August 15, 2020||Patna||MU adopts new pension scheme||GAYA: Magadh University, Bodh Gaya, on Thursday adopted the new contributory pension scheme for the benefit of assistant professors appointed after 2004. The scheme is likely to benefit more than 200 assistant professors working in the postgraduate departments and colleges. As per the scheme, the assistant professors would contribute 10% of their salary (basic plus dearness allowance) to the pension fund and a matching share would be contributed by the university. Teachers and other staff appointed after 2004 are not eligible to receive statutory pension after superannuation. A new contributory pension scheme has been evolved. The decision to adopt the new scheme was adopted at a meeting of the university’s Academic Council on Thursday, which was presided over by VC Prof Rajendra Prasad. The Academic Council also accorded its approval to the introduction of a two years (four semester) course in MBA (International Business), M.Sc (IT), B.Pharma courses and a diploma in Yoga Science. The Academic Council, according to the information provided by nodal officer Sanjay Kumar, also decided to recommend an across the board 20% increase in the degree honours seats of colleges managed by the university. The recommendation will be sent to the government for its final approval. A decision to establish a multi-media research centre on the university premises was also taken at the Academic Council meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mu-adopts-new-pension-scheme/articleshow/77551476.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Patna||Lalu slams Nitish, SuMo over ‘collapse’ of bridges||PATNA: RJD chief Lalu Prasad on Friday attacked CM Nitish Kumar and his deputy Sushil Kumar Modi in his rustic style as he posted a cartoon on his official Twitter handle, taunting the duo over the issue of newly constructed bridges suffering damages in the state. Lalu’s Twitter handle is managed by his office.The cartoon posted with Lalu’s tweet shows caricature of Nitish hanging on an inaugural ribbon over a washed away bridge, while Modi is telling him to hold it firmly while he finds a way to put the blame for the same on Lalu. “Chhapar par phoos nahi, dyodhi par naach (Not even straw for roof but fan and frolics at the door),” the caption with the cartoon read. RJD state general secretary Nirala Yadav said through this idiom, Lalu has made it clear that the present government had done nothing. It was busy in inaugurations only. “They were inaugurating roads and bridges which are getting washed away. This is just to fool people and keep them in dark from the reality that no development has taken places in the state,” said Nirala. Of late, the RJD first family is locked in a political war with the government. While Lalu’s younger son and leader of opposition in state assembly Tejahswi Prasad Yadav is attacking the JD(U)-BJP government over various issues through press meets, his elder son Tej Pratap Yadav is using social media to support his brother, who has been projected as the CM candidate by the RJD. On Friday, Tej Pratap uploaded a video having old clips of Tejahswi’s rally in which the latter is talking about employment generation. “Tej raftaar, Tejahswi sarkar,” the caption with the video read. However, JD(U) state spokesperson Arvind Nishad hit back at Lalu and his family, saying, “We believe in doing work and they (RJD) believe in making people fool. Not even 100 bridges were constructed during the 15-year RJD rule in the state. After Nitish came to power, infrastructure of Bihar developed with the construction of thousands of roads and bridges.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lalu-slams-nitish-sumo-over-collapse-of-bridges/articleshow/77551444.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 15, 2020||Patna||Water discharge swells Gandak as flood-hit population rises to 80 lakh||PATNA/BAGAHA/KHAGARIA: The state’s flood-affected population spread over 16 districts reached 80 lakh on Friday as several rivers in north Bihar continued to flow above the danger mark. The release of more than 2 lakh cusecs of water from the Gandak in West Chamaparan is likely to add to the grim scenario. According to the disaster management department, the population affected by the floods across 130 blocks increased by 3.2 lakh in the past 24 hours and stood at nearly 81 lakh as of Friday evening. Around 5.5 lakh people have been evacuated to safer places over the past one month and 6.6 lakh people are being provided two meals a day at the community kitchens being run by the state government. Also, 31 teams of the NDRF and SDRF are involved in the rescue and relief operations. The swollen Gandak continued to worry the authorities in West Champaran as 2.3 lakh cusec water was discharged in the river from Nepal to Bihar through the Valmikinagar barrage in West Champaran. The spate in Gandak occurred following a downpour in the catchment areas in Nepal over the past 48 hours. The excess water has entered low lying areas in Semara-Labdeha, Manjharia, Sisahi panchayat under Piparasi block under Bagaha sub-division. Officials, however, claimed that the situation was improving. There was respite from flooding in Masan, Harbora ,Sikarahana and Pandai rivers. Also, movement of light vehicles was restored on Narakatiavanj -Balathar road on Friday, after flood water receded. In Khagaria, panic prevailed among residents following the seepage in a guide bund on river Bagmati near Sonemanki village, six km from Khagaria town on Thursday night. DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh along with a team of the water resources department (WRD) engineers rushed to the spot to assess the situation. The situation was controlled as the district administration started flood-fighting work at vulnerable point on war- footing. The flood bulletin issued by the WRD on Friday evening stated that major rivers, including Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamla Balan, Adhwara and Khiroi, showed either falling or static trend at most flood gauges in north Bihar. Weather forecast said light to moderate rainfall is expected at many places in south Bihar in the next 24 hours along with the possibility of heavy rainfall in north-western parts of the state. “The activity of southwest monsoon remained weak in Bihar on Friday. A low-pressure area originating over the Bay of Bengal was positioned over north-western Odisha and adjoining region on Friday. The eastern portion of monsoon trough line was getting culminated in this low- pressure area after passing through Daltonganj and Jamshedpur in neighboring Jharkhand. Accordingly, many places adjacent to Jharkhand and few places in remaining parts of Bihar are likely to receive light to moderate showers over the next 24 hours,” said Shailendra Kumar Patel, an official at the Patna meteorological centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/water-discharge-swells-gandak-as-flood-hit-population-rises-to-80-lakh/articleshow/77552768.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Patna||Two traders shot dead in Gaya village||GAYA: Two traders, both siblings, dealing in bronze utensils, were gunned down by unidentified assailants near Hardaspur village under the Amas police station area of the district on Thursday night. The slain brothers—who have been identified as Pankaj Kumar and Chandan Kumar—were residents of Nalanda district and were on their way to Gaya town from Imamganj area of the district for some business purpose. Police officials said that both the deceased were in their early 30s. They were travelling in a pick up van and were carrying Rs 5.75 lakh in cash realised from local retailers. They had brought bronze utensils from Bihta block in Patna district and had supplied the same to local retailers. Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra said the driver of the van, the third occupant of the vehicle, was spared by the assailants. “A sum of Rs 5.75 lakh has been retrieved from the van by the police,” he said. Asked about the motive of the crime, the SSP said that the reason behind the incident is yet to be ascertained. “The case is being investigated from both road robbery and personal enmity angles. No arrest or detention has been made so far in this connection. An unspecified amount carried by the businessmen in their pockets is missing,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-traders-shot-dead-in-gaya-village/articleshow/77551385.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Patna||Online crossword contest from August 23||PATNA: The eighth edition of the Indian Crossword League, popularly called IXL, will begin on August 23 with the kicking off of the first weekly online round at 11.00am (IST). The Online Round-1 will close at noon on August 29. “There will be a total of 10 online rounds beginning every Sunday at 11.00 hours before the offline grand finale at Bengaluru. The grand finale date will be decided later and intimated to the qualifiers, said Amitabh Ranjan, chief operating officer (COO) of the Extra-C, which organizes this contest every year. “The contest, which was open to Indians across the world till now, has been thrown open to foreigners from this year’s edition onwards, responding to a popular demand. With the world under varying degrees of the lockdown due to Covid-19, the number of participants is expected to see a surge this year,” he said on Friday. The online weekly rounds will be hosted on www.crypticsingh.com, the website of Extra-C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/online-crossword-contest-from-august-23/articleshow/77552514.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Mysuru||Somashekar takes stock of extent of damage in Mysuru owing to flood||Mysuru: Accompanied by senior officials of the district administration and other elected representatives, Mysuru district in-charge minister ST Somashekar on Friday took stock of the rehabilitation measures undertaken in the aftermath of the floods that battered Mysuru. Somashekar, who recovered from Covid-19 and was discharged earlier this week, said that he would be visiting all flood-hit taluks in Mysuru next week. The minister said that he would interact with residents of areas on the banks of rivers Kapila and Lakshmantheertha, which have borne the brunt of the natural calamity, and see what needs to be done to secure such vulnerable localities from floods permanently. Somashekar said that the district administration was yet to estimate the extent of the damage. “Chief minister BS Yediyurappa has asked the officials to wait for a week before starting the process since there are chances of another spell of rain,” he said. Meanwhile, a few legislators pointed out that victims of last year’s flood were yet to be compensated, and asked the minister to ensure this was rectified at the earliest. Mysuru deputy commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said that HD Kote, Hunsur and Periyapatna taluks in the district had been lashed by heavy showers, with nearly 620 houses in these places having sustained damage. He further added that crops across 900 hectares had been damaged, while 11 transformers and 189 power lines too had suffered owing to inclement weather. Former ministers Adagooru H Vishwanath, GT Devegowda and MLAs HP Manjunath, K Mahadev, Anil Chikkamadu, Harshvardhan, Ashwin Kumar, MLC R Dharmasena and zilla panchayat president Parimala Shyam were among those who accompanied ST Somashekar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/somashekar-takes-stock-of-extent-of-damage-in-mysuru-owing-to-flood/articleshow/77555076.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Patna||‘Mumbai cops rip off pages of Sushant Singh Rajput’s diary to shield culprits’||PATNA: Late Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s cousin Niraj Kumar Singh Bablu, a BJP MLA from Chhatapur assembly constituency in Supaul district, on Friday accused the Mumbai Police of ripping off some of the pages of the personal diary of the actor to shield the culprits under pressure from the powers that be. Bablu alleged some pages of Sushant’s diary were missing. “The diary was intact when it was handed over to the Mumbai Police for investigations in June,” he said. Bablu had accompanied the actor’s father, K K Singh, when the latter visited Mumbai to take possession of Sushant’s body for cremation. “It has now come to light that some pages of the diary are missing. How it happened when the diary was in the possession of the police is subject to investigation. Sushant was in the habit of writing diary from his childhood,” Bablu said. Bablu and his wife Nutan Singh, an MLC, said it was a planned “murder” and not suicide as claimed by the Mumbai cops. “We are now of the firm belief that Sushant had been killed. Only the CBI can unravel the mystery behind the incident. No suicide note was found in the flat. It’s beyond doubt that the Mumbai Police will not be able to do justice with the family as they are working under pressure,” he added. Meanwhile, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut softened his stand on Friday and described Sushant as “our son”. Raut said he too wanted justice for the actor, but asked all the people, including Sushant’s family members, to remain silent till the Mumbai Police completes its investigation. “People should trust the Mumbai Police. If they don’t do their job, people can go to the CBI for investigation. But till then, they should have patience,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mumbai-cops-ripped-off-pages-of-ssrs-diary-to-shield-culprits-kin/articleshow/77552885.cms||Ramashankar
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||Schools and clubs shut, flag sales see drastic drop in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A handful of public events and closure of schools, colleges, offices and all major institutions have led to a sharp dip in sale of National Flags this year. Courtesy of the pandemic, sellers across the city have been counting losses as stacks of the Tricolour lie in their stores with almost no taker ahead of Independence Day. Flag sellers in Maidan Market, New Market and Old China Bazar Market in Burrabazar said that on previous years, on August 14, they would struggle to supply orders — be it to retail stores or to schools, colleges, housing societies, offices, local clubs and restaurants. But this year, even though the shops are decked with flags and tri-coloured accessories, like caps, bandanas, T-shirts and badges, there is hardly any demand. “Earlier, there would be students to office goers and businessmen, as well as youths from local clubs, lining up at our stores to buy flags and other accessories,” said Md Wakil, the only person who was selling flags at Maidan Market on Friday. The scene is similar at popular flag hubs of the city in Burrabazar, outside Bagri Market and Old China Bazar Street. “In any case there are very few people in the market because of the pandemic. We have been calling up our regular customers and clubs and are even offering to deliver the product to them, but even then the sales are horribly low,” said Rajesh Shaw, a seller in Old China Bazar Street. Wholesalers said they could not even finish the stock left over from Republic Day. “The old stock from Republic Day is yet to get sold. Fearing a satiation like this, the manufactures have also slowed down knitting. But I hadn’t expected the sales to be so poor. Other years, I sold at least one lakh flags by this time. This year, I have not even sold a thousand pieces,” said Ravi Gupta who deals in paper and plastic flags. Sources said a majority of the demand comes from schools, colleges and other educational institutes, which are currently closed. A number of corporate offices and local clubs also buy flags and other accessories to decorate their offices and premises, which is also not happening this year. “Every year, we put up flags around the neighbourhood and organize a cultural function after the flag-hoisting ceremony on Independence Day morning. But this year, there will be no celebration other than hoisting of the flag because of the social distancing rules,” said Partha Dasgupta, secretary of Pradip Sangha Club in Netaji Nagar. Flag sellers would also make a decent sale outside monuments, parks, malls and at traffic signals every year. But with fewer people on the road, even that has taken a hit. The only accessory still being sold are tricolour masks. But a section of people have protested that using it as a mask was demeaning to the flag’s legacy. “Almost every shop sells masks these days. I had also stocked up on some tricolour three-layered masks and have sold quite a few of them,” said Shankar Das, a tailor-turned-mask seller in Behala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-and-clubs-shut-flag-sales-see-drastic-drop/articleshow/77553170.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 15, 2020||Business||SoftBank in talks to back edutech company Unacademy||BENGALURU: SoftBank Vision Fund is in advanced discussions to lead a $150-million round in education technology startup Unacademy at a valuation of about $1.5 billion (unicorn status, or valued at over $1 billion), said two sources briefed on the matter. The deal, if closed, will nearly triple the valuation of the startup in less than six months. It was valued at about $500 million when it raised funding from social networking giant Facebook earlier this year. “They have signed the term sheet. Unacademy has shown a good revenue trajectory with its subscriptions. It is now at an annual revenue run-rate of $70-80 million,” one of the people mentioned earlier said. This was around $30 million in January, this person added. When contacted, a spokesperson of Unacademy declined to comment on the matter, while a SoftBank spokesperson said it “cannot comment on speculation”. SoftBank’s interest in Unacademy also indicates the broader enthusiasm around the online education sector that’s becoming prominent due to the virus outbreak pushing more teaching sessions to into the e-arena. This would also mark the first new bet by SoftBank in India this year, and its first on local education, as it continues to be cautious in making global investments following losses linked to WeWork and Uber. Started in 2015, Unacademy connects educators giving lessons with students through online videos for competitive exams like UPSC (civil services), IIT-JEE, and bank probationary officers. It recently acquired Prep Ladder, an online platform to prepare for medical entrance exams, for $50 million, and invested $5 million in another startup Mastree, which provides classes from grade 5-8. In April, Unacademy said it saw an 82% increase in revenues as compared to March with time spent on its platform at 1.4 billion minutes — 40% growth over March. So far, it has raised just under $200 million from investors, including Sequoia Capital India, General Atlantic, and Steadview Capital. Unacademy was started by Gaurav Munjal, who sold his first startup Flatchat to Commonfloor, along with Hemesh Singh (former CTO at Flatchat) and former IAS officer Roman Saini. Unacademy’s entry to the coveted unicorn club comes when other online education firms like Byju’s have been in the middle of the action with the recent acquisition of online coding class provider WhiteHat Jr for $300 million. Before that, famed Silicon Valley investor and analyst Mary Meeker’s Bond Capital-backed Byju’s valued it at $10.5 billion in July. Vedantu also closed a $100-million round led by US hedge fund Coatue, doubling its valuation to $600 million.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/softbank-in-talks-to-back-edutech-co-unacademy/articleshow/77554457.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 15, 2020||Business||Rs 4,650 crore worth 10-year gilts devolve||MUMBAI: Despite banks sitting on huge excess liquidity as they are going slow on lending while deposits are rising at a fast clip, there was muted demand for the benchmark 10-year government securities (G-secs) in Friday’s bond auction. Of the Rs 18,000-crore worth of the new benchmark 10-year paper that was offered, bonds worth nearly Rs 4,650 crore remained unsold, RBI data showed. However, there was strong demand for short- and long-duration bonds, maturing in 2022, 2030 and 2060. Bond dealers said the pattern of bidding in Friday’s auction indicates that traders are discounting any rate cut by the RBI in its October policy meet after the July retail inflation reading, announced the previous day, shot up to nearly 7%. “It clearly shows there is a segment-wise demand-supply mismatch in the market,” said a bond investor. “There was strong demand for bonds in the very short duration segment, the ones which are used for asset-liability mismatch. Strong demand was seen for bonds with longer duration too, used for long-term investments.” As a result, the government accepted bids worth extra Rs 2,000 crore for each of bonds maturing in 2022 and 2060, the RBI said. However, traders, on the other hand, prefer to deal in the highly liquid 10-year gilts, where there was not much demand in Friday’s auction. “This is because in the absence of any immediate triggers, traders expect muted action in these bonds,” the investor said. The high monthly inflation reading on Friday led to hardening of yields for the 10-year paper to 5.95% from 5.89% on Thursday. Bond market players expect the yield to touch the psychologically important 6% mark soon. A note by IFA Global said that the RBI “may announce an open market operation (OMO) or a special OMO (Operation Twist) to address nervousness in the bond market”. Interestingly, on Friday, the announcement of the results of the weekly auction was delayed by the central bank by more than two hours. Subsequently, the central bank extended trading hours in the bond market by two hours till 4pm without assigning any reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rs-4650cr-worth-10-yr-gilts-devolve/articleshow/77554276.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Rajkot||Missing six-year-old girl’s body found with throat slit||Rajkot: In a gruesome crime, the body of a six-year-old girl with her throat slit was recovered at an under-construction building site near Punitnagar on Gondal Road in Rajkot on Friday The victim, Nancy Amaliyar had gone missing from her hut on Thursday afternoon, said J V Dhola, inspector with Rajkot taluka police station. Dhola said the investigation till now has completely ruled out possibility of sexual assault. “There were no such signs on the victim’s body,” said Dhola. The cops are now trying to ascertain the number of unidentified assailants as well as questioning the labourers living at the construction site. “Her father Arwind (27) and her stepmother Kali (23) work as labourers at the construction site where they live in a hut. They said the girl went missing while playing near her the house. After searching for her in vain, they approached us with a missing person’s complaint on Thursday night,” Dhola added. Meanwhile, five teams consisting of officials from Rajkot taluka police station and detection of crime branch have been formed. While one team is checking the cellphone locations of people staying near the crime spot at the time of the crime, the other team is assisting forensic experts to unearth the modus operandi and motive behind the shocking murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/missing-six-year-old-girls-body-found-with-throat-slit/articleshow/77551669.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||Tardy admission process in hospitals leaves patients anxious||LUCKNOW: It took Chandini Chaurasia, a pregnant woman diagnosed with Covid-19, over an hour to get admission to a government hospital on Kanpur Road. The ambulance that took her to the hospital was stopped at the gate by a guard who took about half-an-hour to verify papers. Another 45 minutes were lost in registration process and shifting her from ambulance to hospital bed. Times ViewThe Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) allots an L1, L2 or L3 hospital to a patient depending on her/his condition and availability of beds. Health officers can cross-check before referring patients. Hospitals should ensure that ambulances are not stopped at the gates. A place should be marked in the hospital where ambulance staff escorting patients can report. Doctors and paramedics should immediately examine and allot beds to patients immediately. Paper work and registration can be done later. Helpdesks created by a few hospitals is an example worth emulating.“My wife is pregnant. She was also suffering from abdominal pain but was made to wait in the ambulance alone in hot and humid conditions while hospital staff took long to complete formalities. The process was expedited when we approached the chief medical superintendent,” Chandini’s husband said.  Patients complain that guards check papers and verify them with hospital authorities after which registration is done. Doctors then assess the patient’s condition and allot beds. Thereafter, paramedical staff shifts the patient. “Hospitals should make a single-window registration and allotment system so that work can be completed within minutes,” said a 52-year-old patient from Aishbagh who had to wait for two hours at a private hospital on Hardoi road.  “If an hour is saved in admission process, we can cater to another patient. Lack of coordination between health department and hospitals causes delay,” an ambulance driver said. A 55-year-old woman from Khadra, who was undergoing treatment for liver ailment when she was diagnosed with Covid-19, had to wait for two hours outside a private hospital in Dubagga only to be informed that beds are not available. She had to be admitted to another private hospital. “Health department should verify availability of beds before referring patients,” said the patient’s cousin, Safdar. Another patient, Phoolmati (55) from Jankipuram Extension, had to wait for six hours to get admission to a hospital. “The staff kept us waiting on the pretext that we did not have a referal from the CMO,” Phoolmati’s son said. “We have set up a helpdesk with a doctor and pharmacists that works as a single-window system. Emergency medical technicians are guided through public address system which guides them about shifting of patients,” said Dr Amita Yadav, CMS, Lokbandhu Hospital. Director, SGPGIMS, Prof RK Dhiman said, “Earlier, Covid-19 patients used to come on their own which consumed time in formalities but now we admit patients on CMO’s recommendation which saves time.” Principal, Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital, Prof MM Faridi said, “As per the DM’s order, we are completing the entire procedure within 15 minutes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tardy-admission-process-in-hosps-leaves-patients-anxious/articleshow/77555261.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 15, 2020||India||On Aug 15, a desi podcast brings artistes from Pak, Bangla, Lanka & Nepal together for message on peace and love||Souring bilateral relations? Not for these musicians. On August 15, an Indian music podcast, which says its ultimate aim is to "bridge borders" and has managed to get top artistes from Pakistan, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, will release songs by some of the popular singers from our neighbouring countries. Maed in India, the podcast, will run the 'Our Neighbours' initiative through most of August. “Considering the tough and tense times we live in, it became important to us that we don’t allow borders and politics to be at the forefront of our conversations instead of compassion and camaraderie,” said Mae Thomas, founder of Maed in India. Mae Thomas - Founder Maed in India podcastThe first mixtape — music and conversations — being released on August 15 includes a song by Biryani Brothers, a pop duo from Lahore that actually consists of two women, Zahra Paracha and Natasha Noorani, best known for starting the Lahore Music Meet. “When we released our first music video online we got a lot of comments from Indian fans and that just made our day. We’ve spoken about how we will perform in India one day when the politics of the situation makes way for cultural exchanges again,” says Paracha, a sound engineer who also plays the guitar for some other Pakistani bands. Biryani Brothers -- Pakistani pop duo. Left: Natasha Noorani, right: Zahra ParachaIndia and its neighbours, especially Pakistan, have a rich history of cultural collaborations, dominated by musicians and actors. However, since the Pulwama attack there have hardly been any Pakistanis performing in India, or Indians going there. Sanjoy Roy, co-founder and director of Teamwork Arts that organises Jaipur Literature Festival, noted sadly that "we always mix geo-politics with culture". He added: “Even as we shut down our borders we must allow a free flow of knowledge, information and culture between our countries." One of the Sri Lankan artists to be featured on ‘Our Neighbours’ is Shan Vincent de Paul, a Tamil Sri Lankan rapper based in Toronto who talks bitterly about the killing of the Tamil during the civil war in Sri Lanka. “They tried to wipe my culture/They started telling us to ‘die’/Selling them lies/Shelling hospitals/“, writes the Jaffna-born rapper in his latest single, One Hundred Thousand Flowers. Paul’s family migrated to Canada as refugees after escaping the strife. The singers are happy to set the differences aside. Sikandar ka Mandar, another Pakistani band whose music will be featured on the podcast tweeted on August 14: “Advance mein Jashan Azadi Mubarak to you guys! Let projects like these be stepping stones towards tolerance and peace throughout the region…” Yugal -- Yugal Gurung, Nepali singer-songwriterYugal Gurung, a singer-songwriter from Nepal who is part of this initiative feels strongly about the role artists can play in bridging gaps created by politics. “It’s a shame Nepal and India are going through a rough patch considering they’ve been good allies for many years. It’s a political battle for power and control…There’s a crossover in audience for movies, music and various other forms of art from both countries and perhaps showing and appreciating each other’s work will help build back bridges for the future,” says Gurung who writes his songs in Nepali and experiments with both western and Nepali melodies. Paracha of Biryani Brothers agrees with Gurung and adds, “There are so many similarities between the two countries…Both Natasha and I took an interest in South Asian history in college which further cemented this notion that if one were to focus on the similarities rather than the differences, circumstances would become much more conducive for cultural collaborations.” A total of 12 artistes’ work will be released on the podcast, half on August 15 and the rest on August 24. Attic and Tanvir Teyder from Bangladesh, Phosphenes, Astha-Tamang Maskey and Jerusha Rai from Nepal, The Soul from Sri Lanka, and Khagazi, Sikandar ka Mandar and Ali Suhail from Pakistan are some of the other bands and artists whose work will be presented and discussed. The Soul -- Reggae and rock band from Sri LankaPlaying in India or releasing their music here gives these artistes a larger audience and platform. The Soul, a reggae and rock act from Sri Lanka, has performed in India earlier at festivals like NH7, Weekender and Goa Sunsplash. “India has been our biggest and most bold experiment so far," says Khazam Miskin, the guitarist in The Soul. His fellow band member Uvindu adds that in India they met many more struggling independent musicians like them. "India has been a polarising and humbling experience, which we intend on writing about at some point,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/on-aug-15-a-desi-podcast-brings-artistes-from-pak-bangla-lanka-nepal-together-for-message-on-peace-and-love/articleshow/77549098.cms||Shobita Dhar
August 15, 2020||Patna||Sisters battle for life, toddler dies in acid attack||PATNA: Two sisters are battling for life while the toddler son of one of them died in an acid attack allegedly by their brother-in-law at a village under Makhdumpur police station in Jehanabad district on the intervening night of August 9 and 10. The accused, Munna (35), wanted to marry the youngest of the three sisters and committed the crime after the family refused to oblige him. The eldest of the three sisters is married to one Pankaj Kumar while the youngest one is 20 years’ old and unmarried. The accused from Masaurhi police station area in Patna is married to one of the three sisters. He was not arrested yet. Both the sisters were admitted to Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) where the toddler died during treatment. Quoting doctors, Pankaj said his wife suffered 42% and sister-in-law 33% burn injuries. “Their faces, throats and abdominal area are badly burned. My son who died Monday night had suffered 48% burn injuries,” he said. “Doctors told me that there is 50% chances of their survival,” he said. Jehanabad SP Maneesh, who visited the spot on Friday, attributed the delay in the investigation to the contradictory statements made by the victims’ father, who in his FIR had accused his son-in-law of setting the room on fire. But the victims in their statements recorded on Thursday accused Munna of pouring acid on them. “Now their father on Friday also said it was an acid attack,” the SP said. Maneesh said forensic experts were called to seize the two containers and an iron bucket found in the room in which the sisters along with the child were sleeping. “I have formed a special team for investigating the case from all angles, including acid attack,” he said. The victims’ brother, who is a constable, said his parents informed him that it was a fire as their cloths had stuck to their skin. “We later realized that Munna had brought acid in a plastic container used for storing lubricant,” he added. Mukhdumpur police station SHO Dhananjay Kumar said raids were going on to arrest Munna. Pankaj told TOI that Munna wanted to marry his youngest sister-in-law. “Hum aapko jyada din chain se nahi rahne denge. Agar aap humko nahi ho saki to kisi or ko bhi nahi hone denge. Jala denge (If you don’t be mine, I won’t allow you to be of anybody else too. I will burn you). This is what Munna had told my sister-in-law ten days back. She has told this to Jehanabad police who visited the PMCH on Thursday,” he said. Pankaj said Munna used to keep the youngest sister with himself in Patna. Whenever she returned, he used to visit her home and create a ruckus. “Munna had even thrashed my wife on many occasions over the issue,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sisters-battle-for-life-toddler-dies-in-acid-attack/articleshow/77551310.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 15, 2020||Patna||LJP chief takes potshot at CM, again||PATNA: LJP national president Chirag Paswan on Friday slammed CM Nitish Kumar over the police’s “failure” to arrest the main accused in JD(U) students’ wing functionary Kanhaiya Kaushik murder case even after five months of the incident. Kaushik (27), a resident of Kakraul village under the Rahika police station area in Madhubani district, was shot dead by criminals at Patel Nagar under the Shastrinagar police station area in Patna on March 10. He was the vice-president of the students’ wing of JD(U) at A N College. “The deceased’s family was assured by you of speedy justice. However, the prime accused, Kush Singh, is still at large. The deceased was the family’s sole breadwinner,” Chirag said. Asked about his letters to the CM, Chirag, who arrived at Patna late on Friday evening, told reporters at Patna airport, “I am not targeting anyone. I am only raising people’s issues. I am only trying to communicate people’s anger and their demands to the CM.” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said the property of the main accused in Kaushik murder case was attached by police. Two of the accused have already been arrested in the case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-chief-takes-potshot-at-cm-again/articleshow/77551460.cms||Ramashankar
August 15, 2020||Patna||Trains to run on new Patna-Ranchi route soon, distance to be reduced||PATNA: The 411km distance via rail route between Patna and Ranchi is likely to be reduced soon after commissioning of Patna-Fatuha-Islampur-Natesar-Koderma route. The railways conducted a successful speed trial on the newly laid Islampur-Natessar broad gauge line under Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR) last week. During trial, the train ran at a speed of 100 to 120km per hour on a stretch of 21km between Islampur and Natesar. Currently, trains take almost eight hours to reach Ranchi from Patna via Patna-Jehanbad-Gaya-Koderma route. Railway officials said the newly laid broad gauge line between Patna and Koderma will reduce the journey hours by at least an hour. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said railways would introduce passenger trains on this particular route after getting approval from commissioner of railway safety, eastern region, Kolkata.  “If everything goes well, passenger trains will run on this route sometime in September-October this year,” the CPRchief public relations officer said here on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trains-to-run-on-new-patna-ranchi-route-soon-distance-to-be-reduced/articleshow/77551419.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Patna||BSPCB calls for safe disposal of sanitary waste||PATNA: Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) on Friday wrote to state urban development and housing, panchayati raj and rural development departments to ensure scientific disposal of sanitary waste, such as diapers, towels or napkins, tampons, condoms and incontinence sheets as per the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. BSPCB chairman Ashok Kumar Ghosh said most sanitary products are made of non-biodegradable materials, which, if not disposed properly, lead to environmental pollution. “Improper disposal of sanitary products poses a threat to human health and environment by polluting soil and water resources.” Ghosh said. The letter also stated that approximately 4 million used sanitary napkins are generated every day in Bihar, let alone other such products like baby diapers, adult diapers, tampons etc. Hence, public awareness regarding waste segregation and disposal techniques also needs to be created through information, education and communication campaigns, the letter read. “People often mix sanitary wastes with their kitchen waste. This leads to microbial growth which can cause severe infectious diseases in humans. Steps should be taken to bring awareness about this issue in public,” Ghosh added. As per Solid Waste Management Rules 2016, manufacturers or brand owners who introduce disposable products like sanitary napkins and diapers in the market are duty-bound to provide necessary financial assistance to local authorities for establishment of waste management system. BSPCB has also asked major manufacturers of sanitary products, including Procter & Gamble, Kimberly Clark, Johnson & Johnson, Unicharm India and Niine to inform it about the status of compliance of the aforementioned rules in the state. Manufacturers of sanitary products are also required to explore the possibility of using recyclable materials in their products or provide a pouch or wrapper for their disposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bspcb-calls-for-safe-disposal-of-sanitary-waste/articleshow/77553069.cms||Arunima Lal
August 15, 2020||Patna||No Bihar cop on MHA’s list of police medals||PATNA: For perhaps the first time, no police personnel from Bihar have been named in any of the three categories of medals awarded on the eve of Independence Day. Medals are awarded in three categories — President’s police medal for distinguished service, police medal for gallantry, and police medal for meritorious service, which are announced by the Union ministry of home affairs every year. Other than Bihar, Mehgalaya has also been left out. A senior IPS officer, requesting anonymity, said the reason behind no name from the state in the MHA list is that the recommendations were sent very late this year because of which none were included. “By the time the names were sent, the meeting for finalising the names of nationwide medal winners had already taken place,” he added. However, ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar on Friday refused to comment on the reason behind the omission. “When there is an MHA notification on the issue then no comments is required from my side. The notification in itself is evidently clear. What is there in the notification is final,” Kumar said. Kumar also refused to comment on whether recommendations were sent or if there was any delay in making the recommendations to MHA. Bihar Police Association president Mrityunjay Kumar Singh slammed the alleged lapse and demanded action against those responsible. “Police headquarters is active in dismissing or sending tainted personnel to jail, it should also stay active in sending files containing recommended names of state police personnel for President’s medal and others,” he said, adding this is the first time that the state’s name is missing from the MHA list. He added, “The headquarters should take action against those who delayed sending the files for final selection by MHA. Such incidents discourage police personnel.” Sources said altogether eight names, including that of an SP of 2012 batch posted in one of the neighbouring districts of Patna, were selected for the police medal for gallantry, but only three were recommended to the MHA that too very late. Besides, around 22 names were selected for the President’s Police Medal and police medal for meritorious service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/in-a-first-no-bihar-cop-on-mhas-list-of-police-medals/articleshow/77552528.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 15, 2020||Patna||Devendra Fadnavis tipped to be Bihar BJP poll incharge||PATNA: Former Maharashtra chief minister (CM) Devendra Fadnavis is tipped to be the election incharge of BJP for the coming Bihar assembly polls. He took part in the state BJP’s core committee meeting held via video-conferencing on Thursday. Senior party functionaries confirmed that Fadnavis will soon be announced as the Bihar election incharge even though state BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal refused to confirm it. “I am not aware of any such development. Fadnavis ji is a popular leader and he can be a part of the party’s poll campaign in Bihar. However, I have not received any communication from the party headquarters regarding him being made the election incharge for Bihar,” Jaiswal told TOI on Friday evening. A state BJP minister, who participated in the party’s core- committee meeting, told TOI on condition of anonymity that Fadnavis was formally introduced in the meeting, which was chaired by Jaiswal. “Fadnavis said he will stay in Bihar from September or whenever required and be here till the assembly polls. The party headquarters is likely to announce his name within a few days,” he said. He added, “BJP has two incharge during state polls— state incharge and election incharge. In the 2015 assembly elections, Ananth Kumar was Bihar’s election incharge, while Bhupendra Yadav was and still is the state incharge.” BJP’s national general secretary Bhupendra Yadav had teamed up with Fadnavis in the 2019 assembly polls in Maharashtra as the state’s election incharge, while Fadnavis was the CM seeking re-election. Fadnavis is currently the leader of Opposition in Maharashtra legislative assembly. BJP insiders claimed caste factor behind the idea of bringing in the former Maharashtra CM. “Fadnavis is a Brahmin, while Bhupendra is Yadav. Getting together two senior functionaries at the helm of party’s election affairs in a highly caste-dominated state like Bihar will definitely prove beneficial for the party,” a state-level functionary said, wishing anonymity. The development comes at a time when Bihar and Maharashtra governments are at loggerheads over the handling of the late Bollywood actor and Patna native Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case by Mumbai Police. Fadnavis has been launching frontal attacks on CM Uddhav Thackrey and is likely to utilize the emotional dimension in the issue during the elections. Sushant’s death in Mumbai on June 14 has erupted as a major political issue in Bihar, especially after CM Nitish Kumar recommended a CBI inquiry into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fadnavis-tipped-to-be-bihar-bjp-poll-incharge/articleshow/77551334.cms||Piyush Tripathi
August 15, 2020||Patna||Chirag Paswan takes a potshot at Bihar CM Nitish Kumar, again||PATNA: LJP national president Chirag Paswan on Friday slammed CM Nitish Kumar over the police’s “failure” to arrest the main accused in JD(U) students’ wing functionary Kanhaiya Kaushik murder case even after five months of the incident. Kaushik (27), a resident of Kakraul village under the Rahika police station area in Madhubani district, was shot dead by criminals at Patel Nagar under the Shastrinagar police station area in Patna on March 10. He was the vice-president of the students’ wing of JD(U) at A N College. “The deceased’s family was assured by you of speedy justice. However, the prime accused, Kush Singh, is still at large. The deceased was the family’s sole breadwinner,” Chirag said. Asked about his letters to the CM, Chirag, who arrived at Patna late on Friday evening, told reporters at the airport, “I am not targeting anyone. Instead, I am only trying to communicate people’s anger and their demands to the CM.” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said the property of the main accused in Kaushik murder case was attached by police. Two of the accused have already been arrested in the case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-takes-a-potshot-at-nitish-again/articleshow/77552897.cms||Ramashankar
August 15, 2020||Patna||Criminals’ bid to loot cash from van foiled in Nalanda||PATNA: Police averted criminals’ bid to loot cash from a van in front of a branch of HDFC Bank at Ramchandrapur Machhli Bazaar under the Lehri police station area in Nalanda district on Friday. Nalanda SP Nilesh Kumar said the incident took place around 10.40am when a bag containing Rs 56 lakh was being kept in the van. “Two armed criminals reached the spot and attempted to loot the bag. An armed private security guard came out of the bank branch to board the van. A police patrolling vehicle also reached the spot in the meantime. The criminals fled after seeing the police personnel,” the SP said, adding the criminals had parked their motorcycle near the branch. Kumar said the money was supposed to be loaded in different ATM kiosks of the bank. “Police have procured the CCTV camera footages to identify the criminals and arrest them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/criminals-bid-to-loot-cash-from-van-foiled-in-nalanda/articleshow/77552940.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Examine docus properly before sending for approval, CEOs of Zila Parishads told||Jaipur: The panchayati raj department has written to the chief executive officers (CEOs) of Zila Parishads in the state to ensure proper examination of documents before sending proposals (for approval) to the state government. These are meant for the purchase/allotment of land in populated areas by/to people living in the gram panchayats (villages). The proposals must not be directly sent to the department by the gram panchayats and panchayat samitis, the order stated. They were also directed to give their recommendations for the same. This practice was not followed by the districts earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/examine-docus-properly-before-sending-for-approval-ceos-of-zila-parishads-told/articleshow/77554837.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Vadodara||Testing in Vadodara rise to 2,000 people daily||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation and district administration seem to have decided to raise Covid-19 testing. Prime minister Narendra Modi had recently stressed on the need for this during a video conference with chief ministers of the 10 states worst hit by Covid-19. Officer on special duty for Covid-19 in Vadodara Vinod Rao said that currently around 650 antigen tests were being conducted in the city. Sources said that with 450 to 600 RT-PCR tests a day, the total number of tests reaches to around 1,200. Rao stated that from Monday, the number of antigen tests will be increased to around 2,000 per day. The Dhanvantari Raths too will be collecting samples for these tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/testing-in-vadodara-rise-to-2000-people-daily/articleshow/77551221.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: ‘Balcony seats’ to debut at housing society Independence Day programmes||KOLKATA: Sushil Chakraborty, the oldest resident of Digantika Housing Complex in Salt Lake, hoists the National Flag every year on August 15. This year, the 93-year-old and two others in their 90s will be watching the programme from their balconies. Most housing societies have planned to celebrate Independence Day a little differently this year, courtesy of the virus threat. In place of Chakraborty, ex-Army officer Ganesh Chandra Joarder, also a senior citizen, will hoist the flag on the lawns with only 50 residents keeping him company. A song sheet has bee sent to all residents who will join in from their balconies. Those present on the lawns will record the event and share it on the society’s WhatsApp group. “This year, not all gaps can be bridged. But we will still strive to stay connected,” said Ashoke Mukherjee, another resident of the complex. He lauded the efforts of complex secretary Ananya Biswas, who spent the day decorating the premises. At Urbana, while only 50 residents will mask themselves and maintain social distance during the flag hoisting, a large number of kids and seniors will put up virtual performances that will be live streamed on social media as residents of 780 apartments watch. “It’s an ambitious initiative, but we are excited because this is a way to connect with everyone,” said Sujit Bhattacharya, the president of the society. The programme will be shared on the residents’ WhatsApp group. The flag hoisting ceremony is usually an elaborate affair at Upohar complex. This year, too, the tradition will be followed with garlanding of the busts of Rishi Aurobinda and Netaji on the central greens. Meticulous planning has been put in so that social distancing is maintained and there is no crowding. “The programme will be videographed and circulated among residents. That apart, they are free to post their own performances,” said resident Sudeep Ganguly. Gitanjali Gardens has gone further. After the flag hoisting and live streaming of the cultural event, residents will discuss the freedom struggle on chat platforms. Society president Kailash Khandelwal has taken the lead in organizing the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/balcony-seats-to-debut-at-hsg-society-i-day-programmes/articleshow/77553200.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 15, 2020||Noida||Butterfly corridor for Delhi-NCR by next year||NEW DELHI: With the capital’s annual butterfly month fast approaching, over 40 butterfly hotspots have already been created in Delhi-NCR over the past year. A 100 butterfly hotspots are expected to be completed by next year, which will see a butterfly ‘corridor’ come to fruition, said officials. The Bombay Natural History Society, the organiser of the butterfly month who are involved in creating butterfly hotspots, said that despite the pandemic, plantation has not stopped as it will allow host plants to grow faster during the monsoon, in turn allowing more butterflies to be attracted to these new hotspots. Sohail Madan from BNHS, who is overseeing the entire process, said a mix of school and colleges, public parks and private gardens are being targeted for the locations. RWAs have also been approached for parks to see if they are willing to adopt and maintain the plants. “So far, we have created eight butterfly parks in schools and colleges across NCR, 13 public parks with the help of RWAs, and 19 private gardens, where people have allowed us to plant a number of host plants in order to attract butterflies,” said Madan, adding that the aim is to create a hotspot every few kilometres. “Work has slowed down, but we have not stopped planting and the target is to complete several more of these hotspots by next year. People or RWAs can also come forward if they wish to participate or assist us,” said Madan. The prominent hotspots include the Mitraon, Taj Enclave and Hauz Rani city forests. Parks in Paschim Vihar, Mandakini Enclave, Dayanand Colony, Shanti Niketan and Saket have also been converted with the help of the local RWAs. The Delhi Butterfly Month will kick-start this year from September 5. However, the annual butterfly census, which is carried out at some of the biggest parks and green areas in Delhi-NCR, will be confined to backyards this time. Owing to Covid-19, the count will be carried out over a week’s time, with lepidopterists recording butterfly species in their neighbourhood and local parks. An annual butterfly census has been carried out in the city each year since 2017. “This year the Big Butterfly Count will be held on an all-India level from September 14 to 20, where all participants will be encouraged to log in their submission through the iNaturalist platform. Due to the current Covid-19 scenario, all counts will be based out of backyards,” added Madan. The Butterfly Month aimed at improving knowledge and imparting education about butterflies, will feature activities such as online workshops, butterfly gardening classes, contests on butterfly photography, videography and butterfly origami, among others. Webinars for school and college children will also be conducted, with the annual celebration taking place from September 5 to 20 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/butterfly-corridor-for-delhi-ncr-by-next-yr/articleshow/77558618.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 15, 2020||Ghaziabad||Butterfly corridor for Delhi-NCR by next year||NEW DELHI: With the capital’s annual butterfly month fast approaching, over 40 butterfly hotspots have already been created in Delhi-NCR over the past year. A 100 butterfly hotspots are expected to be completed by next year, which will see a butterfly ‘corridor’ come to fruition, said officials. The Bombay Natural History Society, the organiser of the butterfly month who are involved in creating butterfly hotspots, said that despite the pandemic, plantation has not stopped as it will allow host plants to grow faster during the monsoon, in turn allowing more butterflies to be attracted to these new hotspots. Sohail Madan from BNHS, who is overseeing the entire process, said a mix of school and colleges, public parks and private gardens are being targeted for the locations. RWAs have also been approached for parks to see if they are willing to adopt and maintain the plants. “So far, we have created eight butterfly parks in schools and colleges across NCR, 13 public parks with the help of RWAs, and 19 private gardens, where people have allowed us to plant a number of host plants in order to attract butterflies,” said Madan, adding that the aim is to create a hotspot every few kilometres. “Work has slowed down, but we have not stopped planting and the target is to complete several more of these hotspots by next year. People or RWAs can also come forward if they wish to participate or assist us,” said Madan. The prominent hotspots include the Mitraon, Taj Enclave and Hauz Rani city forests. Parks in Paschim Vihar, Mandakini Enclave, Dayanand Colony, Shanti Niketan and Saket have also been converted with the help of the local RWAs. The Delhi Butterfly Month will kick-start this year from September 5. However, the annual butterfly census, which is carried out at some of the biggest parks and green areas in Delhi-NCR, will be confined to backyards this time. Owing to Covid-19, the count will be carried out over a week’s time, with lepidopterists recording butterfly species in their neighbourhood and local parks. An annual butterfly census has been carried out in the city each year since 2017. “This year the Big Butterfly Count will be held on an all-India level from September 14 to 20, where all participants will be encouraged to log in their submission through the iNaturalist platform. Due to the current Covid-19 scenario, all counts will be based out of backyards,” added Madan. The Butterfly Month aimed at improving knowledge and imparting education about butterflies, will feature activities such as online workshops, butterfly gardening classes, contests on butterfly photography, videography and butterfly origami, among others. Webinars for school and college children will also be conducted, with the annual celebration taking place from September 5 to 20 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/butterfly-corridor-for-delhi-ncr-by-next-yr/articleshow/77558619.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 15, 2020||Rajkot||Shunned by kin, Muslim friends cremate a Jain in Gujarat||RAJKOT: “These are my true relatives and I won’t forget their obligation ever,” asserted a son, who was helped by his deceased father’s friends in performing the last rites, while all relatives stayed away fearing Covid infection. Five Muslims and one Hindu performed the last rites of their departed friend, 56-year-old Milan Bagadiya, a Jain in Botad — from bathing the body to adorning and carrying it on the bier on their shoulders to the crematorium — passing the test of three decades of friendship with flying colours besides creating a beautiful scene of brotherhood and amity on Thursday. Jain’s 24-year-old son, Nikunj, an accountant by profession working in Bhavnagar was at his wit’s end when the immediate family members declined to come forward for the rituals suspecting the death to be from Covid-19. Bagadiya had been suffering from cold and fever for three days and died on Thursday morning at his home before he could be taken to the hospital. Besides his son, Bagadiya leaves behind his 50-year-old wife and a 21-year-old daughter. Talking to TOI, Nikunj said “I informed my relatives but they showed reluctance in participating in the last rites suspecting coronavirus. I never felt so alone and desolate. However, the president of Botad marketing yard, Anil Seth, and five of his other close Muslim friends didn’t let us despair. They helped us more than any family member can ever do.” Bagadiya was a commission agent in Botad marketing yard, his partners in business Tousif Sidatar rescued the family when along with him Mohammad Variaya, Abdul Arabiyani, Ashraf Arabiyani, and Bashrat Sidatar came forward to do all the needful. They reached Bagadiya’s home in the morning and with the permission of his son, started the rituals. Tousif told TOI: “We were not aware of the rituals and so asked his relatives to guide us. Bagadiya was our friend and partner in business for the past 35 years. How can we abandon him in his last journey and forget the bond we shared for more than three decades?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/shunned-by-kin-muslim-friends-cremate-a-jain/articleshow/77551555.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
August 15, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Lovers commit suicide by jumping into river||SHIVAMOGGA: Two youths, reported to be in a romantic relationship, committed suicide by jumping into Tunga river on Friday evening. According to police, they jumped into the water together from Tunga bridge near Bypass road in the city. The deceased have been identified as 18-year-old Anusha from Hasudi Kakanakote village and 25-year-old Santhosh from Huralihalli village in Shivamogga taluk. Locals, who witnessed the incident, tried to save their lives, but failed, said police. With the help of the locals, Anusha’s body was retrieved, while search is still on for Santhosh, the police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lovers-commit-suicide-by-jumping-into-river/articleshow/77555101.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Rajkot||Six marooned in dargah rescued at midnight||Rajkot: Defying the odds against incessant rain and rising water levels, six persons marooned in a dargah were rescued with the help of floodlights in a midnight rescue operation in Morbi taluka on Thursday night. According to the personnel of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), these devouts had gone to offer prayers in the evening at the dargah between Amran and Fadsar villages when heavy downpour resulted in the premises being surrounded by flood water with strong currents barring the escape route for the trapped people. Finally, the victims including a child could be rescued safely in inflated rubber dinghies. They were identified as Deepak Pandya (55), Sharif Kochalia (50), Bhikhu Khirani (55), his son Sahil Khirani (24), Mehboob Bagwani (32), and his four-year-old son Moinuddin Bagwani. When the overflowing water surrounded the dargah at around 6 pm, one of the victims called up Fadsar village sarpanch Babu Kumbharvadia for help. Kumbharvadia immediately took two swimmers to the spot. However, the current was so strong that the swimmers could not risk trying to cross over. “Then Kumbharvadia called up Morbi disaster control room, which in turn alerted the NDRF team. Amid falling rain, the team members crossed the stream and rescued the victims,” said an official from the Morbi disaster control room. Meanwhile, heavy rains on Thursday threw traffic between Fadsar, Moti Vavdi, and Badanpar villages completely out of gear. A big crater was also created by the lashing rains in Virparada village of Morbi taluka. On the other hand, NDRF personnel on Friday fished out the body of Karan Joshi (23) who had drowned in Palardhuna waterfall near Bhuj in Kutch district on Wednesday. Baru Minama (55), who had drowned in the pond of Tarsai village of Jamjodhpur taluka in Jamnagar district on Thursday evening, was also brought out on the same night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-marooned-in-dargah-rescued-at-midnight/articleshow/77551490.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Business||Sebi fines SBI, LIC, Bank of Baroda over Mutual Funds||MUMBAI: Markets regulator Sebi has fined banking major SBI, life insurance major LIC and PSU lender Bank of Baroda Rs 10 lakh each for holding more than 10% share in UTI Mutual Fund in addition to the holding majority stake in fund houses promoted by them. Sebi said that in March 2018, it had amended the holding norms for fund houses. Subsequently, it had given these entities a year to pare their stake in UTI MF. However, these entities still hold over 18% each in the fund house, and hence the penalty imposed on these entities. SBI, LIC and BoB, along with Punjab National Bank were asked to hold 25% each in UTI MF when the erstwhile Unit Trust of India was bifurcated. PNB has exited the fund management business, while the other three hold majority stakes in separate fund management operations. In 2010, US-based global fund management major T Rowe Price had bought 26% in UTI MF, subsequent to which the holdings of the four entities were reduced to 18.24%. However, all the four PSU entities always maintained that they were holding the stakes on behalf of the government since the bifurcation of erstwhile UTI. Watch Markets regulator Sebi fines SBI, LIC, Bank of Baroda over Mutual Funds||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-fines-sbi-lic-bob-over-mfs/articleshow/77554342.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hubballi||Davanagere farmer loves sharing his harvest with birds||DAVANAGERE: Sankol Chandrashekhar, a farmer from Shamanur village near here, is living the up to the proverb ‘sharing is caring’ by allowing birds to feed on the jowar crop grown on 3acre land. Making the most of his gesture are sparrows, pigeons, parrots, koels, kingfishers and woodpeckers. The kind act has also come in for praise from many, who say this is a first-of-its-kind attempt to save the dwindling bird population. Chandrashekhar, who had also been a councillor at Davanagere CMC, said he spends Rs 20,000 towards buying seeds and fertilisers and paying wages to labourers. “I may earn Rs 1.50 lakh after harvesting over 50 quintals of jowar. But the sight of birds flocking together for grains is invaluable and gratifying,” Chandrashekhar said, adding: “I watch them twice daily — morning and evening — along with my wife, son and daughter, who all are bird lovers.” Chandrashekhar, who is known for philanthropy, had supplied drinking water to several wards of the CMC when the region was hit by a drought in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/davanagere-farmer-loves-sharing-his-harvest-with-birds/articleshow/77555153.cms||SA Gangaraju
August 15, 2020||Business||RIL denies speculation about succession plan||MUMBAI: Reliance Industries late Friday emphatically denied a media report that its chairman Mukesh Ambani is readying a succession plan by setting up a family council that gives equal representation to his three children, Isha, Akash and Anant. “Not true,” a company spokesperson said when asked about the report. A senior group executive, too, dismissed it as “pure speculation”. According to Mint, a business daily, the ‘family council’ will provide a collective governance structure to manage the retail to telecom and petrochemicals conglomerate. RIL recently raised over Rs 2 lakh crore from marquee investors by diluting equity in Jio Platforms along with a rights issue at RIL. The moves were part of a deleveraging exercise. Mukesh, who had a contentious separation from his younger brother Anil after the death of their father Dhirubhai, who died intestate, is seen to be keen to ensure a smooth transition. The newspaper report said that the proposed family council will “include an adult member of the family, the three children, and possibly external members who will act as mentors and advisers”. It also said that the 63-year-old is planning to complete the succession planning process by the end of the year. Ambani’s wealth has soared in recent weeks to make him the fourth richest man in the world. It is expected that the three Ambani’s children siblings will eventually head separate verticals within RIL such as retail, digital and energy, the report said, quoting unnamed sources. In recent months Isha, Akash and Anant have been roped into the business to handle Jio Platforms as well as the retail businesses. The report also pointed to recent restructuring in shareholding pattern within the family to suggest that a succession planning was under way. In March, promoters along with two group firms — Tattvam Enterprises LLP and Samarjit Enterprises LLP — acquired 3.2% shares of RIL from Devarshi Commercials LLP, another group entity, the report said. Watch Reliance Industries denies speculation about succession plan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-denies-speculation-about-succession-plan/articleshow/77554624.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||As the flag unfurls on 74th I-Day, officials yet to wake up to Tricolour’s centennial||Hyderabad: The 74th Independence Day of the nation is also part of the centennial of the first design of the national flag. It was during the All India Congress Committee (AICC) session in Bezwada (as Vijayawada was called then) in 1921 that a rough design of the Congress flag was presented to Mahatma Gandhi by freedom fighter and educationalist Pingali Venkayya. The special sessions of the AICC and the Congress Working Committee (CWC) were held in Vijayawada for two days from March 31, 1921. Mahatma Gandhi had acknowledged in one of his editorials that he had asked Venkayya to come up with the design and the latter did so within a few hours. Gandhi wrote in his editorial for Young India (April 13, 1921): “At Bezwada, I asked Mr Venkayya to give me a design containing a spinning wheel on red (Hindu colour) and green (Muslim colour) background. His enthusiastic spirit enabled me to possess a flag in three hours. It was just a little too late for presentation to the All India Congress Committee. I am glad it was so.” Young Venkayya had already studied the flags of various countries. His design of the flag had two colours green and red. The red was replaced by saffron later. White was added to the design. With the addition of the Gandhi Charkha, it became the Congress flag. After replacement of the Charkha with the Ashoka Chakra, it was declared as the national flag. The new flag was hoisted on the Independence Day on August 15, 1947. Though March 2020-March 2021 is the centennial of the first design of the national flag, officials are yet to announce its celebrations. Apart from the birth of the idea of the Congress flag, the AICC session in Vijayawada was also a turning point in India's struggle for freedom. It was at this session that the decision to mop up Rs 1 crore Swaraj Fund, drive to achieve one crore membership and distribution of 20 lakhs charkhas was taken up, among other things. Pingali Venkayya was born near Machilipatnam of Andhra Pradesh on August 2, 1876. He had met Mahatma Gandhi in South Africa during 1899-1902 as a young recruit in the British Army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-the-flag-unfurls-on-74th-i-day-officials-yet-to-wake-up-to-tricolours-centennial/articleshow/77554833.cms||Syed Akbar
August 15, 2020||Chennai||Docs seek Rs 50L solatium, for ‘clinical Covid’ cases too||Chennai: The state wing of the Indian Medical Association has urged the state government to give a solatium of 50 lakh to 47 doctors — government and private — who succumbed to Covid-19, even if they did not have reports that confirmed that they had the viral infection. The association said while 32 doctors had RTPCR positive test reports, 15 others were tested negative despite showing symptoms of the viral infection. “The 15 doctors had signs of infection in CT scan and other biochemical reports. Considering only 63% of positive patients are picked by RTCPR test, the government should include all doctors regardless of whether they tested positive or negative for the viral infection,” said IMA state secretary Dr A K Ravi Kumar. The association said at least 11 other doctors died during the past three months due to reasons other than Covid. As per protocol, patients are recorded in the Covid case registry only if their RTPCR reports return positive. Hospitals say results of many patients return negative for RTPCR despite symptoms of breathlessness or pneumonia. Since margin of error is up to 30%, experts are now recommending a registry for “clinical Covid.” Experts say when patients come for test after the active reproductive phase of the virus, they may test negative. “But the virus may have affected several parts of the body, including lungs,” said infectious diseases expert Dr Subramanian Swaminathan. Meanwhile, another doctors’ body, the Service Doctors’ and Postgraduates’ Association (SDPA), regretted that the state and district administrations do not follow the guidelines on ‘duty rotation’ framed by the health and family welfare department to ensure adequate rest for doctors and healthcare workers after isolation ward duty. “After isolation ward duty, a doctor or a healthcare worker must be given a break with 14-day quarantine. They may undergo tests on the fifth day and exit tests on the 14th day. Any healthcare personnel developing ILI should be tested immediately,” said SDPA state secretary Dr Saminathan. All government hospitals and healthcare centres must have a plan to maintain continuity of operations, he said. IMA senior state vice president Dr G Kothandaraman, based in Rajapalayam, passed away on August 11. “We expect state honour and an official condolence message for all doctors who die due to Covid,” Dr Ravi Kumar said. “We need more testing labs in rural areas, access to antiviral drugs and support to working professionals,” Dr Ravi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/docs-seek-rs-50l-solatium-for-clinical-covid-cases-too/articleshow/77554830.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Seven from dist lose battle with Covid-19||TNNLudhiana: Nine Covid-19 patients, including seven from Ludhiana, died on Friday, when 228 from the district and 19 outsiders tested positive here. The health department said besides seven district residents, one each from Sangrur and Ferozepur has lost battle with the virus. A diabetic man of 64 years from Noorwal Chowk, a woman of 70 years from Hassi Kalan, a 60-year-old man from Sarali in Rahon, who had chronic kidney disease, a 60-year-old diabetic woman from Lakshman Nagar, who was also a heart patient, and a 27-year-old obese man from Haibowal died at city hospitals. A 33-year-old man from Shimlapuri and a 35-year-old man from Gah Village in Khanna, who had TB, died at Rajindra Hospital. The department officials said the total number of deaths from the district has risen to 214 and 50 outsiders have lost their lives here to date. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the pending reports received, 167 were positive, of which 164 belonged to the district and one each to Sangrur, Muktsar and Gurdaspur.He said of the 80 positive reports received from private hospitals and laboratories, 64 were from Ludhiana, eight from Sangrur, two from Bathinda and one each from Mohali, Amritsar, Ferozepur, Moga, Kapurthala and Jammu and Kashmir. The department officials said of 228 positive cases from the district, 57 were from flu corner (influenza like illness), 81 were contacts of positive cases, 43 from OPD, five police officials, three healthcare workers, five pregnant women, 22 from tracing process and 12 undertrials.The Ludhiana case count now stood at 6,176 and that of outsiders at 683.The civil surgeon said on Friday, 2,594 samples were sent for testing.Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 1,807 active patients in the district and at present 5,222 persons were under home quarantine. “On Wednesday, 322 persons were sent to home quarantine,” the DC added.The number of recovered patients so far is 4,152.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/seven-from-dist-lose-battle-with-covid-19/articleshow/77551923.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Patna||Bihar government to amend statute for appointment of university teachers: Sushil Kumar Modi||PATNA: The state government will make necessary amendments to the statute for appointment of assistant professors in Bihar colleges and universities in the larger interest of the local aspirants, deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi said on Friday. The statute was approved by governor Phagu Chauhan recently. The deputy CM said a high-level meeting of government officials was held on Friday under the chairmanship of chief secretary Deepak Kumar to review the anomalies in the latest statute. It was decided that candidates would be awarded full marks for PhD degree obtained during the gap period in the implementation of UGC regulations in 2009 at the national level and implemented in 2012 in the universities of Bihar. The present statute does not take into account those candidates while allotting 30 marks out of 100 on PhD degree. Modi said the talented youths from Bihar won’t be allowed to suffer on account of some reported anomalies in the statute for appointment of assistant professors in the universities of Bihar. It was also decided that since MPhil degree is not awarded by any university in the state, no marks would be allotted for it in the appointments. The statute provides for seven marks to MPhil degree. So far as marks for publication of research papers in peer-reviewed or UGC-approved journals (two marks for each paper subject to a maximum of 10 marks) is concerned, it was decided that the UGC guidelines would be strictly followed in the matter. Modi said the state government is seized with the problem of educated youths in the state and hence it would strive hard to remove their genuine grievances at the earliest. It may be mentioned that nearly 8,000 assistant professors are to be appointed by the Bihar state University Service Commission against the vacant posts in different universities of the state on the basis of the statute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-to-amend-statute-for-appointment-of-university-teachers-sumo/articleshow/77552429.cms||B K Mishra
August 15, 2020||Patna||Two arrested for widow’s rape in Patna||PATNA: Two youths were arrested for alleged gang rape of a 45-year-old widow at their rented accommodation in Malahi Pakdi area under Kankarbagh police station in Patna on Friday. The arrested youths were identified as Sujeet Kumar (22) and Kaushal Kumar (23). Both belong to Noorsarai in Nalanda district and have been forwarded to jail, Kankarbagh police station SHO Ajay Kumar said. “It was Sujeet who had invited her to their accommodation in the name of celebrating his birthday party,” Ajay said. He said the victim, a mother of three children, reached their residence Wednesday night after which they raped her. “On Thursday morning, she reached the Kankarbagh police station and narrated the incident. An FIR was registered on her written complaint against Sujeet and Kaushal,” he said. Her medical examination was conducted on Friday and her statement would be recorded before a judicial magistrate by Monday. The SHO said the victim’s clothes were seized for forensic analysis. Online gaming addict fakes own kidnapping: A 14-year-old online gaming addict boy, who had allegedly faked his own kidnapping in order to extort Rs5 lakh from his mother, was handed over to her by the police Thursday night. The mother, a widow, had lodged an FIR of his kidnapping with Patrakar Nagar police station on August 10 after receiving an SMS from her son’s cellphone asking her to pay Rs5 lakh ransom. The minor, a student of Class X, had left his home with Rs2,000 and cellphone on August 9 morning after informing her mother that he was going to meet his friend. But he didn’t return. Patrakar Nagar police station SHO Pramod Kumar said a written undertaking was taken from the widow. “We will take any action only after receiving directive from senior authorities,” he said. He said the minor, who was recovered from the bus stand under Khajanchi Hatt police station area in Purnea late Wednesday night, wanted to take admission in a cricket academy in Delhi or Mumbai by using the ransom money. “He had also planned to purchase a costly cellphone,” the SHO said, adding he was addicted to online games like PUBG. In course of investigation, police also found that the minor knew that his mother had taken Rs3.5 lakh as loan. The minor has a brother and sister, both younger to him. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-arrested-for-widows-rape/articleshow/77552446.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Patna||RJD, Congress join hands to slam Bihar government||PATNA: A day after the state government claimed to have conducted over one lakh Covid-19 tests in a day, opposition leaders criticised it for conducting disproportionately large chunk of the tests using rapid antigen kit and demanded that majority of tests should be done using the more accurate RT-PCR method. According to leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, only 8% of the tests were being done through the RT-PCR method. Citing the example of Tamil Nadu which is conducting 100% RT-PCR tests, Tejashwi said, “All I want to know is what has the state government done in the past five months. How come other states have increased their testing capacity and enhanced their hospital facilities.” He also shared a letter from the Bihar Medical Service Corporation Limited dated June 24, in which the government had cancelled the order of Cobas 8800. “Health minister Mangal Pandey had himself announced that Cobas 8800 was being procured and it could conduct 36,000 tests through RT-PCR in a day. First of all it took the government such a long time to make an order which they did in May and then they cancelled it in June. Now they are planning to get this machine from a foreign country,” alleged Tejashwi. He further said he stood firm on his allegation against the health minister regarding false Covid-19 data. “A state with 12 crore population has only 10,500 beds with oxygen, which should be at least one lakh now,” he added. Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra, on the other hand, raised doubts over the number of positive cases in comparison to the total number of tests being conducted. He said the government was intentionally trying to show a low positivity rate to present a wrong picture to the Election Commission to get the polls conducted. “Almost a fortnight back, when around ten thousand tests were conducted, that time we were getting around 3,000 positive cases. But now when one lakh tests are being done in a day, positive cases have been fixed around four thousand. This is a dangerous game to show suppressed figures of infection and death. People of Bihar are being fooled,” said Mishra. He further said the government’s data showing the death figure does not incorporate those dying in private hospitals. He also expressed concern over the situation at Bans Ghat because of non-functional electric crematorium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-congress-join-hands-to-slam-bihar-govt-on-covid-tests/articleshow/77552636.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 15, 2020||Patna||Patna: Insurance policies find few takers amid Covid||PATNA: With people looking for ways to reduce their expenditure amid Covid-19 pandemic, even renewal of insurance policies has taken a back seat, let alone buying new ones. Contrary to the popular belief that there would be a rise in demand for health insurance policies amid the pandemic, policy holders are faced with the dual challenge of renewing their old policies and buying new ones to avail tax benefits. “Some of my existing well-to-do clients have defaulted on premium payments, let alone acquiring new ones. The pandemic has spared none. From business to households, everyone is short of cash at the moment,” said Anil Sinha, an insurance agent based in Patel Nagar. With liquidity crisis on the rise and no concession available on premium rates, people in the age group of 31-45 years, who are the prime target market for policy sellers, are finding it difficult to renew their insurance policies. Patliputra Colony resident Shiv Narayan Prasad, a private sector employee, said, “Even though I have taken a salary cut of 30%, the household expenses haven’t gone down. After prioritising all my expenses, I am finding it difficult to pay the premium amount of my life insurance policy.” The economic uncertainty amid pandemic has changed the investing patterns of the households with many preferring to retain cash in the short-term over investing it in long-term insurance policies. Shyam Sinha, a resident of Phulwarisharif, said, “The average lock-in period for any type of insurance policy is not less than five years. In an emergency like Covid-19, I would rather prefer some cash in hand than locking my money in a policy.” The prevailing scenario has also severely affected the plight of insurance agents in the city with most of them falling short of sales target and quarterly commission. Since insurance agents are not paid any salary by their companies and earn only through commissions received from selling policies, their condition is pitiable. A significant proportion of the insurance agent workforce in the city comprises retired professionals and senior citizens who sell policies in their network. Those who are not tech-savvy are finding it difficult to adapt to new technologies. Dinesh Prasad, a retired bank employee who started selling policies after retirement, said, “Earlier I used to meet my clients in person. Now, I have no other option but to make phone calls to them. Also, my company has launched a digital platform for enrolment of new policies. I am trying to get used to this new technology.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/insurance-policies-find-few-takers-amid-covid/articleshow/77552596.cms||Arunima Lal
August 15, 2020||Patna||Service rules for contract teachers soon: Bihar minister||PATNA: State education minister Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma on Friday hinted at giving some leverage to around 3.75 lakh schoolteachers on contract across the state. He said the service condition rules and other facilities on par with the teachers appointed on a regular basis were completed. Verma told a TV news channel that CM Nitish Kumar had already been working for the betterment of the teachers appointed on contract in the government schools. He said the service condition rules, appointment of dependants on compassionate grounds, transfer and promotional benefits etc would be given to them. He, however, didn’t specify any time frame for giving new benefits to the teachers, who had earlier launched an indefinite stir in February in support of their various demands, including payment of salary on ‘equal pay for equal work’. “Samay aane par iski ghoshna kar di jayegi (It will be announced at an appropriate time),” the minister said. Authoritative sources in the education department said the draft of the service condition rules was given the final touches recently. “The proposal will be sent to the state cabinet for approval. A meeting to finalize the proposal was held recently,” a senior officer of the department said on the condition of anonymity. Sources said it may be announced on the Teachers’ Day on September 5. Meanwhile, former chief minister and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi thanked CM Nitish Kumar for conceding the long-pending demands of contract teachers in government schools. Manjhi tweeted, “We hail the state government’s decision in the larger interest of the teachers. Also ensure the payment of their salaries on the basis of ‘same work, same pay’ policy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/service-rules-for-contract-teachers-soon-minister/articleshow/77552690.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Faridabad||Butterfly corridor for Delhi-NCR by next year||NEW DELHI: With the capital’s annual butterfly month fast approaching, over 40 butterfly hotspots have already been created in Delhi-NCR over the past year. A 100 butterfly hotspots are expected to be completed by next year, which will see a butterfly ‘corridor’ come to fruition, said officials. The Bombay Natural History Society, the organiser of the butterfly month who are involved in creating butterfly hotspots, said that despite the pandemic, plantation has not stopped as it will allow host plants to grow faster during the monsoon, in turn allowing more butterflies to be attracted to these new hotspots. Sohail Madan from BNHS, who is overseeing the entire process, said a mix of school and colleges, public parks and private gardens are being targeted for the locations. RWAs have also been approached for parks to see if they are willing to adopt and maintain the plants. “So far, we have created eight butterfly parks in schools and colleges across NCR, 13 public parks with the help of RWAs, and 19 private gardens, where people have allowed us to plant a number of host plants in order to attract butterflies,” said Madan, adding that the aim is to create a hotspot every few kilometres. “Work has slowed down, but we have not stopped planting and the target is to complete several more of these hotspots by next year. People or RWAs can also come forward if they wish to participate or assist us,” said Madan. The prominent hotspots include the Mitraon, Taj Enclave and Hauz Rani city forests. Parks in Paschim Vihar, Mandakini Enclave, Dayanand Colony, Shanti Niketan and Saket have also been converted with the help of the local RWAs. The Delhi Butterfly Month will kick-start this year from September 5. However, the annual butterfly census, which is carried out at some of the biggest parks and green areas in Delhi-NCR, will be confined to backyards this time. Owing to Covid-19, the count will be carried out over a week’s time, with lepidopterists recording butterfly species in their neighbourhood and local parks. An annual butterfly census has been carried out in the city each year since 2017. “This year the Big Butterfly Count will be held on an all-India level from September 14 to 20, where all participants will be encouraged to log in their submission through the iNaturalist platform. Due to the current Covid-19 scenario, all counts will be based out of backyards,” added Madan. The Butterfly Month aimed at improving knowledge and imparting education about butterflies, will feature activities such as online workshops, butterfly gardening classes, contests on butterfly photography, videography and butterfly origami, among others. Webinars for school and college children will also be conducted, with the annual celebration taking place from September 5 to 20 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/butterfly-corridor-for-delhi-ncr-by-next-yr/articleshow/77558620.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Butterfly corridor for Delhi-NCR by next year||NEW DELHI: With the capital’s annual butterfly month fast approaching, over 40 butterfly hotspots have already been created in Delhi-NCR over the past year. A 100 butterfly hotspots are expected to be completed by next year, which will see a butterfly ‘corridor’ come to fruition, said officials. The Bombay Natural History Society, the organiser of the butterfly month who are involved in creating butterfly hotspots, said that despite the pandemic, plantation has not stopped as it will allow host plants to grow faster during the monsoon, in turn allowing more butterflies to be attracted to these new hotspots. Sohail Madan from BNHS, who is overseeing the entire process, said a mix of school and colleges, public parks and private gardens are being targeted for the locations. RWAs have also been approached for parks to see if they are willing to adopt and maintain the plants. “So far, we have created eight butterfly parks in schools and colleges across NCR, 13 public parks with the help of RWAs, and 19 private gardens, where people have allowed us to plant a number of host plants in order to attract butterflies,” said Madan, adding that the aim is to create a hotspot every few kilometres. “Work has slowed down, but we have not stopped planting and the target is to complete several more of these hotspots by next year. People or RWAs can also come forward if they wish to participate or assist us,” said Madan. The prominent hotspots include the Mitraon, Taj Enclave and Hauz Rani city forests. Parks in Paschim Vihar, Mandakini Enclave, Dayanand Colony, Shanti Niketan and Saket have also been converted with the help of the local RWAs. The Delhi Butterfly Month will kick-start this year from September 5. However, the annual butterfly census, which is carried out at some of the biggest parks and green areas in Delhi-NCR, will be confined to backyards this time. Owing to Covid-19, the count will be carried out over a week’s time, with lepidopterists recording butterfly species in their neighbourhood and local parks. An annual butterfly census has been carried out in the city each year since 2017. “This year the Big Butterfly Count will be held on an all-India level from September 14 to 20, where all participants will be encouraged to log in their submission through the iNaturalist platform. Due to the current Covid-19 scenario, all counts will be based out of backyards,” added Madan. The Butterfly Month aimed at improving knowledge and imparting education about butterflies, will feature activities such as online workshops, butterfly gardening classes, contests on butterfly photography, videography and butterfly origami, among others. Webinars for school and college children will also be conducted, with the annual celebration taking place from September 5 to 20 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/butterfly-corridor-for-delhi-ncr-by-next-yr/articleshow/77554849.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 15, 2020||Gurgaon||Butterfly corridor for Delhi-NCR by next year||NEW DELHI: With the capital’s annual butterfly month fast approaching, over 40 butterfly hotspots have already been created in Delhi-NCR over the past year. A 100 butterfly hotspots are expected to be completed by next year, which will see a butterfly ‘corridor’ come to fruition, said officials. The Bombay Natural History Society, the organiser of the butterfly month who are involved in creating butterfly hotspots, said that despite the pandemic, plantation has not stopped as it will allow host plants to grow faster during the monsoon, in turn allowing more butterflies to be attracted to these new hotspots. Sohail Madan from BNHS, who is overseeing the entire process, said a mix of school and colleges, public parks and private gardens are being targeted for the locations. RWAs have also been approached for parks to see if they are willing to adopt and maintain the plants. “So far, we have created eight butterfly parks in schools and colleges across NCR, 13 public parks with the help of RWAs, and 19 private gardens, where people have allowed us to plant a number of host plants in order to attract butterflies,” said Madan, adding that the aim is to create a hotspot every few kilometres. “Work has slowed down, but we have not stopped planting and the target is to complete several more of these hotspots by next year. People or RWAs can also come forward if they wish to participate or assist us,” said Madan. The prominent hotspots include the Mitraon, Taj Enclave and Hauz Rani city forests. Parks in Paschim Vihar, Mandakini Enclave, Dayanand Colony, Shanti Niketan and Saket have also been converted with the help of the local RWAs. The Delhi Butterfly Month will kick-start this year from September 5. However, the annual butterfly census, which is carried out at some of the biggest parks and green areas in Delhi-NCR, will be confined to backyards this time. Owing to Covid-19, the count will be carried out over a week’s time, with lepidopterists recording butterfly species in their neighbourhood and local parks. An annual butterfly census has been carried out in the city each year since 2017. “This year the Big Butterfly Count will be held on an all-India level from September 14 to 20, where all participants will be encouraged to log in their submission through the iNaturalist platform. Due to the current Covid-19 scenario, all counts will be based out of backyards,” added Madan. The Butterfly Month aimed at improving knowledge and imparting education about butterflies, will feature activities such as online workshops, butterfly gardening classes, contests on butterfly photography, videography and butterfly origami, among others. Webinars for school and college children will also be conducted, with the annual celebration taking place from September 5 to 20 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/butterfly-corridor-for-delhi-ncr-by-next-yr/articleshow/77558617.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 15, 2020||Business||RBI transfers Rs 57,128 crore surplus to government for 2019-20||MUMBAI: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Friday announced a dividend payout of Rs 57,128 crore to the government, in line with Budget expectations but not enough to make up for revenue shortfalls from other heads. This year’s dividend is not comparable to last year’s surplus transfer of Rs 1,76,051 crore, which included a one-time transfer of extra reserves in line with the recommendation of the Bimal Jalan-headed committee. The dividend was declared in the 584th meeting of the RBI’s central board on Friday. Besides approving accounts and maintaining a 5.5% contingency risk buffer, the board also discussed setting up of an innovation hub. Before adoption of the Jalan committee recommendations, the buffer had stood at 6.8%. In the Union Budget 2020, the government had provisioned Rs 89,600 crore in dividend from the RBI, state run banks and financial institutions. Of this, the RBI was expected to contribute Rs 60,000 crore. Nationalised banks will not be declaring any dividend this year as the RBI has barred them from doing so in order to conserve capital to cover defaults arising out of the Covid-19 crisis. “The overall balance sheet of the central bank had expanded close to 30% in the RBI accounting year. Such rapid expansion would obviously limit the amount of seigniorage surplus to the government. Also, at the current rate, the total capital of the RBI including reserves is ahead of the 20.8-25.4% recommended by the Jalan committee that the central bank needs to maintain,” said SBI chief economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh. According to Ghosh, the government cannot look to the central bank to raise funds. “The surprise to the market was the rise in inflation of close to 7%. This is because of the shift in consumption from goods and services to food items. This will make it difficult for the RBI to cut rates. Now it is for the government to take action,” said Ghosh. Bankers say that RBI’s revenue generation is highest when there is volatility in the financial markets — either bonds or foreign currency. During times of rupee volatility, the RBI ends up selling billions of dollars of foreign currency assets, which generate huge profits because of the weaker rupee. Similarly, when there is volatility in the bond markets, the RBI makes money through its open market operations. This year, despite the economic crisis, financial markets — including the currency and bond markets — have been stable with the central bank buying dollars. Facing a massive tax shortfall, along with higher spending due to Covid, the government is keen to maximise revenue from other sources, especially when the department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) has failed to garner resources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-transfers-rs-57128-crore-surplus-to-govt-for-2019-20/articleshow/77554682.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Morbi ceramic industry set to be ‘Atmanirbhar’ in machine tools||RAJKOT: The Morbi ceramic industry is all set to become ‘Atmanirbhar’ (self-reliant) in terms of machine tools used in shaping, cutting and calibration of ceramic products. This has been a monopoly of the Chinese manufacturers since the beginning of the ceramic industry in the Saurashtra town. With local ceramic units showing interest in locally made tools like diamond squaring wheels, calibration roller, tempering wheel and abrasives, the monopoly of the neighbouring country is all set to break. Industry sources estimate that yearly import of Chinese machine tools is worth Rs 1,300 crore. Whereas, the market of locally manufactured tools was around 10% of the Chinese imports. Mahesh Saradva, an old player in the manufacturing of ceramic machine tools is now encouraging 30 other units to start production so that Indian product can replace Chinese imports. “We have been facing problem of under-invoicing from dealers of Chinese products. As a result, Chinese products are sold cheaper. But since the last two months the customs department has started thoroughly scrutinizing the bills of entry and product of Chinese origin which is benefiting us,” said Saradva. “The ceramic units in Morbi were preferring Chinese products fearing that if they use local tools, their customers abroad may reject their product,” he added. According to Saradva, 30 units have started making the tools in last six months to two years and they are expecting to get good orders. Kevin Mendapara, another manufacturer of ceramic machine tools said, “In the initial stage when I approached the ceramic units, they did not show interest. But since the last two months, a number of units have approached us and shown interest in our products. This is a positive sign. Hope this changing mindset will prove beneficial for us.” Nilesh Jetparia, president of Morbi Ceramic Association said, “With the quality of products manufactured in Morbi and other parts of Gujarat, we are hoping that our dependence on China will decrease and we shall become ‘Atmanirbhar’ coming year or so.” Head: Breaking Monopoly Diamond squaring wheels used for shaping and sizing the tiles Abrasives are used for the polishing of tiles Calibration roller is used to maintain uniform thickness of the tiles Morbi imports tools from China worth Rs 1,300 crore annually 30 units in Morbi manufacturing such tools locally||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/morbi-ceramic-industry-set-to-be-atmanirbhar-in-machine-tools/articleshow/77551651.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
August 15, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC reserves order on privilege motion against DMK MLAs||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Friday reserved its order on the pleas moved by 21 DMK MLAs, including party president M K Stalin, challenging breach of privilege proceedings initiated against them for bringing ‘banned’ gutka packets inside the state assembly in 2017. The first bench of chief justice A P Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said they are reserving the order after concluding a three-day marathon hearing. On the final day, senior advocate A L Somayaji for the privilege committee concluded his arguments by submitting that the actions taken by the speaker in referring the issue to the committee and the notices issued by the committee to the MLAs were only to maintain the dignity and decorum of the House. “The speaker has an exclusive right to decide which acts of the members amount to breach of privilege. He is the representative of all the members of the House,” Somayaji said. Responding to an earlier query raised by the bench as to the constitution of the committee, advocate-general Vijay Narayan submitted that every member of the House acquires certain privileges and exemptions by being elected to the assembly. “With every privilege comes equal duty. These rights and duties are not written but learned from experience and from the traditions and conventions followed by the House. When a member violates such privilege and behaves in a manner they were not supposed to, the committee intervenes to decide whether such actions amount to breach of privilege,” Vijay Narayan said. For example, rolling one’s eyes or sticking out tongue are not prohibited acts. But former opposition leader and DMDK founder Vijayakanth was suspended for such acts seen as breach of privilege of the House, the advocate general added. He further added that judicial review of such issues comes in only after a final decision is taken by the committee. Replying to the submissions, DMK counsel senior advocate R Shanmugasunaram contended that what Vijayakanth did constitutes as assault under the IPC. But possession of gutka was not banned and therefore taking it into assembly would not constitute breach of privilege. “In fact, waving gutka packets to show that a banned item is easily available in the market is the privilege of a member,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-reserves-order-on-privilege-motion-against-dmk-mlas/articleshow/77554845.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||War memorial renovated, ready for I-Day celebrations||Secunderabad: The refurbished martyrs memorial, popularly known as ‘Veerula Sainika Smarak’, has become the centre of attraction at the sprawling 20-acre Parade Grounds. The magnificent structure spruced up with black granite is drawing the attention of thousands of citizens passing by the Parade Grounds along the Paradise-Patny stretch. The national emblem, featuring the four gold-coated Asiatic lions standing back-to-back, was placed on the top of the memorial. Symbolising patriotic fervour national flags were put up at the memorial. Despite incessant rains, facelift works were carried out and the structure which symbolises power, courage, confidence and pride is ready to welcome VVIPs for the Independence Day celebrations on Saturday. “When chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao paid homage here last year he discussed with the defence officials regarding the memorial. The chief minister even assured help in sprucing up the memorial,” sources told TOI. It is not clear when the memorial was actually built, but according to a stone inscription near the structure it was dedicated to the martyrs of the armed forces by Surjith Singh Barnala, the then governor of Andhra Pradesh on June 15, 2003. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is likely to visit the memorial on Saturday. However, people are upset as local military authority (LMA) restricted civilians from visiting the memorial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/war-memorial-renovated-ready-for-i-day-celebrations/articleshow/77554853.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Underage marriage: Priest among 3 booked||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Thursday booked three persons, including a gurdwara priest, for solemnizing the marriage of a 19-year-old youth with a woman, 21.Those booked include Inderjit Singh, priest at Gurdwara Guru Tegh Bahadur Sahib, Jail Road, and witnesses Bittu Kumar of Gopal Nagar, Haibowal, and Rajinder Kumar of Mahavir Colony, Haibowal. ASI Amarjeet Kumar said, “The youth, a resident of Indra Colony, had met the woman, a resident of Batala, on Facebook, a few months ago. The duo decided to elope from their houses as their parents would not agree to their inter-caste marriage. On July 23, they solemnised their marriage at the gurdwara.” Thereafter, the woman approached the Punjab and Haryana high court to seek protection for both of them. “There, the Judge said the youth was 19-year-old, while the legal age for marriage for a man was 21 years. The court then ordered to book those who solemnized their marriage,” the ASI added.As per the court orders, a case has been registered against the three under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, ASI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/underage-marriage-priest-among-3-booked/articleshow/77551937.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ludhiana||2 sisters among 4 booked month after carjacking||Times News Network Ludhiana: A month after a trader was robbed of his sedan, the police on Thursday booked four accused, including two sisters.The victim has been identified as Kunal Dev Malhotra, 36, of Dugri Phase 3, and the accused as Gurdeep Kaur, her sister Sinki of Gaushala Road, Paramjit Singh of Islam Ganj and Surinder Kumar of Kot Alamgir. Kunal, a computer software and hardware businessman, said in his police complaint, “As I was keen to sell my sedan, Gurdeep, an acquaintance, assured help. On July 15, Gurdeep called me to Dugri Road, saying a man wanted to buy my sedan. When I reached there, Gurdeep, Sinki and two men — Paramjit and Surinder — were waiting for me. Gurdeep said the two men were her uncles.”The accused sought a test drive.“We all sat in the sedan, with Paramjit at the wheel. He drove the car to an isolated place near Southern Bypass. There, they thrashed me, snatched my wallet, which contained Rs 40,000, the sedan RC and other documents, threw me out of the moving sedan and sped away,” he added.Model Town police station ASI Avtar Singh said, “The incident took place on July 15, but Kunal approached the police on Thursday as earlier the two parties were trying to strike a compromise. A case has been registered under sections 379-B (snatching) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC against the accused.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-sisters-among-4-booked-month-after-carjacking/articleshow/77551933.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Barmer police arrest two more in smuggling case||JAISALMER: Barmer police on Friday arrested two more persons for smuggling counterfeit currency and heroin from across the border into Chauhatan area of Barmer district with the help of ISI. Bachchu Khan and Sawan Khan, whose fields are situated near the border fencing, worked as couriers and carried the smuggled consignment to its next destination. Till now, 11 people have been arrested and after their remand period, they have been sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/barmer-police-arrest-two-more-in-smuggling-case/articleshow/77554856.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Surat||Family stuck with corpse for cremation rescued||Surat: A team of Surat Municipal Corporation’s (SMC) fire and emergency department came to the rescue of the bereaved family in the flooded Parvat Patiya, who were stuck with the body of a 38-year-old man who had died of heart attack on Friday. Sources in the fire and emergency department stated that Vallabhdas Lathi, a resident of Vrajbhumi apartment in Parvat Patiya had died early morning on Friday and that the family was stuck in the house due to the overflowing Mithi Khadi (creek). The rescue team ferried the family members along with the corpse in the boat for cremation. Talking with TOI, chief fire officer (CFO), Basant Pareek said, “The family members were unable to take the corpse to the crematorium as the society was under eight-feet water. Our team dropped the family members at the main road along with the corpse and that ambulance was arranged to ferry them to the Ashwani Kumar crematorium for the last rites.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/family-stuck-with-corpse-for-cremation-rescued/articleshow/77551962.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chennai||Court orders notice to govt on PIL about rituals at Srirangam temple||Chennai: The Madras high court on Friday ordered notice to the state government on a PIL seeking to perform all rituals and pujas for the main deity of Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple in Srirangam as per aagama rules during lockdown. A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice R Hemalatha also directed the Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) department and the Srirangam temple management to file a detailed report on the rituals being performed. The court passed the interim order on the plea moved by Rangarajan Narasimhan of Srirangam. According to the petitioner, the temple that is over a 1,000 years old and has several rituals, fixtures that require it to be followed as per certain principles. However, the lockdown has affected this, he said. “HR&CE officials constantly interfere with the temple’s affairs and rituals. Suspension of holy rituals during lockdown and then conducting them now is not as per aagama shastra,” he said. Appearing for the family trust that performs the rituals at the temple, senior advocate Sathish Parasaran contended that the petition is not maintainable as the petitioner has other reasons to file this plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/court-orders-notice-to-govt-on-pil-about-rituals-at-srirangam-temple/articleshow/77554901.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ludhiana||I-Day celebrations: With 3,000 cops on roads, city turns fortress||Ludhiana: About 3,000 cops will be on roads on Independence Day.As many as 500 cops will be deployed in and around Guru Nanak Stadium, where a function will be organized to celebrate the day on Saturday. With security beefed up across the industrial hub, the police have set up 12 permanent checkposts at entry points of the city. Vehicles entering the city are being checked at the spots. Besides, 20 checkposts have been established at different markets and main areas of Ludhiana. Joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J Elanchezhian said, “Security has already been increased. Teams of all police stations are conducting checks in their respective areas. This time, the Independence Day function will be a low-key affair. But a force of 500 cops will be deployed in and around the venue – Guru Nanak Stadium. The remaining 2,500 cops will be on duty across the city.” Traffic will be diverted around the stadium.The function will start at 8.58am. During the time, vehicular movement from Fountain Chowk and vice-versa, the rear of railway station and Rakh Bagh side will be restricted. No vehicle, except the VIPs’, will be allowed to move around the stadium. The joint CP said, “The routine traffic will be diverted towards Mall Road. Those who want to reach the railway station are advised to take the route of Jagroan Bridge as traffic towards the rear entry of the station will be restricted.”  “The residents are requested to celebrate Independence Day at their homes. Since the cases of Covid-19 are increasing, people should refrain from coming out of their houses,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/i-day-celebrations-with-3000-cops-on-roads-city-turns-fortress/articleshow/77551950.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Four of a family found dead in Telangana's Wanaparthy, suicide suspected||HYDERABAD: Four members of a family, including an 11-yearold girl, were found dead under mysterious circumstances at their house in Wanaparthy district on Friday. Police suspect it could be a case of mass suicide, but a freshly dug-up pit with lemons and coconuts inside it has left them puzzled as the investigators are also not ruling out some kind of a ritual (black magic) for a hidden treasure. The deceased have been identified as Hazeera Bee (65), her daughter Asma Begum (42), son-in-law Khaja Pasha (42) and their daughter Arsin Haseena. As froth was visible on their mouths, police suspect they had era’s in the kitchen and Pasha’s body was found in the courtyard on the back side of the house. Beside Pasha’s body, cops found the pit with rose flower petals, lemons and a coconut. Neither injuries nor resistance marks were found on the bodies. “Except on Haseena’s body which had minor scratches, there were no resistance marks or external injuries on the other bodies,” deputy SP of Wanaparthy KM Kiran Kumar told TOI. He said they would probe the case from all angles, including a superstition angle as to why lemons, coconuts and other material were kept near died after consuming a poisonous substance but were clueless under what circumstances they had died. Hazeera was a quack who used to prescribe Unani medicines to persons coming with illhealth at her residence in Nagapur village in Revally mandal. On Friday morning when a villager came to meet Hazeera, he found her and three others lying on the floor. He raised an alarm and alerted police. The four bodies were found lying in different places in the house. Haseena’s body was found in the front room, Asreen’s body was lying in the hall, Hazethe pit. “We will also probe the circumstances which led the victims to consume poison,” he said. Investigators said Hazeera had told her family members in 2014 that she had a dream that there was a treasure trove in her house. “She would often dig pits around the house in search of the treasure with the support of the family members and perform puja. This might explain the digging of the pit which was done in search of the treasure or for black magic,’’ the investigators said. When cops enquired with local villagers, they came to know that Hazeera’s son Mohammed Karim Pasha, who is a registered medical practitioner, resides in Nagarkurnool, 17 km away from Revally. During a prelimnary investigation, police found that Haseena and Karim’s son had celebrated their birthdays on August 11. Police said Karim and other family members would be called for questioning. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-of-family-found-dead-in-wanaparthy/articleshow/77555281.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Over 1,200 Covid cases in Rajasthan for 4th consecutive day||JAIPUR: The state reported more than 1,200 Covid-19 positive cases on Friday for the fourth consecutive day, with 13 deaths reported in the state. With 1,278 new cases, the total number of corona positive cases reached 58,692, while the total number of deaths in the state touched 846. Also, Jaipur witnessed 166 cases which were the highest cases recorded in a single day. Since August 11, the state started seeing more than 1,200 cases when 1,217 cases were recorded. It was followed by August 12 when 1,213 cases were recorded, and 1,264 were recorded on Thursday. “We have started random sampling and also taking samples from the rural interiors which is the reason why there has been a spike in the number of cases for the past 15 days,” said an officer with the medical and health department. As per the data released by the medical and health department, out of the total 13 deaths in the state, three deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Bharatpur, two deaths each from Bikaner and Jaisalmer, and one death each was reported from Ajmer, Pali and Rajsamand. “All these patients had co-morbidity and were above 55 years of age and had other health issues too,” said the officer. Jodhpur on Friday saw the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases when 202 cases were reported from there. It was followed by Jaipur, where 166 cases were recorded. Alwar again saw a spike in the cases as 150 cases were reported on Friday. It was followed by Bikaner where 126 cases were reported, and in Ajmer, 119 cases were recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-1200-cases-in-raj-for-4th-consecutive-day/articleshow/77554867.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Day after ‘drugs’ kill man, kin protest, seek arrest of friends||Times News Network Ludhiana: A day after a 22-year-old man died of “drug overdose”, his family staged a protest at Sherpur Chowk on Ludhiana-Delhi National Highway on Friday afternoon, seeking the arrest of four of his friends.Sahil Singla, a resident of Jain Colony, had gone missing on Wednesday night.His father, Rajesh Kumar, said, “That day, Sahil had left home without saying anything. When he did not return, we started looking for him in the locality, but found no success.”On Thursday, passersby found him lying unconscious at a vacant plot in Gurpal Nagar, Sherpur, and sounded the police. Sahil was admitted to a hospital, where he succumbed in the evening. “After he was found in Gurpal Nagar, police said Sahil died of drug overdose. We then scanned the footage of CCTVs installed in the area. Some of the cameras had captured him with four of his friends — Mani, Jony, Rita and Malwinder. Even as we asked police to register a murder case against the four, no action was taken on our complaint. Left with no option, we decided to protest outside Sherpur police post,” Rajesh Kumar added. The protest, which started around 12.30pm, was lifted by 1pm after the intervention of senior police officials. Division 6 police station SHO inspector Amandeep Singh Brar said, “We have the CCTV footage in which the accused are seen with Sahil. When Sahil and the accused were allegedly having drugs together in Gurpal Nagar, Sahil started feeling unwell and lost consciousness. The accused dragged him and hid him near bushes, assuming him dead. A case has been registered against the four under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC. Malwinder, Mani and Jony have been arrested, while Rita is on the run. He will be arrested soon.” Amit Rana, a friend of Sahil, said, “From the past sometime, Sahil had been living with his aunt (father’s sister) in Bathinda. He had returned to Ludhiana recently to celebrate Rakshabandhan.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/day-after-drugs-kill-man-kin-protest-seek-arrest-of-friends/articleshow/77551965.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chennai||Man murdered for confronting daughter’s stalker in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: A 50-year-old man, father of a college student, was murdered by a three-member gang late on Thursday near Chengalpet after he confronted one of them for harassing his daughter three days ago. Main accused, Silambarasan, 20, a resident of Padalam who works at a butcher shop, and his accomplices Akbar Ali and Viji were arrested by the Chengalpet police on Friday. According to police, Thanigaimani, a bus driver at a private school, was living with his wife and daughter at Irunkundrapalli village near Chengalpet. On Thursday night, the gang intercepted Thanigaimani when he was returning home in a motorcycle and attacked him with butcher’s knife. Police said on Monday, Silambarasan, who had been stalking Thanigaimani’s daughter for nearly a year, harassed her to accept his love when she was returning home. The girl told her father about the incident and Thanigaimani confronted Silambarasan. As the verbal fight escalated, Thanigaimani allegedly slapped him in front of everyone. Humiliated by this, Silambarasan plotted to kill the man along with his two friends, and attacked Thanigaimani on Thursday night. “The gang inflicted cut injuries and fled from the scene,” a police officer said. Thanigaimani was admitted to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries. Chengalpet police formed a special team and secured one of the suspects, Akbar Ali, from a hideout. Early on Friday, about 150 relatives and neighbours of the victim gathered in front of the Chengalpet SP office demanding arrest of all the suspects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-murdered-for-confronting-daughters-stalker/articleshow/77554861.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Patna||Former MLC among 16 dead as Bihar nears 1 lakh Covid cases||PATNA: Bihar is on the verge of touching the 1 lakh Covid-19 cases mark with 3,911new cases on Friday taking the total count to 98,370. With 65,307 recoveries so far, the active cases stand at 32,561. The death toll also continued to rise with former MLC and JD (U) state general secretary Ravindra Kumar Tanti being among the 16 fatalities reported on Friday, taking the toll to 500. Tanti was undergoing Covid-19 treatment at AIIMS-Patna. The state, meanwhile, is ramping up testing with 1,21,320 samples tested in 24 hours. “So far nearly 15 lakh samples have been tested. Bihar has vowed that it will defeat Corona,” tweeted health minister Mangal Pandey while sharing data on testing. According to the health department’s data, the first two weeks of August alone contributed to 48% of the total cases reported so far with 47,383 people testing positive for Covid-19. While July had a little over 40% of cases with 41,243 people testing positive in that month. In June, 5,937 new cases were registered, which is 6 % of the total cases. Altogether 16 deaths were reported, including three from Patna, and taking the toll to 94 in the district. Two deaths each were reported from Muzaffarpur and East Champaran, followed by one death each from Buxar, Darbhanga, Gaya, Kaimur, Nalanda and Sheikhpura. Talking about Tanti’s death, AIIMS-Patna Covid-19 nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said he was admitted on August 5 and the next day he was put on ventilator support. “He had a medical history of hypertension and kidney infection,” said Dr Sanjeev. Apart from Tanti, five more deaths were reported from AIIMS-Patna, including two Patna residents. One was an 80-year-old Boring Road resident. The NMCH reported the death of a 46-year-old Masaurhi man, who died of cardiac arrest. According to the health department, maximum Covid-19 cases on Friday were reported from Patna with 484 people testing positive for the virus, taking the tally to 15,868 in the district. However, with 11,977 recoveries, active cases stand at 3,797. Other districts which reported large number of cases are Araria (285), Katihar (257), Sitamarhi (199), East Champaran (175), Madhubani (148), Begusarai (146), Purnia (133), Muzaffrapur (133), Gaya (132), Jehanabad 9113), Saharsa (106) and Saran (106). In the past 24 hours, 2,800 people have recovered from Covid-19 in Bihar, taking the recovery rate to 66.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/former-mlc-among-16-dead-as-state-nears-1l-covid-cases/articleshow/77553560.cms||Sheezan Nezami
August 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Over 1,200 Covid cases in Rajasthan for 4th consecutive day||JAIPUR: The state reported more than 1,200 Covid-19 positive cases on Friday for the fourth consecutive day, with 13 deaths reported in the state. With 1,278 new cases, the total number of corona positive cases reached 58,692, while the total number of deaths in the state touched 846. Also, Jaipur witnessed 166 cases which were the highest cases recorded in a single day. Since August 11, the state started seeing more than 1,200 cases when 1,217 cases were recorded. It was followed by August 12 when 1,213 cases were recorded, and 1,264 were recorded on Thursday. “We have started random sampling and also taking samples from the rural interiors which is the reason why there has been a spike in the number of cases for the past 15 days,” said an officer with the medical and health department. As per the data released by the medical and health department, out of the total 13 deaths in the state, three deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Bharatpur, two deaths each from Bikaner and Jaisalmer, and one death each was reported from Ajmer, Pali and Rajsamand. “All these patients had co-morbidity and were above 55 years of age and had other health issues too,” said the officer. Jodhpur on Friday saw the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases when 202 cases were reported from there. It was followed by Jaipur, where 166 cases were recorded. Alwar again saw a spike in the cases as 150 cases were reported on Friday. It was followed by Bikaner where 126 cases were reported, and in Ajmer, 119 cases were recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/over-1200-cases-in-raj-for-4th-consecutive-day/articleshow/77557826.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Moazzam Jahi market gets its glory back, to open today||Hyderabad: The 85-year-old Moazzam Jahi market will be thrown open for people after renovation on Independence Day. Spread over 1.77 acre, the market was given a facelift at the cost of Rs 15 crore. The renovated done of the market exhibits interpretation panels with historical and architectural information. Map of the market, its history and photos is displayed in the panel inside the monument. The charming lightings of the building along with the flag post in central courtyard adds to the beauty and patriotic essence of the place. The meat market located within the monument has also been restored, with the shops being given a uniform design. The I-sections in the roof has been replaced and the jack arches were redone. The spiral staircases have also been refurbished and given additional reinforcement. New clock in the tower can be heard chiming and its echo heard from the courtyard. Footpath around the market has been developed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/moazzam-jahi-market-gets-its-glory-back-to-open-today/articleshow/77554882.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ajmer||Over 1,200 Covid cases in Rajasthan for 4th consecutive day||JAIPUR: The state reported more than 1,200 Covid-19 positive cases on Friday for the fourth consecutive day, with 13 deaths reported in the state. With 1,278 new cases, the total number of corona positive cases reached 58,692, while the total number of deaths in the state touched 846. Also, Jaipur witnessed 166 cases which were the highest cases recorded in a single day. Since August 11, the state started seeing more than 1,200 cases when 1,217 cases were recorded. It was followed by August 12 when 1,213 cases were recorded, and 1,264 were recorded on Thursday. “We have started random sampling and also taking samples from the rural interiors which is the reason why there has been a spike in the number of cases for the past 15 days,” said an officer with the medical and health department. As per the data released by the medical and health department, out of the total 13 deaths in the state, three deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Bharatpur, two deaths each from Bikaner and Jaisalmer, and one death each was reported from Ajmer, Pali and Rajsamand. “All these patients had co-morbidity and were above 55 years of age and had other health issues too,” said the officer. Jodhpur on Friday saw the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases when 202 cases were reported from there. It was followed by Jaipur, where 166 cases were recorded. Alwar again saw a spike in the cases as 150 cases were reported on Friday. It was followed by Bikaner where 126 cases were reported, and in Ajmer, 119 cases were recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/over-1200-cases-in-raj-for-4th-consecutive-day/articleshow/77557827.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Udaipur||Over 1,200 Covid cases in Rajasthan for 4th consecutive day||JAIPUR: The state reported more than 1,200 Covid-19 positive cases on Friday for the fourth consecutive day, with 13 deaths reported in the state. With 1,278 new cases, the total number of corona positive cases reached 58,692, while the total number of deaths in the state touched 846. Also, Jaipur witnessed 166 cases which were the highest cases recorded in a single day. Since August 11, the state started seeing more than 1,200 cases when 1,217 cases were recorded. It was followed by August 12 when 1,213 cases were recorded, and 1,264 were recorded on Thursday. “We have started random sampling and also taking samples from the rural interiors which is the reason why there has been a spike in the number of cases for the past 15 days,” said an officer with the medical and health department. As per the data released by the medical and health department, out of the total 13 deaths in the state, three deaths each were reported from Jaipur and Bharatpur, two deaths each from Bikaner and Jaisalmer, and one death each was reported from Ajmer, Pali and Rajsamand. “All these patients had co-morbidity and were above 55 years of age and had other health issues too,” said the officer. Jodhpur on Friday saw the highest number of Covid-19 positive cases when 202 cases were reported from there. It was followed by Jaipur, where 166 cases were recorded. Alwar again saw a spike in the cases as 150 cases were reported on Friday. It was followed by Bikaner where 126 cases were reported, and in Ajmer, 119 cases were recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/over-1200-cases-in-raj-for-4th-consecutive-day/articleshow/77557825.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt to promote Telangana Sona with ISB help||Hyderabad: To promote Telangana rice under the brand name ‘Telangana Sona’, the agriculture department and Professor Jayahankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) joined hands with Indian School of Business (ISB). Telangana Sona is a new paddy variety developed by PJTSAU, offering distinguished features and making it beneficial for rice eaters from the health point of view. It also offers benefits to farmers and mill owners also. An MoU was signed by principal secretary of agriculture Janardhan Reddy, vice-chancellor of PJTSAU V Praveen Rao and clinical professor of marketing and director, ISB centre for business markets, DVR Seshadri on Friday. Speaking on the new paddy variety, Janardhan Reddy said: “Telangana has all the required skills to emerge as ‘rice bowl of the country.’ As diabetes is spreading fast, it is important to develop food varieties that would help reduce its penetration. Telangana Sona is one such variety which has the lowest glycemic index and is good for diabetic patients. It also has a higher composition of protein, carbohydrates, energy, and vitamin B3.” ISB associate dean (research) Manish Gangwar said branding and marketing are at the core of ISB’s expertise and added ISB would market Telangana Sona along with PJTSAU through its JumpStartIndia@ISB initiative. Praveen Rao said the varsity innovated several agricultural products, primarily to benefit the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-promote-telangana-sona-with-isb-help/articleshow/77555291.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 15, 2020||Goa||Rain, winds, damage gazebo at Colva beach||Colva: One of the six gazebos installed at Colva beach under the Swadesh Darshan scheme this February to augment tourism infrastructure, has been ruined by the recent spell of heavy rain and wind. According to information provided by the Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC), at least four of the 19 gazebos placed at hand-picked spots along the state’s coastline have sustained damage due to inclement weather. Made of fibre reinforced plastic, the gazebos are freestanding roofed shades that are open on all sides. Apart from providing shade to beach-goers, they also add ornamental value to the beach. GTDC assistant engineer Vishad Pole said although the gazebos were installed only after determining the average high tide line of the chosen beaches over the past five years, recent weather conditions caused the sea to breach the high tide line in many areas. All damages will be made good by the contractor at no cost to the GTDC, Pole said. Work is expected to begin once the monsoon ends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rain-winds-damage-gazebo-at-colva-beach/articleshow/77554897.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ludhiana||Snatchers’ gang busted||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police on Friday claimed to have busted a snatchers’ gang, with the arrest of two.Lovedeep Singh Deepu of Guru Nanak Nagar, Bhamiyan Road, and Raman of Peeru Banda, Salem Tabri, were nabbed near Malhar Road. Their accomplice, Suraj Kumar, also of Peeru Banda, is at large. All three are between 25 and 28 years old. The gang had committed 11 snatchings since January, including two during the lockdown. Joint commissioner of police (city) Bhagirath Singh Meena said, “Lovedeep and Raman were on a motorcycle when they were intercepted near Malhar Road. The stolen motorcycle, 17 mobile phones and two gold chains were recovered from their possession.”Lovedeep is already facing trial in four cases of snatching and drug peddling. He came out on bail on January 22. Raman has seven cases of snatchings and drug peddling lodged against him. He came out of jail on bail on January 28. Thereafter, they again started executing crime in the city. “The accused are drug addicts and committed crimes to meet their needs. Women were their main targets. The gang was active in Sarabha Nagar, Model Town, Ghumar Mandi, Domoriya Bridge, Guru Nanak Stadium, Bahadur Ke Road and Jodhewal,” he added.A case has been registered against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/snatchers-gang-busted/articleshow/77551970.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||10 more in shelter home test positive, Lucknow's tally 16,000||LUCKNOW: The city’s Covid-19 tally moved closer to the 16,000-mark with 652 more people testing positive for the disease. The fresh cases included eight employees and two children of a government shelter home. As the August spike continued, the total caseload since the outbreak in March is now 15,981. Of these, 7,803 (48%) cases have been reported in August so far with average 23 per hour. Though 8,607 people have recovered, 7,188 are in hospitals or home isolation and 186 have died. On Friday, the maximum number of cases—35—came from Alambagh followed by Bazarkhala (29) Indiranagar (27), Mahanagar and Talkatora (25 each), Gomtinagar (22), Jankipuram (21), Madiaon (20), Chowk (19), Hazratganj (17) and Saadatganj, Cantonment and Naka (15 each). “Employees and two children at the government shelter home for kids were tested during a random sampling drive,” said a health official. On Wednesday and Thursday, as many as 62 juveniles and six employees at the observation home on Mohan Road had tested positive. Two patients and a ward boy at SMP Hospital were also diagnosed with the disease. Meanwhile, CMS founder Jagdish Gandhi who was found positive on August 4, is improving, said school spokesperson Rishi Khanna. Plasma bank at KGMU A plasma bank for convalescent therapy for Covid-19 will be inaugurated by governor Anandiben Patel at the transfusion medicine department of KGMU on Saturday. The department also houses a blood bank. Head of the department Prof Tulika Chandra said, “The bank has 45 units of plasma from Covid-19 survivors so far. Besides KGMU, many units have also been sent to other hospitals across the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10-more-in-shelter-home-test-positive-city-tally-16k/articleshow/77555268.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Woman’s body cut into pieces, thrown over different locations in Bhiwadi||ALWAR: A mutilated body of a woman chopped into pieces and spilled over different places on the roadside near Khijarpur village of UIT Phase Third Police Station area of Bhiwadi in Alwar district was found on Friday. Police said that that woman was badly murdered and the assailants have chopped her body parts and thrown them in various places. According to the police, some people informed them about spotting of woman’s leg near the UIT Phase Third Police station area. A team of senior police officers along with Forensic Science Laboratory(FSL) team rushed to the spot. “We have found woman's leg and her other body parts from some other parts in several piece. The body appeared to be of 6 to seven days old. Bher head and face has also been smashed to ensure it can’t be identified,” said a senior police officer of Bhiwadi while talking to TOI. Even her chest and other body parts were also been cut into pieces, according to the Bhiwadi police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/womans-body-cut-into-pieces-creates-panic-at-bhiwadi/articleshow/77554880.cms||Rajendra sharma
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Award for cops who tracked down 2005 blast mastermind||NEW DELHI: On July 5, 2005, five terrorists of Pakistani origin attacked the makeshift Ram temple in Ayodhya. While all of them were shot dead in the ensuing gunfight with CRPF, the mastermind remained at large. A team led by inspector Mohan Chand Sharma comprising inspector Kailash Bisht, then SIs Dharmender and Devender and then constables Parvesh and Nisar Ahmed analysed technical inputs and zeroed in on Jaish-e-Mohammed commander Asif alias Saifullah Kari, a Pakistani, as the conspirator. After two years of surveillance, Kari’s location was tracked to Jammu and he was gunned down. After 13 years, Sharma and his team have been honoured with gallantry medals. Sharma was martyred in the Batla House encounter in Delhi while fighting terrorists a year later in 2008. Apart from this team, 29 Delhi Police personnel were also conferred Police Medals for their services on the eve of Independence Day. The medals will be given to them during the Independence Day celebrations on Saturday. Police medals for gallantry were given to the policemen who had gunned down notorious gangster Neetu Dabodia and his associate, Alok Gupta, in an encounter near Vasant Kunj in 2013. A team led by DCP Manishi Chandra comprising inspectors Vinod Badola and Ravinder Joshi and SI Banay Singh had intercepted Dabodia near a five-star hotel. The gangsters tried to ram their car into the police vehicle and also fired at the cops. Dabodia was killed in the crossfire. The gallantry award was given to inspector Vinay Kumar and ASI Mangal Yadav for the arrest of gangster Sonu Dariyapur in 2017, who was involved in murder and extortion cases in Delhi and Haryana. ACP Govind Sharma, inspectors Sanjay Gupta and Rajesh Kumar were also given the award for the arrest of gangsters Sanjay Lakra and Vijay Sehrawat, who were wanted for the murder of a policeman in 2017. While 16 policemen were awarded Police Medal for Gallantry, three got the President’s Police Medal for Distinguished Service and another 16 were given Police Medal for Meritorious Service. The President’s Police Medal was awarded to special commissioner Rajesh Khurana for handling the law and order situation in central and north Delhi during the February riots. ASIs Mahesh Singh Yadav and Bhupender Singh were not only conferred the award, but they also received commendation from the police commissioner. DCPs AK Lal, Amit Roy and MI Haider, ACPs Nirmala Devi, Kailash Chandra, Rajesh Gaur and Chander Kanta, inspectors Rakesh Malik, Pramod Kumar and Narender Kumar, women sub-inspectors Manju Chauhan and Nirmala Devi, ASIs Rakesh Kumar and Sita Ram Yadav were awarded Police Medal for Meritorious Service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/award-for-cops-who-tracked-down-2005-blast-mastermind/articleshow/77554883.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Dog squad to spend stress-free I-Day this yr||Hyderabad: The canine members of the City Security Wing (CSW) will have a relatively less-stressed Independence Day this year as no major VIP or VVIP events are scheduled to take place. While earlier, a dog squad would ‘sanitise’ the Golconda Fort area everyday starting a week before the event, the cancellation of large-scale celebrations in view of the Covid-19 pandemic has given the canines enough time to enjoy physical training sessions and get grooming time with their handlers. “The sanitisation process takes place in addition to the VIP and VVIP duties during the event and route checking for people’s movement,” said Janardhan, a dog handler, adding that this time, only two dog squads have been sanitizing the Public Garden. “Before lockdown, there were weeks when they had back to back duties. We pack their food and move from one event to another. During the lockdown, we got more time to continue their training, which also including sniffing explosive and tracking. We could also get time to massage and groom them as work-related stress was less,” he said. However, the canines have had to go on regular checking duty twice a day for explosives at various crowded centres, including religious places. They are also involved in sanitising prominent buildings, including the MLA questers, state Assembly, the office of director-general of police and the airport etc. “They have to do all of this despite VVIP movement in the city being less. They are also being utilised to in burglary, murder and other criminal investigation,” said M Krishna Reddy, the CSW additional DCP. As many as 19 dogs, including two Cocker Spaniels, one Golden Retriever, Labrador Retriever and German Shepherd are with the CSW. “Six more canines are likely to join the team soon,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dog-squad-to-spend-stress-free-i-day-this-yr/articleshow/77554898.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 15, 2020||Agra||Agra town planner tests Covid +ve, 186 fresh cases in Bareilly||Agra/Bareilly: A town planner of Agra Development Authority (ADA) was tested Covid-19 positive on Friday. The latest case comes after an executive engineer of the building and maps section and a driver were also found infected. The officer has been isolated at home. The office of the town planner was sealed to stop the spread of any infection. Samples of staffers who had come in contact with the officer have been sent for lab testing. Apart from the three from ADA, so far six staffers of Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) and two of Jal Sansthan have been found positive. Work in these departments is affected for the past one week. According to the health department, 21 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Friday evening, taking the district tally to 2,266. Also, 12 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Friday. Of the 2,266 cases reported in the district, 79.8% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 355 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Moreover, Bareilly reported 186 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday while three persons succumbed to the virus, according to additional chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar. The new cases included 12 inmates and staff of Nari Niketan. The district tally reached 4,695 so far with 92 deaths and 2,076 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-town-planner-tests-covid-ve-186-fresh-cases-in-bareilly/articleshow/77550924.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Vadodara||More legislators jump into poll fray||Vadodara/ Anand: More political leaders jumped in the fray on Friday for the elections for the new board of the Kaira District Co-operative Milk Producers Union Limited popularly known as Amul Dairy. For the 13 seats of elected representatives, 69-odd candidates have submitted over 100 forms. The polls are being held for the first time after dairy’s current chairman and former Thasra MLA Ramsinh Parmar switched over to BJP just ahead of the Rajya Sabha election in 2017. Ramsinh and his deputy – Amul Dairy’s vice-chairman Rajendrasinh Parmar - who is a Congress MLA representing Borsad in Gujarat assembly had already filed their candidature. In the fresh round, two other MLAs have also joined the poll fray. Anand’s Congress MLA Kanti Sodha Parmar and Umreth’s BJP MLA Govind Parmar have filed their candidature for the Anand block that will witness a keen contest now. The polls are scheduled on August 29 for 12 seats representing Anand, Khambhat, Borsad, Petlad, Thasra, Balasinore, Kathlal, Kapadwanj, Mehmedabad, Matar, Nadiad and Virpur blocks. With no other candidate filing his or her nomination for the one seat of lifetime member in the board, Ranjit Patel has won the seat uncontested, like in the past. All eyes are set on developments that take place before August 18 which is the last day of withdrawal of candidature. The maximum number of forms have been submitted for the Anand and Nadiad blocks. A total of 1,214 representatives of milk societies are eligible to exercise their voting right in the polls. While elections will be held at the dairy premises in Anand on August 29, counting of votes will be done on August 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/more-legislators-jump-into-poll-fray/articleshow/77551235.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Agra||AAP MP Sanjay Singh faces 3 FIRs in UP for calling Yogi govt ‘pro-Thakur’||Agra: At least three FIRs were filed in three different districts of Uttar Pradesh on Friday against Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh for accusing the UP government of being “pro-Thakur” and insulting the Dalits by not inviting President Ram Nath Kovind to the foundation stone laying ceremony of Ram Janmabhoomi temple in Ayodhya. Singh was booked under sections 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion) and 505 (1)(b) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public) of IPC in Aligarh, Lakhimpur Kheri’s Gola town and Muzaffarnagar on complaints filed by three local residents. The complainants accused the MP of “spreading hatred among the public on the basis of caste, and religion”. They alleged that Singh tried to “incite various castes of Hindu religion against the state government and violated constitutional dignity too by passing such a statement”. According to the complainants, Singh, during a press conference on August 12, had stated that people have started calling the STF as a “Special Thakur Force”, which was “killing Brahmins selectively”. It was also alleged that Singh said that despite being a Brahmin, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma was silent to the injustice being done to the community. Later in the day, Sanjay Singh in a Facebook live, claimed that he had been receiving threat messages on his phone and social media accounts after he raised questions on the Yogi government’s working. He said, “People, including BJP leaders, are trying to suppress my voice by sending such threatening messages.” Talking to TOI, Singh said this was the "usual tactic of the Yogi government to harass anyone who dares to raise voice against his government". “I will not change my statement even after registration of these three or more FIRs,” he said, adding that a democratically elected government cannot work for a particular caste.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/aap-mp-sanjay-singh-faces-3-firs-in-up-for-calling-yogi-govt-pro-thakur/articleshow/77550912.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 15, 2020||Agra||Demand dips, Gandhi Ashram in Agra 'stops printing khadi flags' for 1st time in 35 yrs||Agra: For the first time in 35 years, the Gandhi Ashram in Agra has not printed national flags ahead of the Independence Day amid Covid-19 pandemic. Unlike previous years, the seven Gandhi Ashram stores in Agra remained deserted on the eve of I-Day. On Friday, Khadi national flags were available only at three stores in the district. According to the Khadi store owners, the sale of the national flag in the month of August was around 75% less as compared to the previous year. The Gandhi Ashram at Runkata has been printing the national flags since 1985. The Khadi for the flags is supplied from Gujarat and Karnataka. The flags printed at the Agra centre are supplied in Mathura, Firozabad, Kasganj, Hathras, Etah, Mainpuri and several other districts of UP. Regional secretary of Gandhi Ashram, Sambhunath Chaubey, said, “Following the outbreak of Covid-19, no national flag was printed at our production centre at Runkata in Agra. The stock of flags printed last year, and those supplied from Khadi Gramodhyoga centre at Hubli in Karnataka are being sold at Khadi centers in Agra region this year. The sale of the national flag is down by over 75 percent this year." Talking to TOI, manager of the Khadi store on MG road, Prem Chand, said, “The pandemic has hugely affected the sale of national flags this year. Since Friday morning, we have not been able to sell 50 flags whereas around 300 flags were sold on the eve of Independence Day last year. Most of the customers this year came from government institutions." “Minimum cost of a Khadi flag is Rs 300 whereas large flags are available at Rs 930, Rs 1,850 and Rs 2,750,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/demand-dips-gandhi-ashram-in-agra-stops-printing-khadi-flags-for-1st-time-in-35-yrs/articleshow/77550931.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 15, 2020||Agra||Power cut, pipeline leakage affect water supply in Agra||Agra: After frequent power cuts and leakages in the pipeline, water supply in over two dozen localities of the city connected with Jeevani Mandi water works station remained affected on Friday. At other places, people reported complaints of foul smell and poor quality water supply. Residents said despite several complaints, the Jal Sansthan failed to send water tanks to the affected areas. Water supply in old city areas is dependent on Jeevani Mandi waterworks station, whereas nearly half of the city gets water supply from Sikandra waterworks. Both the stations are not working in their full capacity. Besides, around 20 leakages on water supply pipelines maintained by Jal Sansthan are causing wastage of thousands of litres of water in different parts of the city on a daily basis. According to an estimate, at least 50 million litre per day (MLD) water is wasted in the city due to pipeline leakages. So far, Jal Sansthan has no city-wide plan to check the situation. To put a tab on leakages, Jal Sansthan make temporary arrangements which last only for a few days. On Thursday and Friday, frequent power cuts in the city affected the working of operation of water treatment plants. Besides, the leakages in the pipeline made over 60,000 households suffer with no water supply. The areas where water supply remained affected include Awas Vikas, Sikandra, Dayalbagh, trans Yamuna, Baluganj, Mantola, Subhas Bazaar, Transport Nagar, Kailash road, Balkeshwar Locality, Belanganj, Daresi, Rawatpara, Noori Darwaza, Shahganj, Madia Katra, Lohamandi, Idgha and Chipitola. General Manager of Agra Jal Sansthan RS Yadav said, “We are working to fix all the leakages. Pipeline are too old and weak. They are not able to bear pressure of water and getting leaked. We are working on a plan to lay new pipeline in areas where frequent leakages are surfacing. Frequent power cuts affected the working of water treatment plants. Water tanks were sent in several areas."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/power-cut-pipeline-leakage-affect-water-supply-in-agra/articleshow/77550936.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 15, 2020||Surat||SGCCI urges for Shramik trains to bring back migrant workers||Surat: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has urged the Ministry of Railways for operating reverse ‘Shramik special trains’ from Bihar, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh to bring back the migrant textile workers to the city. At the stakeholders meeting of the textile industry, representatives from the powerloom, textile processing and trading sectors raised the issues, majority of the stakeholders said that the industrial production has been affected due to the severe shortage of workers. Only around 15% of the units have reopened with just about two lakh workers post-lockdown. During the lockdown, about 15 lakh migrant workers employed in the textile sector left for their native places in Bihar, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh in Shramik special trains and private vehicles. “Workers are the backbone of the textile sector and manufacturing of MMF fabric will continue to remain affected. Surat is contributing to about 45% of the MMF fabric demand in the country,” said Dinesh Navadiya, president of SGCCI. “Majority of workers in textile sectors are from Odisha. Not a single train between Surat and Odisha has resumed,” said Ashish Gujarati, president of Pandesara Weavers Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sgcci-urges-for-shramik-trains-to-bring-back-migrant-workers/articleshow/77552033.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Agra||Youth shoots kin dead to avenge thrashing||Agra: A 20-year-old youth allegedly shot his relative dead in Etah’s Jawaharpur village on Thursday morning to avenge his beating a week ago. According to police, the suspect, Mohammed Faizan, was ‘caught’ in an "objectionable position" a week ago by Mohammed Haseen with his sister. In a fit of rage Haseen had then thrashed Faizan. Faizan went to Haseen’s house in the morning and shot him when he came out to meet him. Police suspect that Faizan killed Haseen to avenge his humiliation. Faizan was immediately taken to the hospital but doctors declared him brought dead. The body was sent for postmortem. An FIR under section 302 (murder) was registered against Faizan at Pilua police station and the suspect has been arrested, said SSP Sunil Kumar Singh. Further investigation is currently on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/youth-shoots-kin-dead-to-avenge-thrashing/articleshow/77550945.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Goa||Students quiz Goa CM Pramod Sawant about jobs, finances and ‘bivpachi garaz na’||PANAJI: Schools and colleges in the state will reopen only once Covid is brought under control, chief minister Pramod Sawant told students in his first online interaction with them on Friday. He said classes for students who have board exams this year will begin before others but added that the state is waiting for guidelines from the ministry of home affairs. “Classes for Class X and XII will start first followed by others, by maintaining social distancing but after Covid is brought under control,” he said replying to questions from students who cleared board exams this year He added that while education is important, life is more important. The interaction was not without the now famous ‘Bivpachi garaz na’ phrase. When asked about his oft quoted phrase, the ‘Bivpachi garaz na’ chief minister said it is only to give people some “confidence” and help them through the pandemic. Stating that he was even trolled for that statement, Sawant said as the chief minister, he had to provide some reassurance to the people that they cannot give up hope. Sawant allayed fears of students whose parents have lost jobs saying the Goa government will support students who want to study through various schemes, loans and scholarships with the social welfare department. The government he said is tying up with a nationalised bank to provide students with loans at a minimum rate of interest to allow them to study in professional colleges.“No student will be at a disadvantage because of money. They will be able to study at professional colleges,” he said. Sawant was able to reach out to students with hearing difficulties too by engaging a sign language interpreter during the interaction. Besides giving differently-abled students an opportunity to study in special schools, the government is also making resource rooms available for slow learners so that they can be integrated into the main stream he said. He said very few Goans answer competitive exams and said an agency is being brought on board for the next academic year which would train and guide students.. The agency will ready students for public service commission, banking exams and railway recruitment he said, adding that the RFQ has already been floated. “This will help develop the competitive culture in Goa, not only from the graduate level. The foundation course will be done even from standard X as is being done in other states,” he told students. He urged those who didn’t clear standards X and XII exams not to be disheartened and asked them to answer the supplementary board exam on September 15. He told them of various options available to those who don’t clear exams- including ITI courses and said the aptitude tests conducted in schools will help them identify their talent. He urged the parents of all students to collect the results from the aptitude tests from their schools and stressed also on the importance of personality development. To another question he said once NEP is implemented, the mismatch between education and industry requriement will be taken care of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/students-quiz-cm-about-jobs-finances-bivpachi-garaz-na/articleshow/77554963.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 15, 2020||Varanasi||MLA’s wife missing, cops claim she is in hiding||Varanasi: Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra’s wife Ramlali Mishra, who is an MLC from Mirzapur-Sonbhadra, is reportedly missing from her residence in George Town, Prayagraj since Thursday night. The police, however, claimed she has gone into hiding to evade arrest in a case in which she is a co-accused along with her husband and son. Vijay was detained by the Madhya Pradesh police in Malwa area on Friday. “We are investigating the matter,” said Bhadohi SP RB Singh, who claimed she had gone into hiding. “She is not missing, but has gone into hiding to evade arrest,” the SP told TOI on Friday. Ramlali is co-accused along with with her husband and son in a case lodged on August 8 by her relative Krishna Mohan Tiwari for allegedly grabbing his property. The police had lodged an FIR against Mishra, his wife and son at Gopiganj police station under sections 325 (voluntarily causing grievous), 506 (criminal intimidation), 347 (wrongful confinement to extort property, or constrain to illegal act), 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion) and 449 (house-trespass in order to commit offence punishable with death) of IPC. According to reports, her gunner Ishwar Chand informed the higher authorities on Thursday night that she has gone missing . The matter was brought to the notice of senior officials, including Bhadohi SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mlas-wife-missing-cops-claim-she-is-in-hiding/articleshow/77553651.cms||Binay Singh
August 15, 2020||Bareilly||5 statistic centres & 6 mobile units collecting samples for Covid test in district||Bareilly: The health department has started collecting samples of suspected Covid-19 cases at five statistic centres in Bareilly, what with the district reporting over 100 cases daily. Six mobile medical units (MMUs) have also been sent to different parts of the city to collect samples. Officials said they are collecting around 2,500 samples per day.Chief medical officer Dr Vineet Shukla said, “Five statistic centres are operational in the city at Gangapuram, Jagatpur, Subhash Nagar, district hospital and the 300-bed government hospital, where samples of suspected Covid-19 cases are collected for testing. We are also preparing the schedule of MMUs, and calling over locals from adjoining areas to submit their swab samples.”He added, “We have been increasing our collection of samples. In June, we used to collect around 200 per day, which has now been raised to around 2,500 per day.”Bareilly has reported a total of 4,509 cases till Thursday. Of these, 1,909 are active while 89 people have succumbed to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/5-statistic-centres-6-mobile-units-collecting-samples-for-covid-test-in-district/articleshow/77550948.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Event brings Raja, Owaisi on same dais||Hyderabad: The inaugural event of the renovated Moazzam Jahi Market brought AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi and lone BJP legislator from Telangana, Raja Singh, on the same dais on Friday. IT minister KT Rama Rao spent most of the time with Owaisi and toured the market with him while Singh stood near the dais with his staff. While Hyderabad MP sat next to KTR, the BJP MLA from Goshamahal sat next to education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy. “Though people say old Hyderabad and new Hyderabad, for me, Hyderabad is a city with old world charm and new age vibrancy. This is a city where people of all religions and sects co-exist. People of all states including, Punjabi, Gujarati, Bengali and Malayali, are part of the city. Hyderabad has a cosmopolitan and composite culture. Onus to maintain this culture lies on all of us,” said KTR. He recalled that CM K Chandrasekhar Rao used to stay at a lodge near Moazzam Jahi Market when he was a student and used to visit Famous Ice-cream.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/event-brings-raja-owaisi-on-same-dais/articleshow/77555336.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow youth back in coffin from Malaysia, family fears foul play||LUCKNOW: The body of a 22-year-old city youth, who was found dead under mysterious circumstances on Sibu port in Malaysia on July 22, reached Lucknow on Friday. His parents alleged that their son Saurav Pandey, who worked as an oiler in a shipping company, was killed for organ trading. Pandey, a resident of Anandnagar, had joined CW shipping company on January 11 and was posted at Sibu port. Saurabh’s mother Vinti, who was distraught after seeing the body of her son, raised questions on the manner in which her son was transported to India and also claimed that organs of her son were stolen. Vinti alleged that the body was flown from Malaysia to New Delhi and then via ambulance brought to Lucknow.  “One Kuldeep Singh identified his body despite the body being locked in a coffin,” she said. She further said that three other youths from India also met the same fate as Saurav’s. “We had given a written statement to the shipping company to not carry out a postmortem examination of Saurav, but despite that it was done. And when we asked forhistopathological reports along with videography of postmortem, nobody came forward,” Vinti said, apprehending foul play. “On the request of the family post-mortem would be done in Lucknow,” said DCP, East, Somen Barma. To recall, Vinti had a WhatsApp video call with Saurav on July 19, during which she surfaced that the eyes of her son were swollen and he had bruises. Later, on July 22, she got information from the shipping company that her son had drowned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/city-youth-back-in-coffin-from-malaysia-family-fears-foul-play/articleshow/77555311.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Bareilly||5-year-old girl dies in wall collapse||Pilibhit: A 5-year-old girl died on Friday after the roof of her house collapsed on her due to incessant rain in Suhas village of Gajraula police station limits. At the time of the mishap, the girl was playing with her younger brother. SDM of Bisalpur circle Chandra Bhan Singh has inspected the spot and announced compensation for the victim’s kin under the state government’s relief scheme. SHO Jai Prakash Yadav said the body had been sent for autopsy and her brother Harshit, aged 2, has sustained leg fracture. "He has been shifted to the district government hospital in Pilibhit," the SHO added. SDM Singh told TOI, "The wall that collapsed was made of mud. The revenue administration will refer the case of the deceased for compensation worth Rs 4 lakh under the natural calamity relief fund to the state government after her autopsy report is received.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/5-year-old-girl-dies-in-wall-collapse/articleshow/77550977.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Over 68,000 brought back home in 400 Vande Bharat flights||LUCKNOW: Amausi airport on Thursday received the 400th repatriation flight under Vande Bharat mission, bringing back over 68,000 stranded Indian citizens amid Covid-19 pandemic in just 96 days. Most of the citizens were brought from Middle East countries. According to Airports Authority of India's Lucknow unit, at 1.20pm on Thursday, a flight from Dubai landed with 183 Indian citizens, taking the total rescued stranded citizens figure to 68,313. Earlier on May 9 evening, the first repatriation flight had arrived from Sharjah in which 182 passengers were brought via Air India Express. Nitin Kadiyan, assistant general manager of Amausi airport said, “Close to 800 pilots and scores of airport staff, including immigration and customs, CISF, airlines and health department team members worked day and night to facilitate hassle-free arrival of stranded citizens. Most of the passengers were brought from Dubai,Sharjah, Kuwait, Jeddah, Dammam, Ras Al Khaimah UAE, Doha, Muscat, Abu Dhabi, Riyadh, Kyrgyzstan and Singapore.” Amausi airport director A KSharma, said, “All the Covid guidelines such as social distancing, thermal screening and other measures were followed at the airport while handling the repatriation flight operations. AAI is grateful to airport staff, customs, immigration, CISF, administration, police and health department who contributed in making the Vande Bharat mission a success.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-68k-brought-back-home-in-400-vande-bharat-flights/articleshow/77555329.cms||Arvind Chauhan
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||15-day programme on cybersecurity||Hyderabad: Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad is all set to organise a 15-day faculty development programme (FDP) on cybersecurity from August 24 to September 9. The programme is being held following the university’s decision to teach cybersecurity as a mandatory non-credit course to all the BTech students from the ensuing academic year. The programme will be conducted by the Centre of Excellence in Cybersecurity. Resource persons from top firms such as Tata Consultancy Services, NALSAR, Forensic Science Laboratory are set to teach the programme. The university will issue a certificate to all the faculty members upon completion of the training programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-day-programme-on-cybersecurity/articleshow/77555365.cms||---
August 15, 2020||India||Govt to expand Ayushman Bharat to cover 'missing middle'||NEW DELHI: The Centre plans to expand the Ayushman Bharat health insurance framework to include 45 crore ‘non-poor population’ who are currently not covered under any government or private insurance scheme and are only a little better off than the PM-JAY beneficiaries. While the proposed plan is to offer coverage on ‘self-pay basis’, it aims to reduce insurance premium by around one-third of the existing retail price and cover the “missing middle” against financial risk of hospitalisation using the Ayushman Bharat ecosystem, official sources said. “The idea is to reduce the average insurance premium so that it is affordable to people who are just above the poverty line and are currently neither covered under the government scheme or by their employers and are also unable to afford market prices,” an official said. Apart from Ayushman Bharat and other government schemes, around 12.5 crore people are covered under private health insurance. Of this, around 7-8 crore people access schemes offered by employers and rest buy a policy from retail market. However, for a policy of Rs 3-5 lakh, the average premium for a young family is around Rs 10,000-15,000 annually. Those involving elderly have higher premiums. The proposed scheme is likely to reduce the premium to Rs 4,000-Rs 5,000 per year for a cover of Rs 5 lakh, the official said. Under the proposal, it will be mandatory for insurers to maintain basic features of AB-PMJAY scheme such as a family floater of Rs 5 lakh per annum with no cap on the number or age of family members in a group. The policy cover will be sold to groups like RWAs (for their employees), delivery groups and cab integrators to ensure a “cross risk” pool through a mix of individuals of all age groups and with variety of disease profiles that should make it viable for insurance companies too. The scheme should help persons in informal employment or gig workers. The National Health Authority — the implementing agency of the government-run scheme — has invited expressions of interest from insurance companies that are interested in participating in the project targeting the “missing middle”. At present Ayushman Bharat provides a free annual cover of Rs 5 lakh to around 10.74 crore ‘deprived’ families, covering 50 crore people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-to-expand-ayushman-bharat-to-cover-missing-middle/articleshow/77555939.cms||Sushmi Dey
August 15, 2020||Dehradun||‘Govt deploys us on Covid-19 frontline, pays us a pittance,’ allege PRD jawans on FB video||Dehradun: Two jawans of Prantiya Rakshak Dal (PRD), around 7,000 of whose personnel are currently deployed by the state to arrest the spread of Covid-19 in Uttarakhand, have uploaded videos on Facebook accusing the government of “insufficient and untimely pay.” “We are paid Rs 500 a day for our duty, which requires travelling around 100km every day from Vikas Nagar to Dehradun. Petrol prices alone amount to Rs 200. We are risking our lives while working at Covid care centres, for nearly no returns. We will organise protests if our demands are not met,” lamented Sunil Lakharwal, a PRD soldier posted at Ballupur health post, in his almost 5-minute-long video. Appealing to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help them, Lakharwal further said, “I am sad I voted for BJP in the Uttarakhand elections. But I voted in your name, Modiji. Please help us, as survival is difficult with the high-risk job we have been assigned, and the paltry amount we are paid.” PRD soldiers are hired on a contractual basis by governments, for instance at the time of a disaster or festivals, when forces need to be ramped up. They mostly work as security guards and sometimes do clerical jobs at the secretariat or other government offices. In Uttarakhand, they have been tasked with providing security at isolation centres and Covid care centres. They have also been mandated to ensure people coming from high-load Covid cities stay in home quarantine. Shivam Rathi, a PRD jawan, who has been working at Dobhalwala health post for the last two months, corroborated Lakharwal’s claims in another Facebook video. “Apart from working at the health post, my job also constitutes looking after people in quarantine in areas like Hathibarkala, Chukku Mohalla, Indira Colony, Vijay Colony, Pathariya Peer etc. Not only is our payment a pittance, we hardly get it on time,” Rathi alleged. “The worst part is they would tell us only a day before in case we are no longer required to be on duty. I might be jobless post August 15 and have nothing to fall back on. We do not get the respect a Corona warrior deserves,” added Rathi in his post, requesting the government to not terminate his job. While Arvind Pandey, the minister of youth welfare (under whose jurisdiction PRD falls) couldn’t be contacted despite repeated attempts, department secretary Brijesh Kumar Sant told TOI that Uttarakhand is paying PRD jawans the same remuneration as neighbouring Uttar Pradesh. “PRD jawans are mostly unemployed youths who voluntarily opt for this service and we at the youth welfare department provide them the required training. Only this year, their daily pay was increased from Rs 450 to Rs 500. If any PRD jawan has any grievance, they can approach us and we will try to sort it out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-deploys-us-on-covid-19-frontline-pays-us-a-pittance-allege-prd-jawans-on-fb-video/articleshow/77550982.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 15, 2020||Bareilly||Action against supervisors overcharging share money, membership fee from cane growers: Bhoosreddy||Pilibhit: Taking serious cognizance of certain information that went viral on social media, principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry in UP Sanjay R Bhoosreddy has issued orders to all deputy cane commissioners and the district cane officers across the state to ensure punitive action against cane supervisors who are charging more than the prescribed amount from sugarcane growers for registering them as members of cooperative cane societies. Notably, the registration of sugarcane growers with cane societies of their respective areas is a mandatory procedure for supply of sugarcane to mills. Bhoosreddy allegedly came to know that some cane supervisors, who carry out the official duty to complete the concerned formalities, are subjecting the new cane growers to pay higher amount of their share value and the membership fees in comparison to what has been fixed by the state administration. “The state sugarcane administration has fixed the share value at Rs 200 and the membership fees at Rs 21, both payable one time, for those sugarcane growers who wanted to become the registered members of the cooperative cane societies. Any deviation from this fees structure is liable for punitive as well as the departmental action,” Bhoosreddy said. He appealed to the farmers to file complaints with the district or the division level officials of cane department if any cane supervisor was traced flouting the concerned provisions. “In case prompt action is not taken in response to their complaints, they can directly report the matter to the cane commissioner office at Lucknow on the toll free number 1800-121-3203,” he said. He said that the departmental officers had also been directed to place flexi boards at all sugar mill gates, society offices, departmental offices and tehsils, among others, highlighting in bold the necessary procedure and the prescribed fees for the broad information of the farmers. “The process of registering new cane growers with cooperative cane societies will continue till September 30,” Bhoosreddy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/action-against-supervisors-overcharging-share-money-membership-fee-from-cane-growers-bhoosreddy/articleshow/77550986.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad scores higher than national average||HYDERABAD: University of Hyderabad (UoH) secured higher than national average in the ‘grading/scoring of performance of central universities’ released by the ministry of education. Maulana Azad National Urdu University (Manuu) and English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) secured lower than national average. With a score of 90%, Jamia Millia Islamia bagged the top spot among all 40 central universities followed by Rajiv Gandhi University of Arunachal Pradesh that scored 83% and Jawaharlal Nehru University that scored 82%. The score is based on an evaluation of targets fixed by the ministry of education in a tripartite memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed with all the central universities in 2019-20. Based on the evaluation, marking/grading has been given as per weightage of each parameters for the achievement against the target set by the central universities. The average percentage achieved by all the central universities is 59.97%. As per the ministry of education, UoH has secured 63% compared to Manuu and EFLU that have secured 49% and 58% respectively. “University Grants Commission has identified areas of shortfall which we need to improve upon. We will be working on those parameters over the next few years,” said an official from UoH. Evaluation was based on parameters such as annual student intake, student diversity, quality of faculty members, student-teacher ratio, teacher vacancy, visiting faculty etc. Central universities were also assessed on the number of students placed through campus interviews and number of students who qualified in NET, GATE etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-scores-higher-than-natl-avg-in-govt-assessment/articleshow/77555385.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Vadodara||Amul Dairy digitalizes all AI||Vadodara/ Anand: Amul Dairy has become the first milk union in the country which has digitalized artificial insemination (AI) services. After starting it on an experimental basis in 25 village-level milk societies last year, the project has covered all the 1,200 societies of Amul Dairy’s milkshed area. Through the project, when any milk producer, who is member of the milk union, registers at Amul call center for AI, an automatic message is sent to him as well as AI technician on their cell phones. “The AI technician immediately reaches the milk producer’s house and performs AI. He updates all the information in the mobile on the spot. When AI is completed, the message of completion is received at Amul call center as well as the milk producer,” said Amul Dairy’s managing director Amit Vyas. Amul Dairy performs more than one million AI per annum in its milkshed area. “Pregnancy diagnosis is done after 2.5 month for which AI is notified through sms. If the animal is pregnant, the information is updated in the mobile application system. After nine months, calving related information like sex of calf is also registered in the application along with its date of birth,” said Vyas. The next step will include de-worming and vaccination for the newborns. “It is one of the revolutionary steps to enhance rural milk producers income by breeding innovation in India,” said R S Sodhi, managing director of the Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/amul-dairy-digitalizes-all-ai/articleshow/77551253.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Congress to take up issue of Dalits with Centre||HYDERABAD: The Congress leaders will meet Union social justice and empowerment minister Thawar Chand Gehlot and lodge a complaint over the alleged atrocities against Dalits in the state. It will also submit representations to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) and National Scheduled Castes Commission on the issue and seek their intervention for justice to the deprived sections of the society. Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy said that it is unfortunate that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was turning a blind eye to the atrocities against Dalits. The Congress will also represent the issue to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan. Uttam expressed concern over the increasing atrocities on Dalits and said that a Dalit farmer Narasimhulu committed suicide in Gajwel, the assembly constituency represented by the chief minister. “Narasimhulu’s land was forcibly taken away by the government,” Uttam alleged. “Another Dalit youth committed suicide as he was unable to bear the harassment by police at the instance of the ruling TRS leaders. The chief minister has remained a mere spectator to the atrocities on Dalits and Girijans in the state,” Uttam alleged. The TPCC chief accused KCR of being unjust to SCs, STs, BCs, minorities and other weaker sections. “The Congress would raise voice in Parliament and other forums to protect the rights and interests of all suppressed sections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dalit-atrocities-cong-to-take-up-issue-with-centre/articleshow/77555399.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Bareilly||Farmer dies while rescuing bull from abandoned well in Kheri||Bareilly: A 40-year-old farmer, who was trying to rescue a stray bull which had fallen into an abandoned well, died after allegedly inhaling poisonous gas. His brothers, who went along with him, were taken severely ill at Sansarpur village in Mailani area of Kheri district.On Thursday morning, Anoop Singh found a few locals gathered around the well where the bull was struggling with pain. He along with his brothers Anirudh and Aditya then climbed down the well. The bull was stuck since Wednesday night. When they reached the bottom of the well, Aditya fainted and Anoop called for help.Soon, police along with a team from the fire department reached the spot. The bull was rescued. The fire department sprayed water inside the well to decrease the effect of poisonous gas and sent its team inside. Anoop, who lived in a joint family with his married brothers, was the last one to be taken out from the well. He wanted his brothers to be taken out first. He, however, couldn't survive.Sub-inspector Satish Kumar, who is also the acting in-charge of Mailani police station, initiated the operation. “Anoop was conscious right through and ensured that we were able to save his brothers first and even get the bull out. He collapsed soon after and was declared dead at the hospital. The condition of his brothers and the bull are stable,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmer-dies-while-rescuing-bull-from-abandoned-well-in-kheri/articleshow/77551010.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: To save youth’s life, tribals carry him on cot for 4 km||HYDERABAD: Braving incessant rains and overflowing streams, a group of tribals walked 4 km to save the life of a 23-year-old youth by carrying him on a cot to a primary health centre at Charla in Bhadradri Kothagudem district. Thanks to their efforts, the condition of Singaiah of Timmirigudem has improved and doctors said he is stable now. Since the pathways were damaged and the entry road to their village cut off thanks to the rain, there was no access to a 108 ambulance also. Left with no option, the tribals carried the patient on the cot – which is their usual mode of transporting people during emergencies – on Thursday night and walked across the forest to take him to the PHC reaching the main road at Chinnamidiseleru. “The journey was tough and arduous but we were determined to save Singaiah who fell ill,” a tribal said. With doctors confirming that his condition was better on Friday, the tribals heaved a sigh of relief. The tribal hamlets in the Agency areas get cut off because of the overflowing streams in the forest tracts during the monsoon. There are practically no roads in the interior areas, a tribal said. District collector MV Reddy cautioned the people against crossing the overflowing streams. He asked the health staff to monitor the tribal hamlets, identify those who need medical help and make arrangements to shift them to the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/carrying-a-cot-tribals-walk-4-km-to-save-youths-life/articleshow/77555409.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||Double ICU Covid beds in Lucknow by August-end||LUCKNOW: The state capital is set to more than double its high dependency unit (HDU) and intensive care unit (ICU) beds for Covid-19 patients by the end of this month. A detailed plan has been prepared for all Covid hospitals in Lucknow, including private facilities like Medanta and Apollo, with deadlines set for achieving the goals, taking the strength from the current 383 beds under both categories to 928 by August 31. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has reviewed the commitments and directed officials to act on the plan immediately. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, who has inspected these hospitals, said that work has already started and most of the additional beds would be available within this week. The CM also spoke to defence minister and Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh and apprised him of the plan to increase beds in the city. Singh said he would request the Union health minister to provide all aid to UP to control the spread of coronavirus. The existing 193 HDU beds in 11 hospitals will go up to 513 while ICU beds will increase from the current 190 to 415. “We have inspected the hospitals and many of them will be adding to their existing capacity by Saturday. A new wing is coming up in Medanta Hospital which will be dedicated to Covid patients. This will be ready by Saturday. Apollo Hospital has also promised to provide 50 beds by the end of this month,” he said. Awasthi said that a new 25-bed wing, under construction till now, will also be readied at Sahara Hospital by August-end. A 320-bed wing is also being readied of which 100 beds will be dedicated for Covid ICU. Yogi has said that L-2 and L-3 beds should be increased across all districts though special attention has to be given to six districts where high number of cases are being reported daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/double-icu-covid-beds-in-lucknow-by-aug-end/articleshow/77555358.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Forensic science admissions open||Hyderabad: NALSAR University of Law and Truth Labs, Hyderabad are accepting applications for advanced diploma in criminal law and forensic science course. The universities are jointly conducting one-year advanced PG diploma in criminal law and forensic science. Truth Labs founder KPC Gandhi said, “We have received huge response from police officers, lawyers and law students. The course curriculum is again updated this year. This course provides awareness in forensic medicine, touch DNA and toxicology, and cyber forensics. The course also provides hands-on experience to the students. August 30 is the last date. For details please refer to the website nalsar.ac.in.” He added that aspirants who are in service, classes are also conducted online and their attendance is not mandatory. “The entire study material will be uploaded on the website,” he said. The course provides a comprehensive overview of current trends in handling physical evidence in crimes like rape, murder, forgery, cheating, theft, misappropriation and other criminal offences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forensic-science-admissions-open/articleshow/77555422.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh pips TN to become number 1 in Covid testing||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh has conducted maximum number of Covid-19 tests in the country. With 96,106 tests in the past 24 hours, UP has surpassed TamilNadu in the Covid testing. “Uttar Pradesh has conducted 35,98,210 tests till Friday, making it the state to conduct maximum number of tests in the country so far,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. The total tests conducted by TN till now was 35,69,453 as per the TN government statement on Covid-19. Crediting state medical colleges and staff engaged in testing, additional chief secretary medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dubey said: “Many doctors and staff have not gone home for months now. A good part of the achievement belongs to them.” Active cases cross 50k mark: The number of active infections in UP crossed 50,000 mark on Friday to reach 50,426. Experts pointed out that the active case spoke about the actual extent of the pandemic infection. Prasad said that 23,961 of the total active cases were under home isolation, while others were in facility. He claimed that the patients were being monitored through the integrated centres. State Tally 1.45 lakh with 4,600 new cases: State tally reached 1,45,287 with 4,600 new cases in the past 24 hours. Lucknow (652), Kanpur (289),Gorakhpur (283), Prayagraj (213), Varanasi (162), Bareilly (159), Ghaziabad (142), Deoria (127), Kushinagar (109) accounted for about 49% cases. The total casualties reached 2,335 with 59 new entries. While Lucknow saw eight deaths, Kanpur, Gorakhpur and Bareilly followed with four deaths each. Varanasi and Prayagraj came thereafter with three deaths each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-pips-tn-to-become-no-1-in-covid-testing/articleshow/77555402.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 15, 2020||Bareilly||SSB, police on high alert along Indo-Nepal border for Independence Day||Pilibhit: The 49th battalion of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and police administration have been put on high alert along the 53km-long Indo-Nepal border falling within Pilibhit district, to ensure safety and security on Independence Day. SSB deputy commandant R K Raman said movement of people across the porous border will be strictly prohibited, while pickets of SSB have been directed to keep activities of sneaky intrusion on their radar. The SSB would continue round-the-clock patrolling along the entire border stretch, he added. SP Jai Prakash Yadav said police has been alerted to remain vigilant as the second security layer behind SSB. They have embarked upon a massive search and seizure operation across the district, especially along interstate and inter-district borders. “I inspected Madhotanda, Hajara and Neuria police stations on Thursday night to review alertness of police personnel in late night hours. The first two police stations control the Indo-Nepal border area, while the last one keeps vigil on the interstate border with Uttarakhand. All three were instructed about special measures needed to ensure safety and to detect unwanted elements and their activities,” he said. Police has set up check points on the Bhind-Lipulekh highway near Majhola town and Bareilly-Haridwar NH-74, where intensive checking of vehicles and commuters is being carried out 24x7, Yadav said. Teams from police stations within city areas have been asked to enforce the checking drive in areas surrounding the railway station and bus stand, apart from conducting search and seizure operations in hotels, dhabas, restaurants, private buses and other places of public assembly, he said. “Our prime target is to maintain safety and security on Independence Day, but as the coming two months also has many festivals like Muharram, Ganesh Chaturthi, Navratri and Dussehra, etc., police will continue the security drive till the end of the festive season,” said the SP .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ssb-police-on-high-alert-along-indo-nepal-border-for-independence-day/articleshow/77551023.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Goa||Margao court staff test +ve, bldg sealed||Colva: Principal district and sessions judge B P Deshpande on Friday ordered that the trial court building in Margao be sealed and sanitised after two staff members tested positive for Covid-19. The employees’ results were received in the afternoon, after the morning court session was completed. Courts of the judicial magistrates first class, which are housed in the premises, will be closed for three days. President of the South Goa Advocates’ Association, Antonio Clovis, said lawyers would attend court from Monday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-court-staff-test-ve-bldg-sealed/articleshow/77554969.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: BDL indigenises some missile components||HYDERABAD: Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) in the city has indigenized a few components and sub-assemblies of Anti-tank Guided Missiles and Underwater Weapons, which were previously being imported. The indiginization was done on a call given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for creation of “Atmanirbhar Bharat”. BDL has been working towards maximizing the indigenous components and sub-assemblies of missiles being manufactured under foreign collaboration and on Friday, a milestone was achieved. Union defence minister Rajnath Singh issued an ‘Expression of Interest’ for these components and sub-assemblies during a virtual event held at New Delhi in the presence of Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat, Secretary (Defence Production) Raj Kumar, and senior officials from the Ministry of Defence. CMD BDL Commodore Siddharth Mishra (Retd), directors and senior officials were present at Hyderabad. “These efforts would not only result in enhancing self-reliance but also result in reduction of foreign exchange out-flow for the nation besides achieving cost-competitiveness for the weapons produced. The indigenization efforts also help in creating a larger supply chain (including MSMEs) for the company for its various projects,” defence officials said. Dr G. Satheesh Reddy, Secretary, Department of Defence R&D and Chairman, DRDO laid the foundation for establishing High Temperature Carbon Composite manufacturing facility (HTCC) at an event held virtually on Friday. The new facility will come up at the Ibrahimpatnam Unit of BDL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bdl-indigenizes-missile-components/articleshow/77555460.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 15, 2020||Surat||Oxygen bank set up in Bharuch||Bharuch/Surat: The World Bharuchi Vahora Federation has started an oxygen bank centre at the Manubar Chowkdi near Bharuch “The non-availability of oxygen leads to fatalities in Covid-19 patients. With the limitation of beds in Bharuch hospitals, we felt the immediate need to ensure availability of oxygen cylinders for the patients who were suffering from breathing problems,” said Yunus Patel, a member of the federation. The federation purchased 170 new cylinders and within one month, around 400 patients have benefited. The cylinders are made available in villages like Tankaria, Amod, Palej, Jambusar and Vagra too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/oxygen-bank-set-up-in-bharuch/articleshow/77552220.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Goa||GFP: Robust plan needed for home isolated||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Friday urged authorities to have a robust system to monitor and treat asymptomatic patients who opt for home isolation. This, said GFP president Vijai Sardesai, is crucial if the state government wants to limit the impact of pandemic in Goa. “With coronavirus cases touching 10,000 and fatalities rising, Goa has become unsafe due to the directionless government, which failed to manage the Covid situation,” said the Goa Forward Party president. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-robust-plan-needed-for-home-isolated/articleshow/77554965.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: 20-year-old mother held for abandoning newborn||VISAKHAPATNAM: Police on Friday arrested a 20-year-old woman from Rellivalasa in Vizianagaram district for abandoning her newborn baby hours after delivery on August 5. The woman’s mother was also arrested. It will be recalled that a baby boy was abandoned in some bushes near a tank at Rellivalasa under Pusapatirega police station limits in the early hours of August 5. The baby was rescued by locals and later shifted to Gosha Hospital in Vizianagaram town for medical attention. Speaking to TOI, sub-inspector of Pusapatirega police station V Balaji said the woman confessed to the crime and surrendered. Investigation revealed that the woman was a student preparing for competitive examinations and lived alone in Vizianagaram town. She was in a relationship with a distant relative and intended to marry him. She became pregnant while in Vizianagaram, where her boyfriend used to visit her frequently. A few months ago, the woman returned home, but did not disclose her pregnancy to her parents. Her mother, however, found out, by which time it was too late for an abortion. After the woman gave birth to a baby boy at around 1.30 am on August 5, she and her mother abandoned him the same night near the local tank. “We have arrested the woman under Section 317 (exposure and abandonment of child under twelve years, by parent or person having care of it) of the IPC, ” said Balaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/20-year-old-mother-held-for-abandoning-newborn/articleshow/77553801.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 15, 2020||Goa||Ponda Covid facility admits 18 pregnant women on Day One||Ponda: The newly-designated Ponda Covid hospital began operations from Friday, with the admission of 18 patients. Though the state government had hastily converted the Ponda sub-district hospital (SDH) into a full-fledged Covid hospital on Tuesday, its functioning was delayed as doctors were yet to be deployed. The medical team arrived on Thursday evening which was followed by shifting of the patients on Friday, Dr Vikas Kuwelkar, medical superintendent of the hospital, said. “All the 18 patients are pregnant women. The Ponda hospital would be specifically utilised for the ante natal cases, he said. However, a source from the Ponda Disaster Management Authority revealed that some male patients may be shifted to Ponda as the hospital has a capacity of 220 beds. It may be recalled that though the casualty wing at Ponda SDH was shifted to Dilasa palliative care centre at Farmagudi, health authorities have not shifted the ultrasound machine as it is needed to monitor the pregnancies. “As admissions would continue, the number of patients will change accordingly,” Kuwelkar said. As per the official data, Ponda taluka recorded 56 new cases of coronavirus infections on Friday, and has 518 active cases. While 597 persons have been recovered, four lost their lives. Ponda has reported a total of 1,119 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-covid-facility-admits-18-pregnant-women-on-day-one/articleshow/77554992.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
August 15, 2020||Goa||Critical Covid-19 patients to be treated at GMC: Goa health minister Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: The state government, in a change of strategy, has decided to treat all serious Covid-19 patients at the Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said that three wards — 145, 146 and 147 — of the tertiary care hospital will be earmarked for Covid patients. Rane also said that patients currently at the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao in a serious condition will be shifted to GMC. Speaking to reporters after a meeting with experts and health officials, he said that with the new arrangement, intravenists and superspecialists from GMC would be able to better monitor patients. “This will help reduce deaths occurring due to patients’ comorbid conditions,” he said, adding that the arrangement has been made due to the rising number of “complicated” cases. “Extremely critical patients will not be shifted to ESI hospital,” he said. “GMC dean S M Bandekar has consented that this is the better arrangement,” he said. “He has been directed to fast-track this plan. The Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation will help wherever required.” The three Covid-19 wards at GMC will have all facilities, the health minister said, including separate entry and exit points, and other safety precautions. Meanwhile, wards 113 and 115, currently used for isolating severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) patients, will be reverted to the department of medicine. Also, a 30-bed ward of the department of skin and VD has been earmarked for post-surgery Covid patients. Although Goa’s mortality rate of less than 1% is the lowest in the country, the past 15 days have seen 48 deaths, at an average of more than three deaths a day. Meanwhile, the state cabinet has approved the purchase of CT scan machines for the ESI hospital as well as the Ponda sub-district hospital, the state’s second dedicated Covid-19 hospital. “Whatever infrastructure is required in the two hospitals will be provided,” Rane said. He also said that pre-natal and post-natal Covid patients from the ESI Covid hospital have been transferred to the Ponda sub-district hospital. Margao’s Hospicio hospital is currently being readied to accommodate pre-natal and post-natal Covid-19 patients. Around 100 beds will be added in the next ten days, and all functioning departments from the hospital will be shifted to the new South Goa district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/critical-covid-19-patients-to-be-treated-at-gmc-vishwajit/articleshow/77554995.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Goa||Two more corona fatalities, Margao tops active case list||Panaji: Goa’s count of active Covid-19 cases shot up to 3,720 on Friday, with 476 new reports across the state. The fatality count also touched 93 with two deaths. A 45-year-old man from Mandur with comorbidities expired at the Margao Covid hospital, while a 49-year-old man from Sankhali died at Goa Medical College and hospital. Margao urban health centre continues to be at the top of the list for the highest number of active cases. It crossed the 400-mark on Friday with an additional 98 new cases, its biggest one-day spike. The tally of active cases reported from within the jurisdiction of Curtorim primary health centre also increased to 105. A health official said that areas in Curtorim bordering Margao have been reporting a spike in cases. With the commercial town witnessing a spurt in at least five locations, there is a serious need of a different strategy to stablise the situation, he said. Meanwhile, Panaji, Porvorim, Mapusa and Chimbel in North Goa also saw its cases increasing rapidly. Panaji’s total tally touched 188 on Friday as it reported 21 new cases, with four recorded in Altinho which is turning out to be a hotspot. Other areas where cases were reported in the city are Miramar, St Inez, Ribandar and Caranzalem. A police inspector attached to the traffic cell of Old Goa police station also tested positive. Mapusa urban health centre detected 25 fresh cases, pushing its tally to 139. While cases are being detected from all parts of the town, a sizable number of cases have been reported from Karaswada and Cunchelim as well. The tallies of active cases reported from Sankhali, Pernem and Valpoi have crossed the 100-mark. These places have been witnessing a spurt since early this month. On Friday, Chimbel reported over 25 new cases, and its total of active cases now stands at 207. While Mayem and Bicholim had few stray cases last month, both are now registering a steep rise in infections. Mayem’s total count of active cases jumped to 97 as it reported 22 new cases, while that of Bicholim rose to 34.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-more-corona-fatalities-margao-tops-active-case-list/articleshow/77554998.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Goa||Hold all stakeholders’ meet on mining: GCCI||Panaji: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant should call for a round table meeting of all stakeholders along with the director mines and geology and the advocate general to resolve all issues before mining activity resumes, said Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). GCCI treasurer Chandrakant Gawas along with the chamber’s director general R S Kamat and director A K Banerjee met Sawant at his office to discuss the mining issue and the steps required to quicken the process of its resumption. GCCI president Manoj Caculo, in a memorandum to the government, said that the private sector is eagerly waiting for mining activity to resume as it would bring to an end the “immense hardships” and improve the state’s economy. The Supreme Court had cancelled 88 mining leases in Goa on 7 February 2018 and ordered fresh mining leases and fresh environment clearances. The iron ore mines were shut following a petition by Goa Foundation. He said that a stakeholder meeting will make all parties concerned aware of the legal and statutory requirements that needs to be complied with before mining activity can resume on-ground. “We all are eagerly waiting for the judgment of the Supreme Court in the mining cases of the state and hope that it would be a favourable one for restarting of mining, which has remained suspended for more than two years. The closure has brought immense hardships to citizens and also to the economy of the state,” said Caculo. He also urged the government to look into the demand for waiver of barge tax. In 2019, a delegation of barge owners pointed out that mining truckers were granted the benefit of road tax waiver and a similar benefit should be given to barge owners. Minister for ports Michael Lobo had assured stakeholders that the government will waive off barge tax which is paid by vessels that transport iron ore from the mines to the port for export. “The issues of waiver of barge tax during the closure of mining are pending with the government for a long time. We request you to kindly look into the matter and favour us with your approval,” said Caculo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hold-all-stakeholders-meet-on-mining-gcci/articleshow/77555042.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||US consulate in Hyderabad to process visas from August 17||HYDERABAD: In a major relief to students, the US Consulate General in the city will start processing visas. A statement by the US Embassy and Consulates on Friday reads: “We are pleased to announce that consular sections at the US Embassy in New Delhi and our Consulates in Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Kolkata will begin processing of student and academic exchange visitor visa applications on a limited basis on August 17.” Addressing students, the statement said: “Student visas are a high priority…However, due to our very limited appointment availability we will not be able to accommodate all requests in time for the start of the fall semester. We will try to handle requests based on when we receive them and when classes will start.” Safety of staff and security professionals was stated as the reason for the limited appointments. It added that: “We will first process emergency student and exchange visitor appointment requests received prior to August 12 and then offer public appointments. We will refresh appointments as we have availability, generally two weeks in advance.” It said prospective students should schedule an appointment no more than three weeks prior to their class start date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/us-consulate-in-city-to-process-visas-from-aug-17/articleshow/77555465.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Varanasi||BHU, CSIR sign online MoU for research work||Varanasi: Banaras Hindu University and CSIR-National Institute of Science, Technology and Development Studies (CSIR-NISTADS), on Friday inked an MoU to collaborate in the studies and research in different areas. The signing ceremony was organised through video link at BHU’s computer Centre and CSIR-NISTADS, Delhi, in wake of Covid-19 protocols. Dr Neeraj Tripathi, registrar, BHU and Dr Ranjana Aggarwal, director, CSIR-NISTADS signed the MoU. According to BHU spokesperson Rajesh Singh, the main areas of cooperation will be science and technology studies, quantitative science studies, science policy, technological readiness and development studies among others. The MoU provides for joint research projects, collaborative research, joint research supervision, exchange of faculty and students and joint policy studies. Addressing the programme, Dr Neeraj Tripathi said that the MoU will open new avenues for university students and researchers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bhu-csir-sign-online-mou-for-research-work/articleshow/77553818.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Temporary work visa holders disappointed||Hyderabad: While the opening up of the consular section at the US Consulate General in Hyderabad was welcomed across the board, temporary work visa holders remained disappointed that their visas were not given priority. There are hundreds of Telugus on temporary work visas, particularly H-1B visas, who have been stuck in the country since the lockdown. The Consulate shut operations on March 16. Mahalakshmi Boddupally, who has been in the city since early March, said: “It is very disappointing that H-1B visa processing has not been given priority. While the embassy has cited health concerns for the limited appointments, they should have put in place the right technology and procedure to ensure everyone’s safety.” The IT professional is a resident of Virginia. A Texas resident, speaking on condition of anonymity, said the focus on students is because they are bringing in fresh income into universities. “In spite of us paying taxes, even while we have been away from the country, shows our commitment to the US. It is us workers who should have been given priority.” The statement given by the US embassy reads: “We continue to remain closed for routine immigrant and non-immigrant visa services. We will resume routine visa services as soon as possible but are unable to provide a specific date.” Applicants for H-1B, H-2B, H4, L and certain J categories covered by Presidential Proclamation 10052 have been asked to request for an appointment only if they have reason to believe they may qualify for one of the exceptions.Temporary work visa holders disappointedTimes News Network||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/temporary-work-visa-holders-disappointed/articleshow/77555478.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP policemen to get 23 gallantry medals this Independence Day||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh police will be decorated with 23 gallantry medals on Independence Day this year after drawing a blank in 2018 and 2019. Of the 23 gallantry medals, prominent awardees include ADG (law & order) Prashant Kumar, ADG (UP 112) Asim Arun and IG, Uttar Pradesh Police Recruitment & Promotion Board (UPR&PB) Vijay Bhushan, who now holds the highest number of President’s gallantry medals amongst serving IPS officers in the state. Prashant Kumar, who was ADG (Meerut zone) at that time, led the encounter of criminal Rohit Sandu, in Nai Mandi police station area in Muzaffarnagar on July 16, 2019. ADG (UP 112) Asim Arun led the encounter of Saifullah, an ISIS- Khorasan inspired terrorist module on Uttar Pradesh soil in 2017, in Lucknow. Saifullah had carried out a train blast in Bhopal. In the same operation, ASP Rajesh Sahni has been awarded gallantry medal posthumously. Five constables – Vikas Yadav, Mahendra Pal, Fahim Mian, Athar Ahmad and Avinash Kumar – have also been awarded. Two other officers who will be honoured with gallantry medals include IG (recruitment board) Vijay Bhushan and SP, Barabanki, Arvind Chaturvedi. Then SSP, STF, SK Bhagat, who led the operation, has also been awarded with gallantry medal. The duo were awarded gallantry medal for encounter of Firdaus, a shooter in Mukhtar Ansari gang, in 2006 in Mumbai. Firdaus used to extort money form coal business owners from Kolkata to Mughalsarai. He was also an accused in the murder of BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai on 29 November 2005. Meanwhile, six President’s police medals for distinguished services and 73 police medals for meritorious services have been awarded to UP police this year. Besides, UP CMs medal for excellent services was awarded to DG (EOW) RP Singh, ADG Lucknow zone-SN Sabat, ACP, Lucknow, Archana Singh, DySP (STF) DK Shahi and inspector Lokesh Kumar of Aligarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/medals-to-23-up-police-bravehearts-adgs-for-lo-up112-top-awardees/articleshow/77555444.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Goa||Ayush minister Shripad Naik gets fever, condition stable||PANAJI: Union Ayush minister and junior defence minister Shripad Naik, who tested positive for Covid-19 two days ago, was admitted to a private hospital on Thursday night after he got a fever. “His condition is stable and he is recovering,” his elder son Sidhesh told TOI. Naik and his wife, who also tested positive, had opted for home isolation as they were asymptomatic on Wednesday. Their other family members too were tested for Covid, but returned negative results. His wife, Vijaya, is still in home isolation. Naik lives in Ribandar, a village which has witnessed a spike in cases over the past 15 days. It is 4km from the state capital Panaji, which has 188 cases as of Friday. Goa has currently has 3,720 active cases and has reported 93 deaths.  The Ayush minister had undergone a Covid test last month too, after his neighbour tested positive, but his test result was negative then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ayush-minister-gets-fever-condition-stable/articleshow/77554994.cms||---
August 15, 2020||India||SC reluctant to probe govt’s Covid actions||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday expressed reluctance to appoint a commission of inquiry to look into alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 pandemic by the government, observing that there is a worldwide view that the judiciary should refrain from interfering in decisions taken by the executive in such emergency situations, reports Amit Anand Choudhary. Hearing a joint petition filed by six retired bureaucrats, a bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat said the court cannot order “roving inquiry” to examine all decisions taken by the government during the pandemic. The petition alleged that the government failed to contain the virus and that the national lockdown imposed on March 24 was arbitrary, irrational and it had a “devastating impact” on the economy. Senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the petitioners, said that the motive of the petition was not to find faults but to protect 130 crore people of the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-reluctant-to-probe-govts-covid-actions/articleshow/77555918.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP Board students to log in from August 18||LUCKNOW: Online classes for students enrolled in schools recognised by Uttar Pradesh Secondary Education Board (UPSEB) will begin from August 18. The schools will hold monthly examinations in the last week in online, offline or blended mode. Over 1.10 crore students are enrolled in classes IX to XII of about 26,000 UP Board schools. As per the academic calendar for 2020-21 session issued by UPSEB secretary Divyakant Shukla, TV classes will be held via Swayam Prabha and Doordarshan UP channels. School principals have been asked make available the study material in distance learning mode for students who have no access to TV and other online resources. For such students, the government will make provision of drop box in their schools where they can drop their answers of weekly evaluation and monthly exams. Principals will have to ensure the attendance of teachers and students in the TV/online classes. The Board will soon release detailed time-table for class-wise programmes that will be telecast. Also, guidelines for online classes will be issued separately by the Board. The study material is available on UPSEB website. E-books can be downloaded from the website or from ‘Diksha’ portal where PDF files are available. Students can also make use of the YouTube channel for learning. Teachers will assess online teaching through WhatsApp groups. Lab and project work will be done virtually or via WhatsApp groups. The calendar specifies month-wise tasks for the schools. Based on this, teachers have been asked to complete syllabus and conduct exams in the last week of every month. Post exams, teachers will identify weak students and hold remedial classes . Schools will also upload their souvenir online and parent-teacher association will meet quarterly while observing Covid-19 protocols. Teachers will ensure parents’ signature on the report card. On birth anniversaries of great India personalities, online contests on poster, debate, essay writing will be held to make children aware of their contributions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-board-students-to-log-in-from-aug-18/articleshow/77555471.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Mysuru||Systematic approach helped authorities trace asymptomatic patients||Mysuru: Systematic approach to identify and screen all primary contacts has helped the authorities detect more asymptomatic cases in Mandya, Hassan and Mysuru districts. Mandya has the highest percentage of asymptomatic cases with 93.5 in south Karnataka. It is also one of the three districts in Karnataka with highest asymptomatics, the other two being Chikkaballapura (98.4%) and Bidar (94.3%), according to Covid-19 war room data. The figures for other south Karnataka districts are: Chamarajanagar 90.5%, Kodagu 85.7, Hassan 85 and Mysuru 80.3. Dr H P Manchegowda, district health officer (DHO) of Mandya, told TOI that majority of the primary contacts of positive patients are either asymptomatic or mild symptomatic. “We have been screening all primary contacts. If there are more cases in a particular area/ office, every resident/ employee is subjected to Covid test. Special drives are also conducted with help of mobile units, and all these have helped us identify more people without having any symptoms of Covid virus,” the officer added. The Mandya district authorities also targeted vulnerable population — people with diabetes, hypertension, TB, HIV and other serious illnesses at all taluks. Luckily, the Covid positivity rate among the group is just around 3%. They will continue with special drives at all PHCs and taluk hospitals and also increase the number of tests. Initially, asymptomatic patients were hospitalised as people in the locality or village were opposing home isolation. “But now, things have changed. We will monitor their health in hospital for two-three days and send them to home isolation. According to fresh guidelines, there is no need for hospitalisation for asymptomatic patients,” explained Manchegowda. Hassan DHO Dr Sathishkumar said Covid tests were carried out at all hotspots across the district, especially in factories and other workplaces. “Special drives were conducted at populated areas to rule out infection, and we found more asymptomatic cases, which incidentally is across age groups,” he added. According to Mysuru DC Abhiram G Sankar, around 49,228 have been screened in the district. Around 2,101 have been home isolated and around 850 are in Covid Care Centres, including a private one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/systematic-approach-helped-authorities-trace-asymptomatic-patients/articleshow/77555095.cms||Lawrence Milton
August 15, 2020||Pune||Most Covid victims delayed seeking care: Sassoon Hospital report||PUNE: The analysis of the 76 Covid-19 casualties at the state-run Sassoon General Hospital in the first week of this month — between August 1 and 6 — reinforced the fact that delaying medical care may trigger severe disease progression in coronavirus infected patients with pre-existing medical conditions. A total of 28 (36%) of these fatalities had occurred within 24 hours of hospitalisation and another 60% fatalities within four days of admission to the hospital. These patients — despite being elderly, having pre-existing medical conditions and flu-like illness — had delayed seeking medical care. Only 11 of the 76 patients who died had sought medical care the same day of developing the illness. But their uncontrolled pre-existing illnesses led to complications, leading to their deaths. The rest 65 patients procrastinated medical care during the initial phase. Most of them were rushed to the hospital after they developed severe breathlessness, revealed latest report of the state-run tertiary care facility. Settlement commissioner S Chockalingam, the nodal officer for Sassoon hospital, said, “This has been our doctors’ observation that those who died had one or other underlying conditions. More worryingly, most of them were rushed to the Sassoon hospital when the infection had progressed to an advanced stage. It gave very little time to our doctors to salvage them. Some of these patients were referred by private hospitals.” He said, “The 120 beds in the intensive care unit of the hospital are getting filled up quite speedily because of the rush these days. I shall appeal to people, especially those having comorbid conditions and exhibiting flu-like symptoms, not to delay the medical care. They should monitor their blood oxygen level with an oximeter, if they can, or look for the symptoms at the earliest to avoid disease progression.” Explaining the progression of Covid-19 among comorbid patients with flu-like illness, a hospital’s treating doctor said, “In the first four to five days, the infection is limited to the upper respiratory tract. If it is not treated at this stage, the infection goes down and causes lower respiratory tract infection involving the lungs. In the case of people with comorbidity, this progression can be sudden and fulminant.” As many as 158 people have succumbed to the Covid-19 associated complications at the hospital between August 1 and August 12. “Currently, the condition of 120 infected patients is critical and they are on ventilator support at the hospital’s ICU,” said another doctor. Since March, the hospital has recorded 6,582 positive cases and 698 deaths, accounting for the case fatality rate (CFR) of 10%, which is quite high. “Since Sassoon hospital is a referral institute, infected patients mainly critical get referred from all over the district,” said the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/65-of-76-covid-victims-in-sassoon-in-august-first-week-delayed-seeking-care/articleshow/77555009.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 15, 2020||Goa||Goa: Two patients test negative post plasma therapy||PANAJI: The first two Covid patients who were administered convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) have tested negative for coronavirus. A total of 14 critically ill patients have been given the therapy so far, health secretary Nila Mohanan said on Friday. The status of other patients who received CPT is yet to be known as their tests have not been done, she said. Since last month, the government has been aggressively promoting CPT after Covid-19 fatalities started rising. On Friday, Goa’s count touched 93 after two deaths were reported. In fact, 48 deaths have been reported in the last 14 days. Dr Uday Kakodkar, the new administrative head of ESI-Covid hospital in Margao, said the government is doing its best to provide case-specific treatment to patients. While the initial seven cases reported were asymptomatic, a surge in critical cases was witnessed from June 5 onwards. “The cases started rising after the Mangor Hill incidence,” Kakodkar said. The death in some patients, he said, was hastened after contracting the virus due to their co-morbidities. The Covid hospital has registered 1,126 admissions, while 65 people have expired. “The hospital is treating very critical patients,” he said. During the past two and a half months, 32 C-section surgeries were conducted in the hospital, and seven normal deliveries. Two surgeries each, normal and orthopaedic, were conducted, including a cancer patient who was operated. The 21-bedded intensive care unit had a total of 121 admissions, while 42 patients died. “75% of critically ill patients have recovered, and it is a significant number,” Kakodkar said. He also pointed out that the state’s Covid fatality rate is the lowest in the country, which works out to be less than 1%, while the recovery rate is 66%. As many as 31 patients were given life-saving drug Remdesivir within a span of one month, while three patients were administered Tocilizumab. One course of Tocilizumab costs Rs 90,000 for a single patient, he said. A child who suffered an organ failure was administered IVIG - the drug that cost Rs 1.5 lakh. “All these drugs have been provided free of cost to patients,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-patients-test-negative-post-plasma-therapy/articleshow/77555007.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Vadodara||Barodians’ flood fears return with rains||Vadodara: Exactly a year ago, the city was submerged in waters after being pounded by 10 inches of rains in 12 hours. Barodians are again staring at floods after a heavy round of rains over the last three days in and around the city. On Friday, the city received over two inches of rains leaving many areas inundated with waters. Fire brigade personnel have been put on alert to address rescue calls over the next 48 hours after Jashoda Padhiyar, a 65-year-old lady was killed when a tree fell on her in Manjalpur area on Friday morning. The civic officials are also keeping a close eye on Vishwamitri River that swelled to 19 feet by Friday evening. “Ajwa Lake has already touched 211.50 feet and if the rains continue with similar intensity, water may be released from the lake in the next 24 hours,” an official said. The water from Ajwa Lake travels to Vishwamitri River within a few hours and floods its banks. All the low lying areas around the river are already being monitored, in case they need to be evacuated. Flood lights were installed by the civic body on the bridge over Vishwamitri River in Sayajigunj to monitor the water level. In eastern parts, some residential colonies on Waghodia Road, Karelibaug, New VIP Road and Sardar Estate were flooded, while Gorwa too witnessed water-logging on Friday evening. Roads in areas like Subhanpura, Gotri, Ellora Park and Laxmipura were under water, causing trouble for the commuters. Heavy rainfalls in the eastern parts of the district forced the authorities to release 1,276 cusecs of water from Dev Dam in Waghodia taluka on Friday morning. Residents of 13 villages on the banks of Dev River and Dhadhar River have been asked to move to safer areas. Some villages in Dabhoi are also under watch of the authorities. In district areas, Karjan received two inches of rains on Friday while Padra got over one inch of rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/barodians-flood-fears-return-with-rains/articleshow/77551271.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Goa||Societies stigmatising patients in home isolation warned||Panaji: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Friday said the government will come down heavily on housing societies and colonies stigmatising Covid patients who opt for home isolation. The government has received several complaints about housing societies interfering with people’s decision to opt for home isolation in their respective societies. “They have no authority to do so. Any complaint of stigmatisation will be taken very seriously,” Rane said. The affected parties, he said, can approach the respective deputy collector with a grievance. Rane said it has come to their notice that some societies are trying to make their own rules to discourage home isolation. “No society nor colony can decide on it. It is the government which has taken the decision allowing asymptomatic patients to choose home isolation,” he said and further said that housing societies must respect the decision of Covid patients. There have been instances, he said, due to the intervention of societies where asymptomatic patients were unable to access essentials. Home isolation is very important, and it was the government’s decision to popularise it. “Patients should not be stigmatised. Anybody can become Covid positive. The decisions of patients to opt for home isolation should be respected. So, I appeal people not to stigmatise them,” he said. Rane said the government wants more people to opt for home isolation, so that the increasing patient load does not burden the limited infrastructure of the state. As per official data, of total 3,720 active cases, 308 asymptomatic patients are in home isolation. Asymptomatic Covid patients can apply online for home isolation, and this request will be granted after the deputy collector assesses the patient’s facility and the health officer checks the health parameters. Normally, patients aged above 60 years and those with comorbid conditions, are not allowed to be in home isolation. Doctors from the directorate of health services remain in touch with patients to follow-up on their health and Indian Medical Association– Goa is also helping the government in managing patients in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/societies-stigmatising-patients-in-home-isolation-warned/articleshow/77555003.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Varanasi||3 teachers with fake docus sacked||Gorakhpur: At least three teachers were dismissed in Gorakhpur on Friday after it was found that they secured the job using fake degrees and identity. Basic shiksha adhikari Bhupendra Narayan Singh said, “Three teachers—Sunil Yadav, Madan Chandra and Girijesh Pati Tripathi—were dismissed on Friday.” “Sunil Yadav, a teacher at Belghat Primary School, is originally a resident of Bihar, but as per his documents, he belongs to Gorakhpur’s Kahjni. “Madan Chandra an anassistant teacher at Etauva Primary School, used fake marksheets to get the job “Girijesh Pati Tripathi, an assistant teacher at Bankat Primary School hid his identity and used documents of another Girijesh Tripathi of Sant Kabir Nagar district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/3-teachers-with-fake-docus-sacked/articleshow/77553871.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||PMR records 350 more recoveries than new cases in 24 hours||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) reported over 350 more recoveries than new cases on Friday, bringing down active cases in the region to 25,818 as against 26,675 the previous day. A total of 2,799 patients were discharged in PMR on Friday as against 2,449 new cases. With this, as many as 91,389 patients have been discharged in PMR so far, including 55,100 in PMC limits and 25,061 in PCMC areas. The total caseload in the region has increased to 1.19 lakh so far. A report released by the district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that 66 more patients succumbed to the contagion in PMR in the last 24 hours, pushing its toll up to 2.895. Among the deceased, most were aged above 50 and suffered from co-morbidity conditions like hypertension and diabetes. Among these, 12 people died at the Sassoon hospital. A PMC report stated that 750 patients were at critical stage, of whom 467 were on ventilator support. The PMC on Friday tested 5,673 samples. About 460 teams have been deployed by the civic administration to undertake survey of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-records-350-more-recoveries-than-new-cases-in-24-hours/articleshow/77555015.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 15, 2020||Pune||Second plasma trial centre to come up soon in Pune||PUNE: Symbiosis Medical College could soon be the second institution in the city after BJ Medical College to conduct convalescent plasma therapy trials . According to a source, Symbiosis Medical College expressed interest in conducting plasma therapy trials. The state government then sent a proposal to the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI). It was in the final stages of approval, said the source in the state government. A total of 21 medical colleges were selected to be a part of the Platina trial launched by the chief minister last month. Rs16.65 crore has been allocated for the project from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Former medical education secretary Sanjay Mukherjee, who has been at the forefront of the project, said the trials had commenced at various centres and treatment with plasma therapy had shown positive results. Recovered Covid-19 patients, whose plasma contains antibodies against coronavirus, can donate plasma 28 days after recovery, and again after four weeks. The plasma therapy benefited many patients in the state in the absence of definite treatment drugs for Covid-19, added Mukherjee. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said they would be pushing for more plasma donors. Till now, BJ Medical College has collected 500 units of plasma. Of them, a total of 154 units were given to the needy patients. “Only seven of them died due to other complications,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/second-plasma-trial-centre-soon-in-pune/articleshow/77555017.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 15, 2020||Goa||In a month, Goa sees over 400% rise in Covid deaths||PANAJI: As Goa continues to have the country’s highest Covid-19 testing rate, the state’s positivity and mortality rates have also inched higher, indicating the state’s struggle to contain the spread of the infection. Over the past 30 days till August 13, Goa’s mortality rate increased from 0.6% to 0.9%. While it’s still lower than the national average rate of 2%, it remains a worrying sign. On Friday, health minister Vishwajit Rane said that Goa has the country’s lowest fatality rate. However, states like Manipur and Kerala have a fatality rate of 0.3%, while for Sikkim, the figure stands at 0.1%. From July 13, the number of Covid-19 fatalities shot up from 17 deaths to 91 this week, a 435% jump. This sharp rise comes at a time when deaths at the national level as a proportion of confirmed cases continues to fall. Since July 13, Goa has seen a sharp increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, suggesting that the state is struggling to keep the pandemic in check. And ironically, a clear illustration is the rising number of health care professionals who are getting infected, particularly at the GMC. On July 13, just two of every 100 persons tested in Goa were Covid-positive. A month later, that number rose to six. This, however, is lower than the national positivity rate, which stands at 9%. Nationwide, the positivity rate has been increasing as states ramp up their testing facilities and given that Goa has conducted 1,59,159 tests till date, doctors and researchers said that it is natural that more Covid-19 cases will come to light. In the states that have a lower fatality rate that Goa, Kerala has 39,708 confirmed cases, of which 13,842 are active. The state has lost 130 people to the pandemic. Manipur, meanwhile, has recorded 13 deaths, and 1,804 of its 4,112 cases are active. Sikkim has 932 confirmed cases, with only 1 death. Niti Aayog ranks Goa among the top five small states in terms of health indicators, where Manipur takes the first rank. Goa is also among the top three in the Human Development Index, where Kerala leads the rankings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-a-month-goa-sees-over-400-rise-in-covid-deaths/articleshow/77555024.cms||Newton Sequeira
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||AAP gets SBSP’s support||LUCKNOW: At a time when the three major opposition parties in UP, Samajwadi Party, Congress and BSP have taken up cudgels against the government on behalf of the Brahmin community, Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh, against whom three separate FIRs have been lodged in UP over the past week for allegedly fanning tension through his speeches, has received support from former BJP ally, Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party’s Om Prakash Rajbhar. Rajbhar said the eight-party Bhagidari Sankalp Morcha, representing OBCs, SC/STs and minorities, comprising SBSP, Jan Adhikar Party, Apna Dal, Bharatiya Manav Samaj Party, Janta Kranti Party (R), Rashtra Uday Party, Rashtriya Bhagidari Party (P), Bharatiya Vanchit Samaj Party, would back AAP on this issue of “harassment by the UP government”. The Rashtriya Brahmin Yuvjan Sabha also came out in Singh’s support. SBSP national secretary Arun Rajbhar said the morcha would protest in the state on August 17 and would also sit in protest outside the Assembly on August 20, the first day of the upcoming session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aap-gets-sbsps-support/articleshow/77555484.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Sanitary inspector working in hotspots catches Covid-19 infection but bounces back||PUNE: The last four months were hectic and eventful for 51-year old I S Inamdar, a senior sanitary inspector, working for the Pune Municipal Corporation. He has had an on-the-field daily duty of over 12 hours when he monitored the sanitation related works, testing of patients showing Covid-19 symptoms and contact tracing in corona hotspots like Patil Estate, Wadarwadi, Pandavnagar and Gokhalenagar. Inamdar got infected and underwent treatment immediately. After recovering, he is back on the field for over for a month now, and has rejoined the frontline work to contain the spread. “I am perfectly fit now and on the field. My day starts around 7.30am and work continues till the evening. In fact, I am working with more enthusiasm after overcoming Covid-19,” Inamdar said. He is attached to the Shivajinagar-Ghole Road ward office. The sanitary inspector, while doing his duty, developed symptoms which made him undergo a Covid-19 test. When diagnosed with the infection, Inamdar immediately quarantined himself as early detection and treatment is vital to beat the infection. Even during the quarantine period, he preferred to be at a PMC-run Covid care centre for treatment and continued to oversee sanitation arrangements at the centre. “I was admitted in the Covid care centre for 11 days. Being a sanitary inspector, during my stay at there, I kept watch on daily cleaning activities and other arrangements for patients. My positive approach and efforts helped me get out of the infection. Like me, many have rejoined their duties,” Inamdar said. He now visits the centres in his ward daily and ensures that cleaning and sanitation drives are conducted properly. “A large number of cases emerged in the last two months in Shivajinagar-Ghole Road ward. We have been on the field visiting the hotspots and tracing the maximum contacts. Now, our teams are holding awareness drives appealing to the people to take tests in case they have symptoms,” Inamdar said, adding that people should not fear the infection and face it bravely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sanitary-inspector-working-in-hotspots-catches-infection-beats-virus-to-bounce-back/articleshow/77555026.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 15, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakshnath hospital asst CMO dies||GORAKHPUR: The assistant chief medical officer of Guru Gorakshnath Hospital, who was Covid positive, died on Thursday evening and his final rites were performed in Delhi. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed grief over his death. The entire hospital prayed for him and his family members. He was 60 years old and was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Delhi. CM Yogi sent a condolence message to Dr Madhusudan Singh’s son Satendra Kumar Singh. In the message, CM said that his death is a big loss and asked his family members to pray for him and have strength. Director of the hospital, Dr KPB Singh, said, “Madhusudan was hard working, strong willed and a dedicated doctor. His death is a huge loss to the medical fraternity,” added the director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakshnath-hospital-asst-cmo-dies/articleshow/77553895.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: NGO creates online directory of plasma donors||PUNE: The NGO Action for Pune Development (APD) has created an online directory of plasma donors to ensure that families of critically ill Covid-19 patients do not have to struggle to find eligible donors. The NGO launched the directory on July 28 and, so far, it has 51 registered donors. APD founder Aakash Shah said he launched the directory after receiving a WhatsApp message seeking plasma. “On July 27, I received a message stating that a critically ill Covid-19 patient required B- plasma. I have recovered from Covid-19 and my blood group is B- so I went ahead to donate. While speaking with representatives at the blood bank, I found out that there is an acute shortage of plasma donors. My team and I launched a simple Google form to register donors,” Shah explained. Another APD member Sahil Phadnis stated that the organization has been able to connect 14 families to plasma donors since the launch of the directory. “Whenever we get a requirement, we connect the donor to the patient’s family. We have been able to help families of patients with rare blood groups like AB+ and AB- as well. The directory has helped patients admitted to hospitals in Pune, Mumbai, Nashik, even Vijaywada,” Phadnis said. Apurv Deshpande, a member of the NGO, added that apart from creating the platform, they are also trying to encourage recovered patients to donate plasma. “There are a lot of misconceptions around plasma donation that we are trying to bust. Aakash has been quite vocal about the two plasma donations he has done so far. We also congratulate and write about other donors we know of in order to spread awareness. We can see that people are coming forward in larger numbers to register as donors,” Deshpande said. Shah added that many people are unaware of the criteria for plasma donation. “There is a 28-day criteria, which means that a person must have been detected Covid-19 positive 28 days before s/he can donate plasma. Several people have registered with us but they have not completed the 28-day period. We have a system that notifies us when a registered donor completes the 28-day period. The blood bank also conducts tests to check if a person is an eligible donor,” Shah added. Special envelopes releasedThe Postmaster General of Pune region Col SFH Rizvi will release a special envelope to promote the theme of ‘Plasma Donor: Super Warrior’ on Independence Day this year in appreciation of plasma donors. Such special envelopes are released by the Department of Posts to commemorate important events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ngo-creates-online-directory-of-plasma-donors/articleshow/77555019.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 15, 2020||Business||PwCA to call it quits as GVKPIL statutory auditors||Hyderabad: Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants LLP (PwCA), the statutory auditors of beleaguered Hyderabad-based infrastructure player GVK Power & Infrastructure Ltd (GVKPIL), have communicated their intention to resign as auditors citing the failure of the company and its management to submit the requisite information to them for preparing the audit of the financial statements for financial year 2019-20 despite repeated attempts. The proposed resignation of the statutory auditors comes even as the GVK group and its promoters are under the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate scanner in the Rs 705 crore Mumbai international airport scam. “In view of various matters described in our communication, including the recent events in relation to company’s subsidiary, Mumbai International Airport Limited (MIAL), we have assessed the appropriateness of our continuance as statutory auditors of the company in terms of Standard on Quality Control 1…and accordingly wish to communicate our intention to resign as statutory auditors of the company,” said the PwCA letter dated August 13, 2020. The proposed letter, which was written by PwCA partner NK Varadarajan to the audit committee of GVKPIL, also states that PWC was conscious of its obligations the SEBI circular issued on October 18, 2019 and would make best efforts to conclude the company’s financial results subject to the cooperation of the company and its management. “Our resignation as statutory auditors of the company shall accordingly be effective immediately on discharge of our obligations under the Companies Act, 2013,” said the proposed resignation letter by PwCA, which has been submitted by GVKPIL to the Bombay Stock Exchange as part of a regulatory filing. In the letter, PwCA has said that it gave repeated reminders to the company and its management from July 6 to August 12, 2020, with regard to the ongoing audit of the company’s FY2019-20 financial results but is still awaiting information and explanations that will enable it to conclude its audit. In the first week of July this year, CBI registered a case against GVK Group chairman GVK Reddy, his son GV Sanjay Reddy, who is the vice-chairman of GVK Group and managing director of MIAL, and other group companies for allegedly siphoning off around Rs 705 crore from MIAL. Less than a week after that, ED booked a money laundering case against GVK Reddy and his son GV Sanjay Reddy in the same matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pwca-to-call-it-quits-as-gvkpil-statutory-auditors/articleshow/77553935.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Goa||With 1.5 months to go, seasonal total achieved||PANAJI: With frequent torrential rain and several spells of very heavy rain over the past couple of months, the monsoon on Friday crossed the seasonal average with a month and a half still to go. On Friday morning, the seasonal total had reached 2,989mm (117.5 inches). A total of 2,975.6 (117.1 inches) is considered normal for the four-month season. This is the fastest the monsoon has completed its seasonal average in at least a decade. With regular systems in the Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal buffering the monsoon cycle, the season’s normal has been crossed in less than two and half months. “During this monsoon, the normal value of the state average rainfall has been crossed by August 12. This is the fastest in a decade,” Rahul M, scientist, India meteorological department (IMD), Panaji said. It rained almost every day as cyclonic storm Nisarga boosted the pre-monsoon rainfall activity. “During this season, the rainfall total has always been on the surplus side and June and July recorded 23% and 17% excess rainfall,” the scientist said. The brisk run of rainfall activity continued during the third month, too. A quota of 702.3mm is average for August. On Friday, the month’s total surged to 694.4mm, closer to normal in just a fortnight. The Indian meteorological department (IMD), Panaji, had forecast moderate rain, with heavy to very heavy rainfall is very likely at a few places for three days till August 16. But Friday was relatively quiet till evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-1-5-months-to-go-seasonal-total-achieved/articleshow/77555036.cms||Paul Fernandes
August 15, 2020||Gurgaon||For 17th day, Gurugram keeps daily case addition below 100||GURUGRAM: The city on Friday reported 92 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 10,108. This is the 17th day in a row that Gurugram has recorded less than 100 cases. The health department said 102 people also recovered on the day, bringing the total number of recoveries to 9,288. However, one person succumbed to the infection, taking the city’s Covid toll to 129. Of these, 91 had comorbidities. So far, 1,38,713 people have been put under surveillance in the district. The health department has sent 1,20,770 samples for testing, of which 1,20,770 returned negative while the results of 578 are awaited. On Friday, three people were put under government quarantine. The district has a total of 691 active cases, out of which 585 are under home isolation. The health authorities collected 2,001 samples in the past 24 hours for antigen and RT-PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/for-17th-day-city-keeps-daily-case-addition-below-100/articleshow/77555028.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya: Maniram Chawni sanitised, seer’s 11 aides quarantined||AYODHYA: After Ram temple Trust president Nritya Gopal Das, 82, tested positive for Covid in Mathura along with two disciples, Janaki Maharaj and Narain Das, the Ayodhya administration on Friday swung into action and sanitized Maniram Chawni, the high seat of saints and residence of the mahant. Talking to TOI, district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha, said, “Eleven close followers of the mahant have been quarantined in Ayodhya. No official came in contact with the mahant on ‘bhoomi pujan’ day as he went directly to the venue. Those who helped him climb the stage are in home isolation. Most importantly, all invitees to the ground-breaking ceremony had tested negative for coronavirus. The seer and his two disciples are being treated at Medanta Hospital, Gurgaon, and as per hospital sources, their condition is stable.” The district magistrate clarified that Mahant Nritya Gopal Das was “infected much after the ‘bhoomi pujan’ or the symptoms would have reflected within two or three days and not eight days after the event, considering the seer’s suppressed immune system due to advanced age and history of disease”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maniram-chawni-sanitised-seers-1-1-aides-quarantined/articleshow/77555490.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
August 15, 2020||Pune||Covid-19 cases rise in rural Pune, PCMC limits a worry||PUNE: The Covid-19 positivity trend in the city civic limits was gradually declining, but areas in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and rural Pune, with their rising infections, were a cause for concern, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said on Friday. Rao identified Shirur, Maval, Khed, Haveli and some peri-urban areas as the ones reporting a surge in cases. “As against 14,772 active cases in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits as of today (Friday), the PCMC has 7,771 such cases. This is 50% of the PMC’s patient load. Rural Pune, on the other hand, has 2,676 active cases. Compared to PMC, the PCMC area is three to four weeks behind. Similarly, rural Pune is three to four weeks behind PCMC. The district’s total active case load is 25,692,” he said. Apart from the PCMC areas, the authorities will now emphasise much on the situation in rural Pune. “We will purchase 50,000 antigen testing kits for rural areas alone. We will follow a 50:50 testing ratio for RT-PCR and antigen, so that there is no false confidence about negative results in rural Pune. All standard operating protocols in place in the PMC limits will be extended to rural Pune,” Rao added. Fifty-two hospitals in rural Pune would be brought under the Mahatma Phule Jan Aarogya scheme, while the administration would ramp up the bed capacity in a big way, he said. “With complaints against private hospitals in rural areas growing, we have decided to extend the centralised bed allotment, visits by audit teams and pre-audit of hospital bills in rural Pune as well,” Rao said. Responding to a question on if rural Pune was neglected with the administration so far focusing more on PMC and PCMC limits, Rao said it would be incorrect to say that. “Rural Pune is geographically more spread out, across 16,000sq km of the district, and has a population of over 55 lakh. We, however, have an advantage of an efficient district administration and support system because all stakeholders are involved in the Covid-19 mitigation process.” On the PMC and PCMC limits, Rao said, “There is enough bed availability as per the ICMR guidelines till August-end, as private hospitals have increased their beds. The two upcoming two jumbo facilities at CoEP grounds and Annasaheb Magar stadium are on track to becoming operational by August 19. There is no final decision on the third jumbo facility. We want to keep it dynamic as we are not sure how the situation will pan out over the next 10-odd days.” “If need arises, we may bifurcate the third jumbo facility into units of 300 beds each, with one of them possibly located in Chakan and the other in a pre-urban area, considering the situation in rural Pune. That call we will take around August 20,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cases-drop-in-pmc-but-rise-in-pcmc-limits-a-worry/articleshow/77555032.cms||Vishwas Kothari
August 15, 2020||Pune||Adequate Remdesivir available: FDA||Pune: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials on Friday confirmed over 3,500 vials of the anit-viral medication Remdesivir were available in the market. “As compared to Tocilizumab, there is adequate supply of Remdesivir in Pune's market. There are around 3,515 vials of Remdesivir and 118 vials of Tocilizumab in the Pune Metropolitan Region,” FDA’s joint commissioner SB Patil told TOI.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/adequate-remdesivir-available-fda/articleshow/77555034.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Cases contained, sealed zones in Delhi down to 523||NEW DELHI: The number of Covid containment zones in Delhi has gone down from more than 700 in July to 496 in early August after the Union health ministry allowed the sealing to be relaxed 14 days after discharge of the last confirmed positive case instead of the 28 days earlier. On Friday, there were 523 containment zones in the city, among them 381 ‘active’ red zones and 142 in the process of ‘scaling down’ towards reopening. District officials said that the new norms had not only helped in much efficient and effective management of containment zones, but also ensured people living in these zones faced fewer difficulties and were, therefore, less restive than earlier. “There is complete emphasis on enforcement in containment zones and wherever there is clustering of cases with chances of infection, we will continue to create containment zones,” said Arun Kumar Mishra, district magistrate (East). “The policy change to 14 days has helped in making containment plans more effective.” Mishra elaborated, “Only the circulation area used by the positive patient is now turned into a containment zone and the public at large doesn’t face any hassles. We have planned micro containment zones in which very few people are affected. Only those who are in the circulation area, such as the corridor for entry and exit to the patient’s home, are blocked.” The DM explained that the city was very densely populated and it was not possible every time to turn a big locality into a containment zone. “Till the corona disease is weeded out, there will continue to be containment zones, only our containment plan is now more efficient and effective,” Mishra said. District magistrate (South) BM Mishra reiterated that the enforcement of rules in containment zones remained as strict as it was earlier, but due to the scaling down of the 28-day norm, many containment zones had ceased to exist and the actual active zones in the district was around 50. BM Mishra, however, said that Covid was still a big threat and people had to maintain social distancing at all times. “One should not feel that the disease has gone away. This is a declining phase, but it gives us all more reason to stay cautious so that it can be completely wiped out,” he said. At present, the highest number of containment zones in Delhi are in South-West district – 135 – followed by South district (63), North district (60) and Central district (52). All other districts have less than 40 containment zones, with the least – 17 – in North-West. New Delhi and South-East districts both have 29 containment zones. A government official said that during the periodic review of containment zones, the authorities learned that the sealed areas needed strict implementation of the containment measures so that no person was able to walk out of the zone. “In some zones violations have been reported, police personnel will be deployed,” said a source. All the districts are using drones to maintain surveillance on the containment zones so the authorities can ensure people strictly follow social distancing and containment norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cases-contained-sealed-zones-down-to-523/articleshow/77554036.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 15, 2020||Mumbai||HPCL, BPCL & 2 other firms fined Rs 286 crore for Mahul pollution||MUMBAI: Four companies operating in Mahul, including BPCL and HPCL, will have to pay Rs 286 crore over five years to improve air quality in the area, the National Green Tribunal ruled on Friday. Residents of Mahul and Ambapada villages had filed a plea in 2014 against the setting up of a unit barely metres away from their homes. Track the pollution level in your cityCompensation to be paid by each company has been determined on the basis of the amount of Volatile Organic Chemicals (VOC) emitted and its possible impact. Aegic Logistics Ltd has to pay Rs 142 crore, HPCL Rs 76.5 crore, BPCL Rs 67.5 crore and Sea Lord Containers, a subsidiary of Aegis, Rs 20 lakh. The National Green Tribunal (NGT)’s principal bench has held four companies responsible for contributing “substantially” to air pollution in Mahul and levied a fine of Rs 286 crore on them, which is expected to be used for reviving the area’s air quality. The order comes six years after the villagers in Mahul and Ambapada filed a petition against a Sea Lord Containers Ltd unit, seeking its closure. Residents said they saw a significant rise in respiratory ailments in the villages soon after the company began operations. When complaints to various state authorities failed to elicit any response, the villagers approached the NGT. The NGT’s order came after the emissions in the area were studied by an in-house technical committee of the Central Pollution Control Board set up on the NGT’s directions. The Volatile Organic Chemicals (VOCs) found included benzene, formaldehyde, acetaldehyde and butadiene. The four companies responsible for the emissions are Aegis Logistics Ltd, Sea Lord Containers Ltd, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. The NGT order observed that while there may be many reasons for the presence of VOCs in the atmosphere like vehicular emission (the area sees heavy traffic during loading and unloading of petroleum chemical products), “it cannot be denied that the four companies contribute substantially and predominantly to the VOCs in Mahul and Ambapada villages.” It acknowledged that VOCs are potential cause for serious ailments and prolonged exposure to them may weaken the lungs and other organs. “Conditions prevailing in the area are sometimes likened to that of a gas chamber,” reads the order. While HPCL and BPCL have been directed to deposit the amount in a ring-fenced account, the others will have to deposit it in an escrow account. A ten-member committee comprising two senior nominees of CPCB, a representative each of MoEF&CC, State Pollution Control Board, Collector (Mumbai), National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, KEM Hospital and a nominee of the state health secretary is to be set up to prepare an action plan for restoration measures to be implemented within five years. “The plan may in particular provide for dealing with health issues of the inhabitants and measures for control of pollution in the area, treating Ambapada, Mahul, Chembur and contiguous area (as may be specified by the Committee) to be Special Air Pollution Control Area for the restoration plan,” reads the order. The NGT has allowed the committee to hold virtual meetings. The committee has been allowed to execute the plan through the companies or otherwise. ends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hpcl-bpcl-2-other-firms-fined-rs-286cr-for-mahul-pollution/articleshow/77555035.cms||Clara Lewis
August 15, 2020||World||US Postal Service watchdog to probe service woes as worries rise about mail ballots||WASHINGTON: The US Postal Service's internal watchdog is investigating cost cutting that has slowed delivery and alarmed lawmakers ahead of a presidential election when up to half of US voters could cast ballots by mail, a congressional aide said on Friday. The Postal Service's inspector general also will examine possible conflicts of interest involving new Postmaster General Louis DeJoy, who has donated $2.7 million to President Donald Trump and his fellow Republicans, according to Saloni Sharma, a spokeswoman for Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren, who requested the investigation. DeJoy owns millions of dollars in stock in Postal Service rivals and customers, according to a financial disclosure form filed by his wife. The Inspector General's Office is "conducting a body of work to address concerns raised," spokeswoman Agapi Doulaveris said The investigation comes as the Postal Service is warning states that there is "significant risk" voters will not have enough time to complete their ballots and return them under current state laws. The Washington Post reported that the Postal Service has warned a total of 46 of the 50 states and the District of Columbia. The letters highlight the possibility that a meaningful number of mail votes in the Nov. 3 presidential election might go uncounted if they are returned too late. "State and local election officials must understand and take into account our operational standards and recommended timelines," Postal Service spokeswoman Martha Johnson said. Election officials are bracing for a deluge of mail ballots as many states have made it easier to vote by mail to address concerns about public gatherings during the coronavirus pandemic. Republican President Donald Trump, meanwhile, said Thursday that he opposes additional funding to make mail voting easier. Trump, who is trailing Democratic rival Joe Biden in opinion polls, has said without evidence that widespread mail voting could lead to fraud. However, public records show that he has requested mail ballots for himself and his wife Melania ahead of Florida's Tuesday primary election. Election experts say mail voting is as secure as any other method. Biden and other Democrats say Trump is trying to interfere with the election, and former Democratic President Barack Obama said he was worried that Trump was trying to "kneecap" the Postal Service. The issue has taken on added urgency in recent weeks, as cost-cutting measures put in place by DeJoy have led to widespread mail delays. Arizona Secretary of State Katie Hobbs, a Democrat, said on Friday that the changes could violate state laws against election tampering. She called for a criminal investigation. TOO LITTLE TIME? The Postal Service has warned some states that allowing voters to request ballots less than a week before the election does not leave enough time to print the ballot, mail it to the voter and have it returned. Half of the states allow voters to request an absentee ballot within seven days of an election. The Postal Service recommends that mail ballots should be completed and in the mail back to election offices by that point. Ohio, Michigan and several other states with tight deadlines have so far not pushed them back. Pennsylvania's secretary of state asked the state Supreme Court to allow ballots to be counted if they are received up to three days after the Nov. 3 election, rather than on Election Day. The Postal Service's top lawyer, Thomas Marshall, also encouraged election officials to use its first-class mail service to ensure prompt delivery, rather than the cheaper and slower bulk-mail rate. In past elections the Postal Service has given priority to all political and election mail, no matter the postage rate, according to workers and the service's internal watchdog. "If this letter aims to backtrack on that collaboration or the promise of prioritization of election mail, that would be very concerning," said Tracy Wimmer, a spokeswoman for the Michigan Department of State, which oversees elections. Roughly 0.25% of mail ballots were rejected in 2016 because they arrived too late, according to the US Election Assistance Commission. Problems with mail ballots have marred primary elections in several states this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-postal-service-watchdog-to-probe-service-woes-as-worries-rise-about-mail-ballots/articleshow/77556080.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||To protect paddy, Punjab govt bans 9 agro-chemicals||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday ordered a ban on the sale and use of nine agro-chemicals after the agriculture department found that farmers were still using the same, which were detrimental to the quality of paddy. The ban is aimed at protecting the paddy quality, which is critical to its export and remunerative pricing in the international market. Punjab has approved the ban of acephate, triazophos, thiamethoxam, carbendazim, tricyclazole, buprofezin, carbofuron, propiconazole and thiophinate methyl under Section 27 of the Insecticides Act, 1968 with an immediate effect. Under the ban orders, the sale, stocking, distribution and use of these nine insecticides on rice crops has been prohibited. Amarinder has asked secretary agriculture Kahan Singh Pannu to issue detailed guidelines to the director agriculture to ensure strict enforcement of the ban, issued after state government laboratories conducted sample testing. Pannu said these agrochemicals were non-conducive to the farmers’ interest, besides resulting in degradation of quality, and also posed a risk of higher pesticide residues in rice grain than the maximum residual level (MRL) fixed by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-bans-sale-of-9-agrochemicals-to-protect-paddy/articleshow/77553986.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Gurgaon||Dushyant Chautala to flag off Rs 10 crore projects today||GURUGRAM: Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala will inaugurate 17 projects worth Rs 10.44 crore in the district’s rural areas during the Independence Day celebrations on Saturday, said officials. The projects include the construction of a room in a school, a wrestling hall and beautification of a pond in Naurangpur, besides three others in the same village. According to the officials, five projects will be inaugurated in Bajghera that will include a boxing complex, a badminton complex, an ayurvedic medical store and a community centre. In Chautala Dharamapur village, the deputy chief minister will open Radha Krishan Vatika and a chaupal for the members of the SC community and also lay the foundation stone of a community centre. Other projects include beautification of ponds in Nakhrola and Mauzabad. Meanwhile, the administration will honour freedom fighters and war widows at their homes since most of them are elderly and need to remain indoors due to the risk of Covid-19. Frontline workers on Covid duty, including doctors, health department staff and MCG employees, will be awarded on Saturday. The awardees have already undergone a Covid test. The MCG has sanitised the stadium before the function and all attendees will be screened at the main gate and will need to wear masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dushyant-to-flag-off-10cr-projects-today/articleshow/77555046.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Vadodara||Three deaths in Vadodara as 106 more test positive||Vadodara: With 106 new Covid-19 cases, the total number of persons who have tested positive for the viral infection in the city and district rose to 6,111. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also confirmed three more deaths taking the total number of deceased to 117. The highest number of new cases on Friday were reported from the north zone of the city where 43 persons tested positive. This was followed by the south zone of the city that reported 20 positive cases. The west and east zones of the city saw seven and six new cases. The areas from where the cases were reported in the VMC limits include Khanderao Market, Karelibaug, Danteshwar, Yakutpura, Waghodiya Road, Panigate, Wadi, Tandalja, Warasiya Ring Road, O P Road, Vasna Road, Chokhandi, Makarpura, Manjalpur, Gorwa, Gotri, Subhanpura, Chhani, Sama, Shiyabaug, Ajwa Road, Navayard, Fatehpura and Vadsar. Thirty cases were reported in the district outside VMC limits. These included cases from Savli, Ranoli, Sherkhi, Sayajipura, Padra, Sangma, Waghodiya, Kandari, Karjan and Dabhoi. A major relief to the administration was that 184 persons were discharged from hospitals or home isolation. With these 4,870 persons have been discharged so far. The number includes those who died due to comorbidities after testing positive for Covid-19. As many as 1,124 persons remained under treatment including 53 persons on ventilators or BIPAP machines. Those hospitalised also include 149 on oxygen support. The condition of 922 persons is said to be stable and these include those under home isolation. SSG Hospital has surplus capacityVadodara: The SSG Hospital now has a capacity of 550 beds to treat Covid-19 patients including 75 intensive care unit (ICU) beds. Against this, 199 Covid-19 patients are being treated here including three on ventilators and 18 on BIPAP machines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/three-deaths-in-vadodara-as-106-more-test-positive/articleshow/77551288.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Goa||Housing board plans to build 64 dwellings in Xeldem||Panaji: Designated as the implementing agency for affordable housing in a partnership component of “Housing for all by 2022” mission, under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban), the Goa Housing Board (GHB) has planned to construct 64 dwelling units under PMAY in Xeldem-Quepem to provide quality affordable housing to Goans. A proposal to this effect has been submitted to the state government for enhancement of FAR and exemption of fees and taxes payable to the approving authorities to make the project affordable. GHB chairman Subhash Shirodkar said the housing board has unveiled various initiatives to live up to the government’s commitment towards providing affordable accommodation to the people of Goa. Similarly, the cumbersome process of auction and allotment of plots and tenements is proposed to be simplified and made more transparent by migrating the entire process onto a well-developed software and implementing online e-auction by giving wide publicity to the plots and tenements proposed to be auctioned. This will enable Goans to participate in the e-auction process without having to attend a physical auction and will also enable wide spread participation by reduction of paperwork. The software is being developed by Goa Electronics Ltd. To step up the quality and standard of work, reputed and experienced architects and project management consultants are being empanelled to design and develop various properties belonging to GHB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/housing-board-plans-to-build-64-dwellings-in-xeldem/articleshow/77555068.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||SAD slams govt for abolishing 40k PSPCL jobs||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has condemned the Punjab government for deciding to abolish 40,000 sanctioned posts in the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL), saying the government was taking “be-rozgaari” to each family in the state instead of providing ‘ghar ghar rozgaar’ as promised. SAD leader and former minister Sikander Singh Maluka, who is also the convener of the party’s employees’ wing, said earlier 8,000 posts in the water resources department and 2,267 posts in the agriculture and farmers’ welfare department were abolished. He said even the Punjab Ex-servicemen Corporation wing was not spared as the government has decided to reduce its strength by 20%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-slams-govt-for-abolishing-40k-pspcl-jobs/articleshow/77554045.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Mysuru||30 trucks carrying stones mined at Baby Betta seized||Mandya: A raid by the sleuths of the Mandya District Crime Investigation Bureau on Thursday resulted in the seizure of stones and other such materials illegally mined and quarried at the Baby Betta Kaval, a reserve forest area. The sleuths seized 30 trucks that were laden with illegally mined substances. The Baby Betta has been at the centre of a longstanding controversy, with locals in and around the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) Dam and activists being staunchly opposed to mining activities at the hill, which they fear threatens the stability of the reservoir. The officials involved in the raid said that the trucks were carrying the materials mined at Baby Betta to Mysuru. “Activists are alleging that local cops are hand-in-glove with those involved in illegal mining. We will continue to carry out such raids and send a strong message that law enforcement agencies are in the earnest in cracking down on illegal activities at Baby Betta Kaval,” a senior police officer in Mandya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/30-trucks-carrying-stones-mined-at-baby-betta-seized/articleshow/77532195.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: With SHGs, women contribute to migrant homes||LUCKNOW: Extending another way to strengthen households of migrant workers who have returned to the state after the lockdown, the state government has taken a unique route. The women in such households will be given opportunities to earn a living through enrolment in self-help groups (SHGs). These SHGs, under the State Rural Livelihood Mission, aim to make women self-reliant and economically productive. It includes both women who have returned from other districts themselves as well as those whose husbands or other family members have lost jobs. The SHGs will not only make women in the families of migrant workers secure but also contributors to the home in times of crisis. Take the example of Siddharthnagar, which has got the maximum number of migrants—1.5 lakh—among all districts. “We profiled all women who came back to the district from other states as well as those who had such men in the families who were migrants and had lost jobs,” said district development officer of Siddharthnagar Sheshmani Singh. The SHGs are involved in work like stitching, including that of school uniforms, embroidery, nursery plantation, art and craft. Of the 1.5 lakh, at least 60,000 have been almost continuously employed under MNREGS. They are working on the routine jobs under MNREGS, varying every month. In June, they were engaged in digging of ponds and cleaning of drains. “Usually, about 45,000 labourers work under MNREGS in the district in June. This year, we had at least a lakh. This made a difference for the district also,” said Singh. “Besides, there have been constant efforts to get others employed as well based on their skills,” he said. While unskilled workers have been employed under MNREGS, the skilled ones, after skill mapping, are being trained under self-employment schemes and encouraged to start their own business, said Singh, who is an official in the rural development department. The latest training to have been imparted to them was in mushroom farming. Plantation of nurseries, poultry, goat farming and construction of public toilets are other means that have provided employment to migrants. “Goatery is a profitable venture. A young one may be sold for Rs 5,000,” said the official. To make the employment process more efficient, the government is planning to organise camps where senior officers would visit to establish communication with migrants. “This is to listen to their problems and find out what they expect from the government,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-shgs-women-become-contributors-to-migrant-worker-households/articleshow/77555509.cms||Neha Shukla
August 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Dozens of villages cut off in EG, WG||Rajahmundry: River Godavari is in spate and dozens of villages have been cut off in East and West Godavari districts. 7.8 lakh cusecs of water has been discharged into the sea from Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram. In Chinturu ITDA limits, 12 villages have been cut off due to overflowing streams. The water level in Sabari River has reached 35 feet. Several villages are inundated due to backwaters. Seven major roads are blocked. Authorities have arranged four motorized boats and two ‘launches’ to move people to safer places. In Konaseema, five villages have been cut off due to overflowing of water on causeways. The flood situation turned grim at Polavaram mandal in West Godavari district on Friday following heavy inflow from upstream areas of River Godavari. Floodwaters entered several villages in the project upstream area. Villagers moved to nearby hills. Revenue officials said that boats, medicine and ration will be supplied to flood victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dozens-of-villages-cut-off-in-eg-wg/articleshow/77554069.cms||Samson Raj
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Minister warns about online fraudsters offering free smartphones||Chandigarh: Punjab school education minister Vijay Inder Singla has cautioned people about online fraudsters promising to provide free smartphones under the ‘Punjab Smart Connect Scheme’. Taking note of fake messages being circulated on WhatsApp and other social media platforms, Singla said Punjab Smart Connect Scheme is solely for government schools Class XII students, who had been provided smartphones based on their enrollment. Therefore, there is no question of others getting benefits under this scheme, he said. Singla said the Punjab government had not launched any website or social media platform to register for such smartphones. He urged people not to follow any messages or click any URL link being circulated via instant messaging services like WhatsApp and SMS which depicts registration for free smartphones given by the state government. These kinds of phishing attacks could allow cyber-criminals to take control of a person’s device, he warned. The fake message being circulated as graphic has a photograph of the Punjab chief minister under the title ‘Captain Smartphone Distribution Scheme 2020’ and online registration proforma, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/minister-warns-about-online-fraudsters-offering-free-smartphones/articleshow/77554064.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Rapid tests on borders for migrants coming back to Delhi||NEW DELHI: Migrants coming back to the capital from different states are now being tested for Covid-19 in border areas. Delhi government has asked the district authorities to set up camps in areas like Anand Vihar, Seemapuri, Vivek Vihar and Wazirabad to carry out rapid antigen tests. One of the first camps has come up at Anand Vihar, a major interstate transit hub. “Guidelines have been issued by the government and the districts with border entry points are setting up such camps. Though interstate bus services have not resumed, migrants are coming by buses from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and getting dropped near Kaushambi,” said a senior district official. “These people cross the road and take local buses from Anand Vihar ISBT to reach different parts of Delhi,” he added. Similar camps have come up or are coming up in other areas but the lion’s share of people travelling from other states come to Anand Vihar, the official said. “Civil defence volunteers help manage the crowd and ensure they queue up for testing while maintaining social distancing. Delhi Police has also helped us maintain order and safety norms,” he said. The camp at Anand Vihar, which came up on Thursday, tested more than 200 people till 2pm on Friday. “One person’s report came positive on Thursday while four were found positive on Friday. Since all of them were asymptomatic, they have been sent to the nearby Commonwealth Games Village Covid Care Centre. Symptomatic patients will be taken to designated hospitals,” the official said. It is not possible to test everyone coming to the ISBT, the district official said. “We are testing every fourth or fifth person in the queue. They are made to wait till the results arrive and are allowed to board local buses only if results are negative.” Similar camps will be set up at the Delhi-Haryana border and Delhi government is also planning an awareness campaign for those migrants returning by other modes of transport. “People who may have come in private vehicles or by other means will be encouraged to get themselves tested at the nearest centres. The campaign will be carried out in areas with high migrant population,” a government official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rapid-tests-on-borders-for-migrants-coming-back/articleshow/77554072.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Foundation laid for new Parakamani complex||Tirupati: The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams on Friday laid the foundation stone for construction of a new Parakamani counting point near the Annaprasadam complex. The existing counting point inside the Lord Venkateswara temple would shift to the new building once it is completed. Parakamani is the area where the Hundi offerings are counted on a daily basis. But due to various reasons, the TTD management decided to move the facility outside the temple. The daily Hundi collections before the Covid-19 lockdown used to be around Rs 3-4 crore. Counting of the offerings extended by devotees in the form of currency, coins, gold, silver and other articles had become an issue due to security and other issues. TTD’s additional EO A V Dharma Reddy said the temple administration took into consideration several issues that were proving to be a hindrance in the smooth functioning of the Parakamani counting activities before deciding to construct a state-of-the-art counting complex outside the temple premises. “The new Parakamani Bhavan would be spread over an area of 14,962 sq feet area. The new complex will have 10 strong rooms for banks to secure the counted money, donor cell waiting hall, sorting halls, offices for senior officials etc. For devotees to witness the counting operations, the walls of the counting area would feature see-through glass,” he said. A Bangalore-based donor, K Murali Krishna, has donated Rs 8.9 crore to TTD towards the construction of the new Parakamani Bhavan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/foundation-laid-for-new-parakamani-complex/articleshow/77554117.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||14,726 students vie for Class XI admissions||CHANDIGARH: A total of 14,726 students have made it to the common merit list (CML) for Class XI admissions uploaded by the UT education department in its website on Friday. The list has been prepared based on the marks obtained by the candidates. A stream-wise merit list based on the first preference opted for by the candidates has also been prepared and provided on the website. In the bracket of 96% to 100%, only 79 students feature in the merit list, with maximum 1,545 students falling in the 46% to 50.99% bracket, followed by 1,489 in 41% to 45.99% bracket and 1,454 in 51to 55.99% bracket. Out of the total 14,726, 3,675 students have made it to the science stream merit list against 3,080 seats, while in the commerce stream, 2,251 students are in the list against 1,560 seats. In the humanities stream, there are 7,547 students in the list against 6,420 seats, while in the vocational stream, 1,247 students have been listed against 1,755 seats in 18 different skills. The candidates have been advised to download the “Discrepancy and Objection Proforma” if they see any discrepancy or have an objection. They will have to email the proforma to the education department by 1pm on August 15, along with other relevant documents. Officials said before pointing out any discrepancy, the students must verify their marks by clicking on their form number displayed in the CML and refer to the prospectus. In case of any grievance, candidates can submit their objections through e-mail at edchdutxi@gmail.com in the proformas available on the website or call one of the grievance redressal cells set up at various government model senior secondary schools (GMSSS) on August 15 between 10am and 1pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/common-merit-list-out-for-class-xi-admissions/articleshow/77552458.cms||Kamini Mehta
August 15, 2020||Amritsar||Professor Raghavendra Prasad Tiwari appointed vice-chancellor of Central University of Punjab||BATHINDA: Prof Raghavendra Prasad Tiwari has been appointed as the vice-chancellor of the Central University of Punjab (CUP), Bathinda. Till now, he was serving as the VC of Dr Harisingh Gour Vishwavidyalaya, Sagar, Madhya Pradesh. Prof Tiwari becomes the varsity’s third VC and replaces Prof R K Kohli. Prof Jairup Singh is the first to have held the post. CUP registrar K P S Mundra confirmed the appointment. The university was established in 2009 under an act of Parliament. In a letter written to university registrar on behalf of President of India on Thursday, it has been mentioned that Prof Tiwari has been appointed as VC as per Statute 2 of the Central Universities Act, 2009, for a term of five years or until he attains the age of 70, whichever is earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/prof-tiwari-appointed-central-university-of-punjabs-3rd-vc/articleshow/77554078.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||Four-fold increase in number of man days after convergence of 11 depts||LUCKNOW: The number of man days of jobs generated under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Generation Scheme (MNREGS) through the convergence of 11 departments has registered a four-fold increase over the past month. According to data from the rural development department, this has potentially made the move of convergence a significant success during the Covid-19 pandemic with a large influx of migrants to the state. Data shows that the number of man days of jobs under MNREGS-driven convergence of 11 departments increased from 7 lakh in July to around 31 lakh on August 5. The scheme is projected to execute 43,538 projects worth Rs 936 crore. The 11 departments which are proposed to come together include minor irrigation, irrigation, forest department, PWD, agriculture department, fisheries, horticulture, sericulture, panchayati raj, integrated water management project and rural engineering. The Centre’s flagship scheme, MNREGS has turned out to be the key driver of projects in PWD and irrigation departments. Data shows that PWD alone accounted for more than 15 lakh man days of jobs. In fact, PWD’s nearly 27,000 projects worth over Rs 500 crore were executed through MNREGS in the past month. The department is expected to employ MNREGS workers for strengthening of roads, besides roping them in construction of panchayat bhawans, community toilets and sheds for stray cattle. Likewise, the irrigation department executed 4,502 projects worth Rs 175 crore under the scheme, creating 9 lakh man days of jobs. Additional commissioner, MNREGS, Yogesh Kumar said that the convergence of the various departments had lent a boost to MNREGS and had been a success, given the extent and quantum of projects which got executed. The work which is proposed to be conducted by the irrigation department essentially includes strengthening of canals. Under the minor irrigation department, as many as 2,767 projects were executed to produce more than 86,000 man days of jobs. The same was true for the horticulture department which saw execution of 2,991 projects while generating 34,000 man days. MNREGS was kick-started in UP on April 21 to accommodate a large number of stranded migrants who were rendered jobless in the wake of the lockdown. Till date, 18 crore man days of jobs have been created under MNREGS, of which 31 lakh have been created under convergence scheme. The scheme, officials said, has been a success, especially in the rural areas where most number of migrants came back. The other departments which generated a significant number of man days included agriculture, forest and panchayati raj. Under the agriculture department, as many as 935 projects were undertaken under MNREGS resulting in generation of 1.6 lakh man days. The forest department and the Panchayati Raj department saw execution of 2,257 and 2,177 projects, respectively. They produced 1.2 lakh and 1.1 lakh man days of jobs, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/4-fold-increase-in-number-of-man-days-after-convergence-of-11-depts/articleshow/77555521.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||PMO seeks reply from UT on petition filed by bribe case complainant||CHANDIGARH: The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) has sought a reply from the UT administrator on a letter written by Prem Singh Bisht, complainant in a 2017 bribery case, who alleged threat to his life from Chandigarh police. Bisht is complainant in a graft case that dates back to October 2017, when sub-inspector (SI) Mohan Singh was arrested for accepting a Rs 2 lakh bribe, allegedly on the directions of then Sector 31 SHO, Jaswinder Kaur. In the letter to the PMO, he alleged that the SI, who was investigating officer in an attempt to murder case, demanded Rs 9 lakh to drop the names of three of his employees from the FIR. The CBI arrested the SI accepting Rs 2 lakh bribe, but the case against her was closed for want of evidence. In his communication to the PMO, Bisht said he faced threat to his life from the police, who wanted him to take back the complaint. Bisht sought adequate security and a CBI investigation. He also sought directions for preservation of CCTV footage of specific periods. These were between 6:30pm and 8:15pm outside Sham fashion mall, at PS-31 between 4pm and 7:30pm on June 18 and at PS-34 from 7pm to 10pm. He also sought CCTV footage of PS-39 from 8:30pm of June 18 to 10am of June 19. Apart from this, he has sought directions to preserve call records of four SHOs from June 16 to 19. He mentioned in the letter to the PMO that he fears “threat to life” or “false implication by Chandigarh police.” He said that he is the complainant in the bribery case and his business partner Samdarsh Kumar alias Joseph is a witness. “We are continuously getting threats from the four police officials (three SHOs and one constable) to make us hostile in the case or submit an affidavit in favour of Jawinder Kaur,” Bisht said, adding that his life is in danger as “we are getting threats from Chandigarh Police for planting false NDPS case or other cases.” Following this, the PMO wrote to the UT administrator. “I am desired to forward herewith a letter/gist of oral representation dated July 8 received in this office from Prem Singh Bisht for action as appropriate. Reply may be sent to the petitioner and a copy of the same may be uploaded on the portal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pmo-seeks-reply-from-ut-on-petition-filed-by-bribe-case-complainant/articleshow/77552494.cms||Neha Sharma
August 15, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 313 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths||Dehradun: The death toll due to Covid-19 in Uttarakhand touched 147 after four more patients succumbed to the deadly infection on Friday. Meanwhile, a total of 313 cases were reported during the course of the day. The Covid-19 case tally in the state now stands at 11,615. Among the four deaths, one each was reported from Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) and Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. The other two deaths, both middle-aged Covid-19-positive men, were recorded at Pithoragarh District Hospital, informed Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Also, AIIMS Rishikesh reported two deaths after the release of the daily health bulletin. The maximum of 123 coronavirus cases surfaced from Haridwar, followed by 73 from Dehradun, 54 from Nainital, 24 from Udham Singh Nagar, 23 from Tehri Garhwal, six from Uttarkashi, five from Champawat, two cases each from Bageshwar and Pithoragarh, and one case each from Pauri and Chamoli districts. Uttarkashi has the maximum of 166 active cases among hill districts, added Tripathi. On the day, the state government sanctioned a sum of Rs 2.9 crore for setting up of a virology lab at Govardhan Tiwari Government Base Hospital (GTGBH) in Almora with an aim to increase Covid-19 testing and strengthen the research against the novel coronavirus. Orders regarding the same were issued by secretary Amit Negi. Notably, GTGBH is associated with Soban Singh Jeena Government Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre at Almora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-313-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths/articleshow/77551247.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi cops oppose plea for SIT in Jamia violence||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Friday alleged that “dubious” material was being shown to Delhi high court to convince it to set up an SIT or a commission of inquiry to examine violence at Jamia Milia Islamia last year. Police said unverified videos or media reports couldn’t be treated as evidence in a court of law, while opposing a batch of petitions alleging that ruthless and excessive use of force and aggression was unleashed by the cops and paramilitary forces on the students. Appearing for police before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and justice Prateek Jalan, Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Aman Lekhi submitted that police had entered Jamia to restore order, which was disrupted by the incidents of arson and destruction of public property during the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. “Police are authorised to use force that may lead to injury, point is, was it disproportionate? No, the petitioners have not shown it. General averments of violence, using flippant public comments, can’t be litigation in courts,” ASG Lekhi argued. Lekhi added that police entered the campus with a “legitimate objective”, which was to restore order, pointing out that because the place was a university and people involved were students, it does not mean that action taken was uncalled for. Police also opposed demand for compensation to those injured in the violence, as for there had to be an admission of breach or a finding of wrongdoing by them, which were issues that were still being examined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-oppose-plea-for-sit-in-jamia-violence/articleshow/77554155.cms||Abhinav Garg
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||CBSE compartment exams to be held in September||CHANDIGARH: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) has proposed to conduct compartment exams in September. Board officials said dates would be announced soon. CBSE has shared details of eligible regular and private candidates who can appear for the compartment exams. According to CBSE, candidates of classes X and XII who appeared for examinations in February and March 2020 as regular candidates and whose result has been declared as compartment; candidates of Class XII who applied for improvement of performance as regular candidates in subjects for which examination was scheduled from July 1, 2020 to July 15, 2020 and their result has been declared as ‘NC’ in the subject concerned; candidates of Class XII who have appeared as regular candidates in six subjects in February/March 2020 and declared Pass but could not clear one subject can appear under improvement of performance category; and candidates of classes XII and X who have been punished under Category 1 of unfair means wherein their current examination of the subject has been cancelled and they have been allowed to appear in compartment examination will appear for the exams in September. Students who have to appear in any of the above categories will have to approach their respective schools, CBSE stated. “Schools shall have to submit LOC for compartment examination in respect of regular students, both for class XII and class X through e-Pariksha link. Only those candidates whose name is submitted through the online process shall be allowed to appear for the examinations proposed to be conducted in September 2020.” Schools will be informed about the date of downloading of the admit cards later. In case of any discrepancy in the admit card, schools should contact the regional office of the board concerned. BOX | For any queries candidates may call the CBSE Helpline number | 1800-11-8002 or 011-22509257-59 between 10am and 5pm on all working days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cbse-to-conduct-compartment-exams-in-sept/articleshow/77552483.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Naveen P is innocent, says father||BENGALURU: The father of a man accused of posting inflammatory content on Facebook that led to rioting in East Bengaluru on Tuesday night said his son his innocent and had no intention of entering politics. Naveen P, 35, nephew of Pulakeshinagar Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy, was arrested for the post. On Friday, his father said, “I’ve seen reports that Naveen has confessed to the crime but I have doubts about the confession. However,, if he has committed the crime, he should be punished. Naveen had distributed sweets when the foundation stone for the temple was laid at Ayodhya. This could have led to the issue and it looks like a planned attack. Nevertheless, I won’t take up the legal fight for my son.” Pavan was speaking to mediapersons in front of his residence that was targeted and set on fire by rioters. He asserted that his son could not have posted the derogatory content. Maintaining that his family had severed its relationship with Srinivasamurthy’s family more than a decade ago, Pavan said, “He used to help others but not our family. We haven’t been on good terms for the past 15 years” Saying that both his sons have no political ambitions, Pavan said, “They will not contest from Sagayapura ward in the forthcoming BBMP elections. We don’t know who Muzamil Pasha is. Everyone is narrating tales of their own.” Pasha was arrested in connection with the violence and it was alleged that he was at loggerheads with Naveen as both wanted to contest from Sagayapura ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/naveen-innocent-says-father/articleshow/77552496.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Goa||‘Focus on jobs, stop wasteful expense’||Panaji: While stating that tourism will return to normal once the pandemic is over, governor Satya Pal Malik on Friday urged the people of the state to look at traditional sectors like agriculture and fishing to tide over the fall in their incomes. Malik said that the government needs to provide stimulus and incentives to industries, manufacturing and other job-creating sectors of the economy and cut down on wasteful expenditure and focus on resource mobilisation. The governor said Goa is capable of becoming self-sufficient in agricultural production and the government should remove all bottlenecks in resurrecting the sector. In his Independence Day speech, Malik said that tourism is considered the backbone of Goa’s economy. The state attracts a large number of domestic and foreign travellers. But the Covid-19 pandemic has deeply impacted Goa’s tourism sector. “Every effort is being made by the state government to revive this sector, however, the fact is that it will only come back once the pandemic is gone. I think it is time that people across the state have to begin to fall back on more traditional occupations such as agriculture and fishing in a bid to tide over the fall in their incomes and the state economy,” Malik said However, he added that agriculture used to be the main occupation of Goa in earlier days. With the growth of tourism, mining, industries, manufacturing and service sectors, it gradually came to be neglected. He said that the Covid crisis has made us realise that there is a dire need of revival of the agricultural sector in Goa. Malik urged people to cherish the values of democracy, rule of law, secularism, pluralism, universal brotherhood, social harmony and foster scientific temper and spirit of enquiry. “Let us strive to make our country a better and safe place by following the values and principles taught by our great leaders. Let us spread awareness, knowledge and values,”he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/focus-on-jobs-stop-wasteful-expense/articleshow/77555105.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Students to discuss world issues in mock UN sessions||Chandigarh: Vivek High School, Chandigarh has started its sixth International Model United Nations conference on online platforms. The theme of this year’s conference is, “Nosce Te Ipsum-Revelations Through Reflections.” It focuses on the importance of introspection to combat issues of grave concern and find solutions to them with concerted efforts. This is the first time Vivek High is conducting Model UN via digital platforms. The conference is being attended by about 250 delegates from more than 24 schools from across the nation and from Dubai and Canada. The conference will be simulating eight committees, United Nations Security Council, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Indian Stakeholders’ Meet, Communist International OPEC+, US Senate Israel War Cabine, United Nations Commission on Status of Women. Anandpur Sahib MP Manish Tewari was the chief guest for the opening ceremony held on Friday evening. During the seven sessions in each committee, discussions will be held on topics like cooperation between nations and UN to ensure international peace, human rights of refugees in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Indian government’s response to Covid-19, International Labour Rights, impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on oil and petroleum prices, Black Lives Matter protests and police brutality, Six Day War between Israel and Arab nations and gender inequality in politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/students-to-discuss-world-issues-in-mock-un-sessions/articleshow/77552504.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Vadodara||Five-feet croc rescued||Vadodara: A five-feet-long crocodile decided to rest awhile on the benches installed by the civic body on the roadside near Kala Bhavan, while the citizens were away on Friday. A passer-by spotted the reptile lounging on one of the benches opposite Navlakhi Compound and alerted volunteers of Gujarat Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA), who rushed to the spot and rescued it. “The crocodile must have ventured out of Vishwamitri River and crawled all the way to this place at night,” said a volunteer. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/five-feet-croc-rescued/articleshow/77551319.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Use debit/credit card for travel in Delhi Metro||NEW DELHI: Come next year, and one will be able use a debit or credit card to travel in the Delhi Metro. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation plans to upgrade the current software and database for the Automatic Fare Collection (AFC) system on the existing network, so that it is in line with the new system that will be used in the upcoming Phase IV stations. A DMRC official said the new system would see enhancement of AFC gates in the entire network, with the primary objective of promoting more digitisation of services, apart from cashless transactions. The metro corporation is not only upgrading the AFC software, but also the ‘firmware’ that would help commuters in using credit or debit cards of any bank as smart cards. Currently, metros systems at cities like Kochi and Nagpur have the facility but these are applicable only for cards issued by a particular bank. DMRC’s system will, however, accept transactions from all banks through the Rupay card issued by them. The standalone Airport Express Line will get this system first, followed by the other corridors. The new system would also help create more ‘fare zones’ in the network, which would help in determining the fare to be deducted from the smart card after a journey, based on the distance travelled. “Presently the metro system has 32 fare zones. Due to the increase in the network system in the coming years, it is required to upgrade the number of fare zones from 32 to 64. With this increase, we are also required to upgrade the number of maximum stations in the system to 512,” a DMRC spokesperson explained. Under the new system, ‘penalty deductions’ would also be possible through smart cards. At the moment, a commuter needs to pay an increased value at exit if he travels further than his ticket value, or if he/she stays for a longer duration at the station, or if there’s no ticket. “In such cases, the commuter has to go to customer care and pay by cash the supplement amount even if he has enough balance on his card,” the spokesperson claimed. “The aim of the new function would be to make passengers be able to use the smart card to pay the adjusted amount,” he added. DMRC will also integrate ‘Point of Sale’ terminals with ticketing machines at customer care of the older Phase-I and Phase-II stations. “This is required to be done to facilitate payment via credit and debit cards,” he added. The upgradation of AFC system across the existing network is expected to start soon and may take a year and a half to complete. DMRC is also refurbishing older AFC machines to reduce instances of snags. The overhaul exercise includes replacing, as well as adding around 600 AFC machines, which will cover around 40 metro stations of Phase I and Phase II and about 30 stations of Phase III. There are around 2,700 AFC gates in the entire metro network at present. Watch You can use debit/credit card for travel in Delhi Metro from 2021||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/use-debit/credit-card-for-metro-travel/articleshow/77554185.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Man held for sexual assault on 9-year-old boy||MOHALI: Police have arrested a 30-year-old man for sexual assault on a nine-year-old boy. Police officials said the miscreant lives in the same area as the victim. Police said he lured the boy to his room, tied him up and sexually assaulted him. According to the police, the boy is a single child whose father died sometime ago. His mother works in an MNC godown nearby. Col Ravi Bedi, director, Childline said, “Information was received on our portal and we intervened in the case.” The miscreant fled from the the spot and was arrested on Friday. ASI Ajit Singh, the investigating officer of the case said, “The miscreant has been arrested and will be produced in the local court on Saturday.” A case has been registered under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of children from sexual offences act (POCSO). (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-held-for-sexual-assault-on-9-year-old-boy/articleshow/77552507.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka minister wants social media platforms to rein in hate messages||BENGALURU: The state government plans to summon representatives of social media such as Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and WhatsApp to discuss the feasibility of preventing the spread of hate messages and rumours on these platforms, which incite violence and crimes. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai told TOI that he and senior police officers will meet representatives of these companies and ask them to deploy “proactive, artificial intelligence (AI) based tools” to track hate messages, especially those relating to religious issues, and help police initiate action. “We also want to know why they cannot instal filters on their platforms to prevent users from posting hate messages,” Bommai said. Bommai said, currently, once they track or receive a complaint about such messages, police have to file an FIR under the IT Act and Telegraph Act before initiating action. By that time, the damage is done as it happened in the violence in east Bengaluru on Tuesday night. The trouble erupted hours before police could arrest the person who allegedly posted derogatory messages. “You cannot arrest a person immediately after filing an FIR. Police have to follow due process, but people who are emotionally charged expect them to arrest immediately,” the home minister said. Police said social media sites are “slow” in removing objectionable or unlawful content which aids the spread of hate messages, rumours inciting violence and crimes against women. In the recent past, several objectionable messages, which could potentially disrupt public peace or law and order and incite criminal offences, including communal violence, have been posted on Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, YouTube, they said. Some of these cases were brought to the notice of managements of social networking sites through their representatives in Bengaluru, but the response has not been timely. The government also plans to strengthen its cyber cell to counter the spread of hate messages. Bommai said he will initiate steps to upgrade all such cells in the state to prevent cybercrimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/minister-wants-social-media-platforms-to-rein-in-hate-messages/articleshow/77552518.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Khattar announces relief in property tax||Chandigarh: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday approved a slew of relief measures for people, calling them “an Independence Day gift”. The measures include 100% exemption in property tax for charitable educational institutions, charitable hospitals and schools for children with special needs; complete waiver of electricity bills, including surcharge amount, for the months of April, May and June 2020 in respect of all religious places; and a one-time 50% rebate in property tax for residential properties situated in lal dora of villages under municipal bodies whose owners would clear pending arrears by October 31, 2020. A Haryana government official said many amendments had been carried out in the Urban Local Bodies Department Notifications dated October 11, 2013, to give effect to the measures relating to property tax and that discoms would soon issue notifications in respect of electricity bills of temples, gurdwaras, churches and mosques. The spokesperson said a one-time rebate of 25% would also be allowed for property tax dues or arrears for the years 2010-11 to 2016-17 to those property tax owners who clear all property tax dues or arrears for the year 2010-11 to 2019-20 up to October 31, 2020. He said in case of late payment, interest at the rate of 1.5% per month or part thereof would be charged, provided that one-time waiver of interest on the dues and arrears of property tax pending since year 2010-11 to 2019-20 would be allowed to all taxpayers, if their arrears are paid up to October 31, 2020. An additional 5% rebate would be given to property owners who would pay by auto debit system up to July 31 every year, but for the ongoing year the last date would be treated as October 31, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/khattar-announces-relief-in-property-tax/articleshow/77554189.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||9pm-5am curfew in Pb cities||Chandigarh: With Covid-19 cases continuing to spike amid fears of the peak hitting the state in few weeks, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday announced extension of the night curfew from 9pm to 5am to all cities, along with a slew of other measures to control the pandemic. The night-time curfew will now be there in all cities, with exemption for industries, said the Amarinder. He also announced sector-based division of big cities, with a nodal officer to be appointed in each for contact tracing to assist the health teams. Amarinder also announced weekend (Saturday and Sunday) ‘Stay at Home’ to curb unnecessary movement and socialising, other than essential services, in Ludhiana, Patiala and Jalandhar for the next fortnight. The situation will be reviewed after that. It has also been decided that every marriage palace, restaurant, office, where more than 10 people gather, will appoint one Covid monitor to ensure full compliance of masks, sanitisation and social distancing, said Amarinder, at his weekly Facebook Live #AskCaptain session. He warned that teams will come and inspect these places, and violators will be penalised. Further, all persons who have high social contact will be tested within the coming week, and Corona Conquerors (who have recovered) from health, police and other departments will be put on frontline duty, he said. The chief minister said the increasing mortality due to Covid can be checked if those infected go for early testing and report to hospitals for treatment within 72 hours. Treatment should begin within this period if lives are to be saved, he said. “Don’t be a doctor yourself, leave it to the doctors to diagnose the problem and suggest the treatment,” he added. Amarinder also appealed to the heads of all religious and political organisations to lead by example by getting themselves tested. He said he had himself tested again today. Though cases of violation of mandatory wearing of masks have come down to some extent, people need to continue to take stringent precautions, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/9pm-5am-curfew-in-pb-cities/articleshow/77554196.cms||---
August 15, 2020||World||Processing of US student visas to start from Monday||NEW DELHI: The US will from next Monday (August 17) resume processing students visas in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad and Kolkata as this fall semester is about to begin from next month. Thousands of Indians students who got admission to US colleges have been waiting for the process to begin. The US embassy will, however, remain closed for routine immigrant and non-immigrant visa services. The US embassy in Delhi tweeted on Friday: “Our consular sections are opening to process student and academic exchange visitor visa applications on a limited basis. Student visas are a high priority, and we will make every effort to assist applicants in a timely fashion, while keeping our customers and staff safe. However, due to our very limited appointment availability we may not be able to accommodate all requests in time for the start of the fall semester.” The US will first process emergency student and exchange visitor appointment requests received prior to August 12 and then offer public appointments. “We will refresh appointments as we have availability, generally two weeks in advance. Prospective students and exchange visitors should schedule an appointment no more than three weeks prior to their class start date. We expect appointment slots to be filled quickly,” it says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/processing-of-us-student-visas-to-start-from-monday/articleshow/77556092.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||1,077 test +ve, 25 succumb to virus||Chandigarh: As Punjab recorded 1,077 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, the total number of the coronavirus patients reached 29,013 in the state. There were also 25 more fatalities due to Covid, pushing the death toll to 731. Seven patients died in Ludhiana, four each in Patiala and Sangrur, three in Jalandhar, two each in Ferozepur and Mohali districts and one each in Amritsar, Barnala and Hoshiarpur districts. Ludhiana district also report the highest number of 296 Covid- cases on during the day, followed by Patiala (135), Jalandhar (134), Pathankot (62), Bathinda (60), Mohali (53), Kapurthala (38), Amritsar (36), Gurdaspur (35), Sangrur and Ferozepur (28 each), Fatehgarh Sahib (27), Moga and Nawanshahr (23 each), Faridkot (20), Muktsar and Barnala (17 each), Tarn Taran (16), Hoshiarpur (13), Ropar (9), Mansa (4) and Fazilka (3). Among new cases, six had source of infection from outside Punjab, 47 were prisoners, 27 cops, five frontline workers and four health care workers. Of 9,954 active cases in Punjab, Ludhiana has the highest cases (2,191), followed by Patiala (1,499) Jalandhar (1,226), Mohali (789) and Bathinda (552). Ludhiana district has recorded the highest number of 216 Covid deaths till now, followed by 105 in Amritsar, 94 in Jalandhar, 67 in Patiala and 48 in Sangrur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1077-test-ve-25-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/77554226.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||TOI’s Mission Skill gets a big thumbs up from its readers||From offering their own agricultural land to corpus of lakhs of rupees and from volunteering to train migrant workers to promising employment to them in their own enterprise, readers of TOI have pledged support to the ‘Mission Skill’ in various ways. The responses are extremely motivating as they make the TOI ‘Mission Skill’ a people’s movement. It is also an encouraging push to the goal of making Independence Day truly meaningful so that those less privileged have the freedom to do work of their choice and are not forced to leave their families behind in search of livelihood. Uttar Pradesh has welcomed with open arms lakhs of migrants who have had to leave their workplace in other cities after the lockdown. While the state government led by chief minister Yogi Adityanath has started a slew of measures to ensure jobs, healthcare and accommodation for them and their families, participation of people will be a welcome asset to the massive rehabilitation movement. The participation, as our readers have written, can be in any form and in many cases, driven by emotion to lend a helping hand to a fellow native. Dr (Col) Vishwanath Rai, for instance, is ready to offer not only his agricultural land but also a corpus of Rs 50 lakh to contribute to the movement. “I request authorities to enable me to fulfil my dream of helping people of my native place by providing them employment opportunities,” he has written. Naresh Verma has also offered to rope in migrant workers to work on his farmland for organic produce. Lucknow resident Pankaj Gupta has written that he wants to recruit people to run an old-age home and orphanage. Thinking about the families of migrant workers, Nivedita Babu has volunteered to train parents and teachers on early child development. “Every child is a genius and unique in their own way. It is our duty to recognise and enable our children to reach their full potential,” she says. Shashank Verma, the owner of a salon, has offered to train men and women migrants in various courses related to the industry and employ them. Arpita Yadav, an entrepreneur, has said she wants more MSMEs from UP to work for her organization. Several other readers such as Manicklal Chakraborty and Arjun Kohli have offered voluntary services to train migrants or help generate employment for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tois-mission-skill-gets-a-big-thumbs-up-from-its-readers/articleshow/77555540.cms||Rashi Lal
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Vikaspuri stink: Open area used for weddings leaves bad aftertaste||NEW DELHI: A 4.5-acre green area located in the middle of west Delhi’s Vikaspuri and Budhela Village has become an eyesore for residents. The open site, 80% of which is used by South Delhi Municipal Corporation for holding weddings and other functions, has turned into a home for stray cattle and pigs. Residents claim that after the functions get over, the department disposes of the waste in pits at the park and the area stinks during the monsoon season. Annoyed residents have written to the SDMC commissioner, horticulture department, and the deputy commissioner several times, clarifying that as per the National Green Tribunal order, no park of Delhi Development Authority or the corporations shall be used for holding social events or marriage functions. “The place was handed over to MCD in early 1987 for development as a park. The civic body, however, never took any effort in plantation, maintenance and rather used it for conducting events. This year too, till March functions were taking place and the leftovers were being disposed of in the pits. We wrote to senior officials, after which they arranged for some superficial job and then disappeared. Ideally environment compensation should be imposed on all involved parties, including the tent organiser,” said Paras Tyagi, a resident who lives next to the site. Fed up by the unwilling attitude of the civic agency, the residents filed an RTI, seeking to know about the actual land use of the site. “In the RTI, it was clearly mentioned that 1.88 hectare is green land as per the master plan. We shared a copy of this SDMC and asked officials to develop the whole area into a park rather than using it for commercial purposes and making money. But there is no reply and even our councillor is not cooperating,” Tyagi claimed. A senior SDMC official, however, claimed that every time they received a complaint, the staff immediately arranges for cleanliness action. “We never found any garbage dumped inside the complex. As far as stray and outsiders are concerned, it is an open land and we can’t stop anyone. We cannot do plantations as people living in the area are frequently booking it for functions. In comparison, the adjoining half acre land, earmarked as park, has grass, plants and is maintained by malis,” the official said. He added that the site was among the 60 earmarked spots used by municipalities for arranging social functions on the demand of locals. “If they don’t want it, then as per norms a reference letter from the councillor is required. We will take action accordingly,” the civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vikaspuri-stink-open-area-used-for-weddings-leaves-bad-aftertaste/articleshow/77552637.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 15, 2020||Kanpur||Two toddlers die after vaccinaion by health workers||Kanpur: Two toddlers died on Thursday night soon after some vaccine was allegedly administered to them by a group of health workers in Sarsaul block of the district on the same day. The babies were brought dead at the Ursala hospital, officials said. Several children were were injected with some vaccine at Ram Nagar and Patakheda villages of Sarsaul block on Thursday by a team of health workers, said sources from the health department. Families of other children who had received the same vaccination were also asked to bring their kids for medical examination. The deceased kids were a three-year-old son of one Ganga Ram from Ram Nagar and a six-month-old son of one Bade Sahu from Patakheda. Chief medical officer Dr Anil Mishra said, “Autopsy will be performed on both gthe bodies to ascertain the cause of their death. Strict action will be taken against those responsible after a thorough inquiry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-toddlers-die-after-vaccinaion-by-health-workers/articleshow/77554199.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Consider Covid impact while revising tariff, say discoms||NEW DELHI: Power tariff in Delhi is all set to be revised by month-end. The news has prompted discoms to petition Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) to take note of the impact of Covid-19 on their revenue while revising the tariff. In its petition, BSES Yamuna Power Ltd (BYPL) submitted that there was adverse effect on cash flow on account of Covid-19 and lockdown conditions. The discom has requested DERC to take note of the recent Force Majeure event and waive off rebate on power purchase and transmission charges for FY 2020-21. It has also requested the commission to “grant relief to mitigate the “Covid-19 and lockdown conditions” as it might deem fit. In the original petitions filed by the discoms in February this year, BSES Rajdhani Power Ltd (BRPL) had put revenue requirement for the year at Rs 10,353 with revenue gap of Rs 1,303 at the existing tariff, Tata Power-DDL had put revenue requirement at Rs 7,925 with a gap of Rs 1,328, while BYPL had shown revenue requirement of Rs 4,994 with a gap of Rs 500. However, DERC had allowed discoms to revise the petitions in view of the pandemic. In the revised petitions, the discoms had put the total revenue requirement at Rs 21,529 crore and the gap they would be facing was Rs 6,125 crore collectively in 2020-21 if the electricity tariffs were not hiked. In the past five years, however, Delhi has not seen a hike in power tariff. DERC chairman Justice (Retd) SS Chauhan said the petition and the losses suffered by the companies would be taken into consideration, but he refused to comment on the likelihood of a hike in the tariff. He said he was hopeful that the revised tariff would be announced by August-end. In August last year, Delhi government had made power free for households consuming between 0 and 200 units, while those consuming between 201 and 400 units got a 50% rebate. Discoms had appealed that the benefits of the subsidy should be given only to those consumers whose electricity bills were clear up to the previous billing cycle, and also suggested payment of subsidy amount through direct benefit transfer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/consider-covid-impact-while-revising-tariff-say-discoms/articleshow/77554237.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist has 3rd highest Covid death rate||Coimbatore: In a span of less than two months, Coimbatore has gone from a district with just one covid-19 death to a district with the third highest death rate in Tamil Nadu. The situation isn’t any different in Chennai, which is considered the mecca of healthcare in India, and Madurai. This is despite all these three cities having the government tertiary care hospital and top specialists in medical field. Madurai tops the list with a death rate of 2.4%, followed by Chennai (2.1%) and Coimbatore (1.89%). Comparatively smaller districts such as Chengelpet and Thiruvallur have a lower death rate of 1.7% and 1.6%, respectively. State health secretary J Radhakrishnan, however, attributed the higher Covid-19 toll to better death auditing in urban centres. “The toll is higher in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and New Delhi. It is because of better healthcare systems that a majority of death is audited. Death declarations in the UK and the US are also higher.” In many cases, he says, brought dead cases and patients who are admitted for other emergencies are not tested for Covid-19 in small hospitals, especially private sector ones, in small districts. “There are three types of Covid-19 deaths – one that occurs directly because of the virus, those exacerbated by the virus and the ones where Covid-19 is incidental finding like in cancer deaths and accident trauma care deaths, etc.” According to the health secretary, in tertiary care hospitals and top private hospitals in big cities, they are testing every brought dead case and admissions for other ailments to protect patients’ family and hospital staff. “But in rural districts, incidental finding of Covid-19 deaths might not happen. Some deaths may just be classified as suspected Covid-19 cases as they haven’t tested the patient for the infection.” Dr P Kulandaisamy, former director of public health, also says the high number of Covid-19 cases and deaths only speaks volumes for stricter protocols, better laboratory testing facilities and more testing. Epidemiologists, meanwhile, hinted that people in rural areas might have better immunity to fight the virus and recover. T Mariappan, scientist and former deputy director of ICMR-Vector Control Research Centre, Madurai, says, “In rural areas in and around Coimbatore, where they share border with Kerala, and districts close to Vellore, people have a strong affinity towards alternate medicine, including naturopathy, ayurveda and siddha, which might have boosted their immunity over a period of time. As a result, many are asymptomatic or only mildly symptomatic.” The state health secretary says they have been constantly interacting with top pulmonologists, internal medicine specialists and anesthesiologists to come up with more treatment protocols to bring down the death rate. “We have already come up with 12 protocols to handle patients with comorbidities, which account for a majority of deaths, and are encouraging Indian medicine systems for treating mildly symptomatic patients.” Dr P Kuganantham, former city health officer, says asymptomatic patients in high-risk categories should be administered antiviral medication, as some of them were developing pulmonary opacities a week later. “Patients aged above 60 or those with comorbidities account for 80% of Covid-19 deaths in the district. So, we have to focus on them aggressively. Some people think they would recover on their own without hospitalization. There is no point in having the best hospitals, if patients are seeking medical aid too late.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-has-3rd-highest-covid-death-rate/articleshow/77554245.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: District court closed as lawyer confirmed corona positive||KANPUR: Kanpur Nagar district court remained closed on Friday as an advocate was found corona positive on Thursday. The decision for the 24-hour closure was taken on the recommendation of the chief medical officer. The court will now reopen on Monday. Distinct judge Ashok Kumar Singh (IIIrd) in his order, which was passed on August 13, had stated that as per recommendation of the CMO and Covid protocol, the court would remain closed on Friday. The judicial official in his order stated that the CMO has said in his letter that if any worker was found infected at a work place and his report confirmed it, then the work place must be closed for 24 hours and sanitized twice during the closure period. Apart from it, if any person comes in contact with the infected person within one meter for 15 minutes, then he must be quarantined for 14 days. The CMO had enclosed the government order to this effect and had suggested to close the courts of ACMM (Ist), ACMM (VIIth), sessions court no. 21 and Kanpur Bar Association for 24 hours and have them sanitized twice. This report was also sent to the DM and the SSP. The CMO report clearly stated that the infected advocate of Kalyanpur had visited the Kanpur Bar Association and the three courts. “The CMO had advised to close the three courts and Kanpur Bar Association for 24 hours. But in my opinion, Kanpur Bar and court building are in the same premises, therefore, it would be fair to close the entire court premises and it should be sanitized twice during this period. Therefore, the Kanpur court would remain closed on August 14,” the district judge had observed. He also stated in his order that sanitization of the court premises would be the liability of the district magistrate and municipal commissioner/city health officer. Officer in-charge of ‘nazarat’ will report him and ensure the effective execution of the CMO’s order. Further, all bail applications and cases listed for August 14 would be heard on August 17 and the remaining other cases would be heard on October 9. A copy of this order be sent to the CMO and municipal commissioner for sanitization of Kanpur court. The district judgealso mentioned in his order that the CMO had informed him that advocate Dinesh Kumar Shukla, who’s the president of The Lawyers Association, had informed him about the infected advocate. Therefore, necessary steps were taken in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dist-court-closed-as-lawyer-confirmed-corona-positive/articleshow/77554240.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: 797 new cases, 7 deaths in Haryana; toll rises to 518||CHANDIGARH: With 797 new patients and seven deaths, Haryana’s Covid count on Friday reached 45,614 with 518 deaths. Also, 862 new recoveries pushed the recovery rate to 84.14% and the overall total to 38,348. The doubling rate has widened to 30 days. When this report was filed in the evening, there were 6,748 active cases, which included 154 critical patients — 22 on ventilator support and 132 on oxygen support. Notably, Faridabad continued to top the tally of the day with 129 new cases and one death, with this the district’s total rose to 10,782 with 159 deaths. Also, 134. It has 900 active patients. Rewari emerged as another hotspot, as it reported 100 new patients, taking the district’s total to 2,476. A total of 2,083 patients have been discharged and now there are only 379 active patients. Gurugram reported the third highest number of cases, 92, and one death. Here, the overall tally rose to 10,122 with 129 deaths. There are 690 active patients. Ambala reported 58 new patients, and the total rose to 2,447 and there are 376 active cases. Official data revealed that Karnal reported 53 new cases and its total rose to 148. Sonipat got 50 new patients and two deaths. Its tally rose to 3,427 cases and 38 casualties. There are total 415 active patients here. While Panipat reported 46 cases and the district has total 1,961 cases, which include 628 active cases. While Rohtak reported 41 new cases and its total rose to 2,015, Mahendergarh got 33 cases and Sirsa got 31. Hisar and Panchkula districts have reported 29 new patients each, followed by 22 in Palwal .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/797-new-cases-7-deaths-in-hry-toll-rises-to-518/articleshow/77554244.cms||Manvir Saini
August 15, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: 797 new cases, 7 deaths in Haryana; toll rises to 518||CHANDIGARH: With 797 new patients and seven deaths, Haryana’s Covid count on Friday reached 45,614 with 518 deaths. Also, 862 new recoveries pushed the recovery rate to 84.14% and the overall total to 38,348. The doubling rate has widened to 30 days. When this report was filed in the evening, there were 6,748 active cases, which included 154 critical patients — 22 on ventilator support and 132 on oxygen support. Notably, Faridabad continued to top the tally of the day with 129 new cases and one death, with this the district’s total rose to 10,782 with 159 deaths. Also, 134. It has 900 active patients. Rewari emerged as another hotspot, as it reported 100 new patients, taking the district’s total to 2,476. A total of 2,083 patients have been discharged and now there are only 379 active patients. Gurugram reported the third highest number of cases, 92, and one death. Here, the overall tally rose to 10,122 with 129 deaths. There are 690 active patients. Ambala reported 58 new patients, and the total rose to 2,447 and there are 376 active cases. Official data revealed that Karnal reported 53 new cases and its total rose to 148. Sonipat got 50 new patients and two deaths. Its tally rose to 3,427 cases and 38 casualties. There are total 415 active patients here. While Panipat reported 46 cases and the district has total 1,961 cases, which include 628 active cases. While Rohtak reported 41 new cases and its total rose to 2,015, Mahendergarh got 33 cases and Sirsa got 31. Hisar and Panchkula districts have reported 29 new patients each, followed by 22 in Palwal .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/797-new-cases-7-deaths-in-hry-toll-rises-to-518/articleshow/77560197.cms||Manvir Saini
August 15, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: 797 new cases, 7 deaths in Haryana; toll rises to 518||CHANDIGARH: With 797 new patients and seven deaths, Haryana’s Covid count on Friday reached 45,614 with 518 deaths. Also, 862 new recoveries pushed the recovery rate to 84.14% and the overall total to 38,348. The doubling rate has widened to 30 days. When this report was filed in the evening, there were 6,748 active cases, which included 154 critical patients — 22 on ventilator support and 132 on oxygen support. Notably, Faridabad continued to top the tally of the day with 129 new cases and one death, with this the district’s total rose to 10,782 with 159 deaths. Also, 134. It has 900 active patients. Rewari emerged as another hotspot, as it reported 100 new patients, taking the district’s total to 2,476. A total of 2,083 patients have been discharged and now there are only 379 active patients. Gurugram reported the third highest number of cases, 92, and one death. Here, the overall tally rose to 10,122 with 129 deaths. There are 690 active patients. Ambala reported 58 new patients, and the total rose to 2,447 and there are 376 active cases. Official data revealed that Karnal reported 53 new cases and its total rose to 148. Sonipat got 50 new patients and two deaths. Its tally rose to 3,427 cases and 38 casualties. There are total 415 active patients here. While Panipat reported 46 cases and the district has total 1,961 cases, which include 628 active cases. While Rohtak reported 41 new cases and its total rose to 2,015, Mahendergarh got 33 cases and Sirsa got 31. Hisar and Panchkula districts have reported 29 new patients each, followed by 22 in Palwal .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/797-new-cases-7-deaths-in-hry-toll-rises-to-518/articleshow/77560195.cms||Manvir Saini
August 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rapid tests at Samarpan as top babu found +ve||Ahmedabad: Senior Gujarat bureaucrats and their families queued up for an antigen test early Friday morning at the high-profile Samarpan Flats in Gulbai Tekra after a resident tested positive for Covid-19. Before senior officers went on their customary morning walks, a team of doctors and paramedics of the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) arrived at the apartment to test every individual there. “A senior officer of the Indian Forest Service was tested Covid positive on Thursday after which rapid tests had to be conducted,” said an AMC official in the West Zone. Several senior level IAS officers including ACS, principal secretaries, judges live here. By evening, reports of 63 individuals came out to be negative. “Every member, including children within the families, was tested for Covid,” said the AMC official. All bureaucrats, their family members, domestic helps, drivers and attendants were tested. Samarpan Flats is among the most well-known residential addresses in Ahmedabad for top IAS and IPS officers and senior high court judges. Officials reason that they and their families stand a far greater risk of getting infected in a multi-storeyed apartment complex, as residents share elevators and other amenities. “Any officer carrying the infection to the secretariat will cause disruption in the existing pandemic operations, especially in the current situation when the disease is spreading,” said the AMC official. Lately, the flat was witnessing an exodus of senior officials. Top babus and cops living at Samarpan have sought bungalows in Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar, citing the Covid situation. Prominent among those who have opted to shift out of Samarpan Flats are ACS, finance, Pankaj Joshi; DGP, CID crime and railways, Sanjay Shrivastava; urban housing department secretary Lochan Sehra. Some members of the judiciary have also moved out. Government sources said Shrivastava has shifted to Gandhinagar while Joshi is going to shift to Gandhinagar. Sehra has also got confirmation for a bungalow in the Judges Bungalows complex and will be shifting shortly, informed sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rapid-tests-at-samarpan-as-top-babu-found-ve/articleshow/77552523.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid test must for attending Haryana assembly session||Chandigarh: Those entering the Haryana assembly during monsoon session will have to furnish their Covid-19 negative certificate, issued by the health authorities, between August 24 and 26. The precautionary measure was announced by the speaker’s secretariat on Friday, after state health minister Anil Vij advised speaker Gian Chand Gupta to ensure Covid test for all those attending the session. All the MLAs, ministers, officials, media persons and those associated with assembly session proceedings will have to undergo the Covid test. They will have to show this test certificate to gain entry into the assembly. This test report, which is mandatory, should be issued two-three days before the start of the assembly session. “We have already communicated this to all MLAs, ministers and administrative secretaries of the government of Haryana. Protocol staff has also been informed about it. For us, safety of all is top priority,’’ the speaker said. Gupta has also called a meeting of officers of assembly secretariat to finalise the seating arrangement. As a preliminary measure, the Haryana government has been asked to prune the list of officers who would be attending the session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-test-must-for-attending-haryana-assembly-session/articleshow/77554229.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||Eight deaths push Lucknow's toll to 186; 90 have died in August so far||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 claimed eight lives in the city on Friday, pushing the toll to 186. The major cause of worry was that 90 patients, 48% of the total casualties, died in two weeks of August with an average of six daily. Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh said that out of eight patients who died, four belonged to other districts and were under treatment in city hospitals. However, all deaths will be counted in Lucknow till the state administration does an audit to put the casualties in the toll of districts to which deceased persons belonged, he added. Of the four city residents who died on Friday two were treated at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) and two in private hospitals. In KGMU, a 50-year-old man from Wazirganj died in the wee hours. He was also suffering from congestive heart failure triggered by myocardial infarction in which a clot blocks blood flow to the heart, said university spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. A 70-year-old also died in KGMU within hours of admission. He came at an advanced stage of disease with critically damaged lungs and died of respiratory failure, said Dr Singh. Another city resident, an 80-year-old woman who was admitted in advance stage with damaged lungs, died of respiratory failure in a private hospital on Rae Bareli road, said health officials. Officials confirmed that one more Lucknow resident suffering from Covid-19 die in a private hospital, but had no details. Among the four deceased patients, who belonged to other districts, two were under treatment at KGMU. One of them, a 60-year-old man from Hardoi, died of respiratory failure. “The patient also had a heart problem. He was taking immuno-suppressive drugs due to which infection got aggravated”, said Dr Singh. A 72-year-old man, also from Hardoi, who also had liver disease, died of cardiopulmonary arrest, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eight-deaths-push-city-toll-to-186-90-have-died-in-august-so-far/articleshow/77555548.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 15, 2020||India||It's a first - a 2nd chance to crack H-1B lottery odds||MUMBAI/BENGALURU: Probably for the first time ever, H-1B applicants who were not selected by the lottery process in April have a second chance to be selected. This will be especially useful to students who are already in the US and who were to transition to an H-1B visa, say immigration experts. Immigration attorneys told TOI that the status of several pending applications has suddenly changed to 'selected'. Kripa Upadhyay, managing partner at Orbit Law, said, "New H-1B visa selection notifications have been sent to sponsoring employers who e-registered for the prior lottery, but whose applications were not selected." H-1B applications have to be filed for candidates by the company that wishes to use them. H-1B has an annual cap of 85,000. But the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) typically receives far more applications and so it conducts a lottery to determine who gets the visa. This year, there were 2.8 lakh registrations, of which nearly 68% (or 1.9 lakh) were Indian beneficiaries. Once the lottery selects 85,000 applications, sponsoring employers are required to file detailed visa applications for those selected. This year, owing to the pandemic-led slowdown in the economy and travel bans announced by president Donald Trump for new H-1B visas, interest waned and companies did not follow through with the detailed filings. "Regarding the H-1B 'second lottery,' I believe USCIS did not receive enough petitions from the selected cases to reach the 85,000 quota. They may also have factored in a percentage of denied cases," Daniel Maranci, Boston-based partner at law firm Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen & Loew told TOI. Upadhyay said that while this is very good news for those in the US who are eligible to change status to H-1B, this still does not change the fact that the H-1B visa ban put in place by the Trump administration will continue to pose a challenge to employers and employees whose skills are required in the US but who do not meet the narrow criteria for travel ban exemptions in 'national interest'. TOI had reported on Friday that the US had relaxed the travel ban for H-1B visa holders who were outside the US. As of now, the travel ban, for those not eligible under the relaxed norms, ends in December. Snehal Batra, managing attorney at NPZ Law Group, pointed out that "It takes several weeks to file a detailed visa application and several months for approval (unless premium processing is opted for), so the timeline to obtain a visa is likely to be by the end of the year." Watch It's a first - a 2nd chance to crack H-1B lottery odds||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/its-a-first-a-2nd-chance-to-crack-h-1b-lottery-odds/articleshow/77556099.cms||Lubna Kably
August 15, 2020||World||It's a first - a 2nd chance to crack H-1B lottery odds||MUMBAI/BENGALURU: Probably for the first time ever, H-1B applicants who were not selected by the lottery process in April have a second chance to be selected. This will be especially useful to students who are already in the US and who were to transition to an H-1B visa, say immigration experts. Immigration attorneys told TOI that the status of several pending applications has suddenly changed to 'selected'. Kripa Upadhyay, managing partner at Orbit Law, said, "New H-1B visa selection notifications have been sent to sponsoring employers who e-registered for the prior lottery, but whose applications were not selected." H-1B applications have to be filed for candidates by the company that wishes to use them. H-1B has an annual cap of 85,000. But the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) typically receives far more applications and so it conducts a lottery to determine who gets the visa. This year, there were 2.8 lakh registrations, of which nearly 68% (or 1.9 lakh) were Indian beneficiaries. Once the lottery selects 85,000 applications, sponsoring employers are required to file detailed visa applications for those selected. This year, owing to the pandemic-led slowdown in the economy and travel bans announced by president Donald Trump for new H-1B visas, interest waned and companies did not follow through with the detailed filings. "Regarding the H-1B 'second lottery,' I believe USCIS did not receive enough petitions from the selected cases to reach the 85,000 quota. They may also have factored in a percentage of denied cases," Daniel Maranci, Boston-based partner at law firm Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen & Loew told TOI. Upadhyay said that while this is very good news for those in the US who are eligible to change status to H-1B, this still does not change the fact that the H-1B visa ban put in place by the Trump administration will continue to pose a challenge to employers and employees whose skills are required in the US but who do not meet the narrow criteria for travel ban exemptions in 'national interest'. TOI had reported on Friday that the US had relaxed the travel ban for H-1B visa holders who were outside the US. As of now, the travel ban, for those not eligible under the relaxed norms, ends in December. Snehal Batra, managing attorney at NPZ Law Group, pointed out that "It takes several weeks to file a detailed visa application and several months for approval (unless premium processing is opted for), so the timeline to obtain a visa is likely to be by the end of the year." Watch It's a first - a 2nd chance to crack H-1B lottery odds||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/its-a-first-a-2nd-chance-to-crack-h-1b-lottery-odds/articleshow/77556094.cms||Lubna Kably
August 15, 2020||Goa||Govt brings OTS scheme for borrowers of coop societies||Panaji: Over one lakh borrowers who have availed of loans from various cooperative credit societies will directly benefit from the one-time settlement (OTS) scheme notified by the state government on Friday, cooperative minister Govind Gaude said. In addition, 50% of the non-performing assets (NPA) of these credit cooperative societies will be reduced, he said. The scheme shall be applicable to all the primary agricultural credit, multipurpose, urban cooperative credit societies registered in Goa and are in credit and deposit business, Gaude told TOI. All the loans which are doubtful and classified as NPAs up to March 31, 2015, shall be eligible for benefit under the OTS scheme. However, the loans availed by the sitting directors, members of the managing committee, ex-directors and their family members as defined under the act and employees of the society shall not be covered under the scheme. “It shall be the discretion of the board to decide on merit and within the guidelines of the OTS scheme which loans are to be considered or rejected,” the notification read. The borrowers who are availing benefits under the OTS scheme shall not be entitled for any type of facilities or exemption in relation to any other loan repayment, they shall also not be eligible to stand surety to any type of loans advanced by the society for the next 6 years. The last date of application to avail the OTS shall be decided by the board, however, the same shall not be extended beyond six months from the date of issue of revised guidelines. An applicant shall deposit 10% of the loan amount as it stands on the cut-off date of classifying his loan and interest as doubtful-I, then the board of directors will scrutinise the application and take a decision. “The decision taken by the BOD under this OTS scheme shall be communicated to the concerned applicant within 30 days from the date of such decision. In case the society refuses any such applications, the refusals shall be communicated with the reasons for non-acceptance of the application and 10% amount of loan received along with application from the loanee member shall be credited to the principle loan of that loanee. In no case, the amount shall be adjusted towards the interest,” the notification read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-brings-ots-scheme-for-borrowers-of-coop-societies/articleshow/77555119.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Webinars & travel curbs put brakes on luxury cab business in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: With international travel restrictions in place and fewer air passengers due to Covid-19 fear, high-end car operators are looking at a bleak future. Most luxury taxi operators in the city who have purchased cars like Mercedes-Benz, BMW and Audi are now struggling with no customers and business. Many are finding it difficult to pay monthly EMIs for the cars and drivers’ salaries. They say the number of clients, especially high-profile visitors to the city, has reduced mainly due to online meetings, travel restrictions and work from home. According to Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association, the city has over 700 taxi operators and more than 20,000 luxury cabs. “The luxury car segment mainly caters to business class air passengers. Many airlines provide complimentary pick-up and drop facility for such passengers and they hire vehicles like Mercedes-Benz E-Class and BMW 5 Series,” said K Radhakrishna Holla, president of the association. “Earlier, several meetings and conferences used to held, but with offices and establishments shut due to WFH, they have been replaced with webinars and online meetings. We used to ferry investors, company heads and other high-profile passengers associated with IT-BT, aerospace, automobile and pharmaceutical sectors as well as those starting new projects. But due to international travel restrictions, there are hardly any such passengers,” added Holla. Airport taxi operators also said there’s a dip in the demand for luxury vehicles. Airport Taxi Owners’ Association president Hamid Akbar Ali said: “The demand started dwindling since December 2019 after Covid-19 cases were reported in China. Now, there are only 10-15 luxury car trips from the airport as opposed to 100-200 earlier.” “We want the government to extend the loan moratorium and waive MV taxes at least till December. Most luxury vehicle owners used to maintain a healthy credit score so banks would sanction loans, but now we are struggling to clear loans, pay drivers’ salaries and office/parking rent and to maintain vehicles. We’ve heard WFH may continue till February 2021; we won’t be able to survive till then,” rued Holla. Bengaluru International Airport Limited facilitated transit of 38,896 international passengers between April 1 and July 31. However, Kempegowda International Airport handled an average of 13,000 international passengers a day before Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/webinars-travel-curbs-put-brakes-on-luxury-cab-biz/articleshow/77552766.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
August 15, 2020||Dehradun||Speed up work on All Weather Road Project, interact with Central officials for clearances: CM||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday held a review meeting to track the progress of the ambitious All Weather Road Project on the Char Dham route. The CM directed state authorities to contact the officials of Union government for the required clearances, which were pending. Rawat also told the officials to hold regular meetings and interactions to ensure that all departmental works were solved at the earliest. All the electricity poles, which are causing a problem in the road extension work, need to be shifted as soon as possible and clearance for cutting the trees, which are on the route, need to be given as per the guidelines, said the CM. Rawat added that the Environment Impact Assessment for road construction under the Bhagirathi Eco Sensitive Zone should be ready within a period of 15 days. He did not fail to mention that a plan for plantation drive on both the sides of Char Dham road should be made at the earliest and the locations for rest houses, petrol pumps, and eco-parks should also be identified soon. The CM maintained that no person should be left out while giving the compensation. The All Weather Road Project was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and its development is being directly monitored by the Centre. Recently, Union minister Nitin Gadkari and Prakash Javadekar held a meeting with state officials and directed them to tie up with Central officials and ensure that all clearances are provided in accordance to the set guidelines. For the project, Rs 11,700 crore would be used for the construction of roads of a cumulative length of 889 kilometre. For the two-lane project, tunnels would be made in Chamba area of Tehri district and Radi Top of Uttarkashi district. On the entire stretch, 15 big bridges and 101 small bridges would be constructed. Besides, there would be 3,596 culverts, 12 by-pass, and slide zone protection at 29 locations. Cash barriers would be set up on the entire route and there would be 33 public convenience centres at distances of 30-to-50 kilometre. The entire project involves the construction of seven roads, including — 140-km-long Rishikesh-Rudraprayag road worth Rs 2,166 crore being constructed by PWD, 160-km-long Rudraprayag-Mana road worth Rs 1,542 crore being constructed by BRO and NHIDCL, 144-km-long Rishikesh-Dharsu road worth Rs 1,627 crore being constructed by BRO and PIU, 124-km-long Dharasu-Gangotri road worth Rs 2,079 crore being constructed by BRO and NHIDCL, 95-km-long Dharasu-Yamunotri road worth Rs 1,920 crore being constructed by NHIDCL and PWD, 76-km-long Rudraprayag-Gaurikund road worth Rs 806 crore being constructed by PWS, and 150-km-long Tanakpur-Pithoragarh route worth Rs 1,557 crore being constructed by PWD. A total of 534 hectare land is to be acquired for the All Weather Road Project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/speed-up-work-on-all-weather-road-project-interact-with-central-officials-for-clearances-cm/articleshow/77551353.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Work from home shrinks client base of neighbourhood pressers||BENGALURU: With lakhs of professionals working from home and students attending virtual classes, neighbourhood pressers are facing financial distress as not many customers are getting clothes ironed on a daily basis. Most pressers used to receive over 150 pieces of clothes per day before March, but for many who spoke to TOI, the number has dipped to around 30. Since the Covid-19 outbreak, IT professionals and many other officegoers are rarely pulling their formals out of their wardrobes and are working indoors in informal wear like bermudas and lungis. With schools too remaining closed, pressers have lost another loyal customer base. They can’t even bank on weddings and other functions since all celebrations are restricted affairs now with very less ostentation. The pressers said they are in deep red, have borrowed heavily to tide over the unending crisis and may not be in a position to even pay the hefty interest. They mostly work on pushcarts, which they park in crowded neighbourhoods and serve their clientele. R Sundramma, who is originally from Chamarajnagar and has been ironing clothes on her pushcart in Geddalahalli for 24 years, said, “My husband, two children and I come here daily to press clothes. We used to get over 400 pieces before March, but the number is down to 50. Only my son and I come for work now.” “These are very difficult times. I used to also work as a domestic help in two households while my family members would be busy ironing, but even the employers have asked me not to come,” said Sundramma, who charges Rs 8 per piece. The pressers, who worked anywhere between six to eight hours a day before the pandemic, now wrap up in just over an hour or so. Veerappan P, who has been ironing clothes for a living for 11 years in Mathikere, said, “We don’t earn a lot of money now. It’s not even enough for a day’s meals. Sometimes when I don’t get many clothes, my family and I go to sleep on empty stomachs.” He added, “Until everyone’s life gets back to normal and people start heading out, my business will not improve.” Veerappan, who migrated to the city from Tamil Nadu, has no other relatives and is the sole breadwinner. He said, “It is impossible for me to pay rent, school fees and keep my family well fed with what I’m earning right now.” Neighbourhood pressers charge anywhere between Rs 7 and Rs 10 per piece of cloth. Some of them even fix rates according to weight of the clothes. Saji Philip, a resident of Kammanahalli, said, “We are a four-member family and used to give 50-60 pieces of clothes every week, including children’s school uniforms. But we haven’t been doing it since the pandemic outbreak since my wife and I work from home and the children don’t go to school.” N Venkatesh, who has been ironing clothes in Sanjayanagar for 12 years, said he’s incurred a huge loss in the past five months. “The government had assured us that people who are struggling like me will get a sum of Rs 5,000. But only some have received it,” he lamented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wfh-shrinks-client-base-of-neighbourhood-pressers/articleshow/77552780.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kochi||Writer K R Meera offers to quit from MG University post||Kottayam: M G University vice-chancellor Sabu Thomas has requested writer K R Meera to remain in board of studies of school of letters of the varsity after she announced to quit from it on Friday. The VC told the writer that there was no political intervention in her selection as a member. The selection was conducted legal, following the rules of the varsity and the writer was eligible for the post, Thomas said. He has also said the governor had nominated her to the post after the varsity had recommended her name. Earlier in the day, Meera had informed through a Facebook post that she was quitting as the board of studies member. Meera was included in the 11-member board of studies as an external expert when all the PG boards of studies in departments of the varsity were reconstituted. The governor had nominated the members and a notification was issued on August 6. Meera in a Facebook post on Friday morning said she came to know about an article in an online media criticising her inclusion in the board of studies. She also said she will not accept the post if any political intervention was alleged in her being selected as a member. The writer has also said she had no information from the varsity or from any other authorities concerned or received any emails or phone calls about her being selected as the member. Meera also said she has mailed her stand to the vice- chancellor. The vice-chancellor said he had spoken to Meera after receiving her mail and said she will remain in the board of studies. “She is an eminent writer and it is a credit for the varsity to have outstanding people like her in our board of studies,” he said. He also said he was surprised by the unnecessary controversy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/writer-k-r-meera-offers-to-quit-from-mg-university-post/articleshow/77552623.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Nagpur||Aug sees 38 suicides so far. Are rising Covid-19 cases to blame?||Nagpur: Is the coronavirus pandemic pushing people, particularly the young, into a mental health crisis? It can’t be mere coincidence that a rise in coronavirus cases has also seen a spike in suicides in Nagpur city this month.From January 1 to July 31, the city police recorded 255 suicide cases (average 37 cases per month). But 38 people killed themselves between August 1 and 13. These 13 days have also seen a massive spurt in coronavirus cases. Interestingly, compared to previous year, the overall number of suicides has actually fallen compared with the previous year’s cases.Though investigations are underway and the reason behind several suicides is yet to be ascertained, many have ended their life due to stress, unemployment and financial distress, evidence collected by the city police indicates.Evidence indicates the Covid-19 pandemic has psychological and social effects. At least five saloon owners from city have died by suicide as the coronavirus outbreak snatched away their livelihood. Lockdown and restrictions in economic activities also left several people, particularly the working class and youths, with mental health issues.This year, due to the coronavirus outbreak, the pass percentages of students in boards and universities examinations were more. So the numbers of dejected students endling life reduced drastically. But many minors killed themselves over trivial issues like a 10-year-old boy from Gittikhadan area over eating fast food, while another teenage boy doing so over mobile game. Experts feel the Covid-19 pandemic may increase prevalence of psychiatric disorders and suicide rates during and after the pandemic. Social isolation, drop in social interaction, and the fear caused by the pandemic — all glaringly evident — are likely to increase suicides, said city psychologist and counsellor Anushka Karira. Another major factor is lack of anger management, she said.According to the city police in calendar years 2018 and 2019, there were 680 and 635 cases of suicides respectively. Thus in 2019, each month saw and average of 53 suicides in 2018, the figure was 57 per month. Thus this year’s average of 37 cases per month is low. In April, the suicide cases witnessed a steep decline at just 11.The figure started increasing in May which saw 28 suicides. In June, there were 49 cases while in July they rose to 66. This month in just 13 days, the city has seen 38 suicide cases. So while suicides were low during lockdown they have spurted during unlockdown along with rise in Covid-19 cases.In most cases the deceased were “fighting helplessness, fear and uncertainty”, said a senior cop, who noted this had become a prevailing condition since the Covid-19 pandemic struck, bringing with it long lockdowns and economic misery.Year---Suicides2018---6802019---6362020 ( up to July 31)---2552020MONTHS---SuicidesJan — 38Feb — 30Mar — 33APR — 11May — 28Jun — 49Jul — 66||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aug-sees-38-suicides-so-far-are-rising-covid-19-cases-to-blame/articleshow/77554257.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 15, 2020||Mysuru||Water level in KRS dam reaches 124 feet||Mandya: Krishnrajasagara (KRS) reservoir reached its maximum level on Friday due to heavy rain in Cauvery river catchment area for last couple of weeks. Water level at the reservoir, which is the lifeline of lakhs of farmers and source of potable water to crores of urbanities, stood at 124.10 feet against maximum 124.80 feet on Friday with the inflow of 13,298 cusecs and outflow of 3,863 cusecs. According to officials, the dam would have been filled to its brim a week ago if the dam authorities had not been releasing the heavy inflow of water to river. According to sources, more than 15 Tmcft of water has been released to the river due to flood situation as it temporarily eased the perennial water sharing dispute with neighbouring Tamilnadu. Meanwhile, the farmers in Mandya heaved a sigh of relief as for the second consecutive time, water level in the dam has reached the brim by mid-August. “The rain has resolved two problems for us — water scarcity and the water sharing dispute with Tamilnadu. We can now grow monsoon and summer crops. Since monsoon will continue for a little over a month, we will have more rain and more water in the reservoir,” said Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha district president Suresh shambunahalli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/water-level-in-krs-dam-reaches-124-feet/articleshow/77555113.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||FDCA raids unit illegally making sanitizer, seizes items worth Rs 34 lakh in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A team of the Gujarat Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) carried out a raid in Makarba on Friday and seized material to make hand sanitizer from a residence. Officials said the accused, Meet Patel, was producing sanitizer without a permit. Officials are ascertaining how many units were produced and sold so far. From the spot, officials seized items worth Rs 34.4 lakh. “They had alcoholic hand rub/sanitizer of Mehsana-based Jyoti Herbs and Gandhinagar-based Prince Instant Hand Sanitizer along with other products, packaging material and machinery. Patel in primary questioning said he was making sanitizers since the lockdown and had so far purchased denatured alcohol worth Rs 18 lakh,” said Dr H G Koshia, commissioner of the Gujarat FDCA. He added that Patel has violated The Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, by initiating production without a permit. The FDCA investigation revealed that Jyoti Herbs doesn’t have a permit for production of cosmetics or medicines whereas the products from Prince Instant Hand Sanitizer were found to be fake. Officials also also found tins of hair remover, the use of which is still under the scanner. “We would be questioning Patel and others found to be involved to understand the supply chain and possible markets where the sanitizer was sent. Due to Covid-19, there is a manyfold increase in consumption of sanitizers and hand rubs and the accused probably sensed a business opportunity,” said a senior FDCA official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fdca-raids-unit-illegally-making-sanitizer-seizes-items-worth-rs-34l/articleshow/77552584.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Vadodara||MS University conducts mock test 2.0||Vadodara: Unlike the earlier fiasco when the portal had crashed, M S University finished its second round of online mock test on Friday, albeit with its own set of troubles. This time, the test was phased out in time slots on Thursday and Friday. MSU’s officiating registrar K M Chudasama informed that of the 530 students who were supposed to appear in first slot, 417 appeared. In the second slot, of the 480 students, 409 took the test. “There were 88 students who had either missed their mock test on Thursday or could not submit their answers because of technical issues. Such students were given a chance to appear in the third time slot on Friday,” he said. Earlier in the day, senate member Kapil Joshi submitted an application to the cybercrime cell seeking a formal complaint and a probe against the university’s top brass including the vice-chancellor and the registrar. Alleging ill preparedness, Joshi said, “It is necessary to probe if the portal was actually hacked or it was just an excuse by university authorities to hide their failure. Either of the situation, requires a thorough probe as it has led to mental harassment to thousands of students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ms-university-conducts-mock-test-2-0/articleshow/77551336.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Dehradun||Edu dept to now hear both parties in fee violation cases||Dehradun: The state education department has decided to conduct hearings of the fee violation cases in a different manner from now onwards. Instead of asking the accused schools to reply to the notices, the department has now decided to have meetings where both the parties will be present. This decision has been taken after there were numerous complaints of schools dismissing allegations of violations of the rules regarding the fee payment. Officials said that some schools were “taking the notice for granted and were reverting with useless explanations which eventually led to delay in solving the matter.” The decision has been taken to give a proper platform to both the parents and the private schools, and try to get the matter instantly. Meanwhile, after there were several complaints of education officers not taking strict actions against several schools, the director of school education has asked the officials to complete the report regarding the accusations on schools regarding the violation of the affiliation norms within a fixed time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-dept-to-now-hear-both-parties-in-fee-violation-cases/articleshow/77551365.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 15, 2020||Nagpur||Covid waste lies in open, Mayo blames NMC contractor||Nagpur: Within three hours of alert TOI readers reporting open dumping of biomedical waste from IGGMCH’s surgical complex, housing its Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH)), the hospital administration and NMC health and sanitation department removed the hazardous bags from the premises. When TOI shared the images sent by readers, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) regional officer Ashok Kare wrote to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) asking it to augment its facility to store all waste as per CPCB gudelines and submit action taken and complinace report. The MPCB team did not find waste in the designated area, the letter said. Hospital authorities informed the MPCB team that Covid waste is stored in open area for some time before loading in the agency’s van. NMC deputy municipal commissioner (solid waste management) Dr Pradeep Dasarwar too visited the spot and held a joint inspection with hospital officials. “Hospital has a store room, but it is for non-Covid waste. I have asked them not to keep any waste outside till it is lifted,” said Dasarwar. Citizens said red bags with anatomical waste, black (general) and yellow (Covid) were brought from inside the DCH and dumped in the parking lot. IGGMCH deputy medical superintendent Dr Sagar Pandey (Corona patient care) said waste generation has increased by 80 times mainly because of PPE kits. “Volunteers of NGOs coming to collect bodies are carelessly throwing PPE kits everywhere once their job is done. We have told them to dispose of kits where ever last rites are held and not here. This has increased load of Class IV staffers, who have to pick them up and keep at one place till NMC contractor’s van lifts it. We have requested NMC to increase the lifting by M/s Superb Hygienic to thrice a day,” he said. Dr Pandey explained the biomedical waste has increased not just because of more Covid patients, but also large number of volunteers is coming to take a body. “If 10 Covid deaths take place and eight volunteers come, then 80 PPE kits have to be disposed of,” he said. Citizens countered the claim asking why would volunteers remove kits while in possession of body. Biomedical waste volume was less before the pandemic. “Around 100 doctors, 200 nurses and Class IV staff are working in Covid ward at a time, increasing the waste by 80 times. Despite requests, NMC contractor is not lifting the waste thrice a day,” Dr Pandey said, adding on-time lifting will help a lot. He also appealed to citizens not to dump kits anywhere. “NMC must deploy its nuisance detection squad (NDS) members to penalize polluters on IGGMCH premises,” he said. Activist Leena Budhe held NMC and its contractor at fault. “I came to know that waste has increased manifold, but the contractor is not lifting it regularly. Also, the bins need to be closed as animals or destitutes rummage through it in search of food,” she said. Budhe added that the hospital’s job at the moment is to save lives. “How can NMC expect them to run after everything,” she asked. NMC’s Dr Dasarwar said the disposal agreement is between the contractor and the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-waste-lies-in-open-mayo-blames-nmc-contractor/articleshow/77553760.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Lowest coronavirus toll in 29 days; deaths down in Ahmedabad, Surat||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending pm on Friday added 1,087 positive cases, taking the total to 76,569. It was the second day in a row for the state to record below 1,100 new cases even as the state recorded the highest daily testing for Covid-19 in past 24 hours at 51,225. The new cases include 232 from Surat, 161 from Ahmedabad, 107 from Vadodara and 99 from Rajkot. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, have reached 28,763, while Surat, Vadodara have 16,367 and 6,167 respectively, and Rajkot 3,078 cases. The state also recorded deaths of 15 patients on Friday, taking the state’s death toll to 2,748. The deaths included five from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two each for Jamnagar and Rajkot, and one each from Gandhinagar and Vadodara. Deaths in Ahmedabad, now at 1,652, Surat, Vadodara have 534 and 108 Covid deaths respectively, and Rajkot has 65 deaths. Analysis of the deaths in August revealed that it was the lowest death toll in 29 days. On July 16, Gujarat had recorded 10 deaths. Two major districts — Ahmedabad and Surat — which still account for 50% of the daily deaths, have recorded dip in deaths. In August, Ahmedabad’s highest daily toll was 6 deaths on August 3, whereas for Surat, it was 12 on August 1 and 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lowest-corona-toll-in-29-days-deaths-down-in-abad-surat/articleshow/77552601.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence was offshoot of politics in Pulakeshinagar assembly seat||BENGALURU: Political parties’ desperation to secure a hold in Pulakeshinagar assembly seat, a constituency reserved for Scheduled Caste (SC) candidates in Bengaluru, appears to have fuelled the violence, coming as it did ahead of BBMP polls, due in September. Though the polls are expected to be delayed by months due to the Covid-19 crisis, the violence in east Bengaluru has set the tone for campaigns with BJP now looking to make inroads by cashing in on an internal rift in Congress. Unrest was simmering as sitting MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy and former city mayor Sampath Raj, who represents DJ Halli BBMP ward, have a running feud. Raj had wanted to contest the 2018 election from Pulakeshinagar, but Congress had him stand from CV Raman Nagar instead. Congress was compelled to accommodate Srinivasamurthy, who had defected from JD(S). Raj was defeated and has been miffed since. The tussle has been aggravated with DK Shivakumar taking over as KPCC president, since Srinivasamuthy is seen as a Siddaramaiah camp member, while Raj is a Shivakumar loyalist. Sensing an opportunity, BJP is trying to lure Srinivasamurthy to its fold as it is desperately looking to make inroads in Pulakeshinagar and two adjacent constituencies — Shivajinagar and Sarvagnanagar — both Congress strongholds. Congress claim BJP has a tacit understanding with the pro-Muslim Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), which can cause a division of Muslim votes, an advantage for the saffron party. “There is no doubt BJP is supporting SDPI. Since it cannot win elections on its own strength, BJP wants to divide our party,” said senior Congressman and Sarvagnanagar legislator KJ George. BJP’s attempts to gain a toehold in Pulakeshinagar by luring Srinivasamurthy to their fold have been thinly-veiled. “The priority of Congress is to protect vandals as they belong to a certain community that serves as its votebank. It did not bother about its own MLA. If that is the case, what is wrong if Srinivasamurthy thinks about leaving that party?” said Union minister DV Sadanadagowda, who represents Bengaluru North Lok Sabha seat that covers Pulakeshinagar. The BJP is counting on Srinivasamurthy’s huge popularity — he won the seat by a margin of 80,000 votes. His presence could help the party win BBMP wards in Pulakeshinagar and the surrounding assembly segments where it has little presence, but Congressman Ramalinga Reddy believes he will lose his deposit if he shifts to BJP. Murthy skipped a Congress meeting on Friday to discuss the violence and instead met revenue minister R Ashoka. He said he is yet to decide on his political future. “The next elections are three years away and I have a lot of time to decide,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/violence-was-result-of-politics-over-pulakeshinagar-seat/articleshow/77552642.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
August 15, 2020||Shimla||Covid-19: 58 infected, 116 recover in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported 58 positive cases of Covid-19 cases on Friday, while 116 patients recovered from the virus. The state now has a total number of 3,874 cases, of which 1,270 are active, 2,551 have recovered, 17 have died and 34 have migrated out of state. Among new cases, 12 are from Chamba, 10 from Kullu, eight each from Kangra and Sirmaur, five each from Bilaspur and Hamirpur, three from Mandi, and two each from Lahaul-Spiti district and Una. When it comes to new recovered cases, 63 are from Solan, 18 from Mandi, 13 from Chamba, 12 from Kangra, four from Bilaspur, three from Shimla, two from Una and one from Kinnaur. In the state, 1,75,666 persons had been tested till Friday. While 1,70,882 tested negative, results of 910 samples are awaited. Solan district has reported the highest number of cases, 914, of which 314 cases are active. Kangra has got 562 cases, of which 86 are active. In Hamirpur, 394 cases have been reported and 81 of them are active. Of the total 479 cases reported in Sirmaur, 139 are active. Una has got 314 cases, of which 105 are active. Bilaspur has got 160 cases, of which 53 are active. Chamba has got 279 cases, of which 155 are active. Kinnaur has reported 59 cases, of which 15 are active. In Kullu, of the total 200 cases, 160 are active. Lahaul-Spiti district has reported six cases, of which two are active and four have recovered. In Mandi, 290 cases have been reported and 107 of them are active and six have died. Shimla has reported 217 cases, of which 53 are active and two patients have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/58-infected-116-recover-in-hp/articleshow/77554262.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Nagpur||Trade will flourish if crime is curbed: Deshmukh||Nagpur: The State home minister Anil Deshmukh said on Friday a ‘crime-free’ Nagpur would be an ideal destination for investment, economic growth and expansion. Earlier, he had vowed to take action against all goons and had asked citizens to report their names. Deshmukh, who spoke to TOI from Mumbai, also said he was contemplating stretching the scheme of collecting information about goons and anti-social elements to other places in the district and if successful may launch similar action across the state in the coming days. “I have already taken review meeting of the rural and district police twice in the past. I am planning to summon the officers from the rural police for a fresh review and then we may think about appealing to the residents from rural areas to share information regarding local goons against whom we may initiate stringent actions,” he said. “Once the law and order situation improves, it would definitely lead to more economic growth,” said the home minister, adding if goonda elements are behind bars trade and investment will flourish. Deshmukh had expressed his satisfaction over the efforts of the CP BK Upadhyay who had brought down the crime rate by 28% in the current year. Apart from the dwindling crime rate, city police have also initiated 3,421 preventive actions this year. Taking the efforts a notch higher, Deshmukh became the first home minister to seek direct information from citizens regarding the anti-social elements who are yet to be brought under police surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/trade-will-flourish-if-crime-is-curbed-deshmukh/articleshow/77553803.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 15, 2020||Coimbatore||385 test positive for virus in dist, tally zooms past 8,000-mark||Coimbatore: The district’s Covid-19 tally surpassed the 8,000-mark on Friday when it recorded its highest single-day spike of 385 cases. The district has so far logged 8,274 novel coronavirus cases, of which 2,062 are active. At least 243 patients recovered and were discharged in the day, taking the total number of recovered patients to 6,048. The toll, meanwhile, rose to 164 with eight more deaths. Two of the deceased were in their 50s and had no comorbidities. A lion’s share of the new cases was reported from the city corporation limits. Of the 203 cases in its limits, central zone recorded the highest number of cases at 58, followed by south zone (53). East zone had the lowest number of new cases at 24. Just when the district administration and the city corporation thought the number of new cases in Selvapuram had begun dropping, the locality and its neighbourhoods, including Telungupalayam and Chetti Street, reported 39 new cases. Larger clusters continued to appear from fire station and police training quarters. While the fire station near the PPG College at Vilankurichi reported 22 cases, the police training quarters at Ramanathapuram, which has already seen more than 30 cases, recorded another nine cases. In rural areas, Mettupalayam recorded six cases, Karamadai four, Periyanaickenpalayam three and Narasimanaickenpalayam, one new case. Three people were tested positive for the virus in Pollachi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/385-test-positive-for-virus-in-dist-tally-zooms-past-8000-mark/articleshow/77554264.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chennai||S P Balasubrahmanyam put on life support, millions pray in Chennai||CHENNAI: Millions of people in the city and across the world began fervent prayers on Friday for the speedy recovery of S P Balasubrahmanyam after a Chennai hospital said the legendary singer was put on life-support after his condition became critical. Minutes after the announcement, messages wishing him speedy recovery flooded social media, none more poignant than buddy Ilaiyaraaja’s special video message: ‘Balu Seekarama Yezundhu Va (Balu, Recover Soon).’ Speaking of a relationship going back many decades, the maestro said they had a lot more to do together. “Though we have had many fights, we know that it was never serious.” Pointing out that they began their careers in the film industry after being stage singers during their days of struggle, the ace composer said they remained inseparable. Later, SPB’s son and playback singer SP Charan tweeted: “…#spb is critical but is in safe hands ….. We are all confident that #spb will be back with all of us sooner than later. Thank you all for your concern and prayers. (sic)” The multi-faceted 74-year-old, who has sung more than 40,000 film songs in at least 14 languages and has several devotional songs to his credit apart from composing music and acting in several films, was admitted to MGM Healthcare on August 5 with mild Covid-19 symptoms. A bulletin issued by hospital assistant director Dr Anuradha Baskaran said there had been a setback in his health. “In a late night development on August 13, his condition deteriorated and based on the advice of the expert medical team attending on him, he has been moved to the ICU and is on life support.” Dr Baskaran said he was under observation by a team of experts from critical care, and his haemodynamic and clinical parameters are being closely monitored. On August 5, SPB, in a video message on his Facebook page, said he had tested positive for Covid-19 and that though doctors had advised him home isolation, he decided to get himself admitted to hospital. He also requested people not to call him as he wanted some rest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spb-put-on-life-support-millions-pray/articleshow/77554272.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chennai||Recoveries in city cross 1L, but no time to study complications in these patients||Chennai: On Friday evening, as fresh Covid-19 case count in Chennai once again went into four figures after a week, it notched up a significant statistic: 1 lakh recovered patients. Officials say this is a significant milestone for the city which has recorded 1.14 lakh cases till date. As on date, the recovery rate is around 88%. However, the civic body is yet to follow up on these recovered patients and take note of the various health complications that many of them are showing, even two to four weeks after getting discharged. AK Ashok, 28, a resident of Tiruneermalai on the southern outskirts of Chennai, said he was discharged from Kilpauk Medical College and Hospital and sent to KPP Park Covid Care Centre and from there home, in a span of 10 days. “This was despite me having continuous flu. I continue to have fever on and off even after five days since my discharge. No government official has followed up with me,” he said. He continues to report pain in the back and knees apart from the fever. Recovered patients have also reported other issues. For instance, patients who have been symptomatic and recovered after admissions under intensive care are showing a variety of issues like vascular complications, myocardial infarction and also post-traumatic stress issues like bad dreams and depression. “In some cases, patients are also reporting neuropathy (damage or dysfunction of nerves) and muscle imflammation,” said Dr Vijayalakshmi Balakrishnan, infectious diseases specialist at Kauvery Hospital. Some government officials told TOI that they suspect they were infected twice. However, experts have said that is not possible. When asked about follow-up mechanism for recovered patients, a senior corporation official said the civic body’s focus was now on continuing to track, test and treat as was the current protocol. “We will first finish this phase as it is the most critical,” the official said. A follow-up phase would have to be taken up by government officials at a higher level in a collective manner, he added. Dr Vijayalakshmi also said that hospitals in the city were still flooded with patients. “Apart from fresh cases in neighbouring districts, many patients who recovered in June and July are returning with complications,” she said. There was a lot of data but doctors faced a shortage of time to analyse it, though she has started some efforts on putting out some papers. Dr K Kulandaiswamy, retired director of public health, said recovered patients should rest for 14 days and consult with their doctors regularly in case of specific complications. “It can be done over telephone as well. There is no need to worry,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/recoveries-in-city-cross-1l-but-no-time-to-study-complications-in-these-patients/articleshow/77554288.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 15, 2020||Dehradun||Global adventure race show featuring U’khand’s ‘Everest Twins’ released on OTT platform||Dehradun: The much anticipated show “World’s Toughest Race: Eco Challenge Fiji” premiered on Amazon Prime Video, an OTT platform, on Friday. The adventure reality show features Doon-based ‘Everest twins’ Nungshi Malik and Tashi Malik. The show is being hosted by Bear Grylls of “Man vs. Wild” fame. The twins took part in the 11-day expedition in Fiji Islands and now it has been turned into a 10-episode series. The expedition saw 66 teams from 30 countries bringing together 330 competitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/global-adventure-race-show-featuring-ukhands-everest-twins-released-on-ott-platform/articleshow/77551378.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 15, 2020||Goa||State gets 20 police inspectors||Panaji: Goa police on Friday promoted 20 police sub-inspectors (PSI) to the rank of police inspectors. Five of these PSIs were promoted on an ad-hoc basis. The decision was based on the recommendation of the Police Establishment Board. PSIs who have been regularly promoted are Ramkrishna Mangeshkar, Ananda Shirodkar, Anant Gaonkar, Sandeep Kesarkar, Harish Gawas, Tulshidas Naik, Mahesh Gadekar, Ratnakar Kalangutkar, Manguesh Valvaikar, Vijaykumar Chodankar, Videsh Shirodkar, Razashad Shaikh, Vijaynath Kavlekar, Manoj Malik and Satish Padwalkar. Those promoted on an ad-hoc basis are Vinayak Patil, Dattaram Raut, Mira D’Silva, Gautam Salunke and Laxi Amonkar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-gets-20-police-inspectors/articleshow/77555131.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi court gives more time for probe against 10 booked under UAPA||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has extended investigation time against 10 persons booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with the northeast Delhi violence till September 17. The case is against two Pinjra Tod members besides ex-councillors Tahir Hussain, Ishrat Jahan and others. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat took into consideration the application-cum-report filed by special public prosecutor Amit Parasad. “I am satisfied that the prosecution has been able to make out a case for extension of the period of investigation and detention of accused persons,” the court said. The counsels appearing for the accused that also included Khalid, Meeran Haider, Gulfisha, Shafa Ur Rehman, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Shadab Ahmed besides Pinjra Tod members Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita, had argued that they were not in a position to oppose police’s plea as a copy had not been received by them. The court, however, noted that the accused did not have the right to receive a copy and oppose it while referring to a Delhi high court decision. “Since overall conspiracy is being unearthed and because of inter-linkages of accused persons, whose custody will be expiring on different dates, and request seeking extension of period of investigation and detention till September 17, of all 10 accused persons together, the case is also made out,” it stated. The defence counsels also argued that an extension of 60 days had already been allowed and a second request cannot be entertained for it will amount to a review of the earlier order and will not be permissible going by a legal provision under Code of Criminal Procedure. The court found this contention “without merit”. It referred to Section 43 (D) of the UAPA law to state that if conditions were, a court can extend the period of investigation by another 90 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-gives-more-time-for-probe-against-10-booked-under-uapa/articleshow/77552694.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Don’t seal units over stray cases’||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in a letter to municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar, had demanded that the AMC not seal entire units if one or two persons working there test positive for Covid-19. GCCI president Durgesh Buch said that in some incidents even if one or two stray Covid patients are found, health officials seal the entire unit or building. This does not conform to the guidelines issued by the Union health ministry and affects business and the economy in general. The letter says that such sealing of units will discourage the industrial units, traders and institutions to come forward for voluntary testing as they will fear that if someone tests positive, the entire entity will be sealedTNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dont-seal-units-over-stray-cases/articleshow/77552615.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Dehradun||Wife of BJP MLA accuses woman of blackmailing, case lodged||Dehradun: The wife of BJP MLA from Dwarahat has registered a complaint against a woman and three of her relatives for allegedly blackmailing her husband and demanding Rs 5 crore from him. The complaint has been lodged by Rita Negi, wife of Dwarahat (Almora) MLA Mahesh Negi, in the Nehru Colony police station. In her complaint, she has accused the woman and three of her relatives of blackmailing her husband to extort money and threatening MLA Mahesh Negi. Dilbar Singh Negi, in charge of Nehru Colony police station, said, “On the basis of the complaint, we have registered a case in the matter and an investigation has been launched.” Meanwhile, the accused woman has also levelled serious charges against the MLA, which are also being investigated by the police, another police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wife-of-bjp-mla-accuses-woman-of-blackmailing-case-lodged/articleshow/77551396.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Backed by unions, sacked PTIs seek reinstatement||Jind/Karnal: Sacked physical training instructors (PTIs) launched a ‘jail bharo andolan’ along with several employee unions and khap leaders in Jind on Friday. Over 250 persons were detained by police but released later. Similar protests were also held in Karnal and Panipat, as part of statewide protest. The dismissed PTIs have been staging a dharna in front of the mini secretariat for the last two months, seeking reinstatement. In their agitation, several prominent khaps have extended support and warned the state government of facing opposition in the upcoming Baroda byelection. Talking to mediapersons, Rangi Ram, a khap leader, who accompanied the sacked teachers, said, “The court is not responsible for their removal, but chief minister M L Khattar and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala are. Khap have come together and will oppose every move of the state government if these teachers were not given their jobs back.”In Karnal, they took out a procession towards the mini secretariat from where they were taken into buses and released after covering a small distance. PTIs in Panipat were also detained and released by the police. Krishan Nirman, a leader of Sarv Karamchari Sangh said that this recruitment was conducted during the congress government in 2010. But the services of PTIs were terminated by the state government, citing the decision of the Supreme Court. The protest will continue until the government reinstated them. He said that the government should bring an ordinance in the coming assembly session to reinstate their services. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/backed-by-unions-sacked-ptis-seek-reinstatement/articleshow/77554315.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Doctor harassed for money||Ahmedabad: A doctor from the Vejalpur area of the city on Thursday filed a police complaint alleging that an unknown man called him, addressed him as being the caller’s maternal uncle and demanded money from him. Even after the doctor told him he was mistaken, the man called repeatedly and threatened the doctor. Dr Kalpesh Nakum, 35, of Venus Park in Vejalpur and an anaesthesiologist, in his FIR with Vejalpur police stated that a caller who identified himself as Habib made frequent calls to him between February 14 and August 2 demanding money. Nakum had told the caller that he is a doctor and not the person he wanted to talk with. To this, the person mocked Nakum asked him to admit and treat him as well. Nakum on Thursday approached Vejalpur police and filed a complaint of criminal intimidation against the unknown caller. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/doc-harassed-for-money/articleshow/77552756.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Meerut||To keep UP cops off his trail, rape accused fakes suicide, lives in forests||MEERUT: On the run for a week, a man accused of raping a six-year-old girl child in Hapur tried every trick in the book to remain scot-free. With several police teams on the tail, Dalpat Singh, on Thursday morning, came up with something which perplexed even the seasoned investigators. He wrote a poignant suicide note and left it with a set of his soiled clothes and an identity card on the outskirts of his village in Amroha. “I know I will be killed in an encounter. And I don’t want to die like that. I will choose my own means to end my life. Please don’t harass my children,” Singh wrote in the note. Baffled but not convinced, the police teams of Hapur and Amroha districts continued with their search operation. In a guarded response, a senior police officer had said, “Till we trace him or his body or any evidence to corroborate it, we are not going to rely on the suicide note.” They finally caught up with Singh on Friday afternoon near his village. “He never wanted to kill himself and was just trying to derail the search operation,” a police officer said. “Dalpat Singh has been arrested from Amroha,” IG of Meerut range, Praveen Tripathi, confirmed in the evening. But, according to policemen escorting him, Dalpat tried his last trick to escape. He allegedly snatched the service revolver of a police officer and tried to flee while being brought for a press briefing. He was shot in the leg and taken to a hospital instead. Singh allegedly abducted the girl on August 6 when she was playing outside her house in Hapur’s Garh area. She was raped and left to die in a nearby forest, from where a search and rescue team found her over 12 hours later. The policemen zeroed in on Singh with the help of three sketches made on the basis of the testimonies of people who saw the accused luring the child. The child is currently admitted in a Meerut hospital, and is said to be in a critical condition. There were several injuries on her private parts, leading to excessive blood loss as she lay unattended in the forest region for several hours. Several police teams in Hapur and neighbouring Amroha district were pressed into service to find the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/to-keep-up-cops-off-his-trail-rape-accused-fakes-suicide-lives-in-forests/articleshow/77551408.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Courtesy Covid-19, a realty check along IT corridor||CHENNAI: Covid-19 has flattened the vertical growth curve of the real estate market along Old Mahabalipuram Road. With almost all software firms in IT parks along the stretch encouraging employees to work from home, prospects of the residential realty sector — which depends on developments in the IT sector — have been dented. The pandemic has already caused severe damage on the IT Corridor, ranging from reduced activities in IT parks to closure of star hotels and a fall in occupancy rate in apartments, and a section of developers planning housing projects on OMR has decided to hold things. Conservative estimates by stakeholders such as resident welfare associations, property managers and water tanker operators show that one in every three apartments on OMR has remained vacant in the past four months, triggered by IT companies declaring a work from home system and sparking its workforce to move to their hometowns. Rental value has been reversed up to 50%, worrying the real estate sector. K Chandrasekar of Rajam Property Management Services Private Limited said OMR was the worst hit in the real estate market when compared with other areas. “We maintain 100 rental properties on OMR, of which 15 have been vacated and another 35 have been locked up after the tenants shifted to their native places. In contrast, we maintain 400 properties on rentals in west, central and southern parts of the city, where only 2% of tenants have vacated and rent was revised only by less than 10%,” he said. Most of these properties were investments made by NRIs. “If the situation continues, OMR will lose its sheen as an investment destination for residential vertical.” The future of at least 5,000 apartments under construction between Perungudi and Tiruporur is uncertain. Developers were vying with one another to launch projects due to demand despite the stretch being notorious for poor civic infrastructure such as lack of Metrowater supply, groundwater salinity, absence of underground sewage system and non-availability of suburban trains or metro rail connectivity. A developer looking for land parcels on the stretch for a residential project has decided to wait and watch. “Land prices are high and even if I launch a project now, there will not be many takers because OMR already has enough stocks to be sold in our price bracket. Rajiv Gandhi Salai was on our priority list among top three locations before Covid-19, but we are concentrating on western suburbs now,” said the developer preferring anonymity. But, developers on OMR with existing projects are bullish as the crisis caused by coronavirus was a temporary phenomenon. Mehul Doshi, director of Doshi Housing said that parts of OMR is getting piped water supply by this year end and the IT corridor will continue to thrive in the real estate market. “Work from home will shoot up the demand for housing and the corridor has witnessed development of good social infrastructure making it an attractive destination for homebuyers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/courtesy-covid-a-realty-check-along-it-corridor/articleshow/77554318.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
August 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Assembly won’t discuss notice against speaker||T’puram: Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan refused to accept a resolution, moved by the UDF to remove him from the post, citing technical reasons. While announcing the launch of Sabha TV which will go on air on Monday, the speaker said the notice for no-confidence against him will not be valid as assembly rules stipulate that the notice should be served 14 days in advance. However, government had decided to recommend the governor to convene the assembly on August 24, on August 12, which would mean that the opposition could not serve the notice 14 days prior to meeting the assembly. Opposition leader criticized the speaker’s words, citing it as cowardice. He said that the assembly itself can be convened only with a 15-day prior notice as per rules, and in this case, government hasn’t given the 15-day window to the opposition so that it could serve a notice 14 days in advance. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/assembly-wont-discuss-notice-against-speaker/articleshow/77552702.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Nagpur||For the first time in 140 years, no Kali-Pivli marbat procession||Nagpur: ‘Gehun Ja Ge Marbat’, the slogan that symbolizes the dismissal of all evils and diseases in the society, will not echo on the streets during the Pola celebrations this year. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe on Friday has refused to grant permission to the historic ‘marbat-badgya’ procession due to Covid-19 spread. This will be for the first time that there will be no marbat procession in 140 years. The historic Kali marbat was started in 1881 while the Pivli is in its 137th year (began in 1885). Thousands throng the streets to witness the procession that was slated to be taken out on Tanha Pola (toy bulls) day on August 19. Owing to coronavirus spurt in the city, Mundhe has restricted the marbat event to just ‘visarjan’. Now, decorated effigies of marbats will be burned in the presence five people only with social distancing and face masks in place. Other organizers have even withdrawn the main Pola event on August 18, signifying bull worship. Prakash Gaurkar, president of Marbat Nagoba Devasthan, Tarhane Teli Samaj, Maskasath, said, “There will be no procession. We have also restricted devotees from offering prayers in the narrow lanes to the temple to avoid rush. However, we want the condition of 5 persons for ‘visarjan’ to be relaxed.” “The Pivli marbat is 20-feet and burning it near the crowded temple area can be dangerous for people. We want the NMC and police to allow the marbat to be taken 500 metres away near Naik Talao where a platform is already built to burn it,” said Gaurkar. Gaurav Harde, president of Kali Marbat Utsav Committee, said, “We were aware of Covid-19 situation but cannot break the more-than-century-old tradition. Hence, we decided to burn the Kali marbat in a ground close to the temple. Devotees will be allowed to offer prayers on the same day from 200 metres distance.” The famous big bull Pola at Pardi organized by former corporator Devendra Meher has also been withdrawn. This will be for the first time the 150-year-old tradition will be broken. Connected to several rural areas, this event is considered to be city’s biggest. Similarly, Tanha Pola events, where kids come with wooden bulls, have been cancelled. Jagdish Amnerkar of the Santaji Yamaji Maharaj Devasthan said, “Ours is the biggest event in the entire Itwari area. However, the area where the event is held has Covid-19 patients. A couple of deaths too have been reported in the same area.” “We have been organizing the toy bull event for last 50 years at Kasarpura, Itwari. This year, we’ve withdrawn as situation doesn’t permit. We used to take out a procession led by a brass band followed by kids with their wooden bulls. We used to distribute ‘Gopalkala’ (a Janmashtami prasad),” said Dilip Gandhi, president of Ekta Navyuwak Mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/for-the-first-time-in-140-years-no-kali-pivli-marbat-procession/articleshow/77552650.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 15, 2020||Coimbatore||5 buildings to come up on medical college campus||Coimbatore: Construction of five buildings that can accommodate 250 MBBS students began on the Coimbatore Medical College campus on Friday. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami conducted bhoomi puja for the work through video conference. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani conducted a ceremony here . Once the new infrastructure is in place, the medical council of India (MCI) will permit the college to increase MBBS student intake from 150 to 250, medical education department sources said. The Rs 80 crore project includes construction of a four-storey institutional block that will house lecture halls, examination halls and demonstration halls. Two four-storey buildings will function as hostels for boys and girls. There will also be a three-storey administrative block and a two-storey library. “Once the work is over, we will submit a formal application to MCI for an increase in intake. They will inspect the infrastructure and give us the go-ahead if they are satisfied,” CMCH dean Dr P Kalidas said. “The public works department plans to complete the construction in a little more than six months.” Coimbatore Medical College had applied to increase student intake to 250 in January 2015. But MCI rejected the applications after finding it lacking in infrastructure in the form of faculty, books in laboratories and overcrowded girls’ hostels. Since then, the college has been taking measures to rectify the shortcomings. The state and the Centre later sanctioned Rs 1.2 crore per extra student for increasing infrastructure, of which 60% will be from the Centre and the rest from the state government. Of that Rs 120 crore, Rs 80 crore has been sanctioned for the buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/5-buildings-to-come-up-on-medical-college-campus/articleshow/77554308.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Dehradun||CM inaugurates e-office system at Vikas Bhawan and Sadar Tehsil in Dehradun||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat inaugurated the e-office system at Vikas Bhawan and Sadar Tehsil on Friday. The facility has been designed with the objective to promote a paperless filing process at the government offices. The inauguration was done through video conferencing at the collectorate. Nitika Khandelwal, chief development officer, said “The e-office system will expedite the working at the tehsil and bring partiality in day-to-day working. The e-office will enable people to check the status of their files online while the officials will be able to give the approvals online.” In the next phase of the project, the other tehsils will also be made part of the e-office system. On the day, the CM also inaugurated the new auditorium at the collectorate which has been named Rishiparna Auditorium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-inaugurates-e-office-system-at-vikas-bhawan-and-sadar-tehsil-in-dehradun/articleshow/77551431.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||On Independence Day, they will show freedom of fit life||AHMEDABAD: Early on Saturday morning, a group of bicycle riders will start off to Nalsarovar from Rajpath Club, marking the 74th Independence Day with a 74km bicycle ride. For the informal bicycle riding group that was formed at Rajpath Club, it will be the first major outing after the lockdown. Dr Manish Raval, one of the founding members of the group, said that the group of 30-odd members consists mostly of doctors from various disciplines. “But what binds us is our passion for bicycling. We had started with only a few like-minded individuals, but our tribe kept growing,” he said. “We used to regularly ride for 50km or more, but Covid-19 put the brakes on the excursions.” Thus, this will be the first long-distance trip for the group after the end of the lockdown. The group members, however, have continued short-distance bicycling and running on alternate days to remain fit. J K Bhatia, an Ahmedabad businessman and another founding member of the group, said that the group used to ride to various scenic spots around Ahmedabad. “When discussions started around August 15, we thought what would be a better way to mark it than a 74km trip,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/on-independence-day-they-will-show-freedom-of-fit-life/articleshow/77552657.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: New LED traffic signalling poles installed at Marina||CHENNAI: Chennai City Traffic Police (CCTP) on Friday installed LED signalling poles at a traffic signal on Marina Beach Road. These signals are popular in European towns like Turkey and Ukraine. The entire cantilever, on which traffic lights are fixed, glows according to change in traffic signal light colour. For instance, when a signal changes from green to red, the entire signalling pole glows red. “Some motorists claim that usual traffic signals at one corner of the road may not be properly visible to them from a distance and they tend to jump the signal. We hope by illuminating the entire pole with appropriate LED lights, it will create an impact in their minds for obeying traffic rules,” said a senior officer from CCTP. Additional commissioner of CCTP N Kannan said that sometimes heavy vehicles like buses or trucks can block the view of the signal right above to motorists behind. In such instance, these poles are a huge sigh of relief and will assist them in bringing in more discipline. The pilot project at the traffic signal near the office of the director-general of police will be expanded to other areas after studying the impact of the new model. If it is received well, tenders will be floated to expand the initiative to other areas in Chennai, he added. Tamil Nadu leads the country in terms of stop-line and signal violations and every year around 700 people die and 4,000 get injured because of signal jumping, according to government’s accident report data. On an average 1,600-2,000 licences are suspended by the city traffic police for such traffic offences.  Despite this, violations continue and police hopes that such efforts will create more awareness as it was impossible to keep accident rate down without public coordination. Welcoming the initiative, transportation activist R Rengachari said that it will be of help for motorists along broad and long stretches like Marina Beach Road, which were frequented by heavy vehicles too. However, this kind of signalling system faced of opposition in some European countries because of high energy consumption and glare to car drivers during rainy days, he added. Watch Chennai: New LED traffic signalling poles installed at Marina||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/new-led-traffic-signalling-poles-installed-at-marina/articleshow/77554349.cms||Ram Sundaram
August 15, 2020||Ludhiana||In Ludh, 4 girls drown in Satluj||Ludhiana: Four minor girls drowned in the Satluj in Sidhwan Bet area on Friday evening. The deceased have been identified as Kulwinder Kaur (13), her cousin Manjinder Kaur (13), Gagandeep Kaur (12) and Soman Kaur (13) from Chandigarh Dea Channa village.  Police officials said the girls were playing on the banks of the Satluj when they were swept away by a strong current. Villagers informed the police, who rushed to the spot along with divers. A police official said the girls were pulled out of the water but they all succumbed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-ludh-4-girls-drown-in-satluj/articleshow/77554344.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Meerut||Bangalore violence: Meerut man arrested for announcing Rs51lakh reward on head of Cong MLA’s nephew||Meerut: A social worker and former SP leader was on Friday booked and arrested in Meerut for allegedly announcing a reward of Rs 51lakh for killing Bangalore Congress MLA’s nephew, whose “offensive” social media post is believed to have sparked violence in the southern city. At least three persons died and many more were injured when violence singed pockets of the India’s IT capital on Tuesday evening after an alleged inflammatory post of MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy’s nephew against the minority community.A few days later, sitting over 2,000-km away in Meerut, Shahzeb Rizvi recorded a video, venting his anger and announcing Rs 51lakh cash prize for “anyone who brings the head of the accused”.“The Muslim community’s sentiments have been hurt due to the social media post of Congress MLA’s nephew. Whoever will get me the head of his nephew, will get Rs 51lakh in return. The money will be collected with the help of the people who support me in the cause,” says Rizvi.As the video made the rounds of social media platforms, local police took note of it and filed a case.The former SP's state president was booked under Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 153 (A) (to punish persons who indulge in wanton vilification or attacks upon the religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc of any particular group or class or upon the founders and prophets of a religion). He was arrested on Friday evening.Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Meerut, Ajay Sahni, said, “We have ordered a probe after filing a case against Rizvi. He has been arrested.” Rizvi was recently booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 for violating social distancing norms a few days ago. Meanwhile, SC/ST commission has also taken note of his statement and has asked the Meerut police to take action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bangalore-violence-meerut-man-arrested-for-announcing-rs51lakh-reward-on-head-of-cong-mlas-nephew/articleshow/77551424.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 15, 2020||Kanpur||Cop forces me to dance to get my FIR filed, says girl||Kanpur: A video of a teenage girl has gone viral on social media, wherein she has alleged that an inspector of Govind Nagar police station asks her to dance in lieu of registering FIR against the nephew of her landlord. The 16-year-old girl alleged that the inspector summons her to the police station during odd hours and asks her to dance in front of him. The girl with her family lives in a rented accommodation in Dabauli West area of Govind Nagar. The girl’s family earns livelihood by doing ‘jagran’ parties. They had tried to lodge a complaint against the nephew of their landlord accusing him of molesting the girl, besides forcibly evacuating them from the rented portion of the house a few days ago. The mother of the girl said the accused Anup Yadav, nephew of the land lady, had on July 26 barged into their house and attacked them severely. “Again, on August 7 night, my daughter was molested by him while she was on her way back home after marketing. It was when she approached Inspector GovindNagar Anurag Mishra, he asked my daughter to first dance in front him and then he will registered her complaint,” the girl’s mother told reporters on Friday. According to Govind Nagar Circle Officer Vikas Kumar Pandey, there’s already a dispute between the two sides with regard to possession of a house. “There seems to be no substance in the charges. Prima-facie it appears that the girl has made the video viral in order to create pressure on the police. However, a probe is underway in this regard,” said Pandey further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cop-forces-me-to-dance-to-get-my-fir-filed-says-girl/articleshow/77554316.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||13-year-old girl raped in Delhi, neighbour arrested||NEW DELHI: A 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a neighbour when she went to relieve herself behind her house at a JJ camp in Sarita Vihar. The 18-year-old accused reportedly dragged the girl into a bush on Thursday afternoon and asked his friend to stand guard nearby while he sexually assaulted her. The girl managed to reach home after the assault and narrated the ordeal to her parents, who took her to the Sarita Vihar police station. Cops have arrested the accused and are looking for his friend. In her statement, the survivor told the cops that the neighbour had caught her while she was relieving herself in an open area behind their house. He dragged her to a bush in the jungle area behind the plot and sexually assaulted her while his friend stood guard. The girl was taken for a medical examination where doctors confirmed sexual assault. Based on her description, cops arrested the neighbour from the area. He has been booked for rape and POCSO Act. During interrogation, the accused identified his associate, a source said. The accused had dropped out of school and is unemployed, police said. The survivor’s family members told the cops that the accused used to harass the girl and they had also warned him about it. The survivor is being counselled by experts from a non-governmental organisation. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/13-year-old-girl-raped-neighbour-arrested/articleshow/77552731.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Vadodara||Man arrested for killing wife||Vadodara: The detection of crime branch (DCB) arrested four men on Friday for allegedly murdering a woman in Baranpura area. One of the accused is the husband of victim identified as Sapna Chunara. The prime accused, Amit Chunara, suspected that his wife had an extramarital affair with a resident of Anand. “Amit then roped in his relative Raju and promised him Rs 55,000 for murdering Sapna. Raju in turn hired Kunal Chunara and Ajay Chunara. When Sapna was asleep, Amit, Kunal and Ajay smothered her with a pillow. The couple’s daughter is witness to the murder,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, DCP (crime).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-arrested-for-killing-wife/articleshow/77551352.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||SDMC waives fine on vehicles with no RFID tag||NEW DELHI: In order to provide relief to commuters, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has decided to waive off penalty for not having RFID tag or adequate balance in RFID tag till October 15, this year. This decision was taken at a high level meeting held under the chairmanship of Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority chairman Bhure Lal on Friday. The meeting aimed to review working of the RFID system and issues faced on ground. “It was decided that the penalty of charging double the toll amount from vehicles for not having RFID tag or adequate balance in the tag will be waived off for the next two months in the view of the pandemic. Apart from this, all vehicles taking monthly passes will have to pay through online systems or at the RFID system installed at toll plazas,” said a senior SDMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-waives-fine-on-vehicles-with-no-rfid-tag/articleshow/77552771.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chennai||Demand falls, water tankers left high and dry||Chennai: The Rs 1,000 crore annual business of water tanker operators on the city’s IT corridor has been hit hard by Covid-19. Residents, IT companies and commercial establishments along the OMR are completely dependent on water tankers for survival as groundwater is saline and not potable, and piped water supply is absent. But unlike other years, when the supply is artificially choked through flash strikes called by water tanker operators, the demand has dried up this year. Water tanker operators estimate that the daily supply has dropped from 3.2 crore litres to 40 lakh litres in the past four months after IT parks and IT SEZs shut down and their staff moved to work from home. The number of daily trips now is just 250, down from 2,000 trips during the same period last year. Consumption by apartment complexes has significantly reduced with residents leaving the city. South Chennai Private Water Tanker Lorry Association secretary P Saravanan said several trucks are lying idle since March. “In some apartment complexes, people have started to process the saline water for consumption because a majority of the occupants have vacated their houses. IT parks are no more sourcing water,” he said. Big residential complexes have invested in rain harvesting structures and these have reduced dependence on water tankers. Rakesh Ohri, president of Central Park South Owners Association at Sholinganallur, said rainwater harvesting has helped utilise the available groundwater after subjecting it to treatment. “Moreover, water consumption has decreased in our complex since nearly 50 occupants have left in the past few months. In place of seven water tankers of 12,000 litres, we are getting only three tankers a day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/demand-falls-water-tankers-left-high-and-dry/articleshow/77554362.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat to hoist flag in Dehradun and Gairsain||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will hoist the tricolour in Dehradun and Gairsain, the summer capital of the Himalayan state, on the occasion of the 73rd Independence Day on Saturday.  After the ceremony at Police Lines in Dehradun, the CM will board a chopper to Gairsain, officials in the CM’s office said. After hoisting the flag at the assembly building at Bhararisain, he will lay foundation stones and inaugurate projects at the summer capital. Thereafter, he will also inspect the Covid Care Centre at Bhararisain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-to-hoist-flag-in-doon-and-gairsain/articleshow/77551442.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 15, 2020||Goa||We are one: In times of isolation, a song to unite us all||Panaji: The three-month lockdown period has proved to be a time for creative stimulation for 22-year-old singer, Akshada Bandekar. On Friday, she released a Hindi song titled ‘We are one’ to mark Independence Day. “I wrote the song with Independence Day in mind because I wanted to portray unity, which is India’s actual strength,” Akshada said. Opening with the iconic line from Jawaharlal Nehru’s ‘Tryst With Destiny,’ the song tunes up to remind people that Indians are united in the face of adversity. The phrase ‘we are one’ has been used in different Indian languages in the song by a multitude of voices. Akshada says that she single-handedly carried out the composition during the lockdown, right from penning down the lyrics to shooting the video. The video was uploaded on August 14 on YouTube and Facebook. “We are living in a time wherein we cannot go out and have to maintain social distance. As a result, I have done everything on my own,” she told TOI. Akshada has been composing songs from a very young age. Her first tryst with music was when she heard about the slogan ‘save the girl child,’ an issue surrounding female infanticide. She went on to pour her feelings through her music and penned down lyrics about the issue. In terms of songs of patriotism, this is not Bandekar’s first attempt. Prior to this, she had made efforts to translate the patriotic song ‘Ae Mere Vatan Ke Logon’ sung by Lata Mangeshkar into Konkani and released the same on the occasion of Independence Day in 2017. “It was well appreciated in Goa since the original Hindi version is an iconic song. To have it in our own local language is what people really liked,” she said. The song was released on Facebook three years ago but Bandekar hopes that someday Lata Mangeshkar sees it and shares her feedback.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/we-are-one-in-times-of-isolation-a-song-to-unite-us-all/articleshow/77555144.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Akali Dal counters CM’s claim on plaint to SSP||Chandigarh: SAD legislator Bikram Singh Majithia on Friday countered Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s claim that former senior superintendent of police (SSP) Tarn Taran Dhruv Dahiya had not received any specific complaint about the spurious liquor production. As evidence, he releasing two written complaints submitted to Dahiya by local citizens on his personal WhatsApp number. Majithia claimed that those two complaints were sent to Dahiya on June 14 and 16 with details about the manufacturing and distribution of illicit liquor in Tarn Taran. He said the chief minister was defending the indefensible by coming in support of a “tainted police officer” who had overseen the death of more than 100 innocent persons in Tarn Taran. “The chief minister should spell out his compulsion for going out of the way to defend the controversial police officer,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/akali-dal-counters-cms-claim-on-plaint-to-ssp/articleshow/77554353.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||Elderly woman’s body found in taxi, three held in West Bengal||KOLKATA: The body of a 60-year-old woman was recovered from a yellow taxi on the Basanti Highway on Friday. Pragati Maidan cops found the taxi speeding with two passengers on the highway. They stopped it and asked the driver to open the boot. They were shocked to find the woman’s body inside a sack of pumpkin and blood was still oozing out of it. The deceased was identified as Sujamani Gayen, a flower seller at Rashbehari Avenue. Three persons were arrested in connection with the murder. The taxi driver was also detained. The accused are the parents and uncle of the woman’s daughter-in-law, Sujata. “Her mother Malina Mondal, father Basu and maternal uncle Ajay Rang have been nabbed. The role of Sujata and the driver, whose taxi was being used to dump the body, is being probed,” said Murlidhar Sharma, joint CP (crime). Cops said Sujamani had been invited by Malina to their Arupota residence on Thursday. After lunch, the accused had hit on her head with a stick and then strangulated her after she had fainted. They had planned to dispose of her body in the wee hours of Friday. During an initial interrogation, Malina told cops that her daughter was being tortured daily at her in-laws’ residence in Haridevpur and that they had wanted to punish her. But later she claimed that the woman was trying to have an illicit affair with Basu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/elderly-womans-body-found-in-taxi-3-held/articleshow/77554373.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||President’s police medal for 6 officers from Kerala||Thiruvananthapuram: Six police officers from the state have been selected for the president’s medals for meritorious service announced on the eve of Independence Day. They are deputy commandant of state special branch M Rajan; retired DSP (vigilance) V Madhusoodanan; sub-inspector (vigilance) Kollam, G Hariharan; ASI at Naruvamood police station, Thiruvananthapuram rural R V Byju; ASI, crime branch Thrissur, K Sooraj; and ASI (vigilance) Malappuram P N Mohanakrishnan. However, there are no officers from the state who have been selected for the medals for distinguished service. Also, no IPS officers have made it to the list of the awardees. The Centre had changed the number of years to be in service for considering them for the police medals. While those who have completed 25 years in police are considered for president’s medals for distinguished service, those who have completed 18 years are considered for president’s medals for meritorious service. Earlier, it was 22 years and 15 years respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/presidents-police-medal-for-6-officers-from-kerala/articleshow/77552735.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Nagpur||Rs5L fine on SevenStar hospital for not refunding excess charges||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe slapped a fine of Rs 5 lakh on SevenStar Hospital, Jagnade square, for not refunding excess charges collected from non-Covid patients, not submitting bills of all patients, and not replying to all points raised in show cause notice. It is first of its kind action in the state. Mundhe on Friday issued notice to the hospital asking it to deposit within three days Rs 5 lakh fine, bills of all patients, and also replies to all points in earlier notice. The civic chief also warned of further action it failed to comply with the latest notice. TOI on August 3 had reported SevenStar Hospital recovered charges much above the rates approved by the state government and NMC. Mundhe then formed a five-member squad for inspecting private hospitals and initiating action if they were charging patients above the approved rates. Jalaj Sharma, additional municipal commissioner, was named head of the squad that inspected SevenStar Hospital the day it was formed. Citing various violations, Mundhe had issued show cause notice to the hospital on August 11. The hospital submitted its reply on August 13. The hospital did not respond to TOI’s call and message for its version. Deputy commissioner Nirbhay Jain told TOI, “Hospital refunded excess amount of around Rs 1 lakh to Covid-19 patients. But it did not refund Rs 6,86,527 excess amount to 17 non-Covid patients. Hospital also failed to give details about charges levied on 21 other patients. It did not submit bills of 687 of 991 patients,” he said. Jain also said Wockhardt Hospital had refunded Rs 9 lakh charged excess from Covid-19 patients following NMC’s order. “We also called patients to verify whether they received excess amount back. Patients got huge relief in getting amount back. One patient was from Amravati and expressed gratitude towards NMC for coming to the rescue of people in pandemic situation,” he said. Wockhardt Hospital’s centre head and joint general manager K Sujatha said, “Hospital is committed to the fight against Covid-19 and has always followed all government’s directives. When we started our Covid Hospital, patients who knowingly opted for private rooms were billed as per hospital tariff, rest were billed as per government’s tariff. However, NMC asked us to recalculate as per government tariff bills of 12 patients that had opted for private category and refund the difference. Patients admitted are billed as per the 80:20 directives laid down by government. Our only objective is to provide the best clinical care to all our patients and so far we have had excellent outcomes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs5l-fine-on-sevenstar-hospital-for-not-refunding-excess-charges/articleshow/77552687.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Four new facilitation centres in Karnal||By: Amit Kumar KARNAL: The Karnal municipal corporation (KMC) is going to set up four citizen facilitation centres (CFCs). The centres are likely to get operational in two months. Municipal commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the CFCs would be set up at the new bus stand near Baldi bypass chowk, and community centres of Sector 6, Prem Nagar and Kambopur village. Tender for the project will be floated next week. He said there was only one CFC, at the MC office, at present. The CFCs would provide services like marriage registration, fire NOC, birth and death registration, and payment of water bill and property tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-new-facilitation-centres-in-karnal/articleshow/77554365.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kochi||Shut airport, probe violation: PIL||Kochi: A PIL was filed before the high court to shut down Karipur international airport until it is ensured that domestic and international air regulations are complied with. The petition filed by advocate Yeshwanth Shenoy, who has been conducting litigations questioning violation of air safety norms, sought a directive to ministry of civil aviation to order a court of inquiry headed by a former SC/HC judge as required under Aircraft (Investigation of Accidents and Incidents) Rules, 2017. Specific communications were addressed to state authorities about the condition of the runway at the airport, including one by justice VR Krishna Iyer to then PM Manmohan Singh, the petition said while alleging that authorities had 10 years’ prior notice to prevent the Kozhikode incident. Captain Mohan Ranganathan, who was a member of Civil Aviation Safety Advisory Council, formed after the Mangaluru crash, had highlighted shortcomings at Calicut airport to Ministry of Civil Aviation and DGCA several times but they deliberately ignored them and colluded to violate air regulations. The communications from captain Mohan to the ministry were in June 2011, July 2011, March 2012, July 2012, November 2012, April 2013, and July 2013, PIL said while producing copies of these letters before the court. Referring to the incident as a cold-blooded murder, the petitioner has also sought an investigation by CBI into the criminality behind the lapses that resulted in the incident. The PIL is expected to come up for admission hearing next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/shut-airport-probe-violation-pil/articleshow/77552776.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Meerut||Ganga water rises due to heavy rain, inundating villages of Amroha||Bijnor: Rising water level in the Ganga due to heavy rain has inundated two villages along its banks — Sirsa Gujjar and Ganga Nagar — in Amroha on Friday. Water level started rising on Wednesday night and flooded farmland by Thursday. Now, even roads in the villages have been flooded and residents are living in fear. While district authorities have taken stock of the situation and have clearly said there is no threat to life as yet, but villagers have been asked to remain alert at all times.Around 1.5 lakh cusec of water was released from Hathinikund dam, threatening floods in Bijnor and Amroha, forcing officials to take precautionary measures in these districts. According to officials, incessant rains in the hills and plains have precipated the flood-like situation. Both Sirsa Gujjar and Ganga Nagar are located close to the river. According to villagers, they have lost connectivity with other villages and Gajraula town of Amroha district. Junior engineer at irrigation department, Piyush Kumar, said, “Around 1.5 lakh cusec water has been released from Haridwar, which has reached the district. It will continue to rise all night.”There is panic in 25 villages along the riverbanks, where the river has already submerged crops. Talking to TOI, Bijnor SDM Brajesh Kumar Singh said, “The situation is normal as of now. We’ve sounded the alert and instructed revenue staff to keep a close watch on the river’s water level, and also put villagers on alert to take precautions.”Already, most of the land of half-a-dozen villages is under water due to continuous erosion over the past two years, with many more feeling the threat now. According to officials, there are around a dozen tributaries of the Ganga — Malan, Baan, Nakata, Gangan, Banaili, Chhoiya, Kho, Ramganga, Pili, Feeka, etc. — that pass through Bijnor district, which has 312 flood-affected villages, out of which 25 are located on the banks of the Ganges, with the rest located along the tributaries.A project worth Rs 61 crore was sanctioned to erect studs along the Ganges, but not a penny has been released in this regard. Apart from this, 18 proposals worth Rs 1.98 crore were prepared to repair old embankments along the tributaries, but only Rs 50 lakh has been released, with which we’ve worked on six projects so far, the SDM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ganga-water-rises-due-to-heavy-rain-inundating-villages-of-amroha/articleshow/77551455.cms||Harveer Dabas
August 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Plan to close 3km stretch on Mettupalayam Road flayed||Coimbatore: People are up in arms over the move to close a 3-km stretch on the arterial Mettupalayam Road for six months for construction of flyover from Kavundampalayam to GN Mills Junction. While industrial units, hospitals and other commercial establishments, which are already reeling under business loss because of the lockdown, on the stretch are worried about running out of business completely, residents are afraid of getting trapped in the area without access to services such as ambulance for the entire period. R S Krishnaswamy, 60, a resident of Sreevatsa Enclave near GN Mills post office, says he lives in a gated community that houses 49 villas. The only entrance to the area is Mettupalayam Road. “At least 200 people are living in the community and 50-60 of them are senior citizens. There are 15 to 20 school going children and seven doctors. How will the doctors practice, children go to school and the elderly get emergency medical care, if we can’t leave the community or ambulance can’t reach us?” There are two big hospitals - VG Hospital and Kalpana Medical Centre - on the stretch that see 120 to 150 patients daily. Dr D Balachander, Kalpana Medical Centre, said, “We have at least 60 patients at any point of time. There are 40 doctors as well. Where do we move our practices for six months? And what would happen to our long-term patients, many of who live nearby?” Hospitals say their revenue flow has already been dropped by nearly 60%, forcing them to lay off many employees. “If we have to remain closed for another six months, we may have to shut down for once and all.” It is to be noted that Mettupalayam main road is a commercial hub, with shops on both sides. Many shops and restaurants say the flyover construction that began more than a year ago has already reduced their business by 50%. U Jaince, of Ayyappa’s Pearl Restaurant, says, “Due to heavy traffic and lack of parking space, customers have begun avoiding us. The lockdown has further hit our business. How can we shut down our business for another six months? If the road is closed, we won’t be able to enter the restaurant and offer parcel service.” The move would also affect car dealerships, workshops, steel industries, ghee producers on the main road and link roads. They might have no other option, but to lay off thousands of workers. People say the road could either be shut down just at nights or in a way allowing two-wheelers and four wheelers. “They can remove encroachments on both sides of Sanganoor bridge to widen the road between Eru company and Thadagam Road, which could be used by heavy vehicles. This will reduce the traffic around the construction area. Our main fear is possible delay in completing the construction, which may drag on for years,” says Krishnaswamy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/plan-to-close-3km-stretch-on-mettupalayam-road-flayed/articleshow/77554372.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||Mix of good and bad in West Bengal’s Covid-19 figures this month||KOLKATA: Over a third of the Covid-19 cases in Bengal as well as deaths have been detected in the past fortnight, indicating the rapid acceleration of the contagion despite multiple measures to contain the spread. Since July 31, a whopping 40,170 fresh cases have been reported to take the state’s Covid-19 tally to 1,10,358 on Friday. On July 31, the tally was 70,188. The active Covid cases, however, were at 26,850 on Friday. This is an increase of 6,214 active cases in the last two weeks. On July 31, the active case count in Bengal stood at 20,233. Experts attribute this to the high discharge rate, which on Friday was at 73.5%, which is higher than the national average of 71.1%. Kolkata also shows this trend. While total Covid cases in Kolkata shot up from 21,639 to 31,085 — an increase of 9,446 cases — in the last two weeks, the city’s active Covid cases increased by only 184 during the same time. On July 31, Kolkata’s active Covid-19 case count was 6,373. On Friday, the active Covid cases stood at 6,557. The toll, though, in Bengal has gone up by 40%. In all, 738 Covid patients have died in the past fortnight, taking the deaths from 1,581 till July 31 to 2,319 as on Friday. “We are going through the worst phase and the numbers are rising every day. This was waiting to happen and it will continue for a few more weeks. It is important to be on our guard during this period and ensure we restrict the number of casualties. The only bright spot perhaps is that the number of active cases has not gone up. This shows that we are being able to treat patients successfully. But it’s just as important to prevent transmission that has been rampant ever since the lockdown was relaxed. Only fewer transmission can help to restrict the numbers,” said Arindam Biswas, consultant, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. While 19,478 fresh cases were reported in the first week of August, the second week saw 20,692 cases. But the death rate declined marginally. Against 373 deaths reported in the first week of the month, the second week saw 365 fatalities. While cases have exploded in the state along with the rest of the country with new spikes being recorded every day, detection has also increased manifold with number of tests progressively going up from 19,003 conducted on July 31 to 31,317 on Friday. The cumulative test figure has gone up from 8,93,400 till July 31 to 12,48,272 as on Friday. “More tests are definitely a reason why numbers have spiked,” said Biswas. The state is now approaching the peak, said Shyamasis Bandopadhyay, consultant, Apollo Gleneagles Hospital. “It may not be possible to prevent the spurt for several more weeks. It’s difficult to predict how long this spiral will continue. But if we go by the Delhi experience, we are perhaps not too far away from the point where the rise will stop and the numbers will start falling,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-than-a-third-of-covid-cases-in-last-fortnight/articleshow/77554366.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Marathon effort for mental health||Sarthak Malani, 28, a resident of Ahmedabad, will celebrate the 74th Independence Day by running 74km within his residential complex’s periphery in 12 hours. His aim is to create awareness about an issue close to his heart — mental health. Working for the Milind Soman-promoted Pinkathon for the past five years, Malani is a running enthusiast with several laurels to his credit. He has completed 30 half-marathons and three ultra-distance runs in India and abroad. Of the total, he had run 5-half marathons backwards and 1 half-marathon barefoot. Stuck in Ahmedabad since March due to the Covid-19 lockdown, Malani decided to run for a cause. “Mental health awareness should not be limited to a day or two. It’s a continuous process and we need more discussion around it to remove the stigma. We need a strong mind with a strong body,” he said. “My objective is to show that a human body and mind can achieve anything and everything with the power of will.” He went on to say: “When I sustained a knee injury due to running, I took to backward running to continue my passion.” He’ll be running on the same track for 12 hours with necessary breaks as his friends and family cheer for him on Saturday TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/marathon-effort-for-mental-health/articleshow/77552727.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||TSERC mulls suo motu action against discoms||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) is contemplating action against the companies for not filing the aggregate revenue requirements (ARRs) for the last few months. Sources said it is planning to initiate a suo motu action against the discoms if they fail to submit the ARRs immediately. Officials of TSERC told TOI on Friday that both the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) and TS Northern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSNPDCL) have not been granted any extension for filing the ARRs. “The discoms were given extension last in April 30. When the discoms sought another extension till July 31, it was rejected by the commission. TSERC has also written letters to the discoms recently to file the ARRs immediately,” sources in the TSERC said. Officials said the commission waited for four months due to Covid-19 pandemic situation. While TSSPDCL chairman and managing director G Raghuma Reddy did not respond on the issue, senior officials of both TSSPDCL and TSNPDCL said they were getting ready to file the ARRs this month. Generally, ARRs are filed by the discoms with the TSERC for finalising and getting approvals mainly for fixing power tariff charges for various categories of consumers. The government also indicates to the discoms on the financial assistance and subsidy for providing free power supply to the agriculture sector and tariff subsidy to categories like hair saloons and SCs and STs. “The government has not been filing the ARRs for the last two years 2019-20 and 2020-21. In 2018 (for 2019-20), the discoms did not file in view of elections and again in 2019 for other elections like local bodies and municipalities. If the ARRs are not being filed, the revenue gap will be widened and the discoms may face a financial crunch. Finally, if they claim true-up charges (cumulative energy charges and credits), it will burden the consumers,” M Venugopala Rao, convenor, Centre for Power Studies, told TOI. Every year, the discoms have to submit the ARRs, current revenue and required revenue and tariff proposals by November (for the next financial year) as the new tariff regime begins on April 1. But, the discoms never stick to the deadline and get extension. “The government appears to drag the issue for another 4-5 months till the GHMC elections are over as the power tariff hike may dent the prospects of the ruling party in the upcoming civic polls,” Venugopala Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tserc-mulls-suo-motu-action-against-discoms/articleshow/77554384.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 15, 2020||Pune||Strict curbs on picnic spots in Pune ahead of Independence Day||PUNE: The Pune rural police have deployed heavy bandobast on the roads leading to popular tourist destinations around the city ahead of the Independence Day weekend. Anticipating a heavy rush on Saturday and Sunday, police said only those with valid digital passes for travel would be allowed past the check posts set up at the entry points to these places in Bhor, Maval and Mulshi talukas. Those found in violation would be booked under provisions of the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act, police said. The district collector has already banned entry to these places due to the pandemic. “Check posts have been set up at the entry points to these destinations and no one will be allowed in without a valid digital pass,” Sandip Patil, superintendent of police (Pune rural), told TOI. Patil said they have deployed an additional 100 policemen in Lonavla, Mulshi, Bhor and Bhimashankar. “We have been constantly taking action against people found without a digital pass at these spots,” he said. Navneet Kanwat, deputy superintendent of police (Lonavla division), has directed the officers in-charge of the Lonavla city, Lonavla rural, Vadgaon Maval and Kamshet police stations to carry out nakabandi operations in Maval. “We have put up checkpoints at Khalapur toll plaza, Khandala, Ryewood Park in Lonavla and Varsoli, Karla, Pavananagar, Nane Maval and Andar Maval areas in the rural parts,” an officer from the Lonavla city police said. “We have deployed extra police personnel,” deputy SP (Bhor) Annasaheb Jadhav said. Ashok Dhumal, senior inspector of Paud police, said, ““We will take action against those without a valid e-pass.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/strict-curbs-on-picnic-spots-ahead-of-i-day/articleshow/77554388.cms||Mihir Tanksale
August 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Lockdown may be driving kids towards daredevilry||CHENNAI: A few days ago the “heart-stopping, terrifying” video of a 14-year-old girl walking the narrow ledge of the 23rd floor of her apartment building in Chennai went viral. The girl told the police her elder brother, also a teenager, had challenged her to do it. She didn’t blink once, she didn’t think twice. She just did it. The ledge walk though has parents of teens across the city on the edge. What makes a teenager take such a risk? Does the lockdown have anything to do with it? Yes and no, say mental health experts. You’ve also got the ‘second brain revolution’ to blame. It’s been five months of lockdown and it is getting to a “tipping point for adults and kids”, says psychiatrist Dr Kannan Gireesh. “Frustration is building up, especially for teens. Parents need to figure out a way to get their teens to expend their pent up physical energy. This is especially true for children who are kinesthetic or experiential learners,” says Dr Gireesh. He suggests a simple jog in the morning as a family, or even just dribbling a basketball inside the house, an online hour-long dance class. Salem-based psychologist Aarti C Rajaratnam recommends 250 minutes of exercise a week for teen girls and 350 minutes a week for boys. “But as important as physical exercise is the act of creating a mental connect,” says Aarti. “Taking risks is typical teen behavior, because at adolescence, there is a second brain revolution, where abstract intelligence is being developed,” she says. When faced with a decision, there are three parts of the brain that spring to action – the striatum that makes a person want to choose a behavior based on past actions; the frontal cortex, which is the rational part; and the amygdala, which is the emotional part, she says. “For instance, if faced with stairs that are wet, the striatum is the part that won’t stop you from taking them, the cortex will caution you to walk slowly, but the amygdala will say, let me push someone, it will be fun,” says Aarti. Between 12 and 26 years, the amygdala is on overdrive, in other words, says Aarti, emotion overrides rational thought. At 15, teenagers believe they are invincible, say the mental health experts, hence, daredevil behaviour such as standing in front of a moving train and taking selfies. “The teen always has an imaginary audience. They are the heroes of their own personal fables,” says Aarti. Parents, says Dr Gireesh, need to have open, non-probing, non-advisory conversations with teens. “Don’t get irritated when they say they are bored. Let them open up. There is relief in venting.” Aarti suggests creating a “connection ritual” with the teen – just 15 minutes every day of some activity together, whether going for a walk, or cooking together, or just talking. “It has to be a safe space for both, which means parents have to refrain from criticism of any form in this time. Also, understand, you may not get immediate returns, but you do it anyway. It takes 21 days to three months to see a change, not just in the teen, but the parent as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lockdown-may-be-driving-kids-towards-daredevilry/articleshow/77554379.cms||Kamini Mathai
August 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid warriors to be felicitated||Ahmedabad: The state government has decided to felicitate on Saturday 50 health workers — ranging from specialist doctors to ASHA workers and lab technicians — for their work during Covid-19 epidemic. Another group of 68 Covid warriors will be felicitated at the district level for their work, government officials said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-warriors-to-be-felicitated/articleshow/77552752.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||AIIMS doctor’s decomposed body found at residence in south Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 40-year-old doctor working with the paediatric department at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has allegedly died by suicide at his residence in south Delhi’s Gautam Nagar. Dr Mohit Singhla’s decomposed body was found in his room on Friday afternoon after neighbours reported a foul smell. The cops have found a single-page suicide note from his room and sent it for forensic analysis. This is the third suicide by an AIIMS doctor within the past one and a half months. DCP (South) Atul Thakur said they had received a PCR call around 3.30pm following which a team from the Hauz Khas police station reached the second-floor apartment, broke open the door of his room and found the body hanging from the ceiling fan. The cops suspect that he may have died at least three days ago as the body had badly decomposed. A prima facie inquiry revealed that he had last gone to the hospital on August 11 and since then his colleagues could not reach him on the phone. The cops have contacted family members who stay in Pitampura. Singhla was originally from Panchkula near Chandigarh and had been staying alone in the rented house since 2006. One of the toppers in the entrance exam at AIIMS in 1998, Singhla came from a family of doctors. His brother, too, works at a private hospital in Delhi. Family members have told police that he was suffering from depression and had allegedly tried to kill himself earlier too. He underwent counselling after that incident and recovered from depression, they said. In the suicide note, Singhla allegedly mentioned his mental state and claimed that he did not want to live till the age of 60 or 70. Police are trying to establish if he had mentioned this to his family members. The cops are analysing his social media profile and will also talk to his colleagues about their previous conversations to establish the reason behind the suicide. An inquest under section 174 CrPC has been initiated into the death. Singhla’s mobile phone and some documents kept in his room are being scanned. Watch Delhi: AIIMS doctor's decomposed body found hanging in rented accommodation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aiims-docs-decomposed-body-found-at-residence/articleshow/77552801.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Firefighting training by pvt agencies goes unscrutinised||Visakhapatnam: Even though most commercial as well as residential complexes in Vizag rely on outsourced security guards for preliminary fire fighting and evacuation in case of fire, monitoring agencies in the state reportedly do not check whether the security personnel working at these private security agencies are equipped to deal with fire mishaps. Owners of various private security agencies said that they have to obtain a licence under the Private Security Agency (regulatory) Act, 2005 (PSAARA) from the intelligence wing of the police department to run their business and the licences are required to be renewed after every two years. However, concerned authorities do not check if a security agency is providing fire safety training or not. Tirupathi Naidu, an ex-serviceman who runs a private security agency said, “Usually, police check company details such as PF and ESIC registration and registration of the establishment under the Shops and Establishments Act. They carry out a background verification of owners like criminal antecedents, ITR files.” “Additionally, they check details of arms licences and MoUs with training institutions. However, security agencies are able to obtain a licence without having an MoU with any fire safety training institution and are even able to renew the licence,” Naidu said. Officials of the police intelligence unit said that the state adheres to the Andhra Pradesh Private Security Agency (regulatory) Rules of 2008 in which there is a 12-point checklist for verifying security agencies. One of these points is disaster management that includes basic fire safety training, officials said. Speaking to TOI, a senior official of the intelligence department, on condition of anonymity, said, “Following several criminal cases involving security guards reported across the country, we have taken background verification of both guards and agencies very seriously.” “However, as far as trainings are concerned, we can only scrutinise the certificates. We do not have any expertise in determining the level of training. In some states, fire and emergency departments scrutinise disaster management training of guards,” the official said. Owners of a section of bigger security agencies said that several small-time agencies have mushroomed across the state over the last decade and many of these agencies neglect training. But many complexes prefer these agencies because they come at a lower cost. “These security agencies don’t invest much on grooming employees and offer untrained guards at a nominal cost. They have a large clientele because of the low cost. We don’t understand how these agencies continue to get their licences renewed every year,” said Siva Shankar, the owner of a security agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/firefighting-training-by-pvt-agencies-goes-unscrutinised/articleshow/77552770.cms||Arpit Basu
August 15, 2020||Nagpur||7 PAPs climb down chimney, call off protest||Chandrapur: After 10 days and nearly 60 hours of starvation, the seven project-affected people (PAPs) protesting atop the 275-metre tall chimney of Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS ) finally scaled down and called off their agitation on Friday. Leaders of the protesters, led by Dr Abhilasha Gauture and Raju Zode, were in Nagpur in the evening to discuss their demand with energy minister Nitin Raut. The minister had appealed to the protesters to call off the agitation before holding the meeting. Following the request and intervention of guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar, the protesters including two women agreed to scale down. Wadettiwar said that a meeting would be held with Raut within eight days and a plan would be devised to help the project affected persons (PAPs). CSTPS chief engineer Raju Ghuge with his subordinate officers and doctors was present at the base of chimney when the protesters climbed down. They were immediately taken to Herai guesthouse where their medical examination was done. More than 650 PAPs whose land was acquired for the power plant over 37 years back are yet to get permanent job as promised by the government. They are still working as trainees even as many of them have crossed the age limit to become eligible for regularization. The seven PAPs had scaled the chimney while their supporters had started sit-in at its base on August 5 to raise the demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7-paps-climb-down-chimney-call-off-protest/articleshow/77552760.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Video of man hammering son to death surfaces||Visakhapatnam: CCTV footage of a man hammering his son to death at Satyanagar in Vizag city on August 12, following a dispute over property, emerged on Friday. The deceased was identified as G Jalaraju (42), a seaman who had returned from Mumbai, while the accused is G Veerraju (72), a retired merchant navy employee. The visuals from the cellar of the deceased’s residence show Veerraju pick up an iron hammer, move closer to Jalaraju who is sitting on a stool with his back towards him, and hit him over the head. After Jalaraju collapses, Veerraju continues to hammer him on the head. The accused then walks towards a gate but turns back to hammer the victim again. Speaking to TOI, inspector at Gopalapatnam police station, M Appa Rao said the accused had developed a grudge against his son. The investigation has revealed that Veerraju had given a small parcel of land to his son as a gift deed and a Rs 12 lakh loan for the construction of a house. Jalaraju assured his father he would return the loan and also send home a part of his income for his sisters, but failed to keep his promises. On August 2, Jalaraju returned to Vizag. Disputes continued to crop up between father and son over property matters and culminated in the murder. “We have arrested Veerraju and produced him before court, which sent him for remand,” police added. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/video-of-man-hammering-son-to-death-surfaces/articleshow/77552787.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Panic hits feverish high amid monsoon maladies||PUNE: Midway into the monsoon, social media platforms are flooded with panic-stricken questions on things to do after developing cough, runny nose, fever or body ache. With no major let-up in Covid-19 spread, even simple flu is sending people into a tizzy. Medical experts said the prevailing panic reminded them of the similar situation during the H1N1 outbreak in 2009, which ended up with people lining up outside clinics and hospitals to get screened. They all agreed that people needed to calm down and exercise caution. “There are many overlaps in symptoms between the seasonal flu and Covid-19. But there are certain symptoms that set Covid-19 apart. The most notable among them is exhaustion. It is not just body ache, which also happens in cases of influenza, but a feeling of being fatigued or drained. Besides, in common cold, breathing difficulties are generally not seen, but is a common symptom in Covid-19. And unlike Covid-19, oxygen saturation remains normal,” Abhijit Joshi, a physician based in Pune, said. He said in case of any symptoms, people should be careful nonetheless. “The first thing that people should do is to isolate themselves. Then, they should focus on proper hydration, nutrition, observing their body temperature, seeking medical advice on any medication required, and go for gargling with warm water, besides inhaling steam,” he said. General physicians said H1N1 had not been largely seen in patients this year, despite it being a seasonal virus now. “In some Covid-19 patients, we have seen gastrointestinal symptoms as well, such as diarrhoea. Another symptom that we have observed in a few other Covid-19 patients has been the loss of taste and smell. Some other symptoms generally seen in common cold or influenza, like a runny nose, are rare in Covid-19, but not unseen,” RT Borse, intensive care in-charge at the Covid-19 unit at the Sassoon hospital, told TOI. Borse said it was important to rule out the possibility of Covid-19 in case of certain symptoms for the sake of safety. But he also urged people not to panic. “People should remember that the vast majority of the Covid-19 cases, about 80%, will be completely mild. The ones who are at high risk are senior citizens, diabetes or cancer patients or people with pre-existing medical issues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/panic-hits-feverish-high-amid-monsoon-maladies/articleshow/77554411.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
August 15, 2020||Chennai||Patanjali can use ‘Coronil’ trademark for two weeks: Madras HC||CHENNAI: In a reprieve to Patanjali Ayurved, the Madras high court on Friday temporarily vacated a stay ordered against the firm from using the trademark ‘Coronil’ for its immunity-boosting tablets. Now, the company is free to market the tablet ‘Divya Swasari Coronil’ for two weeks. “We are suspending the order of the single judge for two weeks,” a division bench of Justice R Subbiah and Justice C Saravanan said. The court passed the order on an appeal moved by Patanjali challenging the order of a single judge dated August 6 restraining the firm from using the trademark ‘Coronil’ and imposing a cost of Rs 10 lakh. The single judge passed the order on a trademark suit moved by Arudra Engineers Private Limited – registered owner of the trademark ‘Coronil’. Representing Patanjali, senior advocate C Aryama Sundaram contended that the single judge has erred in passing the order, as the products of Arudra and Patanjali are entirely different. “Arudra’s product is a chemical agent which prevents corrosion in heavy machinery while Patanjali’s is an immunity-boosting tablet. Therefore, using the trademark by Patanjali would not cause any confusion among the public and would not cause any loss to Arudra,” Sundaram said. Senior advocate Satish Parasaran, representing the manufacturer of the tablets Divya Yog Mandir Trust, submitted that the reputation attached with a trademark can be proved in two ways – one through the turnover and other through promotion made. “Arudra’s turnover for January was just Rs 56,000. There is no proof of advertisements made for their product. They don’t even have packaging for their product,” Satish said. Opposing the arguments, senior advocate P R Raman for Arudra said, “Arudra’s reputation has been damaged as Patanjali uses the trademark to market a product by misleading the public as a cure for Covid-19.” Recording the submissions, the bench passed the interim order and said that it would take up the matter for final disposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/patanjali-can-use-coronil-trademark-for-two-weeks-hc/articleshow/77554406.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Faculty writes to AIIMS director over spate of recent deaths||NEW DELHI: The Faculty Association of AIIMS (FAIIMS) has written to the institute director to take urgent action to prevent the spate of deaths due to suicide. In the past two months, two students — one undergraduate and another post-graduate — and a medical scientist of AIIMS have killed themselves. “It is a matter of serious concern. We have written to the director to collectively think and take steps to ensure such incidents are not repeated,” Dr Rakesh Yadav, president of FAIIMS, said. The latest incident of death by suicide involves a medical scientist working in the paediatric division of the institute. Dr Adarsh Pratap Singh, president of AIIMS Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA), said the deceased was a very bright student and he had conducted many important researches. “All students undergo psychiatric evaluation at the time of admission to the institute. Also, we have created WhatsApp groups to help each other and provide support to deal with any crisis. Still, such incidents are happening repeatedly. I have raised the issue with the director on initiatives to be taken to deal with this crisis,” Dr Singh said. Two patients also died by suicide in AIIMS recently. While the hospital said it had increased security supervision and CCTV monitoring to prevent such incidences, doctors said psycho-social support was needed too. Student welfare initiatives must be strengthened by the dean’s office to prevent such incidents, said Dr Sudhir Gupta, professor and head of forensic sciences at AIIMS. According to Dr Rajesh Sagar, professor of psychiatry at AIIMS, early identification of persons with known or underlying mental health illnesses was one of the ways to reduce deaths by suicide. “We also need to take care of social disintegration caused due to the Covid outbreak,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/faculty-writes-to-director-over-spate-of-recent-deaths/articleshow/77552816.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||Fewer people stepping out hits rainwear sales in Pune||PUNE: The city has had a consistent cloud cover for the last few days, yet rainwear sales have remained at an all-time low, said retailers. “Every year, between July and August, we have high sales of umbrellas and raincoats but due to the lockdown and people staying indoors, our sales have dropped to 10% of what it used to be this year. There is stock from last year and rainwear brands haven’t launched new styles or patterns either,” said a garment and rainwear shop owner from Rasta Peth. Professionals, who travel on two-wheelers for work, make for a big chunk of the clientele as their rain suits suffer much wear and tear throughout the season. However, work-from-home schedules have led to a decrease in demand for new rainwear. Children’s rainwear is also in high demand usually, but this year there seems to be a lull. “The sale of raincoats in children’s category is always higher than adult sizes. Children tend to outgrow their raincoats and they want to keep up with the latest trend. Last year, for instance, the Avengers characters were very popular. Now, children are staying home from school so there’s no need for a new raincoat. There is no new trend and we are only selling our old stock,” said another raincoat seller from Laxmi Road. The pandemic has made it even more difficult to ensure the business survives. “We cannot offer the discounts you can get online because we have to pay for utilities and staff salaries apart from meeting our cost price. We were hit this year because of the lockdown as customers don’t want to come to the physical shops even though we are now open,” said another rainwear shop owner from Hadapsar. “We can hope for sales to increase as things return to normal, but this is a seasonal business. So far, the business has not picked up and I don’t think there will be any increase in sales this season. Money is tight for everyone and people want to spend only on essentials. While rainwear is essential considering the way things used to be, now, since many people are preferring to stay indoors, it does not feature in the essential category,” said a raincoat seller from Katraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fewer-people-stepping-out-hits-rainwear-sales/articleshow/77554421.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Nagpur||Flag hoisting in schools to go online this year||Nagpur: With school buildings closed for students, this year’s Independence Day celebrations will shift online for a majority of them. School principals and a select few staff members will however be present in many schools for physical flag hoisting, a video of which will be shared with students. Local education department, in a circular addressed to all schools, has made it clear that maximum five people can attend the ceremony on school campus. As per directives from deputy director of education Anil Pardhi, social distancing norms have to be followed throughout. Dilip Bose, a state board school principal, said, “We have decided that though it is not possible for students to attend, they should not be deprived of the participation in flag hoisting ceremony. So a staff member will record video of the ceremony and share it with students on Whatsapp.” Another state board principal Ashnarayan Tiwari said it would be a big disappointment for students this year. “Every flag hoisting ceremony was something students looked forward to. It was a celebration for everyone. Unfortunately, due to Covid-19, there is no chance of that happening. We will put everything online on our school’s social media platform so that students can still feel part of the ceremony,” said Tiwari. Many big schools have sent messages to their students asking them to join a ‘virtual’ ceremony in the morning. In some schools, attendance has been made mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/flag-hoisting-in-schools-to-go-online-this-year/articleshow/77552777.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Female sloth bear dies of exhaustion near Kotagiri||Cleared/Ali Udhagamandalam: A female sloth bear died on Friday after its foreleg was caught under a boulder in a patta land near Kotagiri. Locals found the sloth bear struggling to get off one of its forelegs which was caught under a boulder in a patta land at Kappatty in Kattabettu range of forests. They informed the forest department. “The sloth bear aged around four years might have been struggling for two days to get its foreleg off the boulder. The animal was found totally exhausted and under trauma,” assistant conservator of forest Saravanakumar said. “It took just 10 minutes for us to release the foreleg of the sloth bear from the boulder. But the animal died after five minutes. Starving and stress caused the death of the animal,” the forest official said. He said postmortem will be conducted on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/female-sloth-bear-dies-of-exhaustion-near-kotagiri/articleshow/77554467.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Meerut||UP: SIT scans details of 10,000 Bullets to find the one Sudeeksha’s ‘harassers’ were driving||MEERUT: To zero in on the two men who had been allegedly harassing 19-year-old Sudeeksha Bhati before she died in an accident, the SIT has sought ownership information of 10,000 Bullets in Bulandshahr. “We are combing through information on 10,000 Bullets registered with the Bulandshahr regional transport office. The FIR had mentioned that the men were on a Bullet,” said deputy SP Diksha Singh, who is heading the SIT. The FIR had also mentioned that the Bullet had a “Jaat” vanity plate. The complaint, filed on Tuesday, had said the two men had deliberately positioned their Bullet in front of that on which Sudeeksha was riding pillion. When they applied brakes all of a sudden, the bike Sudeeksha was on rammed into it — she fell off, hit the back of her head and died. The unidentified men were charged for rash driving, causing death by negligence, driving without registration and dangerous driving. SSP Santosh Kumar, meanwhile, announced a Rs 20,000 reward for anyone who provides information about them. Sudeeksha, the daughter of a tea shop owner, had secured a full scholarship to an undergraduate business programme at the prestigious Babson College in Massachusetts two years ago. She had come home after her college shut because of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sit-scans-details-of-10000-bullets-to-find-the-one-sudeekshas-harassers-were-driving/articleshow/77551500.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Lying in ruins, Raj-era Salt Golah all set to script a new history||KOLKATA: The first decisive action to reclaim a slice of Raj-era history that links a 21-acre site in Howrah to one of the most defining movements in the country’s freedom struggle is finally off the block. Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA), a statutory body under the ministry of Railways, has invited online bids to engage marketing and financial consultants for the commercial development of the historic Salt Golah along the Hooghly riverbank. Situated in Howrah’s Salkia, around 1.5km north of Howrah station, the Salt Golah comprises 206 godowns with a storage capacity of 1.5 lakh tonne. Constructed around 1835, the godowns are in ruin. Within the complex is also a sprawling colonial mansion that functioned as the salt commissioner’s office and residence. It was the salt commissioner who enforced the Salt Act 1882 that prohibited Indians from collecting or selling salt, which five decades later — in 1930 — sparked Mahatma Gandhi’s Salt Satyagraha or the Dandi March. “The historical property offers a multitude of possibilities of modern tourism. The 15m wide strip along the river can be used for development of water sports and the riverfront can be used for commercial ferrying activities. The development will not only put the land to better use but also boost tourism, create jobs and enhance prospects of investment in the region,” said RLDA vice-chairman Ved Parkash Dudeja. RLDA awarded lease contracts of Rs 1,553 crore in 2019-20 and hopes to garner at least Rs 800 crore from leasing out the Salt Golah. The consultant engaged for the project will carry out valuation for different lease periods ranging from 30-99 years and net present value (NPV) at different rates of discount to arrive at the optimum valuation. The consultant will also develop a financial model, market the project and assist RLDA in managing the bidding process. A month ago, RLDA had finalized the architectural consultancy tender that was won by Sikka And Associates. GM Kapur, convenor of the Kolkata chapter of Intach, who had in 2016 coordinated a study of the site and developed a report, welcomed the development. “The property has great potential for adaptive reuse. The big godowns can be restored, refurbished and put to effective use. We had proposed a multi-use cultural hub with artists’ village, writers’ corner, theatre area, various arts and crafts villages and even exhibition and performance centres. One could even look at relocating Kumartuli to a section of the project,” Kapur suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lying-in-ruins-raj-era-salt-golah-all-set-to-script-a-new-history/articleshow/77552814.cms||Subhro Niyogi
August 15, 2020||Madurai||Gang assaults 3 Tasmac staff, relieves them of Rs 3.3 lakh||Madurai: Three Tasmac liquor shop employees were assaulted and robbed of Rs 3.3 lakh by a gang of three unidentified men in Madurai district on Thursday. The Tasmac employees have been identified as salesmen Rajendrakumar, 45, a resident of Anaiyur, and Murugesan and helper Tirupathi. They were working in a liquor shop located in Silaiman area. The incident happened when they were returning home in their two-wheelers after closing the shop. While they were on a four-lane highway near Silaiman, three unidentified men wearing masks and helmets, who came on a two-wheeler, intercepted them. The gang used a knife, empty beer bottles to assault Rajendra and snatched Rs 3,3 lakh he was carrying. Murugesan and Tirupathi, who attempted to save Rajendrakumar, sustained minor injuries. Rajendrakumar, who sustained injuries on his nose and wrist, was admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) for treatment. Based on a complaint filed by Murugesan, the Silaiman police registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gang-assaults-3-tasmac-staff-relieves-them-of-rs-3-3-lakh/articleshow/77555179.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Madurai||New law officers for HC Madurai bench||Madurai: The state government has appointed new law officers for the Madurai bench of the Madras high court. M Sricharan Rangarajan, who was the special government pleader at the principal seat has been elevated and appointed as the 11th additional advocate general for the Madurai bench. C Ramesh, K P Krishnadoss, M Muthugeethayan, K P S Palanivelrajan and K P Narayanakumar were appointed as special government pleaders of the bench. Similarly, M Rajarajan, who was the government advocate (civil side), K Sathiya Singh, M Muniasamy and P Mahendran were appointed as additional government pleaders. The services of special government pleaders V R Shanmuganathan, S Nagarajan, R Sethuraman and additional government pleader, Aayiram K Selvakumar at the high court Madurai bench were terminated with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/new-law-officers-for-hc-madurai-bench/articleshow/77555173.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||Plant bank to nurture Kolkata’s green thumb||KOLKATA: A ward coordinator and a businessman who finances tree restoration efforts have joined hands to set up a community plant bank in Bhowanipore to encourage people to take a plant and nurture it in their home. Ward coordinator Asim Bose, who had earlier with the help of I-Lead chairman Pradeep Chopra set up a free street library in Chakraberia, has located the plant bank in a children’s park at the intersection of Allenby Road and Dr Rajendra Road. The plant bank will start on Independence Day with 120 indoor plants. Visitors to the children’s park where it will be located can pick up a plant free of cost and even take tips on its upkeep from a gardener. The bank will be replenished periodically by Vijay Agarwal, a businessman and nature lover who has helped restore trees felled by cyclone Amphan at both Rabindra Sarobar and the Maidan. “Like many, I too am passionate about flora. I marvel at how a sapling that requires to be watered and nurtured grows into a majestic tree that then provides oxygen and shelter. In the plant bank, we are starting with four varieties of plants — Aralia golden, Money plant, Pleomele or Song of India and Eurasian pink. All the plants are indoor ones that grow to a maximum height of 1.5m,” said Agarwal. “We want people, be they young or elderly, to take home a plant and care for it. Nowadays, most of us live in apartments and do not have a connect with plants. Reviving the connection is very necessary. In addition, the greenery can lead to improved home environment,” said Bose. While Agarwal has committed to replenish the racks whenever they become empty, Bose hopes there will be donors as well to keep the spirit of giving going. People can donate plants or money with which plants can be purchased for the bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plant-bank-to-nurture-citys-green-thumb/articleshow/77552830.cms||Sudipto Das
August 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala gold smuggling: ED says Sivasankar knew Swapna’s integrity was dubious||KOCHI: Enforcement Directorate (ED) probing the gold smuggling case submitted before Ernakulam Principal and Sessions court in writing that Swapna Suresh ‘had considerable influence in the chief minister’s office. ED’s application for extending custody of Swapna, Sarith PS and Sandeep Nair stated that CM’s former prinicipal secretary (M Sivasankar) was ‘fully aware that her integrity is dubious.’ ED, which had recorded Sivasankar’s statements will question him further in detail. The 11th para in the three-page custody application submitted in court states the following: On 13-8-20 when she was questioned, she revealed her closeness with the secretary to CM. The secretary was fully aware that her integrity is dubious. “It has been revealed that when state machinery was in the UAE from Oct 17-21, 2018, seeking assistance of Indians there for flood relief, she had a meeting with the secretary,” the application stated. Special prosecutor for ED TA Unnikrishnan submitted that further interrogation of the accused was necessary to analyse the details divulged by the accused during questioning on Thursday. He referred to the 11th para of the application to submit that the probe must look at the closeness of the bureaucrat and the accused. Swapna’s counsel Geo Paul submitted that she had given statements to other agencies about her association with Sivasankar and it was not a new fact. Vishnu Bhuvanendran, counsel for Sarith, submitted that there was nothing in the application that stated the reason for further custody of his client and that there were no charges about money laundering, explained in the report. The court asked the special prosecutor to state the exact reason for giving custody of the accused for a third time. Paul apprised the court that his client was facing mental torture from ED officers and that she was questioned for long hours without a break, even at night without the presence of a woman officer. Court said it will take action, if the accused filed a complaint of torture. Later on, when the court asked the accused if there were complaints, they didn’t register any. The court passed an order granting custody of the accused for two more days and said the questioning should be held from 10am to 5pm with sufficient intervals. Court observed that a lady officer must be present, when Swapna is being questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-says-sivasankar-knew-swapnas-integrity-was-dubious/articleshow/77552853.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Amaravati||Capital shift: AP high court extends status quo||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Friday extended its status quo on shifting of the state capital till Aug 27. The government had sought relief from the HC’s interim orders, which had earlier ordered status quo till Aug 14 after hearing petitions challenging the relocation of the capital, but the court turned down the request. The government has moved a special leave petition in the Supreme Court challenging the status quo order, which is likely to come up for hearing on Aug 17. The Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti and others had moved the high court challenging the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) Repeal Act and Decentralisation of Governance and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, which paved the way for the trifurcation of the capital. The special high court bench, comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar, Justice A V Sesha Sai and Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy, heard the batch of petitions on Friday. Arguing on behalf of the state government, senior counsel Rakesh Dwivedi and advocate general S Sriram requested the HC to vacate its earlier orders keeping in view the governance issues arising out of it. The government also filed counter affidavits in response to petitions challenging the constitution of various committees on the capital trifurcation issue. The government argued that the expert committees conducted an exhaustive study on the socio, economic, cultural and developmental aspects of all regions. The objections raised by the petitioners are untenable and without any basis, the government counsel said. Mohan Parasaran, arguing on behalf of the farmers, said the legislations to trifurcate the capital are unconstitutional and contrary to the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act. The bench asked the petitioners whether all of them had received the counter affidavits filed by the state government, to which the petitioners said they received the affidavits that runs into hundreds of pages on Thursday night only. The bench then posted the matter for further hearing to August 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/capital-shift-hc-extends-status-quo/articleshow/77556766.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Capital shift: AP high court extends status quo||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Friday extended its status quo on shifting of the state capital till Aug 27. The government had sought relief from the HC’s interim orders, which had earlier ordered status quo till Aug 14 after hearing petitions challenging the relocation of the capital, but the court turned down the request. The government has moved a special leave petition in the Supreme Court challenging the status quo order, which is likely to come up for hearing on Aug 17. The Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti and others had moved the high court challenging the Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) Repeal Act and Decentralisation of Governance and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, which paved the way for the trifurcation of the capital. The special high court bench, comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar, Justice A V Sesha Sai and Justice M Satyanarayana Murthy, heard the batch of petitions on Friday. Arguing on behalf of the state government, senior counsel Rakesh Dwivedi and advocate general S Sriram requested the HC to vacate its earlier orders keeping in view the governance issues arising out of it. The government also filed counter affidavits in response to petitions challenging the constitution of various committees on the capital trifurcation issue. The government argued that the expert committees conducted an exhaustive study on the socio, economic, cultural and developmental aspects of all regions. The objections raised by the petitioners are untenable and without any basis, the government counsel said. Mohan Parasaran, arguing on behalf of the farmers, said the legislations to trifurcate the capital are unconstitutional and contrary to the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act. The bench asked the petitioners whether all of them had received the counter affidavits filed by the state government, to which the petitioners said they received the affidavits that runs into hundreds of pages on Thursday night only. The bench then posted the matter for further hearing to August 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/capital-shift-hc-extends-status-quo/articleshow/77552815.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Meerut||President's Police Medal for UP ADG and five others||MEERUT: UP's ADG (Law & Order) Prashant Kumar and five other cops have been awarded the prestigious President's Police Medal for gallantry for the encounter of dreaded gangster Rohit Sandu and his associate that took place in Muzaffarnagar in the early hours of July 16 last year. Kumar was ADG Meerut zone then and had personally led the operation. The other cops awarded are Abhishek Yadav, Muzaffarnagar SSP; Satpal Antil, SP city; sub-inspectors Pravesh Kumar and Ajay Kumar; and constable Vinit Kumar Kapasia. On July 2, 2019, the notorious criminal, Rohit Sandu, lodged in Mirzapur District Jail and appearing in Muzaffarnagar District Court, had escaped from police custody with the connivance of other dreaded criminals of his gang by opening fire upon police and injuring a police sub-inspector who later succumbed to his injuries. SP Satpal Antil said, "ADG Kumar was camping in Muzaffarnagar on July 16 when a credible information about the movement of Sandu carrying a reward of Rs 1 lakh and his associate Rakesh Yadav [Rs 50,000] was flashed by a SWAT team to the Muzaffarnagar control room. By that time they had already engaged the criminals and confronted them to surrender." However, "indiscriminate firing from the other end" injured inspector Ajay Kumar and constable Kapasia. After the flash, top cops moved to the site of the operation, tactically backed up and covered the police team and fired upon the criminals from along the sides of the road. "It was a spur of the moment decision when I accompanied SSP Abhishek Yadav to the site of action and the situation was such that I had to personally involve myself giving the team cover fire. I only wish if we could have arrested the two alive," ADG Prashant Kumar said. Sandu and Yadav were both killed in the operation. Muzaffarnagar-based gangster Sandu had 38 criminal cases against him and was lodged in Mirzapur jail. He was being brought under police custody to Muzaffarnagar court for a hearing. On his return, the attack occurred in which three to four men threw chilly powder to distract the police team. Sub-inspector Durg Vijay Singh, 52, received a bullet in the stomach and succumbed to his injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/presidents-police-medal-for-gallantry-to-up-adglo-and-five-others-for-rohit-sandu-encounter/articleshow/77551491.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 15, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Effluents released from Guindy estate pollute Adyar river, find officials||CHENNAI: Four outfalls draining untreated effluents and sewage into the Adyar River along a 2km stretch were identified on Friday between Abraham bridge and Jaffarkhanpet bridge. A senior official said the lines came from the Guindy Industrial Estate. Apart from this, a builder constructing an IT park near the river bank was also draining sewage into the river. The builder was warned by authorities earlier, the official said. Originally, these lines were laid to carry stormwater into the river. But over time, industrial units drained effluents into them, an official said. A team comprising officials from Chennai River Restoration Trust (CRRT), PWD, Metrowater, TN Pollution Control Board and Greater Chennai Corporation visited the river bank. Besides polluting the water body, effluents and sewage have led to the growth of invasive water hyacinth, said an official. “Hyacinth prevents sunlight to penetrate through the water leading to a lack of oxygen inside. Absence of oxygen will not allow any aquatic life to thrive in the river,” said a CRRT official. Apart from the release of sewage, PWD authorities identified eight houses on the banks of the river. “Revenue officials will have to conduct a survey and demarcate the boundary for the river after which the squatters will be removed and rehabilitated,” said the official. Officials from TNPCB, Metrowater and PWD collected water samples from the river. “These will be analysed and depending upon the results further course of action can be planned,” said the official. On June 3, TOI had reported how water hyacinth had grown on both sides of the river in Saidapet. Following this, National Green Tribunal (Southern Region) asked the authorities to submit a report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/effluents-released-from-guindy-estate-pollute-adyar-find-officials/articleshow/77554443.cms||P Oppili
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Ballygunge a spot of worry in revised containment list||KOLKATA: The containment zone graph again started rising after a sharp fall last Monday. From 23 till Thursday, the number of high-risk zones in the city reached 29 on Friday, when four areas shed the tag but 10 more added to the new list. The Beliaghata-Phoolbagan zone, where the number of containment pockets had gone down to five from 13, dropped two more but added two others. All the containment zones there now are close to Subhas Sarobar and include some of the biggest housing complexes there as well as a slum on Suren Sarkar Road. With Sakherbazar walking out of the list, Behala has again been freed of all containment areas. The new list now has nine major complexes and four flats, the rest being houses, slums and flats. “It’s a relief that some of the most densely populated areas are now out of the list,” said a police officer. This could happen, he added, owing to intense lockdown and door-to-door testing. But Ballygunge emerged as a spot of worry as the posh locality reported eight containment zones, the highest in the city pocket, overtaking Patuli-Baghajatin and Beliaghata, each of which has five areas under watch. One address on Rowland Road managed to shed the tag but two new were included on the fresh list. While the posh Queens Park area now has two containment zones, Rainey Park and Ballygunge Circular Road have one each. “Ballygunge has always been an area of concern but they were reflected on the periphery. Now, the virus seems to have entered the core of Ballygunge,” said a Lalbazar officer. A police officer said they feared a virus spread in the densely populated slums in Ballygunge. “Some of these slums are on the bordering areas of Kasba, Topsia and C N Roy Road, which were declared high-risk zones after several cases were reported from there. But still, there has been no case in the slums. Our aim is to keep it like that,” he said. Among other south Kolkata localities which are now back on the list are Kasba and Garia. RT-PCR and antigen tests seemed to have worked for Patuli, Mukundapur and Talpukur, which have stopped adding to the list. “We found no new case in Patuli I and D blocks. Test of auto drivers, fruit and vegetable vendors and guesthouse workers helped us contain the spread,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ballygunge-a-spot-of-worry-in-revised-containment-list/articleshow/77554386.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 15, 2020||Pune||Wastepicker’s son to hoist tricolour at Patrakarnagar||PUNE: A wastepicker’s son, who kept on striving until he cleared the English paper of his Class X board exam, has this year earned the honour of hoisting the tricolour at Patrakarnagar, off Senapati Bapat Road, on Independence Day. “Every year, we felicitate young people for achievements in their education and career. This year, we chose Rama Gujlor. Even though he failed twice, he kept on persevering till he achieved success,” said Amruta Joshi, a local resident, who helped him study. Rama, the eldest son of wastepicker Rajani Gujlor, appeared for the Class X board exams twice in the last two years, but couldn’t clear the English exam. He passed the exam this year, bringing much joy to his family. Joshi, a teacher, grew fond of Rajani’s children as she saw them accompany their mother on her rounds and picking up trash from Patrakarnagar area.“I had given up school after standard IX, but she encouraged me to take the SSC exams. After I failed to clear the English exam twice, I wanted to give up, but she encouraged me to study and appear for the exam again. This year, I finally passed the exam,” said Gujlor, who is looking forward to attending junior college. “My aim is to join the police force, and Joshi madam has offered to bear all my expenses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wastepickers-son-to-hoist-tricolour-at-patrakarnagar/articleshow/77554446.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata cops arrange for blood after Wriddhiman Saha’s tweet||KOLKATA: With the rising need for plasma donations in the city — coupled with blood crisis — Kolkata Police has been flooded with messages on social media seeking help to locate willing donors. “This week alone, we have arranged plasma on six occasions and blood a multiple number of times. On five occasions, our men who donated the plasma,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar. The latest to seek help is Indian wicket keeper-batsman, Wriddhiman Saha. “Hi everyone, very late in the night..I need “A negative” blood in Kolkata ..very urgent ..can you all help me? Comment down. I will reach out,” Saha tweeted. As several individuals re-tweeted, some even volunteering to help, the tweet reached commissioner Anuj Sharma who asked his colleagues to help out. Hi everyone, very late in the night..I need “A negative” blood 🩸 in Kolkata ..very urgent ..can you all help me? Co… https://t.co/uZrt009zSk— Wriddhiman Saha (@Wriddhipops) 1597342685000“We arranged the blood in quick time from the RG Kar Medical College blood bank. The unit was prepared and the person (an acquaintance of Saha) was informed to collect it from the hospital,” said an officer. “The required units of (A-) blood has been arranged successfully. The recipient’s family members have been advised to collect it from the blood bank of R G Kar Hospital,” Kolkata Police tweeted to Saha. On Thursday, similarly, another sergeant had reached a hospital in Dhakuria to help out a senior citizen. But even the cops know their limits. “There are some important criteria for plasma donation. The donor needs to be completely fit, at least 40 days before, for the antibody to grow and he shouldn’t have any comorbidity. The blood groups, of course, have to match. Typically then, we are looking at young donors. Now, it will not be possible to help out everyone. It will also be painful for us knowing that people have contacted us with a lot of hope. While we are trying our best whenever someone is seeking help from us, it is time that the NGOs and willing donors come forward and develop a comprehensive bank. We have decided to inform the ground situation to relevant authorities,” said a senior officer from the welfare cell. At present, the welfare cell is the Lalbazar control room. A 26-year-old media professional, whose father is admitted at a hospital off Bypass, needed plasma recently. Two cops donated plasma for the 58-year-old cancer survivor earlier this week. “The cops were there to donate in such short notice. We cannot explain our gratitude,” said the patient’s son||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-arrange-for-blood-after-wriddhiman-sahas-tweet/articleshow/77554419.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Restrictions on unscheduled flights at Delhi's IGI Airport||NEW DELHI: Unscheduled transit flights will not be allowed to land at the Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport on Friday for two periods of four hours and three hours each, owing to Independence Day celebrations. All scheduled flights will, however, continue to operate normally, airport officials said on Friday. According to a Notice To Airmen (NOTAM), transit flights will not be able to land at the Delhi airport between 6am and 10am, as well as between 4pm and 10pm on Independence Day. The NOTAM states this is applicable to chartered flights only. An airport official said there will be no impact of the NOTAM on the IAF, BSF or army aviation helicopters. “State-owned aircraft or helicopters can still fly the governers or chief minister of states,” said the official. Delhi airport’s overall share in terms of handling passengers and airlines is on the rise once again since the resumption of commercial operations, with it now handling 23% of the total passengers handled by all Indian airports — a rise from 18% in the pre-Covid time. The international segment has also shown a spike, with the daily average international traffic post the resumption of commercial operations increasing from 3% to 14%, airport data shows. The airport recently launched the Air Suvidha online portal for international passengers arriving into Delhi, which will let them fill their mandatory self-declaration form online to make the process ‘contactless’. Passengers can also apply for exemptions from mandatory quarantine through this portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/restrictions-on-unscheduled-flights-at-igi/articleshow/77552867.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||12 city cops to get President’s medals||Pune: Four senior police officers from Pune will be awarded the President’s medal for distinguished service, and seven officers and one personnel have been selected for the police medal for meritorious service, on the eve of Independence Day. Additional DGP Retesh Kumar, additional SP Sushma Chavan, ACP Sunil Yadav and ACP Sadique Ali Nusrat Ali Sayyed will receive the distinguished service medal. DCP Shirish Sardeshpande, ACP Anil Patrudkar, deputy SP Narendra Gaikwad, senior inspector Pratibha Joshi, sub-inspector Sanjay Gaikwad, armed sub-inspector Prakash Naresh Erram, inspector Arvind Ahlat and head constable Santosh Pralhad Mahajan will receive the medal for meritorious service. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/12-city-cops-to-get-presidents-medals/articleshow/77554461.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Madurai||Notice to TN on plea seeking financial aid for washermen||Madurai: The Madras high court has ordered notice to the state government on a plea seeking to provide Covid-19 financial assistance to washermen. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by K Pandi, secretary of the Jaihindpuram Washermen Welfare Society in Madurai district. The petitioner stated that owing to the Covid-19 pandemic, the government had disbursed financial assistance of Rs 1,000 to various unorganised sector workers, unregistered hairdressers and weavers in the state. Following the announcement of lockdown, the livelihood of washermen has been affected and they are suffering a lot to cater the needs of their families. He stated that washermen from Madurai and various districts including Virudhunagar, Theni, Dindigul, Trichy and Thanjavur submitted representation to the government to extend financial assistance to them, however, no steps were taken so far. The case was adjourned. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/notice-to-tn-on-plea-seeking-financial-aid-for-washermen/articleshow/77555193.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||No bookings for Konkan, private bus operators stumble on e-pass hurdle||PUNE: Private bus operators have alleged that the mandatory e-pass rule, which does not apply to the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses, has deprived them of passengers on the Konkan route for the upcoming Ganapati festival. “Why should passengers who can travel in MSRTC buses without e-passes come to us? It appears that the whole thing was a deliberate tactic to deprive us of passengers,” Rajan Junawane, vice-president, Pune Bus Association, told TOI. “We have been out of business for the past four months. The state government commenced MSRTC service for Konkan region from August 5 without any e-pass restriction. However, e-passes were made mandatory for private bus operators and passengers,” he said. Balasaheb Khadekar, president, Pune district luxury bus association, said, “With e-passes being made mandatory, passengers are not coming to us. Our buses are lying idle for months and our employees are also suffering,” he said. State transport minister Anil Parab said that since MSRTC is a government body it has received all permissions from the state government. “Passengers also don’t need e-passes as we know who is travelling in the buses, which isn’t the case with private operators,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-bookings-for-konkan-private-bus-operators-stumble-on-e-pass-hurdle/articleshow/77554495.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 15, 2020||Dehradun||CM releases migration report on Chamoli, 46,309 people have migrated in last 10 yrs||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra SIngh Rawat on Friday released the report prepared by the Rural Development and Migration Commission to strengthen socio-economic development and reduce migration in rural areas of Chamoli district. The report mentions that a total of 46,309 people have migrated from the district in the last 10 years. According to the report of the Commission, 41 more villages in the district were uninhabited after 2011. The findings show that 32,020 people temporarily migrated from 556 gram panchayats and 14,289 have permanently migrated from 373 gram panchayats. About 42% of the total migration is in the age group of 26 to 35 years suggesting that most of the locals have moved out in search of jobs and better opportunities. The report also suggests the measures required to boost reverse migration and help locals find a source of earning in the hills itself. CM Rawat said that this kind of study in districts will help in the development of base facilities, prevent migration, and also provide more opportunities for self-employment. Rawat added, “We have formed a committee for better implementation of CM Swarozgar Yojana and we expect to help the maximum possible people in starting their own work in the hill districts.” SS Negi, deputy chairman of the Rural Development and Migration Commission, said that the population in Chamoli district is 3.91 lakh and 81.78% of the people live in rural pockets. Agriculture is the main occupation of the people living in the villages, followed by daily wage services, and government service. According to the Commission, special attention needs to be paid to micro industries so that employment facilities can be available at a local level. “Focus should be on tourism and eco-tourism. Promotion of activities like wildlife tourism, trekking and hiking, house accommodation, rafting is important in the district,” added Negi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-releases-migration-report-on-chamoli-46309-people-have-migrated-in-last-10-yrs/articleshow/77551545.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 15, 2020||Madurai||Accused in sexual harassment case gets bail||Madurai: Madras high court on Thursday granted bail to Desan Jino, an accomplice of Kasi alias Suji in the sexual harassment and extortion case in Kanyakumari district, taking into consideration the fact that he is in jail for more than 90 days and the final report is yet to be filed by the police before the concerned court. Jino, 19, was implicated as the second accused in the case based on the confession of the first accused Kasi. The Nagercoil all women police booked him for offences under sections 376, 354(A),323 of IPC and Section 67(A) of the Information Technology Act. The case was subsequently transferred to the CB-CID. The counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that Jino is under judicial custody for more than 90 days since May 9 and the final report has not yet been filed. The government advocate submitted that nearly 80 women were victimized in the case. He would also submit that two previous cases of similar nature are pending against the petitioner. He further submitted that police have completed investigation and the final report is yet to be filed. Hearing the submissions, justice V Bharathidasan granted bail to the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/accused-in-sexual-harassment-case-gets-bail/articleshow/77555198.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Work resumes for seven New Garia-Airport stations||KOLKATA: The construction work of the seven elevated stations of the New Garia-Airport Metro corridor along the 7km stretch between Novotel hotel and City Centre II has finally resumed. On Friday, the stalled work was restarted with a commencement ceremony inside the Kalakhetra station near New Town’s Biswa Bangla Gate. Senior officials of Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) and ITD ITD-Cementation Town attended the ceremony, maintaining Covid-19 safety protocols. Work had stopped in December 2018 as IL&FS, which was awarded the contract in 2014, ran into insolvency. Last month, ITD ITD-Cementation, which is building the last underground leg of East-West Metro, emerged as the lowest bidder for the Rs 292-crore work for the seven stations. RVNL, which is implementing most of the city’s metro projects, has asked ITD to complete the stations and bring them to the stage of commissioning in two years. IL&FS, with a Rs 300-crore contract to finish the stations in three years, had missed its 2017 deadline. “Since the station structures are already in place, ITD should be able to complete the stations in two years,” a senior RVNL official told TOI on Friday. The seven stations are Titumir, Sub CBD-2, Convention Centre, New Town, Kalakhetra, CBD-1 and Sub CBD-1. Twenty-four elevated stations are coming up on the New Garia-Airport line. RVNL is trying to fast-track the first phase, covering 5km between Kavi Subhas and Hemanta Mukherjee station (Ruby crossing) so that it can be operated by December 2021. Work is on in full swing for terminal Kavi Subhas station and the car depot next to it. The Rs 107-crore depot, which holds the key to the truncated operation, is due to be completed by July next year. Once ready, it will be integrated with existing north-south Metro depot to become the city’s biggest Metro hub where rakes from the existing line and the upcoming New Garia-Airport link will be parked, repaired and maintained. The depot, which will allow car movement from the north-south alignment to the New Garia-Airport alignment, is being set up by Noida-based ISGEC Heavy Engineering. “Piling work is on now. Work has suffered because of the lockdown. But we are trying to compensate for the lost period,” an RVNL official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/work-resumes-for-seven-new-garia-airport-stns/articleshow/77552896.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Sealing relief for houses in Delhi not used for commercial purpose||NEW DELHI: In a major relief to owners of residential premises in Delhi, who are facing threat of sealing and demolition for unauthorised construction, the Supreme Court on Friday ruled that the court-appointed monitoring committee is not empowered to take action against them and exempted these residences from the sealing drive. Clipping the wings of the monitoring committee, which was appointed by the apex court in 2006 and has been undertaking a sealing drive against unauthorised construction apart from action against misuse of residential premises for commercial purpose and encroachment of public land, a bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari said it never had the power to act against residential premises. Granting relief to owners of farmhouses and residential buildings in south Delhi, against whom action was taken by the committee in 2019, the bench directed the premises be de-sealed and possession restored to owners forthwith. The bench said the committee exceeded its powers by sealing such premises. Referring to various orders passed by the apex court and reports submitted by the monitoring committee, the bench said the committee’s powers were restricted to sealing residential premises which were misused for commercial purposes. The court said jurisdiction of the committee was further expanded by allowing it to remove encroachment on public land. The court held that the committee was not authorised to take action against residential premises that were not being used for commercial purposes. "...this court directed that the Monitoring Committee should also look into the matter of encroachment on the public land and unauthorised colonies that have come up on public land and were wholly unauthorised without sanction. At no point in time, this court had empowered the Committee to act vis-à-vis purely residential premises," the court said. The court agreed with the submission of senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi, Siddharth Luthra, Nalin Kohli and others, appearing for the owners, that the committee was constituted by the apex court only to stop misuse of residential premises for commercial purposes. "The power of sealing of property carries civil consequences. A person can be deprived of the property by following a procedure in accordance with law...If there is unauthorised construction or in case of deviation, the requisite provisions are under the DMC (Delhi Municipal Corporation) Act," it said. Watch Delhi: Sealing relief for houses not used for commercial purpose||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sealing-relief-for-houses-not-used-for-commercial-purpose/articleshow/77552937.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||Turned away by 4 hosps, youth dies||Kolkata: A 30-year-old neurological patient from Barrackpore, suffering from breathing trouble, was refused admission by multiple hospitals on the northern fringes of the city on Friday on suspicion of him being Covid-positive. Private firm employee Dipankar Singha Roy of Barrackpore’s Mohanpur was denied admission by at least four hospitals. He died on the way to the fifth. Roy had developed breathing trouble late on Thursday. “We took him to a nursing home off BT Road, which refused us suspecting him to be a Covid patient. Then we went to another Barrackpore hospital, which refused admission and gave an injection saying he should undergo a Covid test,” said Sukanta Naskar, the victim’s cousin. They were turned away by a third hospital and a nursing home in Barrackpore. The youth passed away on the way to a fifth facility and was declared brought dead by the doctors at a nursing home. Uttam Das, the Barrackpore former civic chairman and the chief administrator, said, “We are looking into the allegation of refusal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/turned-away-by-4-hosps-youth-dies/articleshow/77552877.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
August 15, 2020||Kozhikode||Love affair, greed made Albin poison his parents, little sister||Kozhikode: Albin Benny, who is accused of plotting to eliminate his family at Vellarikkundu in Kasaragod, did the crime to marry his girlfriend and to obtain a family property of four acres, police said. Albin’s sister Ann Mary died after consuming ice cream mixed with rat poison. His father Benny too consumed the ice cream and is in critical condition. Mother Bessy escaped as she consumed only a small quantity of it. Vellarikkundu circle inspector K Prem Sadan said police initially suspected the role of mother too in the plot. But it was clear that she didn’t eat the ice cream because she felt some distaste. “Bessy had asked Albin to give the ice cream to the pet dog in the house, but he didn’t do it as it would create suspicion if the dog died. Instead, he threw off the left-over ice cream and cleaned the dishes,” he said. Albin also feigned uneasiness after Ann and Benny developed complications. The 22-year-old youth was also admitted to the hospital, but it was found in the examination that there was no trace of poison in his blood. Albin’s behaviour after the death of 16-year-old Ann on August 5 was normal. There was nothing suspicious in the way he behaved during the burial of Ann. Albin had told the neighbours that he had a job as an automobile mechanic in Coimbatore. But he was actually working at a hotel and lost his job after the lockdown. Police said Albin had the habit of watching porn movies on his phone. He had an affair with a girl in Kozhikode whom he wanted to marry, but the family had objected to this relationship. This also contributed to his anger with the family members. According to police, as per the initial investigation Albin alone is involved in the conspiracy but the probe is continuing. He was taken to the shop from where he bought the rat poison and the house at Vellarikkundu. Albin was also tested for Covid-19, but it was found to be negative. He was later produced before judicial magistrate in Kasaragod who remanded him in custody. District police chief D Shilpa visited Vellarikkundu police station to oversee the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/love-affair-greed-made-albin-poison-his-parents-little-sister/articleshow/77552962.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||IMD forecasts heavy showers in ghat areas over weekend||Pune: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday maintained an orange alert for the ghat areas in the district for the weekend, implying heavy showers in most localities and very heavy rain in isolated areas.The IMD forecast that the city would experience moderate rainduring the period. The IMD station at Shivajinagar received 3.7mm of rain till Friday evening, while Lohegaon got 2.6mm showers during the same period. For Saturday and Sunday, as well as the beginning of the next week, the IMD has forecast largely moderate showers with spells of intense rainfall in the city.It has also warned of possible slippery roads, minor landslides, partially impaired visibility for drivers, chances of trees being uprooted, and inundation of low-lying areas, particularly due to expected releases of water from the main large dams near the city. As was the case on Thursday, parts of the Western Ghats in Pune district, as well as in the adjacent districts, received heavy rainfall on Friday as well.Mahabaleshwar received 40mm of rain till Friday evening. Till Friday morning, Lonavala received 92mm of rain, according to the IMD. Shirgaon and Tamhini received 236mm and 217mm of rain respectively during 24 hours till Friday morning.The IMD has issued an orange alert for these regions, as was the case on Thursday, warning of landslides in these parts due to the weather conditions. The IMD had on Thursday stated that the low pressure formed over north-west Bay of Bengal is converging with westerly winds from the Arabian Sea, which is bringing moisture into Maharashtra. An upper air cyclonic circulation has formed over southern Gujarat, which is also causing heavy rainfall in much of the region around Goa, central Maharashtra, and Konkan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-forecasts-heavy-showers-in-ghat-areas-over-weekend/articleshow/77554522.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Nagpur||70% Covid deaths in August due to late reporting||NAGPUR: With more than 300 deaths reported in just 14 days of August, Nagpur has got the undesirable reputation as new Covid-19 death ward. While the sudden increase in the number of Covid-19 deaths hints at serious spread of infection, district administration has claimed that 70% of deaths were due to late reporting of patients. A meeting of death audit committee was held in city on August 14 to discuss the scenario and review the casualty summary reports. In this meeting, doctors from both the GMCs presented reports and case papers of Covid-19 deaths to the divisional deputy director of health services. TOI has learnt from sources that the issue of late reporting was discussed thoroughly. Administrative authorities blamed doctors for not referring patients having lower SPO2 (oxygen level) to hospitals, while doctors at tertiary healthcare hubs like GMCH and IGGMCH blamed the administration for bringing patients late to them. Collector Ravindra Thakare issued an appeal to local doctors in the evening in which he claimed that 70% deaths in the district happened because of late reporting. “Due to panic, stigma and fear, many people are hiding their infection. It’s the responsibility of doctors to refer such patients to Covid Hospital immediately,” said the collector in appeal. Doctors in medicine department of the treating hospitals told TOI that it becomes difficult to recover the patients presented with lung fibrosis of severe kind. “Medicines, oxygen beds, ventilators are available. But, many patients are reporting with severe lung infection,” said a doctor. The issue of shortage of lifesaving injections is presently in the court and government will be submitting its stand in a week, so officials were not ready to comment on it. Off label plasma therapy is also being used for some patients, claimed officials. Nagpur is also receiving patients from other districts and states in large numbers. Many of them are coming for non-Covid illnesses, but get infected with Covid-19 later which hints at serious local spread at least in hospital area. Vidarbha’s youngest Covid-19 victim — a 16-day-old boy was admitted to GMCH since birth, still got infected with Covid-19 and died. Another serious issue is doctors getting Covid-19 infection. In the last two weeks, more than 70 doctors, including residents and seniors, have tested positive. These young doctors are working on the front-line for over five months. Experienced doctors landing in isolation could be one of the reasons for the increased casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/70-covid-deaths-in-aug-due-to-late-reporting/articleshow/77552820.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 15, 2020||Pune||CR to run special trains for Ganeshotsav, none from Pune||Pune: The state government on Friday allowed the Central Railways (CR) to run special trains to Konkan for the Ganapati festival. However, no train would operate between Pune division and Konkan. Railway officials said 162 special trains would run under the CR. “Trains running to Konkan region have been planned in coordination with the state government,” Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer, CR, said. Sources said one possible reason why no train would run from Pune to Konkan could be due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases here. Passengers need to abide by all norms and standard operating procedures during boarding and travel to and from their destinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cr-to-run-special-trains-for-ganeshotsav-none-from-pune/articleshow/77554511.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: 36 cops in Vizianagaram beat Covid-19, back on duty||VISAKHAPATNAM: Thirty-six police personnel working under different police stations and at various ranks in Vizianagaram district have recently rejoined duties after recovering from Covid-19. As many as 185 police personnel in Vizianagaram district have been infected with Covid-19 while altogether 117 police personnel have recovered and been discharged from hospitals in the district. At present, 19 police personnel are under treatment at hospitals while 49 police personnel are in home isolation. Superintendent of police, Vizianagaram, B Raja Kumari welcomed the personnel who rejoined duties. These cops, the SP said, have set an example through their display of courage while under treatment. Raja Kumari said a female police constable, D Radhika, working at Two Town police station in Vizianagaram town, had tested positive for Covid-19 but extended help to an elderly woman undergoing treatment at the hospital. Noticing that an 86-year-old woman in the next bed struggled to chew the food that was given, Radhika helped her with her meals, making sure she ate. The woman eventually recovered. Raja Kumari said adherence to the standard operating protocol helped police personnel recover from Covid-19. The police are on the frontlines in the battle against the pandemic, the SP said, and urged personnel to take care of themselves .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/36-cops-in-vzm-beat-covid-19-back-on-duty/articleshow/77552880.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||30,000 in trading hub get corona cover in West Bengal||KOLKATA: A hand-cart puller in Burrabazaar, Jairam Sahani, got a ‘Covid Kavach’ policy last week from his employer. Same was the case for Ajit Kurmi, a delivery boy for a motor parts trader. “This is a great relief for me. We are working hard every day so that there is no dearth of essentials in the city. Now that we have this cover, we can at least treat ourselves if we fall sick,” Sahani said. For Kurmi, Sahani, and 30,000 others in the trading hub, it’s their first health policy. The traders especially made these policies in the last one week so they can help in treatment. From accountants in traditional ‘gaddi’ to delivery boys and manual van pullers, all got the policy. Confederation of West Bengal Trade Association (CWBTA), the apex body for 65 trade associations in the state, had appealed to its affiliate bodies to arrange for corona covers for their employees, including wage earners involved in daily work. The ticket size of the cover is Rs 1 to Rs 2 lakh on an average. But in some cases, it went up to Rs 5 lakh, the highest in Corona Kavach. CWBTA president Sushil Poddar told TOI that it had earlier written to all its 65 affiliates association to urge their members to provide Corona Kavach policy. “All of them have responded. Most of the Burrabazaar is now covered. ,” he said. Incidentally, the policy was introduced by almost all general insurance companies on July 10 following directive of IRDA. The cover starts from Rs 50,000 and offers a maximum cover of Rs 5 lakh. The age limit is 65.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/30k-in-trading-hub-get-corona-cover/articleshow/77554452.cms||Udit Mukherjee
August 15, 2020||Madurai||CoP pays tribute to SSI who died of Covid-19||Madurai: Madurai city commissioner of police, Prem Anand Sinha paid tribute to a special sub-inspector (SSI) of police who died of Covid-19. N Uma Shankar, 48, an SSI attached to the high court police station, who was admitted for treatment with Covid-19 symptoms, died on August 13 at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai after failing to respond to treatment. Shankar was survived by his wife Maheswari, a daughter and son. Sinha recalled the relentless efforts of Shankar in combating the spread of Covid-19 and paid floral tributes to his portrait at the police station situated inside the campus of the Madras high court Madurai bench. Other police personnel also paid homage to the deceased police officer. Sinha advised all the personnel in Madurai city to take care of their health and to follow the guidelines while attending their duties to prevent the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cop-pays-tribute-to-ssi-who-died-of-covid-19/articleshow/77555202.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Plan cold storages for farmers’ benefit, Jagan tells officials||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Friday told the marketing department to plan cold storages and godowns to help farmers. The chief minister said farmers face hardship in preserving their produce till a better price is offered. He said the farmers have little knowledge about the global market for their produce and asked officials to play the role of a catalyst in helping farmers find a better market and price. The chief minister told officials to construct cold storages and stock points in every revenue mandal as per the requirement. Referring to Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) that were started by this government, the chief minister said every RBK should have detailed data on farming. The marketing department should work in coordination with RBKs in finding markets for produce, he said. The chief minister also told the officials to plan food processing units across the state. Officials were also told to open Janata Bazars where farmers can sell their produce directly to consumers. The chief minister said the government is extending financial assistance to women from economically weaker sections in the state and asked the marketing department to help women convert this money into investment. He told officials to encourage women to start small dairies for milk production and small vegetable and fruit farms. Seeking to remind officials of the state government’s agreement with corporate companies, the chief minister asked officials to make use of these opportunities and help these women become small entrepreneurs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/plan-cold-storages-for-farmers-benefit-jagan-tells-officials/articleshow/77552922.cms||Gopi Dara
August 15, 2020||Madurai||Film producer tests Covid +ve, exempted from appearance||Madurai: The Madras high court on Friday dispensed with the appearance of film producer, K E Gnanavel Raja, before the Ramanathapuram district police in a chit fund fraud case, after it was informed that he had tested positive for Covid-19 . The court was hearing the anticipatory bail plea of the film producer. A senior counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that Raja had appeared before the police twice for inquiry pursuant to an earlier order of the court. He further submitted that the petitioner had also tested positive for Covid-19. Taking cognizance of the submission, justice V Bharathidasan extended the earlier interim order directing the police not to arrest the petitioner and also dispensed with his appearance before the police. The judge also sought a response from the police in connection with the involvement of Raja in this case and adjourned the case to August 27 for further hearing. In his petition, Raja had stated that he had sold the theatrical rights of his movie ‘Magamuni’ to Neethimani, based on agreement in 2019. He stated that Neethimani had paid only Rs 2.3 crore and is yet to pay the remaining amount. He said that he was also taking action in this regard as per film industry practice. Raja stated that he received a notice from the police asking him to appear for an investigation in a case registered by the Ramanathapuram Bazaar police against Anand, Neethimani and his wife Menaka based on a complaint by Thulasimanigandan. The complainant and 58 others, who have invested Rs 3 crore in a chit fund business and the same is not being repaid by the trio. The producer stated that was in no way connected with the chit fund business. A journalist, Maheswaran, based at Ramanathapuram, who was apprehending arrest in this case also filed a petition seeking anticipatory bail stating that he was falsely implicated in the case. Justice Bharathidasan adjourned the case to a further date for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/film-producer-tests-covid-ve-exempted-from-appearance/articleshow/77555200.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra may cut stamp duty by 2-3%, says Balasaheb Thorat||PUNE: A 2 to 3% reduction in stamp duty on property registrations in the state in likely to boost transactions, according to state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat. Though it may affect the state exchequer, the minister told TOI that the proposal is being discussed by the government. “Developers want reduced stamp duty rates. As of now, it is 5% across the state, and we are considering to reduce it by 2-3 %. A final decision will be taken at the end of this month,” he told TOI on Friday. After a realistic examination, ready reckoner rates will be reduced by August-end, he added. CREDAI, the developers’ association, had demanded a reduction in stamp duty to boost property transactions that have fallen by nearly 70-80% from last year. Vice president of CREDAI Shantilal Kataria said stamp duty must be reduced to one per cent for at least six months and the same ready reckoner rates as last year. “If the stamp duty is reduced, people can decide on the property quickly as the upfront cash required for such a payment will be reduced,” he told TOI. Construction has been affected due to lack of workers as most have yet to return even after the state government’s unlock measures, they said. Buyers are wary. “My salary has been halved. I won’t get a substantial loan unless the property prices come down as only 70-85% loan is disbursed according to the eligibility,” a buyer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-may-cut-stamp-duty-by-2-3-says-revenue-min/articleshow/77561559.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||Doctors bite the bullet, operate sans Cov check||Kolkata: A 38-year-old man who was shot in the neck in the early hours of Monday in Beliaghata has been discharged from the hospital after an emergency life-saving surgery. On Tuesday, TOI published the report of the incident in which Sushanta Das was shot. Das, who runs a catering service and is into promoting, was taken Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals. “The patient had lost a lot of blood and was in shock,” said consultant ENT and head-and-neck surgeon Abhik Ghosh. There was no time to ponder if he was Covid positive as any delay could result in death. A team of doctors in the emergency wing started the initial resuscitation while the hospital called in the surgical team. But despite all efforts at the emergency, the bleeding could not be controlled as some tissues were torn by the bullet. The bullet had perforated the neck, razing the trachea and carotid artery. “There was no time to think about his Covid status. The patient was bleeding and we could have lost him if there was delay. We just donned our PPE, went to the OT and started operating. The surgery took three hours and was one of the most difficult gunshot injuries I have managed in my career,” said Ghosh.  Doctors sent the patient home on Thursday and he is doing fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/doctors-bite-the-bullet-operate-sans-cov-check/articleshow/77552919.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Koyna gates opened for a while, discharge from 4 Satara dams on||Kolhapur: Four major dams in Satara district started water discharge on Friday owing to continuous rains in the catchment area. Irrigation authorities discharged water from Koyna dam but stopped it after few hours. The discharge was for the first time in this monsoon season. Irrigation authorities had sounded alert on Thursday night about water release from Koyna dam. They had asked villages on the bank of Kirshna river to stay alert. Accordingly, irrigation discharged 5,800 cusec water in the noon. However, the gates were closed after few hours in view of the water storage in the dam and rainfall in the catchment area. The current storage at Koyna dam is 78.24 thousand million cubic feet (TMC), while it was 82.75 TMC in the morning. The dam has a capacity of 105 TMC. Irrigation officials said that catchment area of the dam has been receiving moderate rainfall since Thursday night. It received 181 mm rainfall till Friday morning as against more than 200 mm in the last few days. Officials from Satara said that water was discharged from five dam including Dhom, Kanher, Urmodi, Tarali and Veer as all of them are filled adequately. Veer dam is filled up to its capacity – 9.41 TMC – and 22,000 cubic feet per second water is being released. Kanher dam has 83 % water storage and 574 cusec water is discharged. Urmodi dam has 93 % water storage and 3,016 cusec water is being released by Friday evening. Dhom dam has 8.06 TMC capacity and has filled 68 %. Water is not released from Dhom dam. Water discharge from Chandoli dam in Sangli disrict was increased on Friday afternoon due to heavy rainfall in the catchment area. Irrigation officials said 8,301 cusec water is being released from the dam, while it was 6,600 on Thursday. Despite the discharge, Chandoli dam is filled to 84 % of its storage of 34 TMC water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/koyna-gates-opened-for-a-while-discharge-from-4-satara-dams-on/articleshow/77551570.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Meerut||Overcast sky, light rains keep mercury in check & farmers happy||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: Skies in most parts of western UP remained overcast on Friday, and they poured down in some areas keeping the heat at the bay. At home people sweat it out due to rising humidity and on the streets they maneuvered through tricky potholes full of rain water.It drizzled for over four hours in Agra. And light rains lashed neighbouring Mainpuri, Firozabad, Kasganj, Aligarh, Hathras and Etah districts.According to the meteorological department, 10.7mm rain was recorded in Agra district on Friday. In the afternoon, moderate sunshine resulted in an increase in temperature and also in the humidity level which shot up to 91%. The maximum temperature was recorded 30.6 degree Celsius which was 2.9 notches more as compared to Thursday. The minimum temperature was recorded 26.5 degrees.According to the weatherman, till August 18, the sky will remain cloudy with a few spells of rain or thunderstorm. So far, around 120mm rain has taken place in the month of August in Agra district. The rain has also brought smiles back on the faces of farmers. District agriculture officer of Agra, Rampravesh Verma, said, “Rainfall which has taken place in the last 72 hours is very beneficial for the paddy crop. It is also good for Bajra and pulses sown in different parts of the district. Mercury level is also suitable for timely growth of crops especially vegetables and fruits.”While scattered showers and drizzling were reported from Meerut also. The maximum and minimum temperatures recorded in the district were 29.8 degree Celsius and 26.7 degrees respectively. The maximum and minimum humidity levels recorded here were 93% and 85% respectively. Meerut recorded 2.2mm rainfall on Friday. But Bareilly did not receive rain till Friday evening. But the sky was overcast.Weatherman has predicted cloudy skies with a few spells of rain or thunderstorms for the next four days. It has also predicted the possibility of rain or thunderstorm for August 19 and 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/overcast-sky-light-rains-keep-mercury-in-check-farmers-happy/articleshow/77551547.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||Med college proposal to be sent to MUHS||Pune: The civic body’s proposal to set up a municipal medical college will soon be sent to the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) for approval. “The state-level approvals are in the last phase. We will send the proposal to MUHS in a day or two. It will be sent to the Union government after their approval. The medical college will become a reality soon,” the mayor Murulidhar Mohol told TOI. The PMC has completed the trust formation process for ‘Bharatratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College’ and it includes elected members of PMC. Earlier this week, PMC conducted a meeting with the state officials to share details about the present status of the trust and other developments. The final proposal was submitted to the government on Thursday. The civic body in August 2019 had formed a special committee to study the operation of municipal medical colleges across the country. The college is being developed on the lines of a medical college run by Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/med-college-proposal-to-be-sent-to-muhs/articleshow/77554531.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris records 18 new cases||Udhagamandalam: With 12 Covid-19 patients being discharged on Friday, the recovery rate in the Nilgiris stood at 90%, the highest among all the districts in the state. The Nilgiris recorded 18 new cases of Covid-19 on the day, breaching the 1,000-mark. The hill district has been witnessing a gradual decrease in Covid cases in the past two weeks. While the tally of the Nilgiris stands at 1,010, active cases being treated in the district are 94. As many as 913 patients have recovered and discharged so far. The new 18 cases, including eight women, were reported from Ooty, Coonoor, Pandalur, Ketti, Thummanatty, Nanjanadu and Bengalmattam. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-records-18-new-cases/articleshow/77554535.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta HC's fee deadline ends today; schools keep fingers crossed||KOLKATA: A day ahead of the deadline set for parents by the Calcutta High Court to pay 80% of school fees, officials in several schools said a section of parents, who had defaulted on fee payment, was yet to comply with the order. The high court had on July 21 directed that 80% of outstanding till July on account of school fees of students in private unaided institutions will have to be cleared by August 15. Parents of over 15,000 students enrolled in 112 private schools in the city and suburbs had earlier moved a petition before the HC, seeking relief from regular fees demanded by schools that they claimed had not ‘functioned’ for four months. The schools, though, contended they had switched to online classes in the pandemic and continued to incur recurring expenses, including payments to staff and maintenance. TimesViewA prolonged impasse will hurt students. All stakeholders need to follow government guidelines and court directives.In the interim order, the high court had directed schools not to deny online classes to any student till August 15 and asked parents to make 80% of fee payment by that date. The case will come up for hearing next week. But with 24 hours to go for the deadline, schools said some parents had not paid the amount. Though payment can be made online on Saturday, there will be no transaction through banks as they will be closed on account of Independence Day. “Since readmission in April, around 80% parents are yet to submit the fees, including the ICSE and ISC 2021 batch classes who are additionally required to pay examination charges. We have already informed parents that unless the fees are paid, it is difficult to run the school. Not even the online classes. Yet, there are defaulters,” said principal, Central Modern School, Baranagar, Nabarun De. The situation is better in another prominent school which has a group of institutions under their aegis. “We have almost 75% parents who have already made payment,” said principal of one of the schools in Howrah affiliated to the CISCE. Principal of Ram Mohan Mission School, Sujoy Biswas, said all parents have made necessary payments and there is no defaulter. “The guardians have been extremely cooperative,” he said. Other schools also reported that almost 80% parents have made the payments as per the directives till Thursday. “We will decide on the next courses of action only on Monday after the next directive from the Calcutta High Court,” said another principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-fee-deadline-ends-today-schools-keep-fingers-crossed/articleshow/77554516.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra may cut stamp duty by 2-3%, says Balasaheb Thorat||PUNE: A 2 to 3% reduction in stamp duty on property registrations in the state in likely to boost transactions, according to state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat. Though it may affect the state exchequer, the minister told TOI that the proposal is being discussed by the government. “Developers want reduced stamp duty rates. As of now, it is 5% across the state, and we are considering to reduce it by 2-3 %. A final decision will be taken at the end of this month,” he told TOI on Friday. After a realistic examination, ready reckoner rates will be reduced by August-end, he added. CREDAI, the developers’ association, had demanded a reduction in stamp duty to boost property transactions that have fallen by nearly 70-80% from last year. Vice president of CREDAI Shantilal Kataria said stamp duty must be reduced to one per cent for at least six months and the same ready reckoner rates as last year. “If the stamp duty is reduced, people can decide on the property quickly as the upfront cash required for such a payment will be reduced,” he told TOI. Construction has been affected due to lack of workers as most have yet to return even after the state government’s unlock measures, they said. Buyers are wary. “My salary has been halved. I won’t get a substantial loan unless the property prices come down as only 70-85% loan is disbursed according to the eligibility,” a buyer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-may-cut-stamp-duty-by-2-3-says-revenue-min/articleshow/77554547.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra may cut stamp duty by 2-3%, says Balasaheb Thorat||PUNE: A 2 to 3% reduction in stamp duty on property registrations in the state in likely to boost transactions, according to state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat. Though it may affect the state exchequer, the minister told TOI that the proposal is being discussed by the government. “Developers want reduced stamp duty rates. As of now, it is 5% across the state, and we are considering to reduce it by 2-3 %. A final decision will be taken at the end of this month,” he told TOI on Friday. After a realistic examination, ready reckoner rates will be reduced by August-end, he added. CREDAI, the developers’ association, had demanded a reduction in stamp duty to boost property transactions that have fallen by nearly 70-80% from last year. Vice president of CREDAI Shantilal Kataria said stamp duty must be reduced to one per cent for at least six months and the same ready reckoner rates as last year. “If the stamp duty is reduced, people can decide on the property quickly as the upfront cash required for such a payment will be reduced,” he told TOI. Construction has been affected due to lack of workers as most have yet to return even after the state government’s unlock measures, they said. Buyers are wary. “My salary has been halved. I won’t get a substantial loan unless the property prices come down as only 70-85% loan is disbursed according to the eligibility,” a buyer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-may-cut-stamp-duty-by-2-3-says-revenue-min/articleshow/77561560.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Virus spreads to 80% of villages in Kolhapur dist||Kolhapur: Cases of Covid-19 have been reported from 841 out of the 1,025 villages across the district, indicating that the contagion has spread in more than 80% of the villages. Officials are concerned over the rapid spread of the pandemic as by the end of July, Covid cases were found in 600 villages and in two weeks, the district has reported cases from 241 new villages. Hatkanangale tehsil has the highest number of Covid-19 cases, where 59 out of the 60 villages have recorded Covid patients. Nilewadi is the only village in Hatkanangale tehsil, where not a single case has been reported so far. By the end of July, tehsil had reported cases from 40 villages, in a fortnight 19 villages reported more cases. The tehsil has reported 1,395 cases till Friday night. Of the 118 villages in Karveer tehsil, 109 have Covid-19 patients. Karveer tehsil had reported cases in 63 villages by July end and two weeks later, 46 more villages reported fresh cases. Karveer tehsil has recorded 1,361 Covid patients so far. Fresh Covid cases were reported from 91 villages in Shahuwadi tehsil by July end. However, in the second week of August more cases were reported from five more villages. Ajara and Gadhinglaj tehsils, which recorded a higher number of patients in July, were able to contain the spread of the infection. At present Ajara tehsil has reported Covid cases in 47 villages out of the 73 and Gadhinglaj tehsil has reported 89 cases. Of the 29 villages in Gaganbawda, 14 villages have Covid patients. Gaganbawada has the lowest number of patients (31) in the district. According to the official data, 2,500 Covid cases have been found in 606 villages while 1,300 patients have recovered. As many was 669 new cases of Covid-19 and 17 deaths were reported across Kolhapur district on Friday. With the addition of these cases, the total number of cases has increased to 13,507, while the death toll stands at 370. “The total number of active cases currently stands at 7,467,” a health official said. In Sangli district, the case count increased by 209, taking the total number of positive cases to 5,788. As many as 10 deaths were also reported across the district, taking the death toll to 201. “Across the district there are a total of 2,517 active patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals,” an official said. Satara district registered 332 patients, the highest in the last four months. The district also registered eight deaths since late night on Thursday. Mahabaleshwar and Panchagani are among the several affected areas in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/virus-spreads-to-80-of-villages-in-kolhapur-dist/articleshow/77551552.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Drugs worth Rs 25 lakh seized in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: City crime branch on Thursday detained four persons from Siddhpur with 245g of methamphetamine worth Rs 24.5 lakh and 488g of opium worth Rs 48 thousand. SSP crime branch Deepan Bhadran said here on Friday that this is for the first time that drug smuggling from Rajasthan route has been cracked by the cops. “As we have blocked the supply of drugs in Gujarat from the Mumbai route by conducting several raids, the drug mafia in Mumbai have found a new route through Sanchore in Rajasthan,” said Bhadran.  After about 10 cases of drug trafficking through Rajasthan route, city crime branch and Gujarat ATS in a joint operation cracked this line too. “We were tracking the Sanchore line for quite some time. On Thursday, we got a tip-off about this consignment,” said the SSP. A team led by inspector D B Barad of crime branch and inspector N R Brahmbhatt of ATS was dispatched immediately to the spot near a hotel near Siddhpur Crossroads. “The team members were in plain clothes and they successfully detained the four accused — Suresh Thakkar, a handicapped person from Sanchore in Rajasthan; Jagdishchandra Mali, also from Sanchore; Khemaram Brahman of Vinchivada in Sanchore; and Imran Shaikh of Siddhpur,” Bhadran said. The cops recovered two cars, Rs 1.16 lakh cash and five mobile phones from the accused. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch, B V Gohil, said, “The accused have confessed that there are others in Rajasthan who supply drugs in Gujarat. After their Covid-19 test, they will be handed over to Gujarat ATS for registration of offence as the drug network is spread in three states, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra.” The cops said that the accused have different versions about the origin of the drug. “Some of them say that there are factories in Rajasthan where they make MD, while some say that the drug is brought from Mumbai to Rajasthan and then smuggled into Gujarat,” said an official. Sources said that during primary interrogation, Imran said that the drug was for his and his friend’s consumption and not for sale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/drugs-worth-rs-25l-seized/articleshow/77552982.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra may cut stamp duty by 2-3%, says Balasaheb Thorat||PUNE: A 2 to 3% reduction in stamp duty on property registrations in the state in likely to boost transactions, according to state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat. Though it may affect the state exchequer, the minister told TOI that the proposal is being discussed by the government. “Developers want reduced stamp duty rates. As of now, it is 5% across the state, and we are considering to reduce it by 2-3 %. A final decision will be taken at the end of this month,” he told TOI on Friday. After a realistic examination, ready reckoner rates will be reduced by August-end, he added. CREDAI, the developers’ association, had demanded a reduction in stamp duty to boost property transactions that have fallen by nearly 70-80% from last year. Vice president of CREDAI Shantilal Kataria said stamp duty must be reduced to one per cent for at least six months and the same ready reckoner rates as last year. “If the stamp duty is reduced, people can decide on the property quickly as the upfront cash required for such a payment will be reduced,” he told TOI. Construction has been affected due to lack of workers as most have yet to return even after the state government’s unlock measures, they said. Buyers are wary. “My salary has been halved. I won’t get a substantial loan unless the property prices come down as only 70-85% loan is disbursed according to the eligibility,” a buyer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-may-cut-stamp-duty-by-2-3-says-revenue-min/articleshow/77561558.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 15, 2020||Dehradun||Major reshuffle in secretariat following CM’s diktat to avoid delays & improve functioning||Dehradun: In wake of the recent meeting held by CM Trivendra Singh Rawat over the delay in clearing of official files, as many as 39 officials and employees posted in various departments at the secretariat were transferred on Friday. These included officials and employees of departments like drinking water, urban development, and irrigation. The CM had directed state authorities to transfer the employees, who had completed their stipulated tenure in one section. According to the list released by the state government, 24 review officers, 13 assistant review officers, and two computer assistants have been transferred. The transfers have been mainly from the departments of irrigation, horticulture and sericulture, planning, minor irrigation, social welfare, industrial development, personnel and vigilance, transport, minority welfare, urban development, excise, co-operative, drinking water, health, public works department, sports, home, housing, information, animal husbandry, and college education. Sources said that more officials and employees can be transferred in the next few weeks. Earlier on August 11, CM Rawat had at a meeting in the secretariat attended by officers up to the rank of secretaries not only warned of action for delaying files but also directed authorities to transfer staff, who have completed their stipulated tenure in one section within a period of a week. The issue of delay in clearing of files arose recently when the PWD section office did not clear a file related to adverse entry against two engineers for a period of 14 months. Interestingly, the file had been approved by the CM himself, who is also holding charge of PWD, and also the chief secretary. Following this, all the employees of the PWD section office were transferred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/major-reshuffle-in-secretariat-following-cms-diktat-to-avoid-delays-improve-functioning/articleshow/77550574.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Worried Over Covid Spread, Schools To Live Stream Fete||Hyderabad: Schools and colleges have decided to host Independence Day celebrations online this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. While some institutions will live stream the flag hoisting programme, others are utilizing the opportunity to educate the students about iconic places in the country by taking them on a virtual tour. On the contrary to the belief that the ongoing pandemic will deter educational institutions from celebrating Independence Day, school managements say that they have been able to achieve many things this year that they were earlier missing out on. For instance, at Pallavi Model School, the management is certain that more students will take part in the programme than the previous years. “When we used to celebrate Independence Day in School, students from lower classes were more excited than the senior students, who used to nor attend some events. But now that we have taken the celebrations online, I am seeing that children are more eager to attend the programme. We have a Zoom link to invite 1,000 students. However, since that was not sufficient for our strength, we will also go live on Facebook,” said Simi Nagi, the principal of the school. “In school, we used to wrap up the programme in an hour. But because we can leverage technology now, I have been able to co-ordinate a two and a half hour long programme this year, which includes project presentations, skits on freedom fighters, pre-primary kids enacting freedom fighters and speeches on patriotism,” added Nagi. A few institutions have invited their staff members to hoist flag in the premises while they live-stream the event for the students to witness in their homes. “We are going to organise all the events that we used to have in school. The only difference is that the celebrations will be virtual this year. As per the norms, we have asked very few of our staff members to come to school and hoist the flag. We will simultaneously live stream it for our students,” said B Usha Sree, the principal at Johnson Grammer School. This year, for the first time, many schools have also invited parents to witness the celebrations. “Earlier, parents never got a chance to see their children take part in Independence Day celebrations. I am really excited to witness how my child is going to take her classmates on a virtual tour of some iconic places in the country,” said M Prashanti, a parent. While earlier, the celebrations were more about beautifully decorated school and people gathering in huge numbers to hoist the flag, the students ought to get a different experience this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/worried-over-covid-spread-schools-to-live-stream-fete/articleshow/77554635.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Retired bank manager duped of over Rs 1 lakh||PUNE: A 72-year-old former manager of State Bank of India (SBI) was duped of over Rs 1 lakh by a fraudster on June 5 on the pretext of upgrading his SIM card from 2G to 4G. Claiming to be an executive of a telecom services provider, the fraudster contacted the elderly man for upgrading his SIM card, police said. “The fraudster asked the complainant to click on a link sent on his What’sApp. When the elderly man clicked on it, the suspect gained access to the complainant’s two bank accounts with SBI. He then transferred Rs50,099 each from the two accounts via net banking to another account,” Deccan Gymkhana police senior inspector Deepak Lagad said. The retired officer realised that he had been duped after he received text messages stating that the money was debited from his bank accounts. “We have recorded the statement of the complainant and registered an FIR under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act on Thursday,” Lagad added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retd-bank-manager-duped-of-over-rs-1l/articleshow/77554579.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Dr Suresh Babu elected unanimously||Vijayawada: Ruling YSR Congress nominee, P Suryanarayana Raju (Dr Suresh Babu), was elected unopposed as MLC in the Assembly quota on Friday. State chief electoral officer, K Vijayanand, announced the election of Dr Suresh Babu, after due verification of his nomination papers at the assembly premises. Dr Suresh Babu filed his papers on Thursday after duly receiving the party B form from party president and chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy. Meanwhile, former MP P Ravindra Babu, took oath as MLC in the chambers of the Legislative Council chairman M A Shariff on Friday. He was nominated to the Legislative Council in the Governor’s quota. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/dr-suresh-babu-elected-unanimously/articleshow/77553004.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Puducherry||High power rates levied on consumers during lockdown illegal: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Declaring illegal, the maximum demand and compensation charges levied by Tangedco against high tension (HT) consumers when their industries were shut down during the lockdown, the Madras high court observed that such an act literally amounts to killing the goose that was laying golden eggs. Justice N Anand Venkatesh made the observation while allowing a batch of pleas moved by HT consumers, including the South Indian Spinners Association, challenging 90% demand charges levied by Tangedco for the lockdown period. “An attempt has been made by Tangedco to portray as if there will be a huge revenue loss if they are made to collect minimum charges. It is aware of the fact that the minimum charges are paid as a part of fixed cost and the actual charges are paid with respect to energy charges. Therefore, it is not actually losing any revenue towards consumption of electricity,” the judge said. The HT consumers were caught between the devil and deep sea. On the one hand the government asked them to shut down their establishments and on the other hand Tangedco was levying the maximum demand. If this is allowed to be continued, it will virtually lead to permanent shutting down of the industries. The financial crunch that is being faced by almost all industries due to the lockdown and the huge challenge they are going to face post the pandemic is now made worse by Tangedco, the court said. As to the mandate to maintain a stipulated power factor (PF) by such consumers, the court said, “It is hard to think that the optimum PF can be maintained when a consumer has been asked to completely shut down their establishments. It is illogical that the Tangedco mechanically levied compensation for low PF even without understanding the basic fact that the establishments were completely shut down and there is no way they can utilize the optimum PF.” The court then directed Tangedco to issue revised bills to the consumers by adopting minimum demand charges for the lockdown period and adjust the amount already collected towards future bills. This apart, the judge also directed the corporation not levy compensation charges towards low PF during the period of lockdown. “Even if such levy is made in future, showcause notice shall be issued to the consumer and an opportunity shall be given to the consumer before levying any compensation,” Justice Anand Venkatesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/high-power-rates-levied-on-cos-during-lockdown-illegal-hc/articleshow/77561621.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Surat||Overflowing creeks revive memories of 2006 floods||Surat: The bitter memories of 2006 floods were revived on Friday after nearly 6,000 houses in the low-lying areas of Limbayat were inundated and around 750 people shifted to safety after heavy rain in the catchment areas of Mithi Khadi led to the sewage-filled creek flooding the near-by areas. It is the first time since 2006 that the creek has crossed its danger mark of 7.50 m and water is flowing at 8.95 at present. Around 190 people were also rescued by the fire department of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). This was due to heavy rain in Bardoli and Vyara, the catchment areas of the creek. The worst affected areas are Limbayat and Parvat Patiya where low-lying localities like Krantinagar, Raonagar, Nure Ilahinagar, Raza Chowk, Jangal Shah Pir and Kamrunagar, Geetanagar, Ranchhodnagar, Gayatrinagar, Sargumnagar, Raza Chowk, Phulwadi main road etc. were in two to eight feet water. Hundreds of people from the slums were seeing wading through waist-deep waters to move to safer locations. Over 190 people were rescued from the Madhav Baug society in Parvat Patiya, Sania Hemad, Gayatri Nagar in Dumbhal, Kamrunnagar in Limbayat, Kangaroo circle, Ganesh Nagar, Mithi Khadi, Hariom Industries and Padar Falia in Kumbhariya village by about eight rescue teams of the fire and emergency departments. Municipal commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani said, “We have asked the people in the low-lying areas in Varachha and Athwa zone to shift to safer places due to the rising levels in the creeks.” Over a dozen motorised rescue boats were pressed into service by the fire and emergency department for the rescue and relief operations in Parvat Patiya, Kumbharia and Limbayat. The Surat-Kadodara road, which leads to national highway-48 and the Surat-Bardoli state highway were inundated in more than four feet of water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/overflowing-creeks-revive-memories-of-2006-floods/articleshow/77551613.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Madurai||Ramnad enhances green cover with 1,000 Miyawaki forests in just 3 months||Ramanathapuram: Ramanathapuram district, a drought-prone region, now has 1,000 parks with Miyawaki forests thriving in all its 429 village panchayats. The work on these forests began in May this year under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Generation Scheme (MNREGS). The feat has been recognised by various organisations including the Asian Records Academy, India Records Academy and Tamilan Book of Records. Ramanathapuram collector K Veera Raghava Rao said that the initiative to improve the green cover in all the 429 village panchayats in the district cost Rs 30 crore. Native species like poovarasu (Pacific Rosewood), vaagai (lebbek tree), pungan (Indian Beech), tamarind, jamun, guava, pomegranate, soursop and gooseberry among others have been planted. The collector said that barren lands, garbage dumps and places with overgrown juliflora plants were given priority to establish these parks. More than five lakh trees have been planted in the parks each having an area of 1 to 1.5 acres, covering around 1,500 acres in the district. 13 lakh more saplings are now ready and would be used to expand these forests. A natural blanket comprising cocopith, hay and dry leaves has spread between the trees to retain the moisture and help in water conservation. Thirteen wells have also been dug up for irrigation purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ramnad-enhances-green-cover-with-1000-miyawaki-forests-in-just-3-months/articleshow/77555213.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Rain bounty: 5 dams 100% full, levels rising in 3 others||Kolhapur: Five dams in Kolhapur district were filled to their capacity on Friday and three others are nearly full after consistent rainfall in their catchment areas. In the meantime, the India Meteorology Department has issued an orange alert for ghat sections of Kolhapur and Satara district for next four days. With the heavy to very heavy rainfall forecast, the concerns over flooding are back. Five of the 14 dams in Kolhapur district -- Chitri, Jangamhatti, Ghatprabha, Jambre and Kode – are filled to capacity, after which, water release has began. Highest amount is being released from Jambre, which is 12,000 cusecs. Ghatprabha, Jagamhatti and Jambre are located in Chandgad tehsil and irrigation authorities have issued warning to the villages downstream of these dams. Other dams, Radhanagari (99%), Kadwi (97%) and Patgaon (95%) are releasing water into Panchganga river at the rate of 1,400 cusecs. Currently, the discharge is from power house section. Water level of Panchganga river has come down to 28.1 feet, which is much below danger mark of 43 feet. Discharge from Almatti dam along Krishna river in Karnataka state has been increased to 1.33 lakh cusecs, which bring water to Sangli district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/rain-bounty-5-dams-100-full-levels-rising-in-3-others/articleshow/77551580.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Madurai||‘EPS, OPS will decide on forming alliances’||Madurai: The decision on AIADMK forming alliances with other parties and the next chief minister of the state in the ensuing assembly elections, would be taken by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, minister for khadi and village industries, G Baskaran has said. The minister was participating in an event organised to distribute welfare measures to the tune of Rs 29.45 lakh to 193 beneficiaries in Singampunari block in Sivaganga district, in the presence of MLA K R Periyakaruppan and Sivaganga district collector J Jayakanathan, on Friday. Later, speaking to reporters, Baskaran said, “As of now we are following their (CM and Dy CM) directions and acting accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eps-ops-will-decide-on-forming-alliances/articleshow/77555206.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Private hospitals set to roll out new tariff package for Covid treatment||HYDERABAD: Even as private hospitals and the state authorities were trying to chalk out the modalities on the government’s decision to take over 50% of beds in private hospitals for treating Covid-19 patients, the private hospitals are set to announce a new pricing structure on Covid-19 treatment. Sources told TOI that the private hospitals’ representatives had a two-hour meeting with senior officials of director of public health on Friday. “Instead of getting bogged down over sharing of 50% beds with government hospitals, the representatives are keen to thrash out the pricing structure and announce it in the coming few days,” a top source said. Considering the backlash from various quarters, including reprimand from the high court, the private hospitals want to offer a package which is within the range of Covid-19 patients. “The government is very keen that we offer an affordable package to Covid-hit people,” said a top source from the private hospitals. There will be another round of discussions on Saturday, sources said. Sources said the main agenda in front of the hospitals’ managements and the government is to reduce the apprehensions among people on the surplus billing and other hidden charges and also dispel the wrong notions about exorbitant rates. The private hospitals have reportedly came up with a formula to hand over all the general Covid-19 beds to government hospitals and give 30% ICU beds at government rates. “There was a serious discussion on this. The representatives are reasoning it out with the government officials,” said sources. The pricing package would factor into account the beds to be offered to government and those with private hospitals, sources said. Private hospitals had earlier argued there was no legal provision to take away a certain share of beds by the government. At the meeting, the issue of two private hospitals getting notices for surplus billing came up for discussion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/private-hospitals-set-to-roll-out-new-tariff-package-for-covid-treatment/articleshow/77554611.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 15, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: Miscreants hoist ‘Khalistan’ flag at Moga administrative complex||MOGA: A day ahead of the Independence Day, two miscreants hoisted a flag of ‘Khalistan’ on the terrace of the top floor of multi-storeyed district administrative complex in Moga on Friday. The flag was painted in ‘kesri’ (saffron) with khanda (symbol of Sikh faith) printed on it. Before leaving, two unidentified persons also desecrated the national flag at the complex, which has the deputy commissioner’s office on the first floor. According to the police, the closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras have recorded two persons in their mid-20s entering the complex around eight in the morning. The footage shows them going up and hoisting the ‘kesri’ flag. After coming down, they use a knife to cut the rope of the tricolour hoisted in the compound and take it in their possession. The duo fled when a sentry at the gate raised an alarm. Cops claimed the intruders chose to come at a time when the support staff starts cleaning the complex and the doors are open. Police have released the duo’s CCTV grab and also announced a reward of Rs 50,000 to anyone providing then information about the duo, and keeping their identity secret. A video of the incident has also gone viral. It shows the two persons going about the complex and has a running commentary. However, police claimed it was doctored. Three days ago, US-based organisation Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) had announced $1,25,000 reward for raising Khalistan flag at the Red Fort on August 15. Moga senior superintendent of police (SSP) Harmanbir Singh Gill said, “It seems they were swayed by SFJ’s reward offer. We have checked the CCTV footage showing two persons, including a turbaned one. They appear to have recced the complex and stayed for nearly 10 minutes before cutting rope and taking the tricolour along. Police are looking for them and have also beefed up security. A case under Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act 1971 and other relevant sections has been registered.” He added that police is also checking the authenticity of the video clip uploaded by someone. Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans said desecrating the national flag was the most disgraceful act and anti-national. “The district administration and the police will look into the lapses and ensure that it is not repeated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/miscreants-hoist-khalistan-flag-at-moga-admn-complex/articleshow/77554577.cms||Neel Kamal
August 15, 2020||Erode||High power rates levied on consumers during lockdown illegal: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Declaring illegal, the maximum demand and compensation charges levied by Tangedco against high tension (HT) consumers when their industries were shut down during the lockdown, the Madras high court observed that such an act literally amounts to killing the goose that was laying golden eggs. Justice N Anand Venkatesh made the observation while allowing a batch of pleas moved by HT consumers, including the South Indian Spinners Association, challenging 90% demand charges levied by Tangedco for the lockdown period. “An attempt has been made by Tangedco to portray as if there will be a huge revenue loss if they are made to collect minimum charges. It is aware of the fact that the minimum charges are paid as a part of fixed cost and the actual charges are paid with respect to energy charges. Therefore, it is not actually losing any revenue towards consumption of electricity,” the judge said. The HT consumers were caught between the devil and deep sea. On the one hand the government asked them to shut down their establishments and on the other hand Tangedco was levying the maximum demand. If this is allowed to be continued, it will virtually lead to permanent shutting down of the industries. The financial crunch that is being faced by almost all industries due to the lockdown and the huge challenge they are going to face post the pandemic is now made worse by Tangedco, the court said. As to the mandate to maintain a stipulated power factor (PF) by such consumers, the court said, “It is hard to think that the optimum PF can be maintained when a consumer has been asked to completely shut down their establishments. It is illogical that the Tangedco mechanically levied compensation for low PF even without understanding the basic fact that the establishments were completely shut down and there is no way they can utilize the optimum PF.” The court then directed Tangedco to issue revised bills to the consumers by adopting minimum demand charges for the lockdown period and adjust the amount already collected towards future bills. This apart, the judge also directed the corporation not levy compensation charges towards low PF during the period of lockdown. “Even if such levy is made in future, showcause notice shall be issued to the consumer and an opportunity shall be given to the consumer before levying any compensation,” Justice Anand Venkatesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/high-power-rates-levied-on-cos-during-lockdown-illegal-hc/articleshow/77561623.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chennai||High power rates levied on consumers during lockdown illegal: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Declaring illegal, the maximum demand and compensation charges levied by Tangedco against high tension (HT) consumers when their industries were shut down during the lockdown, the Madras high court observed that such an act literally amounts to killing the goose that was laying golden eggs. Justice N Anand Venkatesh made the observation while allowing a batch of pleas moved by HT consumers, including the South Indian Spinners Association, challenging 90% demand charges levied by Tangedco for the lockdown period. “An attempt has been made by Tangedco to portray as if there will be a huge revenue loss if they are made to collect minimum charges. It is aware of the fact that the minimum charges are paid as a part of fixed cost and the actual charges are paid with respect to energy charges. Therefore, it is not actually losing any revenue towards consumption of electricity,” the judge said. The HT consumers were caught between the devil and deep sea. On the one hand the government asked them to shut down their establishments and on the other hand Tangedco was levying the maximum demand. If this is allowed to be continued, it will virtually lead to permanent shutting down of the industries. The financial crunch that is being faced by almost all industries due to the lockdown and the huge challenge they are going to face post the pandemic is now made worse by Tangedco, the court said. As to the mandate to maintain a stipulated power factor (PF) by such consumers, the court said, “It is hard to think that the optimum PF can be maintained when a consumer has been asked to completely shut down their establishments. It is illogical that the Tangedco mechanically levied compensation for low PF even without understanding the basic fact that the establishments were completely shut down and there is no way they can utilize the optimum PF.” The court then directed Tangedco to issue revised bills to the consumers by adopting minimum demand charges for the lockdown period and adjust the amount already collected towards future bills. This apart, the judge also directed the corporation not levy compensation charges towards low PF during the period of lockdown. “Even if such levy is made in future, showcause notice shall be issued to the consumer and an opportunity shall be given to the consumer before levying any compensation,” Justice Anand Venkatesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/high-power-rates-levied-on-cos-during-lockdown-illegal-hc/articleshow/77554564.cms||---
August 15, 2020||India||Kirti Chakra for J&K cop killed in Pulwama||NEW DELHI: The nation’s second-highest peacetime gallantry medal Kirti Chakra has been posthumously awarded to J&K police head constable Abdul Rashid Kalas, while there are nine recipients of the Shaurya Chakra in the Independence Day medals list. Kalas showed exemplary bravery while laying down his life during a fierce encounter in Pulwama district of south Kashmir, in which three terrorists, four security personnel and a civilian were killed in February last year. The three Army soldiers conferred with the Shaurya Chakra, all for anti-terrorist operations in J&K, are Lt-Colonel Krishan Singh Rawat (Para-Special Forces), Major Anil Urs (Maratha Light Infantry) and Havildar Alok Kumar Dubey (Rajput Regiment). Wing Commander Vishak Nair of the IAF has been conferred the medal for successfully retrieving a Sukhoi-30MKI fighter that had developed a technical snag in air. The other Shaurya Chakra awardees are Amit Kumar, deputy inspector-general of J&K police, and four CISF personnel who have got it posthumously. They are sub-inspector Mahaveer Prasad Godara, head constable Eranna Nayaka, constables Mahendra Kumar Paswan and Satish Prasad Kushwaha. Of the 84 gallantry medals approved by President Ram Nath Kovind, there are five ‘bar’ to Sena Medals (awarded for the second time to an individual), 60 Senas Medals, five Vayu Sena Medals and four Nao Sena Medals. There are also 19 Mention-in-Despatches for Army soldiers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kirti-chakra-for-jk-cop-killed-in-pulwama/articleshow/77556125.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Now, tech to help track fishing boats||Visakhapatnam: In order to track and communicate with fishing boats at mid-sea, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) recently installed transponders on 10 fishing boats at Visakhapatnam harbour. Officials said this is part of a mega-project initiated by the Union fisheries ministry and fisheries department of different states and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the project from New Delhi on Independence Day. “The Prime Minister would inaugurate the project of transponder installation on Independence Day. The cost of installation of transponders will be around Rs 13,000. The Union government would fund 65% of the cost and we have requested the state government to fund 25%,” said Arijili Dasu, secretary of District Fishermen’s Youth Welfare Association. Officials at the state fisheries department said coastal Andhra Pradesh is prone to cyclones and tracking fishing vessels during cyclones remains a challenge in the region. Officials of the executing agency, BSNL, told TOI that transponders would help crew members exchange information through text messages with the control room on shore. “Text messages can be sent in any Indian language upto a distance of 200 to 300 km from shore. Through this, both the sender and responder can share location details and raise an alarm,” said Mahesh Patil, BSNL marketing official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-tech-to-help-track-fishing-boats/articleshow/77553080.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||You come to Pb and I’ll teach you a lesson: Capt to Pannun||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday directed the police to take strict action against the miscreants who hoisted ‘Khalistan’ flag in Moga administrative complex. He said he had directed director general of police Dinkar Gupta to ensure that the two miscreants are arrested at the earliest and action taken against them. During his weekly #AskCaptain session, Amarinder also appealed to youngsters not to get swayed by the vicious propaganda of anti-India elements like Gurpatwant Singh Pannun and his Sikhs for Justice (SFJ). Asserting that any attempt to disturb the peace in the state would be dealt with an iron hand, Capt Amarinder threw a dare to Pannun, saying, “You try to come to Punjab and I will teach you a lesson.” Amarinder said the Punjabis in India and people are prosperous. They are not interested in indulging in such acts at the behest of someone sitting in Canada or America. “Why should they (the people of Punjab) do it, if you have the guts you come and do it…Pannun does not even look like a Punjabi, and does all this only for extracting money,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/you-come-to-pb-and-ill-teach-you-a-lesson-capt-to-pannun/articleshow/77554591.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Quarry may be closed for immersion||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is likely to ban public immersion of Ganesh idols at Irani Quarry and Panchganga river to prevent crowding and spread of novel coronavirus. The corporators have suggested that immersion tanks be made available in the city lanes. The civic authorities have appealed to citizens to celebrate the upcoming Ganesh festival by making or buying idols made of eco-friendly materials and carry out immersion in nearby artificial ponds and at house. Senior corporator Sharangdhar Deshmukh said, “During the immersion, huge gatherings are witnessed for several hours at Irani Quarry and Panchganga Ghat. I have suggested authorities to make immersion facilities available in all localities. Also, the transportation of idols should be facilitated.” This year, most staff is busy in Covid-19 management. Due to pandemic, no mandal will be allowed to hold procession for immersion of idols Mayor Nilofer Ajrekar announced waiver of the pandal fees, pit digging charges if the mandal celebrates the festival in a low-key manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/quarry-may-be-closed-for-immersion/articleshow/77551591.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||5 booked on charge of minor’s marriage||Pune: The Bhosari police on Friday registered an offence against five individuals — the parents, husband and in-laws of a 12-year-old girl — under the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act after a social worker from the area lodged an FIR in this regard. The social worker stated in her complaint that the girl got married on June 9 at Indrayaninagar in Bhosari. “She recently came to know about the illegal marriage after she met the girl and took her into confidence. After confirming that the wedding had indeed happened, she approached the police,” sub-inspector P N Kadam of the Bhosari police told TOI. “All the suspects are roadside vendors. We will soon arrest them,” Kadam added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-booked-on-charge-of-minors-marriage/articleshow/77554625.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Heavy rains bring life to a standstill in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Heavy rainfall brought life to a standstill in the Pink City on Friday. Around 78 complaints were filed at the flood control rooms established in the city from 8am to 2pm and hundreds of people were rescued to safer places. A side wall of Vidhayak Puri police station collapsed due to the rains. Similarly, in Walled City, many were stranded in waterlogged roads. All the verandahs were flooded including the shops at the markets. Many videos being circulated on social media showed cars floating on water in the streets and two-wheeler drivers were seen dragging their vehicles. Around 50 cars were seen submerged under water, at the parking lot of Mansarovar metro station. In one video circulated on social media, a man was seen being carried away in the stream of water in a lane of Walled City, before being caught by a few residents. Due to heavy rain, a house collapsed at Saraya Bawdi, Amber, after which civil defence team was called for rescue. Foundations of two houses were shaken at Bhatta Basti. Both the houses were sealed and people were evacuated to safer places. Civil defence deputy controller of Jaipur City, Manish Fauzdaar while talking to TOI said, “It has been raining since early morning and we have been receiving phone calls entire day. With 96 volunteers, our nine teams were working in the city, rescuing people and taking them to safer places. We got information that in a government school at Tolipada, Chaura Rasta, 16 teachers were stranded, who were then rescued. Similar situations arose at various places and people were rescued by our teams.” Even after the rain stopped, there were many glitches. Many vehicles and houses that had sunken into mud had to be rescued. Rescue teams with bulldozers and cranes all around Jaipur were trying to get them out of the mud. Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) received more than 60 complaints at their flood control centre on Friday. They installed mud-pumps at SMS Hospital, Secretariat, CMO, Albert Hall basement and the high court. Hundreds of sand bags were sent all over the city to control the flooding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/life-comes-to-a-standstill-in-city/articleshow/77554634.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Liquid oxygen plants for MR Bangur Hospital and Beleghata ID||KOLKATA: Owing to the sudden surge in demand for oxygen at Covid hospitals and the present facilities falling short of meeting the requirements, state health department is set to install liquid oxygen plants at two city Covid hospitals — MR Bangur Hospital and Beleghata ID & BG Hospital. Platforms to install the cylinders have been identified and work is already in progress. “Site visit at both the hospitals have been done and areas have been earmarked for the installation of the tanks. Process for floating tenders is on,” said a health department official. Doctors at state’s biggest Covid facility at MR Bangur Hospital said that at present the hospital consumes 500 to 700 cylinders of oxygen daily while catering to its patients. Each of these tanks will be able to refill 1,000 such cylinders. “Each cylinder contains 7.1 cubic metres (7,100 litres) of oxygen and in a day, we consume around 500-700 such cylinders. Oxygen demand has increased several times in our hospital since it was converted into a Covid hospital. Hence, the tanks will provide additional support,” said Sisir Naskar, the superintendent of MR Bangur Hospital. Officials at Beleghata ID & BG Hospital also said they have earmarked the place allotted for installation of the tank. “Currently, empty cylinders have to be replaced with fresh ones from a warehouse several times a day. Even that transportation and labour cost will be saved,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/oxygen-plants-for-id-bangur/articleshow/77554544.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||President’s Police Medal for ADGPs||CHANDIGARH: Punjab additional director general of police (ADGP), intelligence, Varinder Kumar and ADGP-cum-director of Punjab Police Academy at Phillaur Anita Punj will be conferred with the President’s Police Medal for distinguished service on Independence Day. As many as 13 state police officers have been selected for the police medals for meritorious services. The officers included joint director internal vigilance cell and special unit of vigilance bureau Kanwaldeep Singh, AIG vigilance bureau Mohali Hargobind Singh and SP Punjab bureau of investigation, crime and narcotics at Muktsar Kulwant Rai. Others selected for police medals for meritorious services are Inder Pal Singh Hothi (inspector vigilance bureau headquarter Mohali), Lakwinder Singh (inspector provisioning wing Punjab), Shiv Kumar (inspector, in-charge CIA staff Jalandhar rural), Kamaljit (inspector, 80th Battalion, PAP Jalandhar), Kuldeep Singh (sub-inspector, PAP Armed Battalion, Jalandhar), Jasvir Singh (sub-inspector, 7th Battalion, PAP Jalandhar), Harbhajan Lal (sub-inspector, operational staff, Bathinda), Boota Singh (ASI recruit training centre, PAP Jalandhar), Sukhdev Singh (ASI police control room technical service commissionerate Jalandhar) and Harpal Singh (ASI special branch commissionerate Ludhiana). CM’s police medalsASI Swaran Singh has been selected for CM’s Rakshak Padak. Recipients of the CM’s medal for outstanding devotion to duty included SSP Barnala Sandeep Goel, commandant 13th Battalion PAP Balwant Kaur, DSP Punjab bureau of investigation special crime Moga Sukhwinder Singh, DSP (SD) Fazilka Jagdish Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/prez-police-medal-for-adgps/articleshow/77554582.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Amritsar||Family lost in Partition, he hopes to visit ancestral village||Amritsar: August 15 is a day when Indians celebrate their independence from the British, but for septuagenarian Gurdip Singh, the day marks the most painful chapter of his life as he had lost 18 members of his family, including his father and grandparents, in the riots during the Partition. Gurdip, then four years old, lived in a joint family at Chappa village, now in Pakistan. His father Labh Singh, a teacher, commanded respect in Chappa and nearby villages. “My maternal village is Modhay, near Attari in India, while Chappa went to Pakistan with a single stroke of pen. Both are almost at the same distance from the international border,” Gurdip says. As he was very young at the time of the Partition, Gurdip remembered only a few things, but he could join the missing pieces of their history with the help of the stories narrated by his mother and his individual research. “When our family came to know about the Partition, the local villagers suggested to my grandfather to relocate to Modhay, but he was so confident that he refused to believe that the people who respect and love him could cause harm,” the septuagenarian says. However, his grandfather made Labh to go to the nearby village along with his wife and two sons, Gurdip adds. The whole atmosphere was vitiated when the rioting began. “We came to know that my grandparents and many other relatives had been killed. My father went back to Chappa to find their bodies where many of his friends and villagers advised him to immediately rush back to Modhay,” he says. Gurdip says while on way to Modhay, the Baloch army shot his father dead and injured his mother. “My mother even pleaded to them to kill her, but she was somehow allowed to live. I lost my younger brother Gurdial Singh, who was later found after six months, and my mother was unable to move due to a bullet injury,” he adds. It was a miracle, when a cyclist saw his mother with a child lying near the bodies and offered to give her a ride to Attari hospital, Gurdip shares. “My mother’s clothes were torn, and she was hesitant to go with him. But that gentleman gave her a piece of cloth to wrap herself and dropped her at the hospital,” he says. Asked whether he remembers his village, he says, “Tusi kehanday ho yad aandi hai, sanu tay yad bhuldai hi ni, jado log August 15 diyan khushian manaday nay, saadiyan akha vich athru hunday nay (You are asking whether I remember, but I have never forgotten. When people celebrate August 15, I have tears in my eyes),” says Gurdip. Gurdip shares that he had visited Pakistan twice, but couldn’t visit his village due to visa restrictions. With tears in his eyes, he urges the government to issue special visas to people like him so they can at least visit their ancestral homes and villages for the last time in their lives. “Only a handful of us would be alive and everyone must be willing to visit their houses and villages as I do,” says Gurdip.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/family-lost-in-partition-he-hopes-to-visit-ancestral-village/articleshow/77554619.cms||Yudhvir Rana
August 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Interstate gang e-scammed 52 in A’bad, 162 in Surat||Ahmedabad: Two cyber crooks from Ahmedabad’s Rakhial — and their accomplices in Bihar, West Bengal, and Jharkhand — have cheated 250 people in Gujarat, of whom 52 were Amdavadis. Most of the victims of the gang led by Rakhial’s Mohsinkhan Pathan and Sohailkhan Pathan were from Surat. In all, 162 from the Diamond City had been cheated using the ruse of KYC (know your customer) or e-wallet updates. “Other victims come from across the state,” said a top official of the cyber cell of Ahmedabad Police. “The total amount stolen from Gujarat runs into crores.” The cyber cell on Wednesday arrested the Pathans. The gang has targeted people in Gujarat, Haryana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Punjab, and Delhi. “We have informed the states concerned about the arrests and are coordinating with them to determine the number of victims in each state,” the official said. According to top cyber cell sources, Sohailkhan had given the data of thousands of people to his associates in Bihar, Jharkhand, and West Bengal. “We have got the details of about 300 people in the data set and are analyzing them,” a cyber cell source said. “We will get the details of victims from other states too. Then several teams will be dispatched across the country to track the crooks.” The gang’s operations came to light recently when a complaint was finally filed in connection with a November 2019 case involving Akbar Gulliwala of Jamalpur. Gulliwala had received a call from an unknown number in November last year. The caller persuaded Gulliwala to share his bank details, ostensibly to update his KYC. In the end, the crooks siphoned off Rs 98,000 from Gulliwala’s bank account.Gulliwala died in May 2020 of Covid, yet no complaint was filed even at that stage. At last, his son managed to have a complaint filed at the beginning of August. “During investigation it was found that the money siphoned off from Gulliwala’s account was transferred to e-wallets and then to some bank accounts,” an investigator said. “One of the accounts belonged to Sohailkhan.”Investigators said they have learnt that Sohailkhan and Mohsinkhan used to collect customer data on the pretext of selling ayurvedic medicines. Cheap phones used as lure The crooks also ran another scam, cheating people with the lure of cheap phones. Sometimes, they would hold up the promise of such a phone as a gift for updating KYC. Cyber cell officials said that the crooks used to trick their targets into downloading an app that enabled them to steal the money. “As for selling Android phones at attractive rates, the crooks’ offer was Rs 5,000,” an investigator said. “After the targets paid the money, they got a box containing not a phone, but some powder.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/interstate-gang-e-scammed-52-in-abad-162-in-surat/articleshow/77553104.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
August 15, 2020||Madurai||Fear, stigma haunt pvt docs battling Covid||Madurai: As many as 11 doctors have died in Madurai district alone since the lockdown began, of which six were certified as Covid-19 deaths, says the Indian Medical Association (IMA). As more healthcare providers from the private sector test positive or die across the state, private doctors are facing the challenge of managing fear and stigma due to Covid-19. “Even if we are treating only non-Covid-19 patients, we are exposed to carriers of Covid-19 virus. We cannot turn away our patients either. We are hence constantly worried about our safety and that of our staff. No matter the precautions we take, we can never be sure,” said a senior general practitioner in the city. The IMA has been making efforts to identify the doctors affected by Covid-19 or have recovered. However, many private practitioners have been hesitating to come forward due to fear and stigma. In private hospitals, especially those treating non-Covid-19 patients, doctors say the blame often falls on them if he/she tests positive. “Further, closing down of the practice due to it is being frowned upon. This often leads to some doctors not coming forward to test unless the symptoms are severe, which can be dangerous,” said a doctor from a private hospital. Such doctors are also facing a host of mental health issues amid the pandemic. But, hardly anyone seeks professional help. “Healthcare providers suffer from fear and anxiety at this time of pandemic, which can easily lead to depression in the long term. However, we see only a few frontline workers come forward for counselling. The number is even less among doctors and nurses. But, they definitely require the support,” said Dr N Suresh Kumar, a clinical psychologist and secretary, Tamil Nadu Association of Clinical Psychologists (TNACP), which has a dedicated Covid-19 helpline. Meanwhile, IMA has been seeking better support for private doctors affected by Covid-19. “The state government should at least include private doctors in the health insurance scheme for Covid-19 on par with government doctors. Private doctors who died of Covid-19 should also be honoured and recognised by the government. If the doctors are given better support and safety, they’ll be able to treat more patients,” said Dr V N Alagavenkatesan, president, IMA Madurai. The association has also been advising general practitioners above 60 years of age and those with co-morbid conditions to stop practising to avoid contracting Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fear-stigma-haunt-pvt-docs-battling-covid/articleshow/77555217.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Industrial bodies seek special trains to bring back guest workers||Coimbatore: The Joint Council of Associations of Coimbatore, including the CII, Codissia and ICCI, on Friday wrote to the state and central governments to take necessary steps to ensure smooth operation of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the region. President of Codissia P Ramamurthy said, “At present, most of the industries are facing manpower shortage. The guest workers, who had gone to their native places a few months ago, are willing to return to their workplace but are struck due to lack of public transportations. “So, we request the central government to operate special trains like the ones that are operated to take the guest workers to their hometowns, to bring them back.” Assuring that workers would enter the workplace only after completing 14 days of quarantine, he said the government should take steps to create a common quarantine facility for the workers. Over 80% of foundry workers are from the northern part of the country. The council has also requested the government to waive off the memorandum of deposit (MOD) registration charges. “For availing bank loans, the MOD charges for registration in sub-registrar office has increased to Rs 30,000 from Rs 5,000. So, we request the government to waive off the charges due to the crisis apart from seeking interest subvention scheme up to 6% of all MSME units for at least one year from April 2020. This in turn would help the units to sustain and increase their productivity,” a press release from the council said. The members urged the state government to adjust their electricity bills against the security deposit that they paid while obtaining connection and asked them to collect the deposit almost one year after resumption.“We request for a provision of grant of Rs 5 lakh for micro industries and Rs 15 lakh for small scale industries,” the release added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/industrial-bodies-seek-special-trains-to-bring-back-guest-workers/articleshow/77554586.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Madurai||32 deaths, 1,166 new cases in south TN||Madurai: With 1,166 fresh Covid-19 cases recorded on Friday, the tally in the southern districts touched 72,603. As on Friday, there were 12,843 activeCovid-19 cases in southern districts. Meanwhile, 32 more Covid deaths were reported on Friday in southern districts. Theni district has once again managed to cross the 300 mark with 367 new cases being recorded on Friday. This district also had the highest number of deaths on Friday—eight out of the 32. Theni, which saw the highest number of single day cases on Friday, now became the only southern district to have over 2,000 active cases with 3,188 active cases. Of the new 367 cases, 165 were male, 166 female and 36 children. According to official sources, as many as 3,218 samples were tested on Friday. The highest number of positive cases was reported from Bodinaickanur block with 106 new cases followed by Chinnamanur with 83 cases, and Theni reported 59 cases. Uthamapalayam had 34 new cases, Periyakulam 28, Andipatti 25 and Cumbum 21. Of the eight deaths reported, two were female and six were male. Madurai saw a sharp decline in fresh cases with just 46 new cases being recorded on Friday, which took the total active cases in the district to 1,057. The district with an average of 3,500 samples being tested on a daily basis, has crossed 1.89 lakh tests till date. The positivity rate has also come to about 6.2% in the district with the decline in cases. District collector Dr T G Vinay said that they now expected the numbers to stay less than 100 per day and eventually dip further. All the other districts reported less than 200 cases on Friday. Dindigul reported 138, Kanyakumari 128, and Tirunelveli with 117 were the only districts to have over 100 cases. Tenkasi had 93 new cases, Virudhunagar 90, Sivaganga 70, Tuticorin 60, Ramanathapuram 57 and Madurai 46. Out of the deaths, Theni reported eight deaths, Kanyakumari five, Tenkasi and Tirunelveli four each, Dindigul and Sivaganga three each, Virudhunagar two and Madurai and Ramanathapuram one each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/32-deaths-1166-new-cases-in-south-tn/articleshow/77555215.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Madurai||Madurai hospital uses tech to reduce contact with patients||Madurai: A private hospital in Madurai has rolled out a six-stage safety programme using technology to ensure contactless detection of potential carriers of the Covid-19 virus, sterilisation, and minimal physical contact.Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC), has launched Tanjore Air Barrier Technique (TABT), to deliver compressed medical grade air to healthcare professionals in operation theatres through a hood and bluetooth stethoscope. Doctors will be able to listen to internal organs of the patients without touching a stethoscope. This will help ensure better safety of patients and doctors.Dr S Gurushankar, chairman, MMHRC, Madurai, said, “The programme is about creating redundant layers of protection against Covid-19 infection, so that in-patients, outpatients, doctors, paramedical and administrative staff can avail and provide necessary healthcare services without any fear of contracting the disease.” The programme makes use of AI and robotics for contactless detection of symptoms in visitors, sterilisation of indoors, contactless check-up and treatment. The stages of protection include smart security with smart infrared AI helmets to check temperature of visitors remotely, smart fever clinics and smart thermal surveillance cameras that continuously check the temperature of everyone on the premises. Robots have also been deployed to sterilise the hospital and for periodically supplying food and medicine to patients in their rooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-hospital-uses-tech-to-reduce-contact-with-patients/articleshow/77555219.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Aurangabad||13,254 recoveries in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: As many as 13,254 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district while 114 fresh cases were reported. With this, the number of active cases in the district stand at 4,255. Of the recent 114 patients, 58 are from the limits of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation while 56 belong to the rural parts of the district. So far, the district has registered 18,081 patients; however, the recovery rate has been quite impressive, said district administration officials. The district has reported 572 Covid-related casualties so far with the addition of three more deaths at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH) on Friday. As of now, 429 Covid-related deaths have taken place at the GMCH. A 61-year-old man from Bajajnagar Waluj in Gangapur taluka who was referred to the GMCH from a private hospital succumbed to Covid-19 infection on Friday. Others included a 70-year-old woman from Gandhinagar and a 61-year-old man from Ghanegaon in Gangapur taluka. At present, 281 Covid patients have been admitted to the GMCH, of which, 147 are said to be critical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/13254-recoveries-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77551599.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Make use of one district one product scheme: Dist admin||Coimbatore: The district administration has asked food processing units to avail the benefits under the central government’s one district one product scheme.Those who have coconut food processing units or want to start one can approach the agriculture department to avail the benefits, a statement said. Financial assistance will be given up to 35% of their investment or Rs 10 lakh for individuals, groups, self-help groups (SHGs) and cooperative societies to strengthen their business or to start a new one, to enhance their infrastructural facilities, marketing techniques and for training purposes. Arrangements to avail bank loans can also be made under the five-year-long scheme.The central government contributes 60% of the scheme, while the state government gives the rest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/make-use-of-one-district-one-product-scheme-dist-admin/articleshow/77554627.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Pet dog finds body of little girl in Pettimudy||IDUKKI: Rescue workers found the body of Dhanushka (2) by 11am on Friday, taking the toll at Pettimudy to 56. What made it tearful was that it was her pet dog Kuvi that spotted her body floating in the river, blocked by a tree, nearly 4km away from the landslide site. For the past one week, Kuvi was trying to locate the girl and her family. The body of her father Pratheesh Kumar was recovered earlier said authorities while her mother Kasthuri and sister Priyadarshini are still missing. Rescue workers said Kuvi stayed near the spot where the body was recovered and the girl’s grandmother Karuppayi, also the sole survivor in the family, identified the body and recognised Kuvi their pet. Meanwhile, KDHP officials said the company has allotted homes to 11 families from Pettimudy and is providing assistance to all landslide survivors. Heavy rain before landslideOn August 6, a day before the landslide, Idukki received an unprecedented rain of 61.2cm that experts believe is the highest-ever single-day downpour recorded anywhere in state as per available data. They believe that sporadic, high-intensity rain could have triggered the calamity. Climatologist Gopakumar Cholayil said previously, the highest downpour figure was over 40cm in day at Vadakara several years ago. As Pettimudy is a plantation area, data on local rain is not available. But, sources in Kannan Devan Hills Plantation (KDHP) rain gauge centre confirmed that the volume of downpour in the region on August 6 was probably the highest. “It was probably for the first time that a rain of 61.2cm was recorded in a day,” said a KDHP official. Assistant professor, Department of Geology, University of Kerala Sajinkumar KS said, “Sporadic high-intensity rain facilitates landslides rather than longer duration drizzles. Rainfall of 61.22cm is extremely rare and hence if it occurred, obviously the probability of landslide is high.” “Cloud burst happens when a place receives over 100mm rain within an hour. Without proper data, we cannot say if cloud burst happened in Pettimudy,” said Gopakumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pettimudy-pet-dog-finds-body-of-little-girl/articleshow/77553108.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 15, 2020||Pune||Man accused of bid to rape minor girl||PUNE: A 38-year-old man from Chinchwad was arrested by the Nigdi police on Thursday after a woman from his neighbourhood accused him of attempting to rape her 14-year-old daughter on Wednesday. The woman in her complaint stated that her daughter had gone to buy milk when the man waylaid the minor and took her to a nearby shed. “The mother alleged that the man then tried to rape her daughter. He also beat her up and threatened to kill the minor’s mother if the girl disclosed anything,” an officer from the Nigdi police said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-accused-of-bid-to-rape-minor-girl/articleshow/77554584.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Mysuru||MLA charges AH Vishwanath’s son of inciting people against him||Mysuru: Congress MLA from Hunsur, H P Manjunath, on Friday accused BJP MLC A H Vishwanath’s son Amit Devarahatti, who is a ZP member elected on Congress ticket, of trying to instigate people to attack him. In an audio clip, Manjunath has said Amit is instigating people to target him and Congress workers. It has increased after Vishwanath was elevated as the member of the Upper House, he told reporters. Manjunath had won against Vishwanath in the Hunsur bypoll held in December. Manjunath also raised the issue with the district minister S T Somashekar, who was reviewing flood situation in the district. There were elected representatives and senior officials, including DC Abhiram G Sankar, when he raised the matter by playing the audio clip. When Manjunath asked Somashekar to step in, the latter asked him to approach the DC and SP C B Ryshyanth for redressal. Speaking to reporters after the meeting, Manjunath stated that he will approach the SP seeking action. “If Amit is not questioned, violence may erupt in Hunsur assembly segment,” he said. However, the BJP MLC said it is a ploy to tarnish his image and scuttle his chances to become a minister in the Yediyurappa-led cabinet. Vishwanath said that he spoke to Amit after the audio clip was made public. “He denied the charges,” the MLC claimed, adding Manjunath could have discussed the issue with him. “When the government was in the process to nominate me to the Upper House, there were efforts to derail it. It is repeating now,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mla-charges-ah-vishwanaths-son-of-inciting-people-against-him/articleshow/77555052.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Madurai||Call to find ways to restore practical classes in colleges||Madurai: Second and third year college students pursuing science streams are missing out on practical classes at least until colleges reopen. While online classes are under way, practical session are often more engaging and help students.“As of now, demonstrations can be done by teachers through online, which students can view and learn the theory of the procedure. However, except for computer science students, who have access to the required software, other students, who are dependent on labs, cannot do practical work,” said D Pandiaraja, principal, Thiagarajar College of Arts and Science. He added that a strategy needs to be developed as to how practical work will be carried out for science students in the long run.“Though there are animated videos available online explaining practical experiments that we do, it cannot compensate as to how we learn in a lab. Concepts are also easier to study when we actually conduct experiments first hand,” said D Anierudh, a second year BSc Physics student. Even for life science courses, practical work is a must for proper learning.“Practical work also requires learning to handle equipment. My students use microscopes to study organisms. Models and animation cannot replace practical learning in the long term,” said M Rajesh, assistant professor, zoology, The American College. Teachers said that with the attention span of students already less during online classes, it would be difficult to expect them to learn practical work online.In polytechnic colleges offering diploma courses in science, teachers are concerned as most of the classes there are practical. “Polytechnic courses are known to focus more on providing practical knowledge for getting jobs. Without putting their efforts working in labs, students cannot learn properly and clear the course,” said S Arul, principal of Latha Mathavan Polytechnic College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/call-to-find-ways-to-restore-practical-classes-in-colleges/articleshow/77555221.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Plasma donation camp in Hyderabad from Sunday||HYDERABAD: A group of youth from Old City, under the aegis of the Professional Solidarity Forum (PSF), are launching a plasma donation drive in city with a purpose to help infected patients. The drive, which will be held from August 16-22 has been planned to reach out to Covid-19 infected patients in recovery. The seven day camp will be held at NTR Memorial Trust Blood Bank, Banjara Hills from 10 am to 6 pm, said, Abdul Jabbar, president, PSF. He notified that blood donation camps will be held on August 15 at different locations across the city, including Amberpet, Banjara Hills, Golconda, Bahadurpura, Chandrayangutta, Malakpet, Mehdipatnam, Musheerabad, Sayeedabad, Tolichowki, Islamic Centre - Seven Tombs Road, Yakutpura, Wadi-e-Huda (Shaheen Nagar) and Talab Katta. Jabbar said that the campaign is focused to help Covid-19 positive patients who are undergoing treatment at different hospitals by connecting them with Covid-19 recovered patients who have generated antibodies after successful coronavirus treatment. “Many of the Covid-19 recovered patient are willing to come forward to donate their plasma to save lives of affected patients. Someone or their relatives or friends in almost every family is affected by Covid-19, and plasma donation can be effective in their recovery,” Jabbar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plasma-donation-camp-in-hyd-from-sunday/articleshow/77554643.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC upholds decision to appoint a retired judge as head of grievance panel||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Friday upheld its earlier decision to appoint a retired high court judge as head of Delhi University’s grievance redressal committee (GRC) to oversee the open book examination (OBE). A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad wondered why DU felt “threatened” by the court’s order to reconstitute the GRC as the “entire purpose of adding external members to the committee appears to be to make it independent and pellucid, which can hardly be faulted.” The university had challenged a single judge’s order arguing that reconstitution of its GRC reflects poorly on DU’s reputation and that of the committee’s earlier members. It urged the bench to allow it to perform its functions without any outside interference or someone else coming in to do its job. However, the court said DU appeared less concerned about its integrity and more worried that outsiders were part of the committee. “If you (DU) are so squeaky clean, then why are you feeling so threatened? Why are you taking it personally? The committee would only be looking into grievances of the students,” the court said. It later observed in the order that reconstitution of GRC “neither impinges on the integrity of the appellant/university nor does it intrude on its authority. In fact, selecting members of the committee who are not a part of the varsity, but have sufficient experience at hand, would only add to its stature and endorse the impartiality of the process more so when it is headed by a retired judge of the high court.” The bench then came up with a via media where it included professor S C Rai, who was earlier dropped from the GRC, as the sixth member of the committee and directed that it will be functional from Friday. It said numbers of all the members of the committee be furnished to the chairperson and directed that the GRC will assemble virtually for its meeting on August 17 or as directed by the chairperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-upholds-decision-to-appoint-a-retd-judge-as-head-of-grievance-panel/articleshow/77553109.cms||Abhinav Garg
August 15, 2020||Aurangabad||In Aurangabad, couple booked for duping duo of Rs 70 lakh||AURANGABAD: A couple hailing from Hyderabad has been booked on the charges of cheating and criminal breach of trust after a former airliner and his medico wife lodged a complaint in this regard with the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Aurangabad city police. As per the complaint lodged by Abdul Qadir (34), the suspects allegedly duped him and his wife to the tune of Rs 70 lakh on the pretext of lucrative returns on the investments made in a scrap trading business. The offence against the duo has been registered with the Jinsi police while the matter is being probed by the EOW. Police said that the complainant is a former airline staffer who quit his lucrative job to start his own business with the help of the suspect, but ended up getting duped. The complainant told TOI, “The woman suspect was a fast friend of my wife. The woman suspect introduced her husband to me and over a period of time, the couple won our trust and made us transfer Rs 43 lakh to them through a bank account and Rs 26.39 lakh cash as investment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/couple-booked-for-duping-duo-of-rs-70-lakh/articleshow/77551608.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 15, 2020||Mysuru||Closure of public toilets revives nuisance of urinating in open||MYSURU: The closure of public toilets in Mysuru city owing to the Covid-19 crisis appears to have resulted in the authorities concerned allowing their condition to go to pot. Mysuru is the cleanest city in Karnataka, and it is shocking to see the condition of many of its public lavatories, some of which were inaugurated with much fanfare and pomp. Furthermore, reluctance among the people to use these public facilities owing to the fear of contracting Covid-19 has resulted in demotivating civic authorities to maintain the lavatories further. Among the undesirable consequences of the disuse of these civic facilities is that there has been a considerable spike in the incidence of urination in public. Worse still, the fear of Covid-19 has seized the collective mindset so strongly that few residents are keen on urging the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) to reopen the lavatories. Shivaraju H, a resident of Krishnamurthypuram, counted among one of Mysuru’s more tony localities, feared that the menace of public urination was likely to continue till the Covid-19 crisis blew over. “Urination in public has become fearfully commonplace since lavatories have been shut in most places,” said Shivaraju, adding that only one pay-and-use lavatory was open in his locality. Rajkumar, a trader on Chamaraja Double Road, admitted to being afraid of using public toilets. “Members in my family have urged me not to use these facilities since they are afraid I may end up a carrier of Covid-19 infection. And I have decided to heed their advice,” he said. MCC executive engineer Srinivas said that there were 60 public lavatories across the city. “MCC, Mysore Urban Development Authority maintain most of them. We have floated tenders inviting bids for the upkeep and maintenance of 30 of these facilities. But contractors are not too keen on running them since operating them under the present circumstances will not be too profitable. We will surely take necessary action should the public have an issue with the closure of a particular toilet,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/closure-of-public-toilets-revives-nuisance-of-urinating-in-open/articleshow/77555142.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Dehradun||Former CMs fail to pay dues; U’khand HC issues show-cause notices||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday issued show-cause notices to three former chief ministers of the state – BC Khanduri, Vijay Bahuguna and Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishank – as well as state chief secretary Om Prakash after a contempt petition filed in the court said that they have not paid their dues for availing facilities like bungalow and chauffeur-driven vehicles even though they had been directed by the court to do so. The HC has now asked the respondents to explain why the orders of the court have not been followed and why contempt charges should not be framed against them. The division bench of the HC after hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in May 2019 had directed the former chief ministers to pay the dues to the state government within six months. The PIL was filed by Doon-based NGO, Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK) which has now filed the civil contempt petition in the court as well. A civil contempt is invoked when someone wilfully fails to follow the order, judgement or decree of the court. The show-cause notices were issued by the single judge bench of Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma. Speaking about the matter, the counsel appearing for RLEK, Kartikey Hari Gupta, said, “The division bench had given the ex-CMs six months’ time to clear their dues. However, even more than a year later, they are yet to deposit the money. We pointed out that the respondents being political luminaries should have set an example before the public. The court has therefore given them four weeks’ time to file their replies asking why charges should not be framed against them under the Contempt of Courts Act,” said Gupta. To recall, after the high court’s judgement in May 2019, the state government had brought an ordinance to exempt the dues of the former CMs. The ordinance was challenged in the court but it was later passed in the state assembly and it became an Act before the court could deliver its judgement. However, the Act was also challenged and a division bench of the HC headed by then-chief justice Ramesh Ranganathan in June this year declared it unconstitutional and held that its provision violated right to equality as well as the doctrine of separation of powers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-cms-fail-to-pay-dues-ukhand-hc-issues-show-cause-notices/articleshow/77550603.cms||Prashant Jha
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Tehsildar, three others caught with Rs 1 crore cash||HYDERABAD: ACB sleuths arrested Keesara tehsildar, a village revenue assistant of Rampally and two real estate businessmen after finding over Rs 1 crore cash in their possession during a raid at AS Rao Nagar on Friday. ACB sleuths found documents from Medchal Malkajgiri collector's office in possession of the tehsildar. The accused are, Erva Balraju Nagaraju, tehsildar of Keesara, B Sairaj, VRA of Rampally, Ch Srinath, real estate businessman who operates Sri Satya Developers in Swaroopnagar of Uppal and K Anji Reddy, realtor from Rampally Dayara. ACB officials conducted a surprise check at the house of Anji Reddy’s friend in AS Rao Nagar on Friday night. The team has also found documents of revenue department pertaining to 28 acres 22 guntas of disputed land in Rampally Dayara. There has been dispute over ownership of that property between two private parties. Local court directed revenue officials to settle the issue. “Two businessmen were trying to offer bribe to the tehsildar to issue the proceedings of the land and start developing it,” said an official. Searches are being held at tehsildar’s Alwal house. ACB is also probing role of other revenue officials from Medchal Malkajgiri as they found original demand of bribe was Rs 2 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tehsildar-three-others-caught-with-rs-1-cr-cash/articleshow/77554630.cms||Mahesh Buddi
August 15, 2020||Hubballi||Child protection committee relaunches foster care scheme||Mysuru: The district child protection committee has relaunched the child fostering scheme aimed at providing alternative care arrangement for children in state-run shelter homes and orphanages. According to the authorities, the move will help children grow in the domestic environment of a family, thereby ensuring psychological development. The committee has identified around 30 children in the age group of 6 -12 years for the scheme. The committee has also asked the families in distress to approach it so that their kids may be considered for the scheme. According to district child protection officer S Diwakar said, “After being rescued, children are taken to shelter homes or orphanages. However, when they grow up, they may face several challenges. The fostering scheme will ensure that the children grow up in a family environment and get familiarised with family values,” he explained. “The foster scheme is totally different from adoption. Under this initiative, a family can take a child for fostering for a stipulated period. Before sending any child for fostering, we visit the households. We also make surprise visits to their homes to ensure that the child is safe and comfortable,” he added. According to the department authorities, only children in the age group of 6 -12 are placed under foster care. A family can foster a child till he/she is 18 years. “The foster family shall ensure good health and education for the children. Families who can’t look after their kids due to various reasons including ill health, poverty etc can enroll their children under the scheme,” informed authorities. The families who opt for the scheme can discontinue the scheme even before the stipulated fostering period, Diwakar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/child-protection-committee-relaunches-foster-care-scheme/articleshow/77554972.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Residents of Chander Nagar say potholes turn roads in their area ‘deathtraps’||Ludhiana: The residents of civil city in ward number 91 claimed that councillor Rupinder Kaur Sandhu and her husband Baljinder Singh Sandhu are not paying any attention towards their area. The residents complained about the pathetic condition of the main road leading to Chander Nagar bridge. They said in rainy season, it is almost impossible to use the road filled with water, as submerged potholes pose a serious risk to commuters. The residents claimed that deep potholes have become a major problem, especially for two-wheeler riders who routinely lost their balance. A resident of the area, K K Sood said, “When councillor was seeking votes, her first promise was to built new concrete roads. But more than two years have passed and not even an inch has been constructed.” He said when there is heavy rain, the potholes turn into death traps and if authorities did not wake up, there will be a major incident some day. Another resident Manoj Sharma said a few days ago, instead of finding a permanent solution to the problem, debris was filled in the potholes that further created problems for the commuters as it became muddy. He said the authorities do not bother about the safety of the public. Councillor Rupinder Kaur and her husband Baljinder Sandhu said they had got approval for the construction of this road in July, but till date the civic officials did not float the tenders. They claimed that Rs 95.35 lakh is budgeted for a proper cemented road. They claimed that developmental projects tend to take time due to many bureaucratic hurdles. Moreover, they said, there is a condition imposed by the government that before starting any new work, the civic body will have to clear pending dues of contractors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/residents-of-chander-nagar-say-potholes-turn-roads-in-their-area-deathtraps/articleshow/77554648.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Kozhikode air crash: PIL filed in Kerala HC to shut down ops||Mangaluru: The man fighting to make airports safe in India, advocate Yeshwant Shenoy, has filed PIL in the Kerala High Court demanding immediate shutting down of operations at the Kozhikode International airport. He has also sought an open inquiry by a Court of Inquiry (COI) against a closed inquiry by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau. Regarding the PIL submitted at the Kerala High Court on Friday, Shenoy, who has been actively pursuing issues related to aviation safety over a decade, told TOI that it was absolutely necessary to shut down the airport until the facility conforms to the air regulations. “The Airport is functioning admittedly in non-compliance with air regulations and with permanent exemptions from the required standards,” he claimed. “There is no rule that states that lightning cannot strike twice at the same place.” he added. Shenoy, an advocate enrolled at the Bar Council of Kerala and primarily practising in Mumbai and Delhi, also sought an open inquiry by a COI under Rules 5(1)(d) read with Rule 12 of Aircraft (Investigation of Accidents and Incidents) Rules, 2017 as opposed to a closed inquiry by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau. “I also seek the criminality to be investigated by the CBI, instead of the local police, who are ill equipped to investigate a crime of this nature,” he said. He also requested that the matter be listed for a special urgent hearing on August 15 as the relief sought is to ensure protection of the lives of people. “If the court is of the opinion that no such urgency exists, then a regular hearing on August 17 through video conferencing could be arranged. Any delay in hearing this matter could potentially cost lives of people,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/kozhikode-air-crash-pil-filed-in-kerala-hc-to-shut-down-ops/articleshow/77551601.cms||Stanley Pinto
August 15, 2020||Vadodara||Ex-army man inspires students to join armed forces in Vadodara||VADODARA: On Saturday, he will hoist the national flag at his government school in Chhani to celebrate Independence Day. Fifty-seven-year-old Chamanlal Nai will then visit the house of martyred army man Arif Pathan in the city before calling up his former students who are now serving in the Indian defence forces. An ex-army man, Chamanlal is one of the proudest teachers in the state whenever Independence Day is celebrated. For, he has inspired many of his students to join the Indian army and serve the country. “Currently, 14 of my former students are serving in the Indian army and paramilitary forces. I am proud of them as they are serving the country and keeping us all safe,” Chamanlal, principal of Deen Dayal Primary School, said. Though he appears soft spoken, Chamanlal, who originally hails from Rajasthan, once used to be a strict army officer. “I joined the army in 1979 and was posted at Rajouri in Jammu and Kashmir. I used to train the new recruits and discipline them. But in 1984, I decided to quit the army and work as a teacher,” Chamanlal recalled. He learnt that a municipal primary school in the city was looking for a teacher following which he applied for the post and landed up with the job. When asked why he suddenly chose to be a teacher, Chamanlal told TOI, “I wanted to motivate youngsters to join the armed forces and what better way to inspire them than in the school. I used to share my army experiences with them and explain the importance of armed forces.” “The students used to be fascinated with the war stories and taking on the enemies with or without weapons. I told them to work for ‘vatan’ (country) and not ‘vetan’ (salary), ” he added. While three of his former students are now serving as major in the army, four are in Border Security Force (BSF) and the rest are in paramilitary forces. One of his former students, Satish Kumar Jatav, who joined the CRPF in 2007, said, “Chamanlal sir inspired many of us to join the defence forces and protect our country. He taught us discipline and the importance of being fit. I had made my mind by seventh standard that I will join the defence forces.” Jatav is now posted with the National Disaster Response Force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ex-army-man-inspires-students-to-join-armed-forces/articleshow/77551367.cms||Tushar Tere
August 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Crime review meet ahead of Ganeshotsav||Aurangabad: Ahead of 10-day-long Ganeshotsav followed by Muhararam, a crucial crime review meeting of senior police officers was held at the Aurangabad commissionerate office on Friday. Police personnel have been asked to follow the state directives related to the festival in letter and in spirit. “The recent violence that took place in Bengaluru resulted from a social media post and we have been asked to initiate strict action against anyone trying to flare communal tensions,” said a senior officer present during the meeting. According to police, in the coming days, special vigilance would be maintained on the elements with a track record of flaring communal tension either through their speeches, acts or by social media posts. Instructions have been issued to police to book such people under stringent sections. Commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said, “We are prepared for ensuring peaceful passage of the key festivals such as Ganeshotsav and Muharram. The meeting was held for reviewing the preparations and issuing some additional preventive and precautionary measures to policemen.” Sources present in the meeting said that they have been asked to take every incident, minor or major, on record, alert the higher ups and initiate appropriate action. In accordance to the state norms, none of the Ganesh pandals would be given permission for installing an idol sizing over four feet or to hold plays or any other form of attractions that would attract large crowd. Considering the situation, police have been asked to ensure that social distancing norms are followed during the festivals ahead. “There was also a suggestion by an officer to convince Ganesh mandals to use a portion of the donations for helping the needy or families of the victims of Covid-19,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/crime-review-meet-ahead-of-ganeshotsav/articleshow/77551631.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Court reiterates that CP must register FIR against accused cops||Ludhiana: A local court has dismissed the revision plea of the police personnel allegedly involved in Deepak Shukla death case in which the lower court had asked the commissioner of police (CP) to register an FIR against them. The court of additional sessions judge Arun Kumar Aggarwal said the direction for registration of FIR has been given by the court of additional chief judicial magistrate, Ludhiana and there can be no doubt about its empowerment to do so. Rakesh Shukla, brother of Deepak’s father had said, “While investigating a car theft case, the police had apprehended Deepak on February 15 but on paper had shown his arrest on February 22. On February 15 Preeti was also kept in illegal custody for a whole night and was released the next day when we gave Rs 25,000 to police. They were demanding Rs 1.50 lakh to release Deepak, but we could not arrange. On June 22, the police presented Deepak before court and court sent him on two-day remand in police custody. On February 24, again he was presented before court, and the court ordered his judicial remand till March 9. But instead of sending him to jail, the police kept him in lock up illegally and again tortured him. Deepak was sent to Ludhiana Central Jail on February 25. Next day, my brother Vinod, Deepak’s father, reached jail to meet him. He was shocked to see his condition. He was vomiting blood, was complaining severe pain in legs, which was swollen. The same night Deepak died. But the family was informed on February 27.” “Following our protests, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Jaskaran Singh, constable Mandeep Singh were suspended on March 2, ASI Charanjit Singh on March 3 and station house officer (SHO) Richa on March 5. But as we cremated the body, SHO was reinstated. Then we moved to court to seek justice and get action against cops who tortured Deepak. On March 6, the local court had also ordered Ludhiana CP to lodge FIR against SHO Division number 5, investigating officer ASI Charanjit Singh, ASI Jaskaran Singh and other police officials concerned for violating the orders of the court and for keeping Deepak in illegal custody, despite orders of Judicial remand. However, the police did not lodge the FIR,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/court-reiterates-that-cp-must-register-fir-against-accused-cops/articleshow/77554655.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Nine deaths, 1,900 new corona cases in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Friday reported nine deaths and 1,921 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total tally to 88,396. While the number of active cases in the state stood at 23,438, so far 674 people have succumbed to the virus in the state. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), the hotbed for coronavirus since the last few months, continued to witness less number of infections as only 356 fresh cases were recorded. Medchal-Malkajgri district was next after GHMC with 168 cases, followed by Rangareddy (134), Sangareddy (90), Warangal Urban (74) and 73 each from Nalgonda and Karimnagar. Narayanpet district recorded only six cases. Authorities said out of the 22,046 samples tested in the state, the results of 1,151 are yet to be known.The fatality rate stands at 0.76% in the state compared to the national average of 1.96%. The recovery rate in the state stands at 72.72%, slightly higher than the country’s average of 70.76%. Overall, 16,439 people are under home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/9-deaths-1900-new-corona-cases-in-t/articleshow/77554653.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University’s School of Open Learning warns students against fake calls||NEW DELHI: After students complained of receiving phone calls from unknown numbers claiming that they could edit the online assignments for a fee, Delhi University’s School of Open Learning (SOL) issued a notice on Thursday warning students against the fraudulent practices. The notice, “Beware of Fraudsters”, was issued by the SOL director, US Pandey, read, “It has been brought to our notice that some fraudsters have been approaching the students on behalf of SOL making fraudulent claims and asking for personal details and money to correct errors relating to the Assignment Based Evaluation.” Pandey told TOI that “A student told us that she received calls saying her assignments did not have her parents’ name and other contact details, and that the person will rectify that for a sum of a Rs100. She realised that you do not need parents' name in the paper and refused to interact with him despite his insistence.” He added that the institute had also alerted the police of the incident. The complaint has prompted reactions from DU teachers and students, who had been raising concerns over the possibility of fraud in the OBE exams. Harish Gautam, a final year BA programme student, SOL, said, “Many of our fellow students have got calls from coaching centres promising to write the OBE exam for them. Since the students write these exams from home, there are no checks and balances,” he said. Rajesh Jha, DU’s Executive Council member, said the warning issued by SOL clearly showed how OBE made our students vulnerable to fleecing. “The online OBE seems to have triggered many such ancillary enterprises. There were even questions raised about leakage of personal data of the students. It must be noted that most of the students in SOL are from economically weaker sections. Hence, their gullibility to fall prey to such tricks is very high,” he said. Pandey, meanwhile, informed that the students were asked to write an undertaking that it was they who were attempting the questions. “I am sure many will not resort to the fraudulent means.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sol-warns-students-against-fake-calls/articleshow/77553128.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||President’s police medal awarded||Ahmedabad: Nineteen police officers and police personnel were awarded the President’s Police Medal (PPM) and Police Medal (PM) for meritorious service on the occasion of Independence Day. IPS officer and additional director general of police, Neerja Gotru and wireless police sub-inspector, N V Vaghasia, were awarded PPM while DSP S K Trivedi, DSP V M Jadeja, DSP J S Chavda, DSP S L Chaudhary, DSP Ashutosh Parmar, Armed DSPs L D Rathod, Armed DSP R L Dakhra, Armed DSP PR Sanghani, wireless police sub-inspector Sanjay Kanojiya, unarmed ASI Deepsinh Patel, head constables Bhanu Bharwad, Bharat Mungra, Suresh Nair, Dhirajkumar Parmar, armed head constables Suresh Patel, Suresh Vanzara, Ravindra Ghode were awarded police medal. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/presidents-police-medal-awarded/articleshow/77553116.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Activist demands vigilance inquiry into regularisation applications received by Glada||Ludhiana: A city-based RTI activist has demanded state vigilance department probe into applications received under regularisation policy of 2018. The activist claimed that Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada) has not acted upon these applications, thus passed up an opportunity to bring revenue to the exchequer. In his complaint, activist Rohit Sabharwal claimed that 559 applications were received by Glada under regularisation of illegal colonies policy notified on October 18, 2018. Under this policy, colonies developed before March 19, 2018 were supposed to be considered for regularisation. Out of these 559 applications, 468 applications were from Ludhiana district. He claimed that four months from the date of publication of the policy was provided to submit applications in the prescribed format for compounding of the unauthorised colony. No new applications were supposed to be accepted after four months from the publication of the policy. Further, according to a clause, the applications were supposed to be disposed off within two year from the date of demand notice sent to the respective colonisers by the competent authority. After verifying the facts that colony can be regularised, demand notice should have been sent to the applicants within three months of application. Sabharwal said even after more than one-and-a-half year from the publication of the policy, till dateno action has been taken by the Glada. He demanded a vigilance inquiry and said explanation should be sought from officials. He also claimed that officials should be asked how many colonies are regularised under this policy. The officials should explain how many demand notices are issued and how much amount is pending for recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/activist-demands-vigilance-inquiry-into-regularisation-applications-received-by-glada/articleshow/77554652.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||HC junks plea seeking removal of ‘discrepancy’ in rape law||Hyderabad: Refusing to accede to a request in a PIL, the Telangana high court dismissed it wherein the petitioner wanted the court to direct the Centre and Parliament to remove an alleged discrepancy in the existing law dealing with rape in order to make it more stringent. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy, however, said that th e counsel for the petitioner was free to represent to the Centre highlighting the alleged discrepancy in the existing law. Dominic Fernandes, the counsel who brought the issue to the fore, said the Centre had amended IPC section 376 that deals with rape of a woman, made it more stringent by adding clause 3, but forgot to add this to section 376-A which deals with the issue. Therefore, he said, the law as it reads now is that if someone who is guilty under sub-section (3) of 376 for committing rape on a woman under 16 years and while doing so, causes an injury leading to the death of the victim or to the victim to be in a persistent vegetative state, that person cannot be punished under section 376-A due to the loophole in the law of non-inclusion of sub-section (3) to section 376-A. The petitioner said the error was apparent on the face of the record. The bench was, however, of the view that it cannot step into the shoes of the legislature and that the matter was an academic issue and therefore it has to be taken up with the government and the court was not inclined to interfere. The bench also observed that section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC can be invoked in such cases notwithstanding that it is missing in section 376-A.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-junks-plea-seeking-removal-of-discrepancy-in-rape-law/articleshow/77554650.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Help make country strong and self-reliant: Governor||Hyderabad: Wishing the people of Telangana on the eve of Independence Day, governor Tamilisai Soundararajan called upon the people to make the country strong, secure and self-reliant. “On the happy occasion of the Independence Day, I have great pleasure to convey my greetings to the people of Telangana. Independence Day is a day of remembrance as well as of dedication. Our freedom struggle is the culmination of the sacrifice of generations of selfless patriots,” she said in a statement. The governor said, “We all should bow in remembrance of all those patriots whose sacrifices made it possible for us to enjoy the fruits of freedom.” She also said it was important to follow the guidelines to combat Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/help-make-country-strong-and-self-reliant-governor/articleshow/77554657.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur crosses 10,000 cases, 300 deaths as Aug surge continues||NAGPUR: City on Friday crossed 10,000 Covid-19 positive cases and 300 deaths. Alarmingly, nearly 66% of positive cases and 74% deaths happened in just 14 days of August. On Friday, the city registered 935 positive cases, taking total to 10,658. The city is third in state by population after Mumbai and Pune. Among 27 municipal corporations in the state, city is 11th to cross 10,000-case mark. The city registered 22 Covid-19 positive deaths on Friday taking total to 316. Nagpur is 12th city in state to cross 300 deaths. Mumbai is having 1.28 lakh positive cases and 7,036 deaths followed by Pune- 76,645/1,985, Pimpri-Chinchwad- 32,612/570, Kalyan-Dombivali- 26,685/571, Thane- 23,757/846, Navi Mumbai- 22,011/538, Nashik- 16,738/384, Vasai-Virar- 14,639/390, Aurangabad- 12,116/472 and Mira-Bhayandar- 10,633/354. In deaths, Solapur is ahead of the city. Till end of July, the city was on 15th position but has now surpassed Akola, Bhivandi-Nizampur, Ulhasnagar, Panvel and Solapur in positive cases. The city is first among four municipal corporations in Vidarbha to cross 10,000 positive cases and 300 deaths. Earlier, Akola was ahead. The situation in the city was satisfactory till end of July. There were 485 cases by end of full lockdown on May 31. Central and state governments started easing lockdown from June 1. Cases increased to 1,233 by end of June and to 3,645 by end of July. 7,013 (65.8%) cases were registered in 14 days of August. Total number of positive cases in the district was 14,495 as on Friday which means 3,837 were from Nagpur Rural and other districts. As far as deaths are concerned, there were only two in April followed by eight in May, two in June and 71 in July for a total of 83. In August 233 (73.73%) deaths have been registered so far. Total number of fatalities in the district was 447 on Friday with 73 coming from Nagpur Rural and 58 from other districts. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe told TOI, “Positive cases are on the rise due to violations of Covid-19 guidelines and can be controlled with cooperation from public. Various measures have been implemented to control deaths. A majority of deaths are due to late reporting. Testing has been increased to 4,000 per day and will rise to 5,000 per day. This is being done to identify cases in early stage and give treatment that can prevent death. Citizens should get done test whenever they have any symptom. Testing is being done at 21 centres across the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-crosses-10000-cases-300-deaths-as-aug-surge-continues/articleshow/77553092.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Can city become more bikeable? Corporation wants to know||Coimbatore: Is the city safe and convenient for cycling? What is the biggest challenge while cycling? What’s your take on bicycle sharing?These are some of the questions in the ‘cycling preference survey’ conducted by the city corporation, which has registered for the India Cycles4Change Challenge, an initiative of the smart cities mission and the ministry of housing and urban affairs to inspire and support cities to implement cycling-friendly initiatives in response to Covid-19.Coimbatore is one of the 95 cities that have registered for the challenge. “The survey will be conducted till the end of the month. Survey forms are also posted on our social media platforms including Twitter and Facebook. Based on the response, we will formulate a project,” said a corporation official.The challenge aims to kickstart a cycling revolution across the country, said Sherya Gadepalli, South Asia programme lead of the Institute of Transport and Development Policy (ITDP), the knowledge partner of the challenge. “Through this challenge, cities, citizens and experts will come together to make our cities havens for cycling,” she said.The challenge will run in two stages. In the end of stage one, by October, cities will have to demonstrate pilot projects and develop a scale-up strategy. The pilot project includes creating a cycling-friendly corridor for a minimum of five kilometres and a cycling network in a neighbourhood of 3-5 square kilometre area. Based on pilots and proposals, as many as 11 cities will be shortlisted for stage two. Each city will be awarded Rs 1 crore and assisted by experts to scale-up their initiative. Throughout the workshop, the cities will be guided through online workshops, technical knowledge material and peer-to-peer learning.Citizen collaboration is a key metric for evaluating the proposals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/can-city-become-more-bikeable-corporation-wants-to-know/articleshow/77554660.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rain lashes Jaipur; 4 dead, 2 missing||JAIPUR: Torrential rainfall across Jaipur that lasted for more than six hours created havoc in the city on Friday. Heavy rainfall claimed four lives including a couple and their infant daughter in two separate incidents of drowning. At least 3,000 people living in various low-lying areas of Walled City and outside were rescued and kept at safer places, while at least 50 people received minor injuries due to collapse of dilapidated buildings and houses. Also, two persons went missing and search was on to trace them. According to the police, one jeep carrying six passengers got stuck between heavy flow of water at Kanota Dam near Jamdoli on the city outskirts. “Three persons were rescued by the villagers while three including a couple and their infant daughter were drowned and killed amid heavy flow of water,” said a senior police officer of Kanota police station area. Likewise, body of a man aged around 35 years was found near Kho Nagorian police station area. “He too died of drowning. The efforts are on to identify him,” the officer added. Minor drizzle started at 6am in Jaipur that converted into heavy rainfall by 6.30am. Thereafter till 2pm rainfall of 152.2 mm was recorded by the Jaipur Met office. However, the district collectorate situated observatory recorded a rainfall of 184 mm in the city. “It is highest rainfall in the city after August 2012 when a rainfall of 170mm was recorded,” said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. Quoting the all-time high rainfall record, he said, “We have had a rainfall of 188.4 mm on August 16, 1959 but that was for 24 hours. So, to see if Jaipur has broken this record we will have to see the cumulative rainfall till 8.30 am on Saturday,” Radhey Shyam Sharma, director, Jaipur Met office told TOI. At least six teams of state disaster relief force (SDRF) were pressed into service by Amrita Dohan, superintendent of police, SDRF. “We have rescued more than 100 people across the city with the help of our teams using boats and ropes including railway quarters, Dehar ke Balaji, Kho Nagorian and Ghat Gate areas,” said Lokesh Sonwal, addtional SP, SDRF who was leading one of the team. Due to heavy rainfall the cars, motorbikes were seen floating over heavy flow of water at the MI Road, Chaura Raasta, Chandi Ki Taksal, Chandpole Bazaar, Chaura Raasta. Also, after the reports of heavy flow of water in the low-lying colonies including Jawahar Nagar Kachchi Basti, Ghat Gate, Shastri Nagar situated Bhatta Basti the district administration sent the teams of civil defence. Various shops and their basements were submerged in water. At the Delhi road the traffic remained jammed for almost three hours even after rain stopped due to landslide. In its forecast for Jaipur, the Met office predicted for heavy rainfall in Jaipur on Saturday morning while mild rainfall activity is likely in these districts on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rain-lashes-city-4-dead-2-missing/articleshow/77554658.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kanpur||Family of Sanjeet stages protest march||Kanpur:Family members of Sanjeet Yadav, who was kidnapped and murdered for ransom while the body is yet to be recovered, on Friday headed towards the state capital Lucknow to meet chief minister Yogi Adityanath but were stopped by the police near Barra by-pass in the city. To recall, 28-year-old lab technician Sanjeet Yadav, who was kidnapped in Barra area on June 22, had been murdered by his abductors. According to the police, the kidnappers had dumped his body in the Pandu River. Earlier, Sanjeet’s family had alleged that when he was kidnapped on June 22, they were also asked by the police to arrange a ransom of Rs 30 lakh and hand it over to the kidnappers. They, however, claimed that they threw a bag containing the cash from the top of a flyover as instructed in the presence of police, but the latter could not prevent the kidnappers from escaping with the bag and also failed to get back Sanjeet. The police have arrested five accused including a woman in this connection but all efforts to find Sanjeet’s body have proved futile. Heavy police deployment was made to stop the march as scores of locals joined Sanjeet’s family members. Ruchi, Sanjeet’s sister said, “We want justice and if it is denied, we are going to immolate ourselves.” “Now when the case has been recommended to the CBI, why is there delay in investigation,” questioned Chaman Singh, Sanjeet’s father. He added, “It has been more than 18 days but there is no trace of my son’s body. We want instant CBI inquiry.” The family members and locals staged a road blockade on the highway. Later, SP East Raj Kumar Agarwal and senior district officials along with heavy police rushed to the blockade site and pacified the family members of Sanjeet and locals. “We have received their memorandum and assured them of recommending their demands to senior authorities,” said SP East further. It might be noted that taking serious note of the incident, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had even cracked the whip on lax officials and ordered the suspension ASP Aparna Gupta and the then Circle Officer Manoj Gupta, besides SHO Barra police station Ranjeet Rai and police outpost in-charge Rajesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/family-of-sanjeet-stages-protest-march/articleshow/77554662.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||City’s iconic clock tower gets I-Day makeover for 2 days||Ludhiana: You have two days to catch the historic clock tower in its tri-coloured splendour. According to mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, special LED lights are being used to project tricolour on it. He said the clock tower will be cloaked in the special lighting for the next two days and urged the residents to visit this iconic landmark along with their family members. Also known as ‘Ghant Ghar’, the clock tower is being beautified under the Ludhiana Smart City Mission, said the mayor. The work for the installation of lighting and controllers in the tower is almost complete. The estimated cost of the project is around Rs 63 lakh. The clock tower was constructed by the British in 1906 to commemorate the silver jubilee of Queen Victoria’s reign and it is a prominent landmark of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/citys-iconic-clock-tower-gets-i-day-makeover-for-2-days/articleshow/77554659.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Parbhani village’s water-saving efforts pay off||Aurangabad: A school headmaster’s initiative in the Mandakhali village in Parbhani district has led it towards having sufficient water through the year. The headmaster, Nitin Lodh, inspired village youth to come together and dig weirs, desilt existing water bodies. For the first time in recent years, the village with population of about 5,000 did not call for a tanker during this summer. Earlier, they would depend on 10 water tankers daily. In the past couple of years, four weirs sizing 300 meters long, 30 feet wide and 25 feet deep have been dug on the four sides of the village, boosting the water table of the entire village and surrounding areas. With considerable rainfall this year, some of the farm wells that used to run dry during summers, not only yielded sufficient water, but are currently full up to brim. Farmer Ishwar Bhagwan Dolse said that due to these weirs, all borewells as well as farm wells have been naturally recharged and are confident of carrying taking three crops a year, instead of one or two. When Meghna Bordikar Sakore, wife of an IPS officer serving in the state, heard about the initiative, she joined in. She purchased an excavator and handed it to the villagers for carrying out the excavation work. She is now MLA from Jintu-Selu assembly constituency of Parbhani district. “For an agro-based economy like ours, overcoming water crisis is the key to prosperity. I decided to join the movement so that it inspires others for taking small steps instead of completely depending on the state or administration,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/parbhani-villages-water-saving-efforts-pay-off/articleshow/77551658.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 15, 2020||Surat||795 shifted in three talukas||Surat: Around 795 people from villages of Bardoli, Mangrol and Palsana talukas were also shifted to safer locations. Mangrol taluka was lashed by 190 mm rainfall in 10 hours on Friday, forcing the shifting of 159 people. SMC’s fire brigade rescued 15 people from Kumbhariya and Saniya Hemad villages of Choryasi taluka. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/795-shifted-in-three-talukas/articleshow/77551663.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Mangaluru||MLA urges home minister to release funds for Kankanady Town PS||Mangaluru: Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath on Wednesday urged the home minister Basavaraj Bommai to sanction funds to complete the stalled construction work on the Kankanady Town police station. Home department has sanctioned Rs 10 lakh for construction of the new police station and Dakshina Kannada Nirmithi Kendra has been entrusted the task of constructing this two-storey structure, the MLA told the minister. The new police station is being constructed close to the police quarters of erstwhile Mangaluru rural police station at Bikarnakatte on the Bikarnakatte-Padil junction bypass road. Initiated by then city police chief S Murugan, the project subsequently got delayed due to lack of funds, said the MLA. “There is an urgent need of at least Rs 25 lakh to complete the building,” Kamath added, urging Bommai to release the same. Kankanady Town police station is presently functioning from a rented building at Padil and the building often leaks during the monsoon making it difficult for the police to protect their records, he said. Lack of space, including a parking area, is another area of concern for the staff as well as visitors, the MLA said. City police chief Vikash Kumar Vikash exuded confidence that the home department will sanction funds for the Kankanady town police station building following the plea by the MLA. “We know and can understand the priority of the government during the pandemic is the health of the general population,” Vikash told TOI, adding that as the situation improves, efforts will be made to house all police stations in their own buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mla-urges-home-minister-to-release-funds-for-kankanady-town-ps/articleshow/77551638.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||BSE joins hands with i-Hub||Ahmedabad: Leading stock exchange BSE on Friday announced that it has joined hands with Gujarat Student Startup and Innovation Hub (i-Hub) a Gujarat government initiative, to encourage and support startups in raising capital. i-Hub is an incubation set up under the Student Startup Innovation Policy (SSIP) by the state education department. It focuses on developing startups as the catalyzers of economic growth in the state by providing them a conducive eco-system. “One of the challenges startups face is the limited access to finance, which increases their dependence on debt capital resulting in distorted capital structures and stifled cash flows. Through this association with i-Hub, we can offer a favourable ecosystem for the startups to raise capital and succeed,” said Ashishkumar Chauhan, MD & CEO, BSE. As part of the memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed by BSE, the bourse will also help startups in terms of gaining visibility, branding, credibility and unlocking value. “We are committed to work towards the development of the student startups and the collaboration with BSE will further help the startups to raise the capital from the dedicated startup platform of BSE,” said Anju Sharma, principal secretary, higher and technical education department. “This partnership will enable us to reach out to more startups,” added Ajay Thakur, head, BSE SME and startups.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bse-joins-hands-with-i-hub/articleshow/77553133.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Orphanage rape: Autopsy report crucial to case||HYDERABAD: The autopsy report of the 14-year-old sexual assault victim, who died while undergoing treatment at Niloufer Hospital on Wednesday, will be crucial in ascertaining the exact cause of her death, said cops and officials from the state women and child welfare department (WCWD). “The girl hardly had any close relative. The brother-in-law had beaten her up during the lockdown; there were visible injuries on her body. She had a blood clot in her brain and urinary tract infection. She was on a ventilator on August 10 after she collapsed,” said a senior official from WCWD. While TOI caught up with the girl’s aunt on Friday, she said that the victim had suffered an injury on her head from the orphanage. Showing the girl’s photograph from a year ago, her aunt, living in Bowenpally limits said, “She was a bright and happy child when I met her last year.” Scrolling down on the phone gallery to pull out a recent picture, the aunt added: “She was unusually quiet and weak when we got her on July 28. She had an injury on her head and walked with her legs apart.”  “She said she would be sent into a room in the hostel to a person named Venugopal. After having the juice he offered, she would feel dizzy and sleep off. Later her friends would come to wake her up and ask her to wear clothes. I cried all night after listening to this,” the aunt added. The girl gave a six-hour-long statement at Bharosa centre after the incident was brought to light. “She gave a detailed statement and did not shed any tears. In the Bharosa centre when they got medical examination done, the doctor confirmed she was assaulted,” said the aunt. Patencheru police have added Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Atrocities and murder charges against the rape offenders. “We are waiting for PME report. Accordingly, action will be taken,” said Patancheru DSP R Rajeswara Rao. The prime accused, Venugopal a pharma firm employee and other two offenders from Maruthi Homes are lodged in Sangareddy jail. It was the victim’s aunt who first found out about the assault when she grew suspicious and pressed the victim to talk. That’s when the teenager revealed the incident (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/orphanage-rape-autopsy-report-crucial-to-case/articleshow/77554664.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Careless disposal of masks and gloves a threat to health, say experts||VISAKHAPATNAM: With masks and gloves becoming part of everyday life, the often careless disposal of these equipment has drawn the attention of health experts, who say that the correct way to wear as well as dispose these items is also crucial in preventing the spread of Covid-19 and other communicable diseases. Chief medical officer (CMO) of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), Dr KSLG Sastry said, “In hospitals and quarantine centres, masks and gloves are collected in yellow bags as biomedical waste and are given to Maridi Industries with whom we have a tie up for collecting hospital waste in the city. The public in residential areas or colonies should not directly throw masks and gloves in garbage bins either in their apartment or in roadside bins. People should wrap them in a paper or plastic cover and place them in waste collection bins for sanitary workers to take them away.” Stating that used masks and gloves may be contaminated, doctors said masks should be removed gently by lifting the ties or strings. One should not touch the eyes, nose or mouth after removing the mask and gloves and hands must be thoroughly and immediately washed after removing the protective equipment. Speaking to TOI about the correct usage of masks, respiratory disease specialist and pulmonologist at Government ESI Hospital Dr Phanender Ketha said, “Firstly, tying a cloth or cloth masks are not of use against the virus, three-layered surgical masks are effective. While driving a car with a healthy person or family member, wearing masks is not required. Activities like needless talking, laughing or singing should be avoided while wearing masks to reduce the risk of droplet transmission.” Special officer for Covid-19 Dr PV Sudhakar said, “A pair of gloves can be used only for a single purpose or task and has to be disposed off correctly. But public is unaware and are wearing it throughout the day, visiting various places and handling various objects. They are not washing or sanitising their hands, thinking wearing gloves will ensure safety.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/careless-disposal-of-masks-and-gloves-a-threat-to-health-experts/articleshow/77553130.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 15, 2020||Kanpur||Family of Sanjeet marches to meet CM, stopped by police||Kanpur:Family members of Sanjeet Yadav, who was kidnapped and murdered for ransom while the body is yet to be recovered, on Friday headed towards the state capital Lucknow to meet chief minister Yogi Adityanath but were stopped by the police near Barra by-pass in the city. To recall, 28-year-old lab technician Sanjeet Yadav, who was kidnapped in Barra area on June 22, had been murdered by his abductors. According to the police, the kidnappers had dumped his body in the Pandu River. Earlier, Sanjeet’s family had alleged that when he was kidnapped on June 22, they were also asked by the police to arrange a ransom of Rs 30 lakh and hand it over to the kidnappers. They, however, claimed that they threw a bag containing the cash from the top of a flyover as instructed in the presence of police, but the latter could not prevent the kidnappers from escaping with the bag and also failed to get back Sanjeet. The police have arrested five accused including a woman in this connection but all efforts to find Sanjeet’s body have proved futile. Heavy police deployment was made to stop the march as scores of locals joined Sanjeet’s family members. Ruchi, Sanjeet’s sister said, “We want justice and if it is denied, we are going to immolate ourselves.” “Now when the case has been recommended to the CBI, why is there delay in investigation,” questioned Chaman Singh, Sanjeet’s father. He added, “It has been more than 18 days but there is no trace of my son’s body. We want instant CBI inquiry.” The family members and locals staged a road blockade on the highway. Later, SP East Raj Kumar Agarwal and senior district officials along with heavy police rushed to the blockade site and pacified the family members of Sanjeet and locals. “We have received their memorandum and assured them of recommending their demands to senior authorities,” said SP East further. It might be noted that taking serious note of the incident, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had even cracked the whip on lax officials and ordered the suspension ASP Aparna Gupta and the then Circle Officer Manoj Gupta, besides SHO Barra police station Ranjeet Rai and police outpost in-charge Rajesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/family-of-sanjeet-marches-to-meet-cm-stopped-by-police/articleshow/77554663.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Bizmen hail contactless IT assessment initiative||Ludhiana: The new scheme launched by the central government, under which income tax assessment will be made completely contactless, is being hailed by businessmen and tax professionals. As there will be no physical meetings between taxpayers and the department, tax professionals said the scheme will also ensure that honest taxpayers are not harassed by corrupt officials. Under the scheme, scheme the assessment is done through data analytics and artificial intelligence. Ashok Juneja, chairman of Punjab Tax Bar Association, said, “The new policy and guidelines to implement faceless assessments will certainly increase the number of assessees and revenue. Assessees will file higher income returns fearlessly. In the cases of serious frauds, black money, benami, search and seizure matters, action will be taken by field officers belonging to investigation and TDS wings, that too with the approval of chief commissioner or above ranking officials. So all in all this will increase the confidence of assessees and they will work fearlessly.” Juneja also added that the tax payers should also be truthful about their income. “Since technology, data analytics and artificial intelligence will be the key drivers, it will ease compliance burden and will provide more certainty and bring in fair system, while removing physical interface between tax department and tax payer.” According to Rakesh Kapoor, auto parts manufacturer, “By implementing faceless assessment, the Modi government has proved that it is the most business friendly government ever. The new initiative will rule out any kind of harassment of the honest tax payers. It will make sure that assessments take place only through automatic system of data analytics and artificial intelligence and not according to whims and fancies of officers.” Nitin Sharma, a member of auto parts manufacturers’ association, said, “We welcome the faceless assessment initiative of the central government as now there will be no unnecessary physical interface with officials nor the need to visit the income tax department unnecessarily, which is very crucial for the safety of everyone particularly in the wake Covid-19 pandemic. Further, this will also make the system transparent and only those will be assessed who are really at some kind of fault.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bizmen-hail-contactless-it-assessment-initiative/articleshow/77554667.cms||Mohit Behl
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Youngsters surprise corona warriors on I-Day eve||Ludhiana: It was a moment of glory for the city, as corona warriors — police and health workers — were felicitated by the youth on the eve of the Independence Day for tirelessly working round the clock during the crisis. They distributed flowers, chocolates and t-shirts to the corona warriors as a token of appreciation. The police at Vishkwarma Chowk police station was surprised by the warm gesture of a 22-year-old video director Pulkit Setia P K. Setia said, “As the entire country is witnessing the unprecedented times, it is the corona warriors who tirelessly work to save our lives. They deserve to be honoured, especially on Independence Day. Assisstant sub-inspector (ASI) Binder Singh, one of the warriors who was honoured, said, “I am really happy to see that youngsters are acknowledging and appreciating our efforts, which is helping us in boosting our confidence.” Another 22-year-old youth, Jai Makkar, distributed 50 t-shirts among the corona warriors at different parts of the city, including Model Town, Dugri and Shastri Nagar. Makkar said, “During the lockdown, I used to watch police and cleanliness workers from the roof of my house. While people were locked inside their houses, cleanliness workers were on roads cleaning them and maintaining hygiene. So I decided to honour them by distributing t-shirts. I want to thank these real super heroes who are taking care of the city.” While distributing the chocolates among traffic policemen, Tisha Jain, who runs a home-based bakery in Dashmesh Nagar, said, “Despite our city witnessing a spike in corona cases, our corona warriors are giving their best every day. I wish for health and long lives for our heroes who are involved in the fight. I believe Independence Day is a perfect time when I can show my gratitude towards our warriors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/youngsters-surprise-corona-warriors-on-i-day-eve/articleshow/77554675.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Slums in low-lying areas inundated||Jaipur: Heavy rainfall on Friday wreaked havoc at the low-lying areas in Jaipur, with flood-like situation at many places. Hundreds of people were rescued from Jawahar Nagar slums, Bhatta Basti and Galta Gate. However, residents of the slums claimed that they were not provided with alternate places to stay at, nor were they provided food by the administration. Around 150 people were rescued from tila no. 6 of Jawahar Nagar slum area as the entire area was inundated. The slum is situated on a hill and people have constructed illegal houses in deep areas. Due to this, their houses got submerged in water. People waited on the hill or rooftops for the rescue teams to arrive. Bhaag Chand, a resident of the Jawahar Nagar slum area said, “We have been sitting outside our houses since Friday morning and waiting for the water to recede. Although rescue teams arrived, but they didn’t put any mud pumps to pump out the water from the slum.” Women and children were sent to their relatives’ houses or took shelter on roadsides. People did not leave the area as they were worried about their belongings kept inside their houses. Chagan Lal, from tila no. 2 said that they had been waiting for the government supplies. “We have been waiting since morning but no help has arrived. Water is still there in our area and people have no other place to go. Whatever money we had in our pockets we used it to purchase some snacks from the nearby shops,” said Chagan Lal. When TOI contacted district administration, they denied the allegations and said people were provided with shelter in nearby schools. “This is incorrect and wherever we got information, we sent people to government schools and community centres. We made arrangements for food and necessary supplies as well,” said a senior official anonymously. Similar situation was seen in many other low-lying areas. Boats were sent in Galta Gate to rescue people as the water level was very high and many people were stranded on their rooftops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/slums-in-low-lying-areas-inundated/articleshow/77554680.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Massia conducts antigen tests||Aurangabad: The Marathwada Association of Small Scale Industries and Agriculture (MASSIA) has conducted antigen tests in the industrial area on Thursday to help check the spread of the infection. The entrepreneurs and their staff got themselves registered. As many as 317 people were tested, of which four tested positive for Covid-19. They were immediately shifted to the Covid-19 treatment centres. The antigen test drive was organised in association with the Chamber Of Marathwada Industries & Agricutural (CMIA) and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) for workers, entrepreneurs and other staff at the industrial area following the directions from the divisional commissionerate and the collectorate, said Sumit Malani, a MASSIA office bearer. While testing every precaution like social distancing and the use of masks and sanitisers were ensured, he added. NGOs, including community policing, Arunima Foundation, the Selfless Helping Hands and the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, organised a camp at Fakirwadi to distribute arsenic album- 30, a homeopathy medicine, among the 2,000 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/massia-conducts-antigen-tests/articleshow/77551664.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Chinese held for gambling fraud tried to flee via France||HYDERABAD: The arrested Chinese national Yah Hao -- the South East Asia operations head of Beijing T Power Company based in China -- who was arrested in an international gambling racket on Thursday, almost took a flight to France, after he got wind that cops might be on the lookout for him, said officials investigating the case. This was after his company’s Indian bank accounts were frozen by police. “Since there are no direct flights to China due to the coronavirus pandemic situation, he first tried to go to France. From there he could have returned to China. He was nabbed at Delhi airport. He has been in India from January 2020,” investigators who are probing the gambling case, told TOI. The cops are on the lookout for another key accused, Hemant, who is absconding. Meanwhile, on Friday, three of the four accused nabbed in the Rs 1,100-crore gambling racket -- Yah Hao, Dheeraj Sarkar and Ankit Kapoor -- were sent to Chanchalguda prison for 14 days judicial remand, while the other accused, Neeraj Tuli, was served to reappear for investigation. Also, a day after Hyderabad police busted the racket, central agencies like Income Tax and Enforcement Directorate, contacted the police to share details of their investigation, before they too can start probe against the various Chinese firms operating under Beijing T Power Company. When police had started their investigation based on the accounts where the two Hyderabad-based victims transferred their money, the officials found that the Indian bank accounts of these companies in Delhi were opened in the names of their Indian employees. “When the accounts were opened, Know Your Customer (KYC) formalities were completed by bank authorities based on the documents given by the Indian employees of these Chinese companies. After some time, these employees were terminated and the bank accounts were being operated only by higher ranking Chinese nationals of these Chinese companies, who used to electronically transfer the money from Indian accounts to their overseas accounts, including those in China,” a senior police official from Hyderabad said. Officials said that based on some details that have come to light, they strongly suspect that these Chinese companies had started offering different mobile applications as a replacement to some of the popular China-based companies’ applications, which were banned by the Union government following the recent India-China standoff on the border. When the Chinese national and three other directors were arrested and produced in a local court in Delhi, their legal team immediately swung into action to oppose it. The police are gearing up to call the authorities of payment service providers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chinese-held-for-gambling-fraud-tried-to-flee-via-france/articleshow/77554693.cms||Srinath Vudali
August 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Recoveries outpace active cases in AP||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 8,943 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 2,73,085. The toll increased to 2,475 as 97 more people succumbed to the disease. About 9,700 people were declared cured in the last 24 hours, outnumbering fresh cases. There are currently 89,907 active cases with 1,80,703 recoveries and 2,475 deaths. This translates to a recovery rate of 66 per cent. Of the 97 deaths, 12 are from Kurnool, 10 each from East Godavari, Chittoor, Guntur, West Godavari and Nellore, six each from Anantapur, Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam, Prakasam and Kadapa, three from Vizianagaram, and two from Krishna. East Godavari reported 1,146 Covid-19 cases on Friday, followed by Chittoor (987), Kurnool (956) and Visakhapatnam (885). Prakasam, which was once classified as ‘red zone’ by the Union government, has become the latest district in the state to cross 10,000 cases, while Kadapa has now crossed the century mark in deaths. About 78 per cent patients recovered from the disease in Anantapur district, while the recovery rate is still below 60 per cent in East Godavari. Andhra Pradesh continues to remain on top in terms of testing the highest number of people per every one million population. The state conducted 27.5 lakh tests as of Friday, translating into testing 51,657 people per every million population, followed by Tamil Nadu (45,445). The state’s positivity rate has shot up to 9.9% against the national average of 8.88%. While the case positivity rate of Tamil Nadu stands at 9.15%, it’s 18.79% in Maharashtra and 12.55% in Telangana. Karnataka has a case positivity rate of 10.80%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/recoveries-outpace-active-cases-in-state/articleshow/77553160.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: High-mast towers, illegal buildings near airport to be razed||LUCKNOW: Illegal buildings, high-mast towers and chimneys in proximity to Amausi airport will be identified and pulled down and tall trees along Lucknow-Kanpur highway near the runaway will be trimmed to half as part of efforts to provide safe airspace during take-off or touchdown. A committee led by Lucknow divisional commissioner Mukesh Kumar Mesharam took this decision on Friday as part of emergency safety measures to avert a Kozhikode crash rerun at Amausi. Mesharam issued the orders after a meeting of Aerodrome Environment Management with Airports Authority of India (AAI) director A K Sharma, district forest officer Ravi Kumar, municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi and deputy general manager, air traffic control, Saurabh Saran. Besides demolition of illegal buildings, high-mast towers and chimneys around Amausi airport, the order stated that without a no-objection certificate from Lucknow Development Authority and AAI, no construction would be allowed in red zone area in the colour-coded zoning map. Also, a committee would be set up to create awareness among people and install hoardings cautioning against land purchase or developing residential society or plotting in the area. The committee also took a decision to ensure stray cattle or canines don’t venture into airport premises. Tall trees along Kanpur highway would be trimmed to provide clear view of airspace, the order stated. Talking to TOI, Mesharam said, “Residents and government departments will be told to plant short-height trees around the airport. All high-mast poles and buildings will be pulled down. No high-rises or towers will be allowed without NoC near Bijnor Road, Shanti Nagar. Mobile towers near airport will be penalised if they operate without warning lights.” “To avoid bird hits, water bodies near runaway will be cleared. Civic authorities have been asked to hammer out a permanent solution to avoid waterlogging in areas near the airport, including Chilawa village, where markets are held thrice a week. Such water bodies draw birds,” he said. Recently, an Air India Express flight had crashed, dropping into a gorge in Calicut , killing 18 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/high-mast-towers-illegal-bldgs-near-airport-to-be-razed/articleshow/77555222.cms||Arvind Chauhan
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad man to provide free food to 900 Covid-affected families||HYDERABAD: This Independence Day, as many as 900 underprivileged families where the breadwinner has been quarantined due to Covid-19 will get free food at their doorstep everyday, until the person is fit to work again. The effort is being taken by a 22-year-old entrepreneur, Prasanna Kumar, who is set to help people tide over the crisis. What began as a small initiative in 2018 where he was paying school fees for underprivileged children, soon expanded to helping people during the lockdown as businesses shut and now families that are affected by Covid-19. “We decided to support Covid-19 affected families where either the breadwinner of the family or someone who takes care of daily meals is quarantined. We will be giving dry ration or hot meals twice a day to these families every day,” said Kumar. He has set up two food distribution centers – Malkajgiri and Miyapur – to reach out to people. The young lad, who is an engineering drop-out and has had two failed attempts at entrepreneurship in the past, is determined to bring a change with his work. He took to Twitter to announce his plan on August 10, where he said he will provide free food to 400 Covid-19 affected families near Hyderabad. The tweet soon gathered steam as more than 2,000 people reposted it. “After putting out the tweet, I received several calls. While some tried to verify the post, many others sought help. Following overwhelming response to my tweet, I decided to increase the number of families from 400 to 900,” said Kumar. He claims to have spent close to Rs 12 lakh in the last five months from his pocket and is set to spend another Rs 25-30 lakh towards this new initiative being launched on the Independence Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-man-to-provide-free-food-to-900-covid-affected-families/articleshow/77554707.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Window panes of minority community hall stoned||Mangaluru: Close on the heels of Bengaluru riots, some miscreants hurled stones and damaged the window panes of Maulana Azad Community Hall at Pandeshwar on Thursday night. City police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash and others visited the spot. Vikash told TOI that the incident may have taken place on Thursday night, and came to light only on Friday morning when the hall staff arrived for work. Investigation has started following a complaint by an official of the minority welfare department, and police are checking CCTV footage to find clues on the miscreants. A case has been registered at Mangaluru south police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/window-panes-of-minority-community-hall-stoned/articleshow/77551675.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Coimbatore||Independence Day: Security heightened at Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The city police will deploy 950 police personnel in view of the Independence Day celebration on Saturday. The celebration will be held at the VOC Park ground here at 8.50am. Coimbatore collector K Rajamani will hoist the national flag and accept the guard of honour. The city police had taken over the VOC Park ground five days ago. Sniffer dog Sindhu was pressed into service on Friday evening and a bomb detection and disposal squad checked the ground. Cultural programmes conducted by school and college students will not be held this year. Public won’t be allowed to participate in the celebration, during which a section of Covid-19 frontline workers will be honoured by the collector. “As many as 50 bureaucrats will participate in the celebration,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/security-stepped-up-ahead-of-i-day/articleshow/77554686.cms||A Subburaj
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Hospital staff celebrate corona patient’s birthday||Ludhiana: Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) celebrated the birthday of a patient in Covid-19 ward of the hospital recently and also helped her have online celebrations of the day with her family. A CMCH spokesperson said a 52-year-old woman from Ludhiana was admitted to the hospital with fever and breathing difficulty in the Covid-19 ward on the August 1. He added that the patient was desaturating and the blood oxygen level was very low. According to Dr Vikas Loomba, the doctor who is treating her, Dr William Bhatti, director of CMCH, Dr Anil Luther, medical superintendent, she was immediately put on a non-invasive ventilator. They added that now the patient is improving and she is on low-flow oxygen. “The hospital staff took the initiative to celebrate her birthday in the Covid ward by cutting the cake. She also interacted with her family over internet,” said CMCH spokesperson. According to the management of CMCH, this is also to send a message to the public that we should not be worried and afraid of Covid-19. “Just take all precautions to prevent it but do not fear it,” said the management team. “I am grateful to the administration, doctors, and staff of CMC for all the love and care. I am sharing my story so that it can motivate other patients during such tiring times. If someone falls prey to this virus, they should immediately seek medical advice and act accordingly. Don’t delay unnecessarily and follow the protocol laid down by the government. I am away from my family, but on my birthday the hospital staff showed me their love and care,” said the patient. Dr Bhatti appealed to the public to keep the morale high and remember god in this pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hospital-staff-celebrate-corona-patients-birthday/articleshow/77554694.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Ludh rly officials to be honoured as corona warriors||Ludhiana: Eight officials of Ludhiana railway station have been nominated for corona warrior awards as part of 74th Independence Day celebrations, for their exemplary service in managing the huge rush of labourers who left in more than 200 Shramik trains during the lockdown. They have been invited to the Ferozepur railway station to receive the award on August 15. Anil Kumar, one of the nominees, said “it was a tough time and several officials were infected while performing their duties, but we did what we had to, to ensure smooth functioning of the special trains.” The officials are Anil Kumar (in-charge of check post of Ludhiana railway station) Pawan Kumar (head constable of Railway Protection Force), Sunil Bajaj (ticket travelling inspector), Jaswinder Ratti(ticket travelling inspector), Rama Kant (technician), Gorakh Ram (scout and guide) and Rupesh Kumar (senior technician). Ludhiana railway station director Tarun Kumar said, “It has been a proud moment for local railway authorities of the city station that eight of our local officials from different departments have been nominated for corona warrior awards for their extraordinary courage during the tough time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ludh-rly-officials-to-be-honoured-as-corona-warriors/articleshow/77554684.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Corporator’s husband among 60 more held||BENGALURU: Police on Friday announced the arrest of 60 more men for their alleged involvement in the violence that erupted on Tuesday night at KG Halli, Kavalbyrasandra and DJ Halli areas in east Bengaluru. So far, a total 206 suspects have been arrested and 22 separate FIRs have been registered. Three men were killed after police opened fire on mobs that were on a rampage over a Facebook post that offended a community. Among those arrested on Friday are Kaleem Pasha, husband of Congress corporator from Nagawara ward Irshad Begum; Fairoz Pasha, a Civil Defence cadet and Fairoz Khan, leader of Tipu Army. Fairoz Pasha is a resident of KG Halli and Khan is from RT Nagar. “Pasha joined Civil Defence in 2018 and was the leader of KG Halli cadets,” an investigating officer said. “Being a local, he had ample knowledge of roads, lanes and other details of KG Halli. He has been trained to face emergencies like fire mishaps and flood. Our investigations show he played a vital role in blocking roads and preventing police from taking control of the situation or augmenting forces. More details will emerge as the investigation progresses.” Another senior officer said, given the development, antecedents of those wanting to join Civil Defence will be checked before they are recruited. “Only after the candidate gets a no-objection certificate from the local police station, s/he will be recruited to the force. Pasha too has an NOC and has no criminal antecedents,” KG Halli police said. An officer went on to say, “Tipu Army came into existence in 2015 and Fairoz Khan is a frontline leader. He was involved in many protests held in connection to Tipu Jayanti celebrations. He also has played a vital role in organizing a chain of protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act.”  As many as 84 of the accused arrested in connection with Tuesday night’s violence were shifted to Ballari prison in the wee hours of Friday. The accused were shifted in four KSRTC buses and twice subjected to Covid-19 test — before the journey and after reaching the destination. “Some of the accused are in police custody as we need to question them. A few have been released on conditional bail,” a senior police officer said.  Bengaluru city police have filed 22 separate FIRs in connection with the mob violence. These FIRs were registered by different people including an inspector and sub-inspectors attached to KG Halli and DJ Halli police stations, sleuths from Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) and members of the public. Most of the FIRs say the mobs had planned to lynch Naveen and destruction was their common agenda. “When we blocked them, the mob shouted, police are protecting him; so let’s first kill these policemen. Then, the mob ruthlessly attacked us. They beat us up, snatched our equipment and set vehicles on fire,” the FIRs stated.  An FIR filed by a KSRP officer confirmed that a total 38 rounds were fired to quell the mob that gathered outside DJ Halli and KG Halli police stations. Bullet marks were visible on shop shutters, walls of residences surrounding these police stations and on parked vehicles. As part of investigation procedure, police number these marks and by Friday evening, around 20 marks were found and numbered. “The remaining 18 bullets were shot in the air and hence no marks were left,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/civil-defence-cadet-corpoators-husband-among-60-more-held/articleshow/77552421.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||RWAs criticise LMA’s move to shut 13 roads||Secunderabad: Even as the city is gearing up to celebrate the Independence Day, commuters of about 200 to 250 residential colonies are put to inconvenience as 13 civilian roads were shut since 4 am on Friday. The RWAs abutting AOC circle and North Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad are criticising the LMA’s move. “Commuters are forced to travel at least five to eight kilometres more to reach their destination,” said an RWA member. Residency Road, Hislop Road, Amherst Road, Gurbaksh Marg, Rajendra Singhji Road, Lake Line Ranges Road, Barr Road, Yapral Road, Gough Road, Wellington Road, AOC R, Mornington Road and Entrenchment Road have been shut. Commuters of about 200 to 250 residential colonies are put to inconvenience as 13 civilian roads were shut since 4 am on Friday. LMA shut these roads in view of I- Day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-criticise-lmas-move-to-shut-13-roads/articleshow/77554712.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Fifth spell brings heavy showers to south-east Raj||Jaipur: Heavy rainfall was witnessed at many places in the state which guided the mercury to take a dip. Jaipur witnessed a rainfall of 152mm, which was the highest in the state on Friday. Many other places in the districts, including Baran, Dausa, Sawai Madhopur, Bundi and Karauli, also witnessed heavy rainfall. Since the monsoon trough was passing through Jaipur and Bikaner on Friday, heavy to very heavy rainfall was witnessed in Jaipur. It created a flood-like situation in some parts of the city. Jaipur was followed by Shahbad (Baran) where a rainfall of 127mm was recorded, Dausa 124mm, Karauli 101mm, Lalsot (Dausa) 98mm, Bamanwas (Sawai Madhopur) 76mm and Patan (Bundi) recorded a rainfall of 58mm. Many places in the state witnessed a rainfall varying from 10mm to 40mm. Jaipur Met office said the ongoing fifth spell of rainfall has brought good amount of widespread rainfall activity in the state. "There has been a significant rise in rainfall activity across the state since last Monday. Many districts in eastern and southern parts of Rajasthan witnessed heavy to very heavy rainfall. We are hopeful that this amount of rainfall can let many districts to be out of deficit category. Also, the ongoing climatic conditions, including upper air cyclonic circulation is indicating that we will have good spells of monsoon till August 28," said a senior officer of Jaipur Met office. Heavy rainfall also elevated the water level at Bisalpur dam. "It was at 312.72 RL/metre which has now reached at 312.97 RL/metre against the full capacity of 315 RL/metre," said an engineer at the dam. Likewise, Ramgarh dam on the outskirts of Jaipur hardly gets water due to encroachments, still it received some rain fed water in the evening. "It is not very satisfactory to be termed as filling, but yes some water was seen in the dam after a long time," said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fifth-spell-brings-heavy-showers-to-south-east-raj/articleshow/77554719.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Mysuru||Youngster who placed SDPI flag on statue was drunk: Chikkamagaluru SP||CHIKKAMAGALURU: Chikkamagaluru SP HA Machindra on Friday said the youth who had placed an SDPI flag over the statue of Shankaracharya in Sringeri on Thursday was drunk. Police arrested Milind Manohar in connection with the case. He got the banner from a nearby mosque and threw it on a statue under the influence of alcohol, cops probing the incident said on Friday. " We have got information from a nearby masjid that two Eid Milad banners are missing from the place. We accessed CCTV footage from the masjid. A person entered the masjid and came out with the banners," said an officer. Milind (28) is from Beelagadde village near Sringeri town. He was drinking atthe bar near the main bus stand. "When it started raining, he went inside the masjid. Initially, he planned to use the banners to sleep on in the bus stand. Then he changed his mind and flung it on the statue," added the cop who is involved in the investigation. The accused has been hospitalised and is unaware of the gravity of the incident." He is an old offender in few theft cases," the added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/youngster-who-placed-sdpi-flag-on-statue-was-drunk-chikkamagaluru-sp/articleshow/77555121.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Supernumerary seats at AU for martyrs’ widows, wards||Visakhapatnam: In a bid to honour martyrs and be of help to their families, Andhra University (AU) is planning to create some supernumerary quota seats for kin (widows and wards) of defence personnel who have sacrificed their lives in battle, including paramilitary and other allied forces. AU officials informed that two PhD seats and five postgraduate and undergraduate seats will be earmarked for kin of deceased defence personnel. Families from across the country can stake claim to these seats. Speaking to TOI, Andhra University vice-chancellor Prof PVGD Prasad Reddy said that the five seats in the UG/PG programmes at constituent colleges are proposed to be rotated among departments year on year as a supernumerary quota, based on requirements of applicants. “A 50% discount in fee has been proposed for these seats for courses in the self-financing model,” he added. The AU vice-chancellor further said that the varsity’s initiative to reach out to the armed forces under ‘AU-Defence Joint Education Programme’ has yielded a number of distinctive memoranda of understanding between the armed forces and AU. The university also started a ‘Centre for Defence Studies’ in December 2017. Aside from offering academic programmes, AU is actively involved in defence-based research. The National Cyber Safety and Security Standards (NCSSS) has recently accredited AU’s Centre for Defence Studies as a resource centre for national cyber security standards. Further, the university has recently introduced an MSc degree course in Defence Strategic Studies and Management of International Relations as well as a two-year postgraduate diploma programme in human resource management for defence personnel through Centre for Defence Studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/supernumerary-seats-at-au-for-martyrs-widows-wards/articleshow/77553222.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 15, 2020||Kanpur||Family of Sanjeet Yadavmarches to meet CM, stopped by police||KANPUR: Family members of Sanjeet Yadav, who was kidnapped and murdered for ransom while the body is yet to be recovered, on Friday headed towards the state capital Lucknow to meet chief minister Yogi Adityanath but were stopped by the police near Barra by-pass in the city. To recall, 28-year-old lab technician Sanjeet Yadav, who was kidnapped in Barra area on June 22, had been murdered by his abductors. According to the police, the kidnappers had dumped his body in the Pandu River. Earlier, Sanjeet’s family had alleged that when he was kidnapped on June 22, they were also asked by the police to arrange a ransom of Rs 30 lakh and hand it over to the kidnappers. They, however, claimed that they threw a bag containing the cash from the top of a flyover as instructed in the presence of police, but the latter could not prevent the kidnappers from escaping with the bag and also failed to get back Sanjeet. The police have arrested five accused including a woman in this connection but all efforts to find Sanjeet’s body have proved futile. Heavy police deployment was made to stop the march as scores of locals joined Sanjeet’s family members. Ruchi, Sanjeet’s sister said, “We want justice and if it is denied, we are going to immolate ourselves.” “Now when the case has been recommended to the CBI, why is there delay in investigation,” questioned Chaman Singh, Sanjeet’s father. He added, “It has been more than 18 days but there is no trace of my son’s body. We want instant CBI inquiry.” The family members and locals staged a road blockade on the highway. Later, SP East Raj Kumar Agarwal and senior district officials along with heavy police rushed to the blockade site and pacified the family members of Sanjeet and locals. “We have received their memorandum and assured them of recommending their demands to senior authorities,” said SP East further. It might be noted that taking serious note of the incident, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had even cracked the whip on lax officials and ordered the suspension ASP Aparna Gupta and the then Circle Officer Manoj Gupta, besides SHO Barra police station Ranjeet Rai and police outpost in-charge Rajesh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/family-of-sanjeet-marches-to-meet-cm-stopped-by-police/articleshow/77554700.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Plasma donors plenty in dists, but none to tap them||Hyderabad: As hundreds of patients recover from Covid-19 in the districts, plasma coordinators say the potential of these people to save lives is being ignored. While many donors are willing to come to the city to give their plasma, there is no transport, living or other facilities available. Dandi Shravan, who has been coordinating plasma requests, said, “We are getting as many as 150 requests for plasma from the city every week. There are not enough donors but with patients recovering in the districts, efforts must be made to get them to donate.” Giving an example, Sai Kumar, founder of Hyderabad Blood Donors Society, said, “Two donors were ready to give plasma on Thursday but because of the need to travel to the city, they decided against coming. We need government support to get recovered patients’ plasma.” Experts say that many patients in fact travel to the city for treatment but return to the districts as soon as they recover. If they are counselled in the city itself, they say, the government could tap into more donors. Suggesting that the best option would be to start mobile ambulances or donation centres, Akhil Chavan Khatri, of the Blood and Organ Donors Society, said, “There are very few places where plasma can be collected in the districts. Providing facilities to collect samples from nearby donors would be a great motivator.” Dr Hitesh Kumar, HoD of blood bank, KIMS Hospital, said, “Designated blood banks must have adequate facilities to handle donors in each district. Problems such as the lack of technical staff, equipment must be dealt with and infrastructure developed.” He suggested that plasma can be transported at -40C.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plasma-donors-plenty-in-dists-but-none-to-tap-them/articleshow/77554714.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||Civic body resumes work on Bhama Askhed pipeline||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Friday resumed work on laying of the pipeline along a 1km stretch at Karanj Vihire amid police protection. The work is part of the much-delayed project to bring 200 MLD water from the Bhama Askhed dam to the eastern areas of the city. Officiating district collector Ayush Prasad told TOI on Friday, “We have appointed seven deputy collectors along with revenue staff at seven villages to discuss and complete the compensation process as per rules. The process involves verification of land records and credentials of proposed beneficiaries. Earlier, a compensation amount was fixed by the PMC in consultation with then local MLA, local leaders and farmers. We are now distributing the same amount.” Prasad said that 68 project affected persons had received alternative land as a compensation in 2018. “On the demand for land compensation, we are checking whether we have adequate land available to give them in the district,” he added. The official confirmed that police protection has been provided only to ensure there is no law and order situation. “As the protesters had threatened ‘JAL Samadhi’ in the past, we have kept five boats on standby to respond to such a situation.” Satyavan Navale, president of Bhama Askhed JAL Andolan formed by the affected farmers, said, “The compensation of Rs15 lakh, per hectare, is paltry. If the administration doesn’t have land to give, it should at least calculate our land value as per market value. If they don’t do so, the affected farmers have decided to take `JAL Samadhi’ in the dam waters.” Local farmer Ankush Borhade said, “We have been demanding land in compensation. We don't want money. The compensation amount is not enough to buy even 2.5 acre land anywhere.” Project head and PMC executive engineer Sudesh Kadu said, “We couldn’t carry out much work today at the site due to constant rainfall and rainwater getting accumulated in trenches dug up to lay the pipeline. Our earth movers are at work and we will deploy more equipment at the site. The PMC and PCMC have paid Rs105 crore and Rs30 crore as compensation amount to the district administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-resumes-work-on-bhama-askhed-pipeline/articleshow/77554726.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||‘Warrior’ Pilot by his side, Gehlot wins trust vote||JAIPUR: The more-than-a-month-long suspense on the stability of Ashok Gehlot-led government in Rajasthan, following a rebellion within the state Congress, ended with the ruling party winning a trust vote in the Assembly on Friday. The BJP neither moved a no confidence motion, which the party had declared on Thursday, nor demanded voting on the government’s confidence motion, which was passed by voice vote. Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who had pushed the Gehlot government into a crisis with his revolt last month, helped the ruling party sail through by supporting the confidence motion. Gehlot, who had claimed his government would have won the trust vote without Pilot and his 18 loyal MLAs, said in the Assembly, “The BJP was determined to topple my government, while I was determined not to let it fall at any cost.” Gehlot said the crisis ended “beautifully” but left the BJP “bruised”. Though Pilot was not among the speakers from the ruling side, he intervened twice during the debate when opposition leaders Gulab Chand Kataria and Rajendra Rathore tried to take a dig on the tussle between him and Gehlot. “They are taking my name repeatedly. I have been seated on the border with the ruling party on one side and the opposition on the other. I pondered on the new seating arrangement and asked myself, who is sent to the border? The answer is — the strongest warrior,” said Pilot, prompting the treasury benches to thump tables in appreciation. Pilot’s seat in the House was moved behind that of the ministers in the second row since he was removed as the deputy chief minister. Earlier, he used to sit next to Gehlot in the front row. “With time, things will get clear. I am not here to make a speech. Be it me or my colleagues, we have shared our ‘ailment’ (grievances) with the ‘doctor’ (Congress leadership). We have entered the House after putting an end to all that. Now, despite the heavy ‘bombardment’ here, I will defend my government like a warrior, with armour, shield, spear and mace,” said Pilot, to more table thumping. Pilot intervened for the second time when Kataria attacked the government, saying it has been taking credit for the increase in employment under MNREGA during the pandemic but failed to give credit to Pilot who held the panchayati raj and rural development portfolios. “Please leave that to me and my party. You concentrate on what you have to,” Pilot told Kataria. Gehlot later tweeted: “Winning the trust vote in the Assembly is a message to the forces that are trying to destabilise elected governments in the country. All their tactics failed in Rajasthan. It is the people’s unwavering trust in us and the unity among Congress MLAs that brought this victory.” Once the House was adjourned for the day, Pilot went up to Gehlot and congratulated him for the victory. Outside the house, Pilot said, “The government winning the trust vote in the Assembly has put an end to all speculations. Despite attempts made by the opposition, the government won with solid majority.” Former chief minister Vasundhara Raje was present in the House but did not participate in the debate. During the debate, Gehlot blamed BJP for misusing ED and CBI to topple state governments, while Kataria and Rathore accused his government of misusing the SOG and the anti-corruption bureau to threaten legislators. The opposition accused the government of illegally tapping phones of elected representatives, while Gehlot alluded to Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in reference to audio clips on horse-trading of MLAs. The opposition objected when Gehlot accused Union home minister Amit Shah of toppling elected state governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/warrior-pilot-by-his-side-gehlot-wins-trust-vote/articleshow/77554735.cms||Bhanupratap Singh
August 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Meerut man offers Rs 51 lakh reward for head of Congress MLA’s nephew||MEERUT: A social worker and former SP leader was on Friday booked and arrested in Meerut for allegedly announcing a reward of Rs 51 lakh for killing Bengaluru Congress MLA’s nephew, whose “offensive” social media post allegedly sparked violence. In Meerut, Shahzeb Rizvi recorded a video, venting his anger and announcing Rs 51 lakh cash prize for “anyone who brings the head of the accused”. He also made public an interesting fact, that he doesn’t have the required reward money and is expecting to get it from people “supporting his cause”. “The Muslim community’s sentiments have been hurt due to the social media post of Congress MLA’s nephew. Whoever will get me the head of his nephew, will get Rs 51lakh in return. The money will be collected with the help of the people who support me in the cause,” says Rizvi. As the video made the rounds of social media platforms, local police took note of it and filed a case. The former SP's state president was booked under Indian Penal Code Section 153 (A) (to punish persons who indulge in wanton vilification or attacks upon the religion, race, place of birth, residence, language etc of any particular group or class or upon the founders and prophets of a religion). Senior superintendent of police of Meerut Ajay Sahni, said, “We have ordered a probe after filing a case against Rizvi. He has been arrested.” Rizvi was recently booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 for violating social distancing norms a few days ago. Meanwhile, SC/ST commission has also taken note of his statement and has asked the Meerut police to take action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/meerut-man-offers-rs-51l-reward-for-head-of-cong-mlas-nephew/articleshow/77552437.cms||Ishita Bhatia
August 15, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Chittoor plans another Covid care centre||TIRUPATI: Chittoor district administration is mulling converting to a Covid Care Centre the TTD’s Govindaraja (second) choultry complex abutting Tirupati railway station. The move is in line with the taking over of pilgrim accommodation complexes like ‘Srinivasam’, ‘Madhavam’, ‘Vishnu Nivasam’ and ‘Sri Padmavathi Nilayam’ for mild and asymptomatic cases. District collector Bharat Narayan Gupta inspected the choultry complex, one of the oldest buildings for visiting pilgrims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chittoor-plans-another-care-centre/articleshow/77553274.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Khadi outlets see huge dip in flag sales||Hyderabad: As Independence Day celebration are espected to be muted this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Khadi Bhandar outlets, that are usually busy selling national flags, badges, caps and other decoration material, are wearing a deserted look. Earlier, several stationeries and book shops along with schools, colleges and offices used to buy these materials from the Khadi Bhandars. But lack of transportation has resulted in the sales dipping by 60% this year. “Educational institutions are yet to open, employees of private organisations are working from home and most of the business establishments have shut shop due to poor turnout. That’s why there is a poor sale of flags this year,” said Hanumantha Rao, owner of the Khadi Bhandar showroom at Nampally. Even the government has decided to keep the celebrations low-key this year as they have to adhere to pandemic norms during the flag hoisting ceremonies. The Khadi outlets, which procure national flags from Hubli and Nanded, did not place bulk orders. “Keeping in view the pandemic, we could not place indents for national flags. Usually, we place an order for 30 to 50 tricolour flags in different sizes as per the specifications of the Bureau of Indian Standards,” said another showroom owner in Lakdikapul. There are two such outlets at the Gandhi Bhavan. “It’s a double whammy for us this year. The sales which are already low due to Covid are now hit hard by incessant rains,” said in-charge at the Gandhi Bhavan outlet. The outlets are expecting the loss to be between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 30 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/khadi-outlets-see-huge-dip-in-flag-sales/articleshow/77554736.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 15, 2020||Mangaluru||MCC Civic Group allege flaws in Smart City works||Mangaluru: MCC Civic Group, a city-based group of social activists, has questioned the logic behind not involving representatives from NGOs and RWAs (resident welfare association) in the City Level Advisory Forum of the Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL). In an email sent to Rahul Kapoor, director and to Kunal Kumar, joint secretary, Smart Cities Mission, ministry of housing and urban affairs, group members stated that as per smart cities mission statement & guidelines, City Level Advisory Forum must have NGO and RWA representatives. “Despite several related requests, including the district minister’s instructions, the representations are intentionally and deliberately neglected, leading to misuse of taxpayers’ money in crores, particularly during this pandemic period. Activities of Mangaluru Smart City Limited fail to comply with the declared guidelines,” the group alleged. The 21 priority works listed in the guidelines — water supply leakage (preventive/ remedial) measures; sanitation (waste to gas and waste to manure); UGD maintenance; parks and playgrounds, among others, are ignored and some insignificant works are taken up without seeking suggestions from NGOs and RWAs resulting in a lot of errors. The group members have sought a departmental enquiry and a disciplinary action against officials for dereliction of duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mcc-civic-group-allege-flaws-in-smart-city-works/articleshow/77551722.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Allahabad||At 69, city has highest Covid cases among health workers||Prayagraj: With Covid-19 cases in the Sangam city breaching the 5,000 mark on Friday, Prayagraj range now has the highest number of health staffers being infected by the disease. According to the health department, coronavirus has infected 96 healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses and paramedics in the range. While 69 corona warriors have tested positive in Prayagraj, 12 cases each were reported from Pratapgarh and Fatehpur. Three medical staffers were diagnosed in Kaushambi. The tally of containment zones in Prayagraj has crossed the 1,450-mark — the highest in the range. In fact, containment zones in Prayagraj are more than twice the combined count of Kaushambi, Pratapgarh and Fatehpur, the remaining three districts in the range. As per statistics, Prayagraj has 1,453 containment zones, followed by Fatehpur (335), Kaushambi (139) and Pratapgarh (138). In Prayagraj, 873 out of 1,453 containment zones are in urban and semi urban areas and remaining in trans-Ganga and Yamuna areas. Additional director, health, Dr Sudhakar Pandey told TOI, “ More corona warriors have been diagnosed with Covid 19 in Prayagraj compared to neighbouring districts.” He added: “The number of Covid patients in Prayagraj district has already crossed the 4,942-mark, where as 1,048 and 539 positive cases were detected in Pratapgarh and Kaushambi districts respectively.” Testing of over 94,000 people has so far been done in Prayagraj district, while 24,000 and 30,000 people have been tested in Pratapgarh and Kaushambi respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/at-69-city-has-highest-covid-cases-among-health-workers/articleshow/77554724.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Coimbatore||CB-CID to access don’s DNA sample||Coimbatore: The crime branch-CID has approached the Sri Lankan government through diplomatic channels to get DNA sample and fingerprints of Sri Lankan don Angoda Lokka, who was reportedly poisoned to death here, CB-CID IG K Shankar told TOI. DNA cross-matching will be carried out at the forensic science laboratory in Chennai, the officer said. A team led by DSP O H Raju is grilling Lokka’s associates Amani Dhanji of Colombo, Madurai-based lawyer Sivakami Sundari and her friend Dhyaneswaran. The trio will be produced before the chief judicial magistrate court today afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cb-cid-to-access-dons-dna-sample/articleshow/77554728.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Chinese checkers: ED steps in as racket gets bigger||HYDERABAD: A day after the Hyderabad police busted an online gambling racket and arrested four persons, including a Chinese national, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday took over the case involving Rs 1,100 crore fraud. ED sought the case details from Hyderabad police to issue an enforcement case information report (ECIR) under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Investigations so far have revealed that a significant amount of funds carted away in India have been laundered to China. An ED official told TOI, “This case has got huge ramifications in terms of money laundering. This racket has roots not only in Hyderabad, but also in Delhi and China too.” He said they would look into the activities of Beijing T Power Company and its subsidiaries. ED would file a petition seeking custody of Yah Hao, company head for India operations. The three Indian directors have been identified as a Dheeraj Sarkar, Ankit Kapoor and Neeraj Tuli. Police booked a case under conspiracy and cheating charges and the Telangana Gaming Act. Several youngsters had placed bets on the sites for online gambling organised by China-based companies, which were accused of manipulating results. “As much as Rs 1,100 crore has been sent abroad. We have to ascertain the route of money laundering,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chinese-checkers-ed-steps-in-as-racket-gets-bigger/articleshow/77554768.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Flood water enters railway platforms, bus transit hit on highways||JAIPUR: Heavy rainfall across Jaipur affected Jaipur railway station along with its sub-urban stations and also curtailed the speed of the buses on the highways connecting Jaipur to other cities. However, it did not impact the air traffic which was smooth by and large from the Jaipur airport. Amid heavy showers in the city, heavy flow of water was seen at the platforms of the Jaipur junction railway station. Some of the waiting rooms also witnessed the flow of water. Similar scenes were witnessed at platform no 1 on Gandhi Nagar and Durgapura railway stations which are the two main halt stations on Jaipur-Delhi and Jaipur-Mumbai routes, respectively. However, during Covid-19, when Jaipur railway station is handling just a few trains, none got delayed despite the fact that the tracks were submerged in water. "Thankfully, we had no departures and arrivals while Jaipur was witnessing heavy rainfall. By the time we had the arrival of Mumbai-Jaipur superfast and departure of Jaipur-Mumbai superfast, water level depleted and we could receive and send the train on time," said a senior officer of Jaipur division of North Western Railway (NWR). Also, a portion of Jaipur’s divisional railway manager’s (DRM) office witnessed heavy flow of water that depleted late in the evening. Heavy rainfall, however, affected at least 30 people of six different families staying at the railway quarters at Dehar Ke Balaji railway station. "We got information that some people got stuck in their houses since water level due to heavy rainfall was up to the first floor of the houses. Thus, we rescued 30 people and some cattle that belonged to them from the railway quarters," Lokesh Sonwal, additional SP (operations) told TOI. Railway authorities added that the timely response from SDRF helped rescue these families. Likewise, buses on Jaipur-Delhi and Delhi-Jaipur route got stranded on their ways. "Our buses to Jaipur from Delhi got stuck at Shahpura and Kothputli for hours, while our buses to Sikar also got affected and delayed," said a senior officer of RSRTC. However, heavy rainfall did not impact air traffic. "Our arrivals and departures were smooth throughout the day and no waterlogging was witnessed," said Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, Jaipur airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/flood-water-enters-railway-platforms-bus-transit-hit-on-highways/articleshow/77554734.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Three PCR machines at medical college to be operated round-the-clock||KOCHI: To address the delay in getting RT-PCR results of swab samples, Kalamassery medical college will start running three of its PCR machines round-the-clock from Saturday. The decision was taken following directions from minister V S Sunilkumar. Working patterns of technicians and other staff in the laboratory will increase from existing two shifts to three. Besides, the government had declared Thursdays as holiday for the lab, which also stands cancelled. The minister recommended hospital authorities to appoint additional staff if needed in order to run the machines full time. Results of 1,806 samples are awaited in the district as on August 13. “We have received directions from the minister regarding the functioning of PCR machines. We will start operating it 24x7 from Saturday. We have adequate staff strength in the lab to run the three machines,” said a senior official in the medical college. The delay in obtaining results had put immense pressure on health staff as they had to face the wrath of people, who wait for several days to know whether they are Covid-19 positive or negative. The delay also hampered initiating containment measures on time. “There’s a general misconception among people that if the results get delayed it would be negative. There are all possibilities that it could come out as positive. Delay in result does not mean the person is negative. We are correcting the weakness, which we faced till now,” said a district official. Once the machines start running round-the-clock, authorities say, the number of samples being tested too would increase. ‘As many as 90 samples can be tested in a machine during a shift. If we run three machines in three shifts, we can ensure 810 results per day. When the PCR machine at the regional public health laboratory becomes functional, we can test 1,000 samples per day,” said the official. Meanwhile, the PCR machine, installed at the public lab, would be ready by next week. “Some more equipment related to PCR test are awaited. We are planning to run the machine in two shifts,” said a source at the lab. Currently, the lab conducts TrueNat tests to identify whether a deceased person is Covid positive or not. The testing is done before conducting an autopsy. Sources said only two or three out of 100 deceased cases are tested positive in Ernakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/3-pcr-machines-at-med-collegeto-be-operated-round-the-clock/articleshow/77551742.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||No bloom amid gloom, NDMC struggles to put together floral tribute||NEW DELHI: Flowers are not only scarce in the market due to Covid-19 restrictions, but also only a limited variety is available. This has made floral decorations for Independence Day a challenge for New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC). To mark the national holiday, the civic body normally puts up boards with social messages all created with flowers at important roundabouts in New Delhi. These generally admired natural signboards will be installed this year too, but will use the few flower species available in local markets. S Chelliah, director of horticulture, NDMC, maintained the civic body will not comprise with the quality though, and the boards will look as aesthetic as earlier. It will erect 24 floral boards with eight messages and pictorials. With no supply of the preferred marigold flowers from Kolkata, NDMC has had to fall back on local produce. “Kolkata marigolds last longer, are better looking and have an attractive colour. That is why we prefer using them to compose pictorials on the floral boards,” said an NDMC official. “This time, however, we have had to compromise with locally grown marigolds.” Due to the scarcity, the price of the local marigold has gone up from the usual Rs 50 per kilo to Rs 250. The popular chrysanthemums (goldavari) too are unavailable. They were usually ordered from Shimla in different colours, but the civic body is using cut flowers this time. These are meant for bouquets or exports and are up to four times higher in price. “You must have observed that in most floral boards, we create the background with white chrysanthemums since this helps the message or image made with other flowers to stand out,” Chelliah said. “But we are having problems getting them in the quantities we require, so we have replaced them with flowers of export quality. Even the lime green daisies used for creating the board corners have been replaced with other flowers due to their non-availability.” To create the Ashok chakra on the national flag, high-cost navy blue orchids are being used instead of the humbler gomphrena, which is available only in limited volumes. The shortage of statice flowers also means the board makers will find alternatives to the long-lasting papery annuals. “Of the 24 floral boards, 12 large-sized ones will be installed, among other spots, at Palika Kendra, the triangular garden plot facing Hyderabad House at India Gate, Tilak Marg, Teen Murti roundabout, Mandi House and Kautilya Marg. The rest, which are smaller, will be installed elsewhere, including at Connaught Place, Krishi Bhawan roundabout, Aurobindo Marg, RML Hospital roundabout and Rajiv Gandhi Bhawan,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-bloom-amid-gloom-ndmc-struggles-to-put-together-floral-tribute/articleshow/77554746.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 15, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Online recruitment drives at Gitam||Visakhapatnam: Gitam Deemed-to-be University has placed more than 100 students in campus recruitment drives held online over the last few weeks. Wipro, Virtusa, DXC Technology, Byju’s, Indian Immunologicals Limited, Amazon, AxiomIO, Legato Health Technologies, Credit Snap and Optimized Solutions conducted recruitment drives from March to August. The companies are engaging selected students through online mentoring, training, skill upgrade and ‘Meet the Leader’ programmes to orient the new recruits. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/online-recruitment-drives-at-gitam/articleshow/77553294.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: 3,300 cops to keep vigil on Independence Day||BHOPAL: Security in the city has been intensified for Independence Day. Patrolling has been intensified in all the city police station areas and 12 fixed round the clock vehicle check points have been set up on city outskirts at Khajuri, Sukhi Sewania, Ratibad, Misrod and Bilkhiria to follow any suspicious movement. ASP (Zone-I) Rajat Saklecha said that more than 200 check points have been set up across the city to monitor the security. Some specific checkpoints will conduct vehicle inspection throughout the night. Bomb diffusion and disposal squad along with dog squad conducted surprise checks at various important locations, including Bhopal and Habibganj railway stations, Raja Bhoj Airport along with major shopping malls and important buildings. Saklecha said special police teams have been formed under SHOs at all the city police stations, which have been carrying out marches in sensitive and busy market areas. Police teams are conducting surprise inspections at hotels, lodges, Dharamshalas and Rain Basera in their jurisdiction areas. Barricading is being done at various busy squares and markets to keep an eye on suspicious elements. He said that a force of around 3300 policemen, including quick response force (QRF) and special armed force (SAF) have been deployed at various spots in the city .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/security-beefed-up-for-i-day-3300-cops-on-the-job/articleshow/77553278.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Surat||VIP Road flooded||Surat: Residents of posh Vesu area woke up to A flooded VIP Road on Friday as the city received nearly 108 mm rainfall since Thursday night. About a half km stretch at the Althana end of VIP Road was waterlogged. The BRTS track was also flooded and police put up barricades alerting commuters about heavy waterlogging. Udhna railway underbridge was heavily waterlogged and commuters had to use Udhna-Limbayat railway bridge, which resulted in severe traffic snarls. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/vip-road-flooded/articleshow/77551786.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Ajmer||Racket assuring good marks in board exams active in Rajasthan||AJMER: A racket allegedly managing good marks during re-evaluation in board exams of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) is active in the state. Students who are filling forms for re-evaluation after board results in different subjects are getting calls claiming that their marks can be improved in return for some money in a particular bank account. The Board, however, has warned students not to get into such traps and registered an FIR against such callers. The Board has also decided to register a complaint with state cybercell. Sources said the board officials got several complaints regarding students getting such calls from racketeers assuring more marks during evaluation and demanding money. “After filling the application, some of the applicants approached the board with such complaints,” said Arvind Kumar Sengwa, secretary, RBSE. He added that the applicants also provided the mobile numbers from which they got calls, added Sengwa. But apprehensions are being raised over such callers as are they getting mobile numbers of the students who are applying for re-evaluation and how come these racketeers know who has applied for evaluation in a certain paper. Official sources said the matter will be probed to know how these racketeers are getting mobile numbers of students. Meanwhile, RBSE on Friday started a helpline for teachers who are not getting payment for checking of answer sheets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/racket-assuring-good-marks-in-board-exams-active-in-state/articleshow/77557438.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Udaipur||Racket assuring good marks in board exams active in Rajasthan||AJMER: A racket allegedly managing good marks during re-evaluation in board exams of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) is active in the state. Students who are filling forms for re-evaluation after board results in different subjects are getting calls claiming that their marks can be improved in return for some money in a particular bank account. The Board, however, has warned students not to get into such traps and registered an FIR against such callers. The Board has also decided to register a complaint with state cybercell. Sources said the board officials got several complaints regarding students getting such calls from racketeers assuring more marks during evaluation and demanding money. “After filling the application, some of the applicants approached the board with such complaints,” said Arvind Kumar Sengwa, secretary, RBSE. He added that the applicants also provided the mobile numbers from which they got calls, added Sengwa. But apprehensions are being raised over such callers as are they getting mobile numbers of the students who are applying for re-evaluation and how come these racketeers know who has applied for evaluation in a certain paper. Official sources said the matter will be probed to know how these racketeers are getting mobile numbers of students. Meanwhile, RBSE on Friday started a helpline for teachers who are not getting payment for checking of answer sheets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/racket-assuring-good-marks-in-board-exams-active-in-state/articleshow/77557436.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||21-yr-old hangs self in Baran||KOTA: A 21-year-old woman, a bachelor’s degree holder, committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan at her house on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday in Bhogiahedi village under Anta police station, Baran. The reason behind the suicide is yet to be investigated. The body was handed over to family members after post-mortem on Friday morning. The deceased woman was identified as Bhawana Dhakad. Bhawana was sleeping alone in her room while other family members were in other rooms when the she hanged herself, said Umesh Meharia, SHO at Anta police station. A case of unnatural death under Section 174 of CrPC has been lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/21-yr-old-hangs-self/articleshow/77554770.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||14 Telangana police officers to get medals on Independence Day||HYDERABAD: Two officers from Telangana have been selected for President Police Medal (PPM) while 10 other policemen from the state were chosen for Indian Police Medal (IPM) by the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) on the eve of Independence Day. The MHA said that Warangal commissioner of police P Pramod Kumar and a sub-inspector rank officer from KPHB police station Thota Subramanyam were selected for PPM. The 10 officials who were selected for IPM are ACP (Bhuvanagiri division) Bhujanga Rao, Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) deputy director M Ravinder Reddy, Cyberabad cyber crime ACP Ch Yadagiri Srinivas Rao, Telangana State Special Police (TSSP) additional commandant M Jayaraju, DSP (intelligence) D Anand Kumar, ASP (counter intelligence) P Venkatagiri, ASP (Bhadradri-Kothagudem) B Kistaiah, TS Police Academy DSP K Ravinder Reddy, Information Technology & Communications, technical services inspector E Nagaraju, Malkajgiri Zone Special Branch sub-inspector Shaik Sadiq Ali, Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) Hyderabad Constable Rayappa Raju Mantena, SVP National Police Academy Head Constable Sonni Laxman. Police Medal for Gallantry will be given to sub- inspector M Venkateshwar Goud and head constable Mohammed Meharajuddin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/14-t-police-officers-to-get-medals-on-i-day/articleshow/77554781.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Chennai||Ganesh Chathurthi could test resilience of AIADMK–BJP tie in Chennai||CHENNAI: With the AIADMK government banning the erection of pandals and installation of Ganesha idols this year citing the Covid-19 pandemic, it has left its alliance partner BJP seething with anger. While some fringe groups including Hindu Munnani have threatened to defy the ban, one outfit in Chennai began the work of erecting a pandal on Friday. The coming week could well test the resolve of the ruling party in staying firm in its decision. It will also be a test for sustaining the alliance with the BJP, which is banking on the Hindu fervour to polarize votes in its favour. BJP state president L Murugan has already fired the first salvo. “Vinayaka idols should be installed, and the public should be allowed to offer prayers following physical distancing,” he tweeted. He did not stop there. “The government had given permission to Panimalar Madha church festival in Tuticorin amid the pandemic and distributed rice to Muslims during Ramzan. Similarly, it should allow the Hindu festival and instruct the festival committee to follow all the precautionary measures,” Murugan told TOI, sending out ominous signals of rebellion. “It is a wrong decision by this anti-Hindu government,” Kutty Ganesan, an erstwhile office bearer of the BJP and Hindu Munnani and founding general secretary of Vinayaka Chathurthi Festival Committee that puts up 50 to 60 idols every year in Chennai. Ganesan said the state government lost an opportunity as the “ganapathy homam” performed daily in front of thousands of idols across the state would have helped bring the pandemic under control and even drive out Covid. “If they don’t permit, I will go and sit in dharna with a hand-made Ganesha. They can arrest me. Can they arrest Lord Ganesha,” Ganesan asked. AIADMK felt Murugan’s statement was unnecessary and an attempt to appease sections in the BJP. “The state government has taken such a decision in view of the pandemic. If they sincerely share this responsibility, they will not be making politics out of it,” said a senior leader. The state was following the Centre’s directive to ensure strict compliance of lockdown measures and not allow religious gatherings and processions. “It is a pandemic and the state has taken a conscious decision in the interest of public welfare. They should understand. Are they questioning the Centre’s instructions?” asked a senior officer. “Alliance is a political arrangement and it is intact now,” said BJP general secretary Vanathi Srinivasan. “I don’t think these things are being done to break the alliance. Normally, Hindu Munnani organizes it and we participate. This time government has banned it and Hindu Munnani has said they will go ahead despite the ban,” she said. What if the government remains steadfast in its resolve to ban the festival? “In that case, our organization will decide on further course of action,” Vanathi said. (With inputs from Shanmughasundaram J and Julie Mariappan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ganesh-chathurthi-could-test-resilience-of-aiadmkbjp-tie/articleshow/77554822.cms||D Govardan
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Racket assuring good marks in board exams active in Rajasthan||AJMER: A racket allegedly managing good marks during re-evaluation in board exams of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) is active in the state. Students who are filling forms for re-evaluation after board results in different subjects are getting calls claiming that their marks can be improved in return for some money in a particular bank account. The Board, however, has warned students not to get into such traps and registered an FIR against such callers. The Board has also decided to register a complaint with state cybercell. Sources said the board officials got several complaints regarding students getting such calls from racketeers assuring more marks during evaluation and demanding money. “After filling the application, some of the applicants approached the board with such complaints,” said Arvind Kumar Sengwa, secretary, RBSE. He added that the applicants also provided the mobile numbers from which they got calls, added Sengwa. But apprehensions are being raised over such callers as are they getting mobile numbers of the students who are applying for re-evaluation and how come these racketeers know who has applied for evaluation in a certain paper. Official sources said the matter will be probed to know how these racketeers are getting mobile numbers of students. Meanwhile, RBSE on Friday started a helpline for teachers who are not getting payment for checking of answer sheets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/racket-assuring-good-marks-in-board-exams-active-in-state/articleshow/77554755.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kochi||A community kitchen serves love in West Kochi||KOCHI: The Kochi corporation may have wound up its community kitchens but an organization of social activists have taken upon themselves the task of feeding people in West Kochi area, where the spurt in Covid-19 cases and declaration of multiple containment zones have hampered normal life. For the past 17 days, activists of the Mahatma Samskarika Vedi, formed to take up issues that affect the general public, had been distributing food parcels in different parts of West Kochi and the numbers have been going up regularly. “Today we could reach more than 3,800 people. In the past couple of days the number was around 3,600,” said Mahatma Samskarika Vedi chairman Shameer Valavath. It is not just the number of food parcels that they deliver but the diversity of the dishes provided by them that won hearts of people. “We never make people feel that this is food from a community kitchen. We try to provide diverse meals and never compromise on quantity and quality. Today it was regular meals for lunch but for dinner we are serving idiyappam and beef,” said Shameer. Dishes like mutton biryani, irachi choru, masala dosa and fish biryani have also been part of the menu, he said. The organization has set up the community kitchen in Shadi Mahal, the oldest wedding hall in the region, at Kappalandimukku. The venue was provided to them free of cost by the Cutchi Memon Association. “So far we have been able to have a smooth sail because of help from almighty and considerate people who provide us with provisions needed for the kitchen,” said Shameer. There are around 100 people working in the kitchen and parcels go out for lunch and dinner. The food parcels go out to houses in containment zones, patients confined to bed, patients and health workers in hospitals and police personnel. “We are trying to help all those who are engaged in battle against the pandemic in whatever little way we can,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-community-kitchen-serves-love-in-w-kochi/articleshow/77551777.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Allahabad||Six members of auto-lifter gang held, bikes seized||PRAYAGRAJ: Six members of an inter-district auto-lifting gang were arrested in Pratapgarh on Friday with the recovery of 10 stolen bikes. The arrested were identified as Raviendra Kumar Patel alias Nanhke ( kingpin) of Raipur, Rithi, Rahul Verma of Kandhai, Suraj Verma of Ramkola, Rohit Verma of Patti, Ashish Verma of Patti and Subhash Kumar Varanasi’s Amuwahi. SP ( Pratapgarh) Abhishek Singh said a team of Patti police station received a tip-off about the movement of an auto-lifters’ gang. The team cordoned off the Bharokhan canal bridge road and managed to arrest six members of the gang. He said police have been looking for three other members of the gang — Manish Patel alias Chullu, Dharmendra Verma and Suraj Verma, all residents of Patti. The gang members used to travel on stolen bikes and lifted bikes from prime market locations. After lifting bikes, they used to destroy guanine engine and chassis number and prepare forged documents to get them sold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/6-members-of-auto-lifter-gang-held-bikes-seized/articleshow/77554749.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Domestic passengers down by 80% at MIA||Mangaluru: Though domestic flights have resumed since the lockdown, there are not many takers for the same, which can be seen at the Mangaluru International Airport (MIA). The number of domestic passengers is down by almost 80% as compared to last year. According to stakeholders, the reason for this is that a majority of passengers are opting not to travel by air due to stringent quarantine rules. According to data available with TOI, in June this year, MIA handled only 141 domestic flights against 937 flights (32 flights a day) in June last year, which is down by 85 per cent. In May 2020, only seven domestic flights were operated. Currently, MIA operates two flights daily to Bengaluru and to Mumbai. IndiGo airlines, which on normal days operated 12 flights every day, is now operating only two, which fly to Mumbai on alternate days. SpiceJet, which flew seven flights is reduced to one, which goes to Bengaluru. Air India recently started its domestic operations at MIA, with a flight to Mumbai, which flies thrice a week, said V V Rao, airport director, MIA. “It is not that flyers are unwilling to take a flight, but 14 days of mandatory quarantine rules by each state is holding them back. As a result, there is a lukewarm response. So people postpone their plans or find alternative modes of travel,” says an executive in charge of a private air carrier in Mangaluru. He said that after domestic air travel resumed, on initial days, flights with a capacity of 180 passengers flew with less than 10 passengers. “However, the numbers are increasing gradually, and flights will be full only if quarantine rules are relaxed,” the executive pointed out. In June, MIA has seen as many as 57 international flights, which flew back a total of 3,726 repatriates from various Gulf countries. A total 4,882 passengers have taken domestic flights from MIA in June, 2020, and on last June last year the number was 1,04,959. The flights carrying international and domestic freight too has been reduced to a certain extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/domestic-passengers-down-by-80-at-mia/articleshow/77551759.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Actor K Mahesh jailed for offensive FB post||Hyderabad: Film critic and Tollywood actor Kathi Mahesh was arrested on Friday for putting up an offensive post on Facebook referring to Lord Rama. He was produced before the magistrate and sent to judicial remand.  ACP KVM Prasad’s team had noticed an objectionable post put up by Mahesh on Thursday. “We have registered a suo moto case,” the ACP said. Mahesh clarified that his post was meant to be a satire about a priest, who attended the ground breaking ceremony of a worship place, testing Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/actor-k-mahesh-jailed-for-offensive-fb-post/articleshow/77554753.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Vijayawada||Case against BJP functionary||Tirupati: The Tirumala Two Town police, following a complaint filed by the TTD’s vigilance department, has registered a case against BJP functionary Sadineni Yamini for making controversial remarks against Sri Venkateswara Bhakti channel, the TTD’s official broadcaster. Yamini had criticised the channel for not live telecasting Ram Mandir bhumi puja ceremony from Ayodhya live. The TTD clarified that the channel could not air the Ayodhya event as it had to live telecast the Srivari Kalyanotsavam conducted daily at Tirumala, which is followed by thousands of viewers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/case-against-bjp-functionary/articleshow/77553304.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Racket assuring good marks in board exams active in Rajasthan||AJMER: A racket allegedly managing good marks during re-evaluation in board exams of Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) is active in the state. Students who are filling forms for re-evaluation after board results in different subjects are getting calls claiming that their marks can be improved in return for some money in a particular bank account. The Board, however, has warned students not to get into such traps and registered an FIR against such callers. The Board has also decided to register a complaint with state cybercell. Sources said the board officials got several complaints regarding students getting such calls from racketeers assuring more marks during evaluation and demanding money. “After filling the application, some of the applicants approached the board with such complaints,” said Arvind Kumar Sengwa, secretary, RBSE. He added that the applicants also provided the mobile numbers from which they got calls, added Sengwa. But apprehensions are being raised over such callers as are they getting mobile numbers of the students who are applying for re-evaluation and how come these racketeers know who has applied for evaluation in a certain paper. Official sources said the matter will be probed to know how these racketeers are getting mobile numbers of students. Meanwhile, RBSE on Friday started a helpline for teachers who are not getting payment for checking of answer sheets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/racket-assuring-good-marks-in-board-exams-active-in-state/articleshow/77557437.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Jitters over move to recover costs||BENGALURU: Home minister Basavaraj Bommai’s announcement that the cost of damages caused during Tuesday night’s violence in east Bengaluru will be recovered from the guilty poses a huge challenge for the police. The force is sceptical as they say most of the rioters come from extremely poor families, are jobless and stay in rented houses. They wonder how anything can be recovered from them. Police has estimated the damage to vehicles and property at over Rs 3 crore. The government’s decision, however, has left residents of DJ Halli, KG Halli and Tannery Road jittery. A majority of those arrested are from DJ Halli and Tannery Road and are below poverty line (BPL) card-holders. Other than a two-wheeler or an autorickshaw, they do not own any moveable or immovable property. Ayaz Pasha, a resident of Tannery Road, said he was acquainted with at least 35 of those arrested. He said 15 work in mutton stalls, another 15 in garages in Shivajinagar, Tannery Road, Commercial Street and other places, while three run autorickshaws owned by others and the other two in shops. “Their average monthly salary/earnings is between Rs 2,000 and Rs 12,000,” Pasha said. “Many of these men are married and their wives work as maids. During the nationwide lockdown, none of them had jobs or income. They took hand loans to run their families during the lockdown. From where will they get money to pay for damages?” Rehana Begum, 65, whose son-in-law is among the arrested, said they have no money to compensate anyone. “My son-in-law owns a goods autorickshaw and earns around Rs 15,000 per month,” Begum said. “That is not enough to sustain us and we borrow money at high interest every month. My daughter has health issues and cannot work. Now, my son-in-law has been arrested and we have Rs 5,000 in hand to run the family of five members. In fact, government should address our financial needs.” A senior police officer said recovery of properties is a long-drawn procedure. “It will take at least two years to complete formalities like identifying the property and attaching it. Then the question of how much one should pay towards damages arises. This will be decided by a competent authority. If one cannot pay, s/he must file an affidavit on their financial status and seek clemency,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kin-of-riot-accused-worried-over-move-to-recover-damages/articleshow/77552461.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Signature campaign on Sectt mosques||Hyderabad: The Joint Action Committee Bazyabi Masjids kicked off a signature campaign on Friday demanding the rebuilding of the mosques at the same sites in the secretariat. Mushtaq Malik, convenor JAC, told TOI that the one million signature campaign had started as JAC members collected signatures outside mosques soon after the Friday prayer at various places across the state. He said 1.75 lakh signatures were garnered on the first day itself. “We want to reach out to 10 lakh people in 15 days. Mosques land belongs to Waqf and we will continue our efforts to reconstruct the mosques at the same places,” Mushtaq Malik told TOI. The JAC also decided to move Apex court against the demolition of mosques at secretariat. “All legal formalities to move the Supreme Court have been completed,” said the JAC convener.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/signature-campaign-on-sectt-mosques/articleshow/77554775.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kochi||Sea cucumbers worth Rs 1 crore seized from Lakshadweep||KOCHI: Department of environment and forest under UT of Lakshadweep administration has launched a hunt for poachers who captured sea cucumbers worth Rs 1 crore from nearby islands. Lakshadweep sea cucumber protection task force, on Thursday, had seized 54 taxidermied sea cucumbers from Agatti. According to Abdul Raheem, range forest officer and head of LSCPTF, poachers had buried the catch in a 30-litre barrel on a beach near Agatti airport. “We have been after them for past two days but haven’t received any information yet. We had knowledge about the possible location where it was hidden and held searches,” he said. “Poachers usually transport it once they strike a good deal. They cut open the marine animal, remove internal organs, add salt and preservatives and preserve them up to a year,” the officer said. However, Raheem said the exact location from where the sea cucumbers were poached is yet to be known, although it is suspected that they were poached from Suheli, Perumalpar or Cheriyapani/Veliyapani locations as such big sea cucumbers are found mostly in these uninhabited islands of Lakshadweep. “In Agatti, these species aren’t found in large-scale. So, poachers could have caught these endangered species from uninhabited islands. However, we cannot rule out the possibility that these sea cucumbers could have been poached from Agatti itself, taking time,” LSCPTF head said. These marine species are highly vulnerable to poaching. “They are very slow and go motionless if someone approaches them. So, a person can simply snorkel and catch them,” he added. The forest officer also warned that poaching of sea cucumbers would result in severe environmental imbalance. “The ecological services that sea cucumbers provide are immense. From nutrients recycling to carbon recycling and filtration, they play a crucial role in maintaining the quality of ecosystem. As per Schedule I of Wildlife Protection Act, sea cucumbers of marine environments enjoy the same status as tigers and lions,” he said. Experts say sea cucumbers are largely poached and exported to countries like China and Malaysia where the demand is huge. “In such countries, serving sea cucumber soup is considered as a matter of pride. So, poachers usually aim at exporting the catch, making it an international trade. The seized consignment, weighing 51.5kg, is worth Rs 1 crore (approx) in the market,” said an official. According to sources, adverse weather conditions and limited infrastructure with the department remains the greatest challenge to ensure prevention of wildlife offences in Lakshadweep Islands. During previous instances, such major cases were taken over by CBI headquartered in New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sea-cucumbers-worth-rs-1cr-seized/articleshow/77551784.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Bhopal||MP’s Covid testing rate one of the lowest in India||BHOPAL: Public health infrastructure is going to be put to the test in the coming days in Madhya Pradesh as Covid-19 cases spike to new highs. On Thursday, the state recorded it’s highest one-day count of 1,014 cases. Madhya Pradesh conducts just about 218 tests per day per million population, according to the Union ministry of health data on Friday. It is one of the lowest rates of testing in India. WHO — in its guidance note on ‘Public Health Criteria to Adjust Public Health and Social Measures in the Context of Covid-19’ — has advised comprehensive surveillance for suspected cases. Covid-19 management efforts are in place for months, even as the anticipated surge in infection is taking place, said a senior health department official. Experts from AIIMS Bhopal, who are nodal representatives of the Union health ministry, have been blunt about the increase in cases, owing to movement and migration. Bhopal has turned into the new Covid-19 hotspot of the state since the past few weeks and is the biggest contributor to the positives tally and death toll during the past week. Bhopal reported 1,602 cases from August 1 to 13, taking its tally to above 8,000. It also reported as many as 55 deaths in the same duration. Indore continues to have the highest overall number of cases at 9,257, of which, more than 1,800 were added in the first 13 days of August. In this duration, 30 plus deaths have been reported in Indore. Earlier in May, nine districts — Barwani, Agar-Malwa, Shajapur, Sheopur, Alirajpur, Harda, Shahdol, Tikamgarh and Betul — were declared coronavirus-free. The same districts are now reporting roughly 7% or more than 3,000 Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mps-covid-testing-rate-one-of-the-lowest-in-india/articleshow/77553392.cms||Jamal Ayub
August 15, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Fair called off, devotees still throng Ramdeora||JAISALMER: Despite the annual fair being cancelled, many people are coming on foot and vehicles to Ramdeora in Jaisalmer. Looking at the rush, the district administration has sealed the borders of Ramdeora and devotees are being sent back after persuading them. RAC jawans have been deployed for additional security and roads have been barricaded. Directions have been issued to hotels and dharamshalas not to allow any passenger to stay. Devotees coming to Ramdeora were having darshan on an LED screen put at the main gate, but on Thursday, to control the crowd, the Baba Ramdeo Samdhi Samiti switched off the screen. The fair that was to be organised from August 20 has been cancelled by the district administration. Devotees are still coming to Ramdeora and offering prayers outside the Baba Ramdeo Samadhi. A meeting of the samiti was held on Friday which unanimously decided that they will abide by the guidelines issued by the district administration and will work together to stop the spread of corona in Ramdeora. Samiti’s Rao Bhom Singh Tanwar has asked all the devotees coming to Ramdeora to follow the directions of the administration and call off their travel plan to Ramdeora during the fair period. Ramdeora SHO Dalpat Singh said even after cancelling the fair, devotees are entering the town. Police personnel have been deployed at all check points and they are asking the devotees to go back. A few are entering into Ramdeora by temporary routes, looking at which all hotels and dharamshalas have been directed not to allow any travellers to stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/fair-called-off-devotees-still-throng-ramdeora/articleshow/77557929.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||They put service before self; now, Delhi CM to honour 7 Covid Warriors on Independence Day||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has invited seven people who risked their lives helping people fight Covid-19 to the Independence Day function at Delhi Secretariat on Saturday. They will be honoured as Covid warriors and will represent their community at the appreciation programme. The official Independence Day event this year will not be held at the usual venue of Chhatrasal Stadium in compliance with pandemic norms. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will unfurl the national flag at the Secretariat in the presence of a limited number of invitees. The Covid frontline warriors who have been invited proved their mettle in fields as diverse as administration, medical care, nursing, policing, civil defence and public sanitation. In a statement on Friday, Delhi government said that due to the hard work and dedication of these anti-Covid fighters, timely treatment, food and other relief materials had been provided to affected people, leading to the worldwide recognition of the “Delhi model” of fighting the pandemic. The invitee list has the names of additional district magistrate (Central) Rajeev Singh Parihar, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital medical officer Dr Hirdesh Kumar, Lok Nayak Hospital nursing officer Sonu, Delhi Police constable Pradeep Chauhah, CATS ambulance driver Tej Bahadur, civil defence volunteer Dina Nath Yadav and South Delhi Municipal Corporation sanitation worker Ashok Kumar. All of them appreciated this step of the state government and said they were happy at the official recognition of their effort to fight the virus. Kejriwal, who is also the national convener of the Aam Aadmi Party, will later address party volunteers across the country on the occasion of the Independence Day at 4pm on Saturday. “The live address of the party chief will be available on his Facebook page, Twitter handle and the party's YouTube channel,” Delhi ruling party said in a statement on Friday. “A large number of volunteers will participate and listen to Kejriwal. There is great enthusiasm among party volunteers for the address.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/they-put-service-before-self-now-cm-to-honour-7-covid-warriors-on-i-day/articleshow/77554780.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Indore||MP’s Covid testing rate one of the lowest in India||BHOPAL: Public health infrastructure is going to be put to the test in the coming days in Madhya Pradesh as Covid-19 cases spike to new highs. On Thursday, the state recorded it’s highest one-day count of 1,014 cases. Madhya Pradesh conducts just about 218 tests per day per million population, according to the Union ministry of health data on Friday. It is one of the lowest rates of testing in India. WHO — in its guidance note on ‘Public Health Criteria to Adjust Public Health and Social Measures in the Context of Covid-19’ — has advised comprehensive surveillance for suspected cases. Covid-19 management efforts are in place for months, even as the anticipated surge in infection is taking place, said a senior health department official. Experts from AIIMS Bhopal, who are nodal representatives of the Union health ministry, have been blunt about the increase in cases, owing to movement and migration. Bhopal has turned into the new Covid-19 hotspot of the state since the past few weeks and is the biggest contributor to the positives tally and death toll during the past week. Bhopal reported 1,602 cases from August 1 to 13, taking its tally to above 8,000. It also reported as many as 55 deaths in the same duration. Indore continues to have the highest overall number of cases at 9,257, of which, more than 1,800 were added in the first 13 days of August. In this duration, 30 plus deaths have been reported in Indore. Earlier in May, nine districts — Barwani, Agar-Malwa, Shajapur, Sheopur, Alirajpur, Harda, Shahdol, Tikamgarh and Betul — were declared coronavirus-free. The same districts are now reporting roughly 7% or more than 3,000 Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/mps-covid-testing-rate-one-of-the-lowest-in-india/articleshow/77557214.cms||Jamal Ayub
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Fair called off, devotees still throng Ramdeora||JAISALMER: Despite the annual fair being cancelled, many people are coming on foot and vehicles to Ramdeora in Jaisalmer. Looking at the rush, the district administration has sealed the borders of Ramdeora and devotees are being sent back after persuading them. RAC jawans have been deployed for additional security and roads have been barricaded. Directions have been issued to hotels and dharamshalas not to allow any passenger to stay. Devotees coming to Ramdeora were having darshan on an LED screen put at the main gate, but on Thursday, to control the crowd, the Baba Ramdeo Samdhi Samiti switched off the screen. The fair that was to be organised from August 20 has been cancelled by the district administration. Devotees are still coming to Ramdeora and offering prayers outside the Baba Ramdeo Samadhi. A meeting of the samiti was held on Friday which unanimously decided that they will abide by the guidelines issued by the district administration and will work together to stop the spread of corona in Ramdeora. Samiti’s Rao Bhom Singh Tanwar has asked all the devotees coming to Ramdeora to follow the directions of the administration and call off their travel plan to Ramdeora during the fair period. Ramdeora SHO Dalpat Singh said even after cancelling the fair, devotees are entering the town. Police personnel have been deployed at all check points and they are asking the devotees to go back. A few are entering into Ramdeora by temporary routes, looking at which all hotels and dharamshalas have been directed not to allow any travellers to stay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fair-called-off-devotees-still-throng-ramdeora/articleshow/77554779.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||RTE Act yet to see light of the day in Telugu states: Activist||HYDERABAD: It has been more than 10 years since the RTE Act came into force with an objective to provide 25% seats in private schools to children of the poorer sections. But in the last one decade, the Act could not ensure education even to a single child in any of the corporate schools in both Telugu states. Yogesh Thandava, an activist-advocate who has been trying to get this law implemented in both the states, said the states were duty-bound to implement it as the Supreme Court had already upheld its validity. Section 12(1)(C) of RTE Act says that 25% of seats in private schools and also pre-schools should be earmarked for children up to 14 years from the poor and disadvantaged sections. “The central government reimburses 60% of the expenditure borne by a state for ensuring private education to students from the disadvantaged sections. Certain states, however, fear this law results in children deserting government schools,” Yogesh said, expressing concern over the inordinate delay. Though the combined AP state issued GO No. 44 on July 30, 2010, directing private schools to reserve 25% of seats to the students from marginalised sections, it was never implemented. The situation in Telangana is no different. “Had this law been implemented in the twin states, more than 10 lakh kids would have got quality education in good private schools till now,” Yogesh said. He claimed that as many as 16 states and Union territories have been implementing this law and nearly 30 lakh students had benefited in the last 10 years. However, Telangana wants the Centre to release the 60% funds first. But as per the law, the state should first spend the money and seek its reimbursement later. On Friday when the case was heard, A Sanjeev Kumar, state’s special counsel, said that 11 petitions were pending in the high court filed between 2010 and 2020. He said the education secretary would soon file a common counter in all the cases and sought four weeks’ time. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy described the inordinate delay as unfair. “File your counter within two weeks,” the bench said and posted the case to September 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rte-act-yet-to-see-light-of-the-day-in-telugu-states-activist/articleshow/77554778.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
August 15, 2020||Allahabad||7 injured in group clash in Pratapgarh||PRAYAGRAJ: At least seven persons including one woman sustained injuries after two rival groups clashed over a petty dispute in Dharampur village under the limits of Mandhata police station of Pratapgarh district on Friday. Additional police pickets have been deployed to in the area. Mandhata police said two rival camps, led by Jabbar and Mannan, came face-to-face after cattle entered a field. The scene took an ugly turn when both the camps used sticks to attack each other and also opened fire. Police said seven persons were injured in the clash. The injured included Irfan, Abrar, Parvez and Faizul Nisha. They were taken to Mandhata community health centre and later shifted to Pratapgarh district hospital. Doctors have referred Irfan, Abrar and Parvez to SRN hospital in Prayagraj. A cross case has been registered in this connection. SP (Pratapgarh) Abhishek Singh said police were probing the case and action would be taken accordingly. He also said that an FIR has also been lodged in this connection under relevant sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/7-injured-in-group-clash-in-pratapgarh/articleshow/77554771.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Mangaluru||How Covid has changed life equations at inter-state borders||MANGALURU: “I’m a doctor serving in a remote village in Kasaragod in Kerala for the last 39 years. My clinic is just 100 metres from Karnataka. Many patients come to my clinic from Karnataka. We are so far lucky as we have no Covid-19 cases reported here, but the lockdown has changed equations. Kerala police erected a barricade near my clinic and Karnataka police did it on their side, 200 metres away. We tolerated the hardship for more than 100 days, hoping we will see good times again,” lamented Dr Mohan Kumar Y S in a social media post. Dr Kumar is a noted activist who fought for several social causes including the issues faced by endosulfan victims. People living in the border villages of Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod are suffering due to travel restrictions, even as Covid-19 cases continue to surge on both sides of the border. Dr Kumar, who is serving at Swarga village in Kasaragod near the border, said that even after the central government ordered free movement of people, the barricades on both the sides are intact. “Both states have thousands of patients. Why are poor patients of our area made to suffer? Many aged parents are not able to see their kin for the last five months, and many others have suffered without jobs. We are not two different nations. We have our brothers and sisters on both sides,” he said. “My father-in-law, aged 85, lives in Karnataka, but his exit road is in Kerala. The road is totally blocked by putting loads of mud. My mother-in-law is living with us after she became seriously ill. Now her husband can’t see her because we are in Kerala. She can’t consult a doctor in Mangaluru because, though she is from Karnataka, now she’s in Kerala. After making a lot of requests, the road on the Karnataka side has been opened, but it remains closed on the Kerala side,” he said, adding there are nearly 20 such border villages like Saradka, Bayar and Muligadde, to name a few, where people from both sides find it difficult to commute. The Kasaragod district BJP Yuva Morcha and Congress have also requested that people be allowed to move between Kasaragod and Mangaluru. The BJP Yuva Morcha has planned a protest by removing the soil dumped to block border roads on Independence Day. Congress leader and Kasaragod ZP development standing committee chairman Harshad Vorkady said the Kerala-Karnataka border should be opened for people from both sides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/how-covid-has-changed-life-equations-at-inter-state-borders/articleshow/77551798.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||Survey shows pedestrian signals at crucial junctions in poor light||Pune: It’s a race against time every time 68-year-old Satish Patil has to cross the road at a junction in the city. “I have to run to cross the junction before the pedestrian signal turns red and the traffic signal turns green,” Patil said, adding that he faced this problem at many signals in the city, with no timer to indicate how long pedestrians have before vehicles come bearing down on them. Patil’s is not an isolated experience. A recent survey conducted by the NGO, Save Pune Traffic Movement, found that most pedestrian signals in the city turn green for an average of 11 seconds — much lower than the 20 seconds mandated by the Indian Road Congress. The survey conducted in July sampled 107 major junctions. “We found that only 6% of these junctions had functional pedestrian signals. I can’t even imagine the situation at smaller junctions,” the NGO’s director Harshad Abhyankar told TOI. Except for four signalized intersections in the city, not a single pedestrian signal had a countdown to indicate the time left to cross. “None of the pedestrian signals had any audio indicators either to aid visually impaired pedestrians,” Abhyankar added. “We have submitted the findings to the electrical department of the Pune Municipal Corporation. The officials said they were aware of the ground situation and were working towards improving the state of pedestrian signals,” Abhyankar said. Before the Covid-19 lockdown, PMC had programmed the pedestrian signal at the Balewadi High Street junction and three signals in Kothrud to display a countdown. However, the pandemic hobbled the drive before it could reach other signals, PMC said. “Due to Covid-19, many signals in the city are still non-functional. Further, there are not many people on the roads. We will start working once the situation improves,” Shrinivas Kandul, head of PMC’s electrical department, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/survey-shows-pedestrian-signals-at-crucial-junctions-in-poor-light/articleshow/77554783.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 15, 2020||Bhopal||150 fresh Covid cases in Bhopal||BHOPAL: As many as 150 people were diagnosed with Covid-19 in the state capital on Friday. About 60% of the 2,511 cases tested in the day were through the rapid antigen test (RAT). However, RT-PCR testing picked up in GMC and AIIMS Bhopal. One in 10 persons tested through RT-PCR were diagnosed with Covid-19 compared to roughly one in 100 for the RAT. Since the pandemic began, infection tally in the state capital has touched 8,509, while 236 people have died. On Friday, three officials from MP Poultry Development Corporation, including a doctor, tested positive. All three were tested at the AIIMS Bhopal laboratory. Char Imli reported its 30th infection case for the month of August, according to sources. Bairagarh area, which had reported 27 Covid-19 cases on Thursday, reported two more cases. Multiple infection case in the same household continues to be the trend. Three cases each were diagnosed in households in Indrapuri, Marwari Road, EME Centre and Danish Kunj (Kolar). Four members of the same family have been detected positive in Nai Basti (Baghmugalia) and Peer Gate. Three people were diagnosed with the infection in Govindpura Industrial area.  Four positive cases have been detected in Ambedkar Nagar while the same number of cases has been reported from a household in Bajpai Nagar, according to the health bulletin. Other infections were detected in various colonies like Jharneshwar Complex (Jawahar Chowk), Azad Nagar (Barkheda Pathani), Vallabh Nagar, Subhalaya Parishar (Samardha), Girnar Valley, Bajpai Nagar, Navjeevan Colony, Police Line Nehru Nagar,DK Bridge Tower (Kolar), Chunar Dream City, PGBT College (Gautam Nagar), SBI (Idgah Hills), Ganesh Mandir (Chhola), Barkheda Pathani, Sagar Landmark, Narmada Bhavan, Green Heights, Rahul Nagar, Bal Vihar, Amrai (AIIMS) Surendra Greens (Bagsewania), Jai Hind Nagar, Arjun Nagar, Gopal Nagar(Khajuri kalan), Akash Bhojnalaya (Lal Parade Ground), Berasia and Neelkanth, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/150-fresh-covid-cases-in-bhopal/articleshow/77553402.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Allahabad||AU ranks 38th among 40 central varsities in country||PRAYAGRAJ: In what could a further dent in the credibility of the over 128-year-old University of Allahabad, it has been ranked 38th among 40 central universities of the country. What more, AU has stood last among the four central universities of the state. The ranking was released by the Ministry of Education on Thursday through its annual report of 40 central universities across the country. Jamia Millia Islamia has bagged the first spot among all central universities. In the grading/scoring of performance of central universities by the ministry, Jamia has a score of 90%, compared to 83% of Rajiv Gandhi University of Arunachal Pradesh, 82% of JNU and 78% of Aligarh Muslim University. In terms of the four central universities of the state, Baba Saheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow, is on the first position, Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) on the second, Banaras Hindu University (BHU) on the third and AU on the fourth. AU has scored 94.5 out of 283.5. In various parameters, AU has got just 33% marks though it is compulsory to get minimum 59.975 % marks. AU did not find a place in the AIRF rankings and NAAC grading B has been added. “AU holds a B ++ grade from NAAC. Due to only a B being recorded in the assessment, AU has got very few marks. A letter has been sent to the ministry for the revised report. Efforts are being made to improve the performance of AU,” said, AU registrar Prof N K Shukla. The evaluation is based on parameters which included annual student intake in UG, PG, PhD and MPhil and student diversity, which included percentage of female students, students from other states and foreign students. Other parameters were faculty quality and strength which included student-teacher ratio, teacher vacancy and visiting faculty. Central universities were also assessed on the number of students placed through campus interviews and those who qualified in NET and GATE. Based on this, grants are issued to universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-ranks-38th-among-40-central-varsities-in-country/articleshow/77554782.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh corona tally surges beyond 43,000||BHOPAL: With 796 people testing positive for Covid-19 on Friday, the state’s tally surged to 43,414. The virus also claimed 16 lives, taking the death toll to 1081, as per the state health bulletin. On the brighter side, 32, 405 people have recovered from the infection so far. On Friday, minister Tulsiram Silawat, who had tested positive for coronavirus infection, was discharged from a private hospital here following his recovery. The water resources minister had tested positive for the deadly infection on July 28. Across the state, 570 coronavirus patients were discharged from hospitals on Friday. Meanwhile, Jabalpur reported a spurt of 92 positive cases. Other smaller districts like Vidisha, reported 33 fresh cases. Singrauli, bordering Uttar Pradesh, reported 29 newcases. Of the 16 deaths, three were reported from Jabalpur, two from Neemuch and Damoh. One death each was reported from Indore, Bhopal, Ujjain, Khargone, Barwani, Vidisha, Raisen, Singrauli and Ashoknagar. With 157 new cases, the worst-hit district in state Indore Covid tally reached 9,414 and 341 deaths. Indore was followed closely by the state capital, which recorded as many as 150 cases. Jabalpur saw 92 fresh cases, while Gwalior added 54 to its tally. No new coronavirus case was reported from three districts: Burhanpur, Shivpuri and Sidhi. As of now, there are 9928 active cases and 3429 containment areas in the state as on Friday. Top 5 in Case Load Indore 157 Bhopal 150 Jabalpur 92 Gwalior 54 Vidisha 33||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-corona-tally-surges-beyond-43k/articleshow/77553422.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Surat||Water released from Ukai, but no need to panic||Surat: Surat residents are reeling under fear with the release of 70,000 cusecs water from the Ukai reservoir due to heavy inflow of water from the catchment areas on Friday. However, Surat district collector Dhaval Patel has asked citizens not to panic as the water was being released gradually. The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has advised the residents in the low-lying areas to remain alert. The low-level weir-cum-causeway bridge connecting Rander and Singanpore was closed for vehicular traffic after it got flooded with the water level touching 8 m. The water level at Ukai reservoir was at 332.50 feet against the rule level of 335 feet with the inflow of 1.36 lakh cusecs due to the heavy rainfall in the catchment areas. H R Mahakal, superintendent engineer, Ukai reservoir told TOI, “We decreased the release of water from 84,000 cusecs to 70,000 cusecs at 5 pm. We may increase the outflow from the dam in case there is a rise in water inflow late on Friday night.” Municipal commissioner, Banchhanidhi Pani said, “The civic officials and teams have been put on alert. The people in the low-lying areas close to the Tapi embankment must move to safer places. Otherwise, there is no need to panic for the residents in the city.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/water-released-from-ukai-but-no-need-to-panic/articleshow/77551842.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Pune||Pandemic affects livelihoods of tribal families in Bhimashankar||Bhimashankar: The onset of the Covid-19 pandemic stopped the world in its stead along with the steady generation of revenue for small-scale entrepreneurs who operate in and around religious institutions/locales across the country.Nearly 150 tribal families in Bhimashankar — where one of the 12 Jyotirlingas is situated, about 125km from Pune off the Nashik highway — weren’t exempt from the claws of struggle as the pandemic halted their business for over four months. The temple used to draw pilgrims and visitors throughout the year and the auspicious month of Shravan was considered a peak time for those who sold flowers, accessories and more, near the temple. “Our survival is at stake now without any other source of livelihood in our vicinity. We have a small piece of land, where we can only cultivate paddy but the returns are not sufficient. We are now struggling to buy even basic grocery items. We can’t even go to work in neighbouring village farms due to the current situation,” said Shilpa Pardhi, who runs a flower stall near the temple. Now she opens her shop only for the temple trustees and priests who conduct daily rituals in the sanctum sanctorum. “I don’t even earn 10% of my once usual income, nowadays,” said a grocery store owner in the town, which has a population of around 2,000 people.Madhukar Gavande, one of trustees of the temple, said, “The prevailing situation has disturbed the economy here completely. There are thousands of people whose livelihoods are dependent the reopening of the temple.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pandemic-affects-livelihoods-of-tribal-families-in-bhimashankar/articleshow/77554787.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Agricultural produce supply hit||KOLHAPUR: The markets in the city felt shortage of farm produce as the Kolhapur Agriculture Produce Market Committee remained shut on Friday. Mohan Salpe, secretary of Kolhapur APMC, said, “The farmers will be at loss as they will have to take a risk to sell outside. Here, in APMC, the farmers can directly sell to the traders by fair auctioning. They can be cheated if they sell produce to traders not registered with APMC.” He added that they charge very little cess from the farmers, which is now the only source of income for APMC for maintaining and developing infrastructure. Due to closure of the APMC, the city markets witnessed shortage of farm produce. The APMCs will remain shut on Saturday on occasion of Ganesh Chaturthi and weekly holiday on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/agricultural-produce-supply-hit/articleshow/77681474.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Two rly officers awarded medals||Hyderabad: Two Railway Protection Force (RPF) officers of South Central Railway (SCR) have been awarded the prestigious Indian Police Medal (IPM) on the occasion of 74th Independence Day. The awardees are Shaik Karimulla, assistant security commissioner of Hyderabad division and K Venkateshwarulu, inspector of cyber cell at Railway Protection Force, Secunderabad. They were given commendation certificates for service to the country. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-rly-officers-awarded-medals/articleshow/77554792.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Security, distancing norms in place for flag hoisting on Saturday||BHOPAL: Independence Day celebrations all over the state on Saturday will be different in many ways. There will be no cultural functions during the programme. Residents will not participate in the official celebrations in any manner, flag hoisting in districts will be carried out by respective district collectors and no .by ministers in the past. All the ministers will participate in the main function at Bhopal. Wearing masks will be compulsory, sanitisers would be kept at the programme site and social distancing norms will be followed. People will be allowed to hoist national flag at their houses but in Independence Day celebration programmes organised by individuals, not more than five persons will be allowed to be present. Before hoisting the national flag at Lal Parade ground, chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan will visit "Shahid Smarak" to pay tributes to martyrs. He will then proceed to Lal Parade ground and hoist the national flag at 9.00 am. It wilĺ followed by his address to the people of the state, which shall be telecast live by regional TV channels and social media platforms. Flag hoisting by district collectors and other persons at panchayat to janpad panchayat to district panchayat, urban local bodies and offices of the state government would be completed by 8.40 am so that the employees and peoples' representatives may listen to the chief minister's address. District collector, Avinash Lavania, on the eve of Independence Day once again appealed to everyone to observe Covid protocol while celebrating the Independence Day and also requested people celebrating the occasion privately not to invite more than five persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/security-distancing-norms-in-place-for-flag-hoisting-today/articleshow/77553441.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Delhi||Light showers expected in Delhi today, unlikely to spoil celebrations||NEW DELHI: The capital could see moderate rain overnight and during the day on Saturday, however, IMD officials said that only very light to light rain (less than 2.5mm) is expected between 5am and 10.30am around the Red Fort, when the Prime Minister will give his speech for Independence Day. Track the pollution level in your cityAfter recording a ‘heavy’ rain day on Thursday, only light rain was recorded in some parts of the capital on Friday. The weatherman said that light to moderate showers are expected to continue for the next few days, with overcast skies likely to be seen through the week. “One can expect light to moderate rain activity overnight, but not much rain is likely around Red Fort between 5.30am and 10am,” said a Met official, stating light to moderate showers are expected to continue this week. “Till August 20, there will be some rain activity each day. We may also see moderate showers on Saturday evening,” said the official. Till 8.30 am on Thursday, Aya Nagar station had recorded 99.2mm of rainfall, making it the heaviest spell of rain for Delhi this monsoon season. The IMD classifies a shower as ‘heavy’ when it is above 64.4mm in single day. Palam, Safdarjung, Ayanagar, Ridge and Lodhi road stations had also all recorded ‘heavy’ rainfall till 8.30am on Thursday. While Palam received 93.6mm of rainfall, this was followed by Ridge which recorded 84.6mm. Lodhi road recorded 72.6mm of rainfall, while Safdarjung, Delhi’s base station received 68.2mm of rainfall. Delhi’s maximum on Friday was recorded at 32.5 degrees Celsius — 1 degree below normal for this time of the season, while relative humidity oscillated between 79% and 97%. Meanwhile, Delhi’s AQI was recorded at 58 – back in the ‘satisfactory’ category after recording a ‘good’ air day on Thursday. A ‘good’ air day is when the AQI is 50 and lower on CPCB’s index.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/light-showers-expected-today-unlikely-to-spoil-celebrations/articleshow/77554798.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Order reserved for Monday on BSP MLAs’ merger with Congress||JAIPUR: Rajasthan High Court on Friday reserved its order on the petition challenging the merger of six BSP MLAs into the Congress and the order of the Speaker approving the merger on September 18 last year. The single bench of Justice Mahendra Goyal will pronounce his judgment on Monday on a petition by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar and BSP. The court directed that the Speaker will not give any order on the disqualification petition of the six MLAs filed by one Vijay Singh till the court pronounces its order on Monday. The arguments of the counsels for the six MLAs were completed on Friday. Senior lawyers Siddarth Luthra, Devdutt Kamat and G S Bapna appeared for the former BSP MLAs. They pointed out that if the interpretation of the petitioner is accepted, it would lead to constitutional mayhem and the Speaker would be deprived of his powers under paragraph 6(1) of the Tenth Schedule. “The petitioner claims that the alleged order of merger has attained finality and is therefore subject to judicial review and must be set aside. This would mean that the Speaker’s exclusive adjudicatory authority under paragraph 6 (1) will now be exercised by the court, which is specifically prohibited in Kihoto Hollohan,” argued the counsel for the BSP MLAs Siddarth Luthra . “Such an interpretation would be contrary to the basic constitutional contours of the Tenth Schedule in terms of which no court is entitled to adjudicate on matters except after the Speaker exercises powers under paragraph 6 (1) as a tribunal, which decision can then be challenged only on four limited grounds: Perversity, mala fides, violation of the constitutional mandate and non-compliance with the rules of natural justice. This too, only after the Speaker has rendered a decision,” Devdutt Kamat. They pointed out that this writ petition could not be entertained without a valid and legally maintainable disqualification petition being filed before the Speaker. The submissions made were that since no disqualification petition was filed, the court was entitled to adjudicate the matters in question. If such an interpretation is accepted, it would mean that petitioners in such matters would deliberately not file disqualification petitions and have the court decide these issues instead. This too is contrary to the scheme of the Tenth Schedule. Power cut The impact of heavy rains in Jaipur and power disruption was also seen in the high court during the hearing of the BSP merger case on Friday. Power outage was witnessed thrice in the court . Once before lunch when lawyer Devdutt Kamat was presenting his side and second time after lunch the power was cut as the hearing started. The third time during argument by Satish Mishra on behalf of BSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/order-reserved-for-monday-on-bsp-mlas-merger-with-cong/articleshow/77554795.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Law students launch digital drive to donate used smartphones||MANGALURU: Two law students, through their online drive, are collecting second-hand phones and laptops and donating it to underprivileged children to help them with their education. Suchetha Vikram and Aman Rodrigues, law students from Christ (Deemed to be) University, had launched the drive in Bengaluru and Mangaluru. While Suchetha is in charge of the drive in Bengaluru, the pandemic forced Aman to stay back home and launch the campaign in Mangaluru, a week ago. “This campaign is part of Suraksha Dhama, an NGO that will work on women-centric issues and manual scavenging, to be officially launched soon. We have used the lockdown period to work extensively on this project. When we realised that there is a section especially civic workers and those engaged as domestic helpers struggling for a smartphone so that their children are not left behind in terms of education, we decided to launch this campaign, Aman told TOI. The team conducted a survey and found that at least 40% of the parents need smartphones in Mangaluru and the parents of nearly 55% of the students in Bengaluru claimed they need a smartphone that will help their kids with online classes. They also built a database of those in need of smartphones and laptops and started looking out for donors. “We managed to get donors and have already donated four smartphones in Mangaluru. The campaign in Bengaluru is picking up slowly. We have reached out to Residence Welfare Associations in apartments and released flyers on social media. Once the phone is delivered, we will check with them once a month if it is serving the purpose to ensure the students are engaged in academic activities,” said Aman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/law-students-launch-digital-drive-to-donate-used-smartphones/articleshow/77551854.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||Interest subsidy of 50% on overdue loan of farmers||JAIPUR: The cooperative department announced 50% interest waiver on overdue of loans from the cooperative sector. Cooperative Minister Udailal Anjana on Friday said that a lump-sum agreement scheme has been approved in the interest of farmers taking loans from cooperative land development banks, giving relief to the farming class due to the corona pandemic. Under this scheme, the term loan interest and punitive interest of the farmers on loans has been waived up to 50%. Thus, about Rs 239 crore in interest of farmers will be waived off. Anjana said chief minister Ashok Gehlot is sensitive towards farmers and had given instructions to give relief to the farmers in view of the difficulties in repaying the loan. He informed that under the scheme, all types of agricultural and non-agricultural loans of primary cooperative society land development banks, which have expired till July 1, 2019, get the benefit. Over 60,000 farmers of this category will get the benefit. Such farmers will have to repay their loan by November 30 this year. The minister said that the families of such indebted farmers who have died have been given relief by completely waiving the outstanding interest, penal interest and recovery expenses from the date of death of the farmer. He informed that long-term agricultural loans are given to farmers for agricultural works by 36 primary cooperative land development banks working in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/interest-subsidy-of-50-on-overdue-loan-of-farmers/articleshow/77554797.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Jaipur||No prize distribution ceremonies on I-Day||Jaipur: Keeping in view the Covid pandemic situation in the state, the state government has decided to cancel the prize distribution ceremonies which were to be held at the state, division, and district levels on the Independence Day. “As it will not be possible to maintain social distancing during the Independence Day celebrations, it has been decided to postpone prize distribution ceremonies at the state, division and district levels, including the event to be organized at Sawai Man Singh Stadium (SMS),” said an official at the General Administration Department (GAD). Around 400 Corona Warriors including – 100 police personnel, 100 health workers, 100 safai karmacharis and 100 Anganwadi workers – will be honoured during the function at SMS on Saturday. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot will unfurl the national flag at the chief minister’s residence at 7.00 am and at Badi Chaupar at 8am. He will pay tributes to martyrs by placing a wreath at Amar Jawan Jyoti at 8.55am. The chief minister will attend state-level Independence Day function at Sawai Man Singh Stadium at 9am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-prize-distribution-ceremonies-on-i-day/articleshow/77554796.cms||---
August 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Country’s future was paramount, say felicitated Telangana freedom fighters||Hyderabad: What does freedom mean? For 97-year-old Bolledu Venkataramulu of Suryapet, who was at the frontline of the freedom struggle, the word encapsulated his life. “We could not settle for anything less than freedom. It meant our lives. What mattered was the future of the country,” recalls Venkatramulu. Neelam Nagamallu (93) of Gopalapuram village in Warangal rural district says there was a nationalistic fervour felt across the country at the time. On August 9, both Venkatramulu and Nagamallu were to be honoured by President Ramnath Kovind in Delhi. But the programme was cancelled in view of the Covid-19 situation. Eight others from various districts were also selected for the honour. As an alternative, the district administration went to the houses of all the 10 freedom fighters and acknowledged their services for the freedom of the country. The situation in then Hyderabad state ruled by the Nizam was different from the rest of the country. In the erstwhile Hyderabad, the fight was against the Nizam’s forces. “The threat to our lives was real. We would organise people in the village but the Nizam’s forces would come after us. For several days we would hide in the hills, come back and regroup to carry on the movement,” Venkatramulu, who jumped into the freedom movement when he was 20, said. While India got independence on August 15, 1947, Hyderabad continued to be under the Nizam’s rule. “We had to continue our fight. One day my elder brother got beaten up. Honestly, we were scared but we could not allow our fear to overtake us,” Nagamallu said. He was 22 years old when he joined the freedom struggle. It was only after Hyderabad state was merged with the Indian union on September 17, 1948 that their fight ended. After that, they stayed away from politics and became agriculturists. They do not follow present day politics but are happy that the country has developed over the decades. Those who were honoured this year include 90-year-old Kuturu Veera Rao of Khammam, 91-year-old M Venkat Rao of Hyderabad, 95-year-old Mekala Papi Reddy of Karimnagar, Narsa Reddy of Nizamababad, M Venkat Rao of Nagarkurnool, 90-year-old Anumula Narsaiah of Rajanna Sircilla, Munipally Ramachandraiah of Sanga Reddyand Vunnam Venkaiah of Rangareddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/countrys-future-was-paramount-say-felicitated-t-freedom-fighters/articleshow/77554821.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 15, 2020||Salem||All applicants will get e-passes in TN from August 17: CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday announced that from August 17 e-passes will be issued immediately to all applicants for inter-district travel in the state. The announcement comes amid strident criticisms from a wide cross-section about delays, irregularities and corruption in the e-pass system. The existing system, which saw rejections of 47 lakh applications so far, will be replaced by an updated automated system for speedy clearance. “I have ordered issuance of e-passes without any delay to all applicants to travel across the state from August 17 based on submission of Aadhaar/ration card details along with telephone/mobile numbers,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a statement, adding that people should use e-passes responsibly and avoid unnecessary travel. The move to speed up the process comes in the wake of long queues for e-passes and allegations by political parties of “rejections on unreasonable grounds and nepotism”. The status quo for e-passes would, however, be maintained for people arriving from other states and foreign countries. These returnees will have to apply well in advance and get the necessary clearance. The state government commenced issuing of e-passes to individuals and establishments for inter-district movement since May to facilitate contact tracing when a traveller tests positive for Covid-19. The e-pass is issued for marriages, medical emergencies, death of close relatives, for undertaking important work and for people who are stranded. “We want a record of persons travelling to other districts, so that if someone tests positive, we can trace their movement and contacts. As long as there is inter-district restriction of movement, we will continue to make e-passes mandatory,” said chief secretary K Shanmugam. The proposed changes are aimed at tackling the nuisance of touts as well. Only 25 lakh of the 71.2 lakh applications were approved by the state in the last three months. There were allegations that even genuine applications were rejected arbitrarily as the district administrators sought to restrict the entry of visitors. Now, the Tamil Nadu e-governance agency is modifying its software to give effect to the proposed changes of automated approvals and auto scanning the data entered by the applicants. The system algorithms will detect the wrong entries and reject them. In a statement, DMK chief M K Stalin said he had been demanding that the state abolish the e-pass system. “It is difficult for the illiterate and economically poor to apply every time they need to travel. I urge the government to abolish the system altogether. At the same time, I request the people to avail the relaxation only for the most essential trips and stay cautious,” the DMK leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/all-applicants-will-get-e-passes-in-tn-from-august-17-cm/articleshow/77561653.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 15, 2020||Chennai||All applicants will get e-passes in TN from August 17: CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday announced that from August 17 e-passes will be issued immediately to all applicants for inter-district travel in the state. The announcement comes amid strident criticisms from a wide cross-section about delays, irregularities and corruption in the e-pass system. The existing system, which saw rejections of 47 lakh applications so far, will be replaced by an updated automated system for speedy clearance. “I have ordered issuance of e-passes without any delay to all applicants to travel across the state from August 17 based on submission of Aadhaar/ration card details along with telephone/mobile numbers,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a statement, adding that people should use e-passes responsibly and avoid unnecessary travel. The move to speed up the process comes in the wake of long queues for e-passes and allegations by political parties of “rejections on unreasonable grounds and nepotism”. The status quo for e-passes would, however, be maintained for people arriving from other states and foreign countries. These returnees will have to apply well in advance and get the necessary clearance. The state government commenced issuing of e-passes to individuals and establishments for inter-district movement since May to facilitate contact tracing when a traveller tests positive for Covid-19. The e-pass is issued for marriages, medical emergencies, death of close relatives, for undertaking important work and for people who are stranded. “We want a record of persons travelling to other districts, so that if someone tests positive, we can trace their movement and contacts. As long as there is inter-district restriction of movement, we will continue to make e-passes mandatory,” said chief secretary K Shanmugam. The proposed changes are aimed at tackling the nuisance of touts as well. Only 25 lakh of the 71.2 lakh applications were approved by the state in the last three months. There were allegations that even genuine applications were rejected arbitrarily as the district administrators sought to restrict the entry of visitors. Now, the Tamil Nadu e-governance agency is modifying its software to give effect to the proposed changes of automated approvals and auto scanning the data entered by the applicants. The system algorithms will detect the wrong entries and reject them. In a statement, DMK chief M K Stalin said he had been demanding that the state abolish the e-pass system. “It is difficult for the illiterate and economically poor to apply every time they need to travel. I urge the government to abolish the system altogether. At the same time, I request the people to avail the relaxation only for the most essential trips and stay cautious,” the DMK leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/all-applicants-will-get-e-passes-in-tn-from-august-17-cm/articleshow/77554805.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 15, 2020||Coimbatore||All applicants will get e-passes in TN from August 17: CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday announced that from August 17 e-passes will be issued immediately to all applicants for inter-district travel in the state. The announcement comes amid strident criticisms from a wide cross-section about delays, irregularities and corruption in the e-pass system. The existing system, which saw rejections of 47 lakh applications so far, will be replaced by an updated automated system for speedy clearance. “I have ordered issuance of e-passes without any delay to all applicants to travel across the state from August 17 based on submission of Aadhaar/ration card details along with telephone/mobile numbers,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a statement, adding that people should use e-passes responsibly and avoid unnecessary travel. The move to speed up the process comes in the wake of long queues for e-passes and allegations by political parties of “rejections on unreasonable grounds and nepotism”. The status quo for e-passes would, however, be maintained for people arriving from other states and foreign countries. These returnees will have to apply well in advance and get the necessary clearance. The state government commenced issuing of e-passes to individuals and establishments for inter-district movement since May to facilitate contact tracing when a traveller tests positive for Covid-19. The e-pass is issued for marriages, medical emergencies, death of close relatives, for undertaking important work and for people who are stranded. “We want a record of persons travelling to other districts, so that if someone tests positive, we can trace their movement and contacts. As long as there is inter-district restriction of movement, we will continue to make e-passes mandatory,” said chief secretary K Shanmugam. The proposed changes are aimed at tackling the nuisance of touts as well. Only 25 lakh of the 71.2 lakh applications were approved by the state in the last three months. There were allegations that even genuine applications were rejected arbitrarily as the district administrators sought to restrict the entry of visitors. Now, the Tamil Nadu e-governance agency is modifying its software to give effect to the proposed changes of automated approvals and auto scanning the data entered by the applicants. The system algorithms will detect the wrong entries and reject them. In a statement, DMK chief M K Stalin said he had been demanding that the state abolish the e-pass system. “It is difficult for the illiterate and economically poor to apply every time they need to travel. I urge the government to abolish the system altogether. At the same time, I request the people to avail the relaxation only for the most essential trips and stay cautious,” the DMK leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/all-applicants-will-get-e-passes-in-tn-from-august-17-cm/articleshow/77561649.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 15, 2020||Erode||All applicants will get e-passes in TN from August 17: CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday announced that from August 17 e-passes will be issued immediately to all applicants for inter-district travel in the state. The announcement comes amid strident criticisms from a wide cross-section about delays, irregularities and corruption in the e-pass system. The existing system, which saw rejections of 47 lakh applications so far, will be replaced by an updated automated system for speedy clearance. “I have ordered issuance of e-passes without any delay to all applicants to travel across the state from August 17 based on submission of Aadhaar/ration card details along with telephone/mobile numbers,” chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said in a statement, adding that people should use e-passes responsibly and avoid unnecessary travel. The move to speed up the process comes in the wake of long queues for e-passes and allegations by political parties of “rejections on unreasonable grounds and nepotism”. The status quo for e-passes would, however, be maintained for people arriving from other states and foreign countries. These returnees will have to apply well in advance and get the necessary clearance. The state government commenced issuing of e-passes to individuals and establishments for inter-district movement since May to facilitate contact tracing when a traveller tests positive for Covid-19. The e-pass is issued for marriages, medical emergencies, death of close relatives, for undertaking important work and for people who are stranded. “We want a record of persons travelling to other districts, so that if someone tests positive, we can trace their movement and contacts. As long as there is inter-district restriction of movement, we will continue to make e-passes mandatory,” said chief secretary K Shanmugam. The proposed changes are aimed at tackling the nuisance of touts as well. Only 25 lakh of the 71.2 lakh applications were approved by the state in the last three months. There were allegations that even genuine applications were rejected arbitrarily as the district administrators sought to restrict the entry of visitors. Now, the Tamil Nadu e-governance agency is modifying its software to give effect to the proposed changes of automated approvals and auto scanning the data entered by the applicants. The system algorithms will detect the wrong entries and reject them. In a statement, DMK chief M K Stalin said he had been demanding that the state abolish the e-pass system. “It is difficult for the illiterate and economically poor to apply every time they need to travel. I urge the government to abolish the system altogether. At the same time, I request the people to avail the relaxation only for the most essential trips and stay cautious,” the DMK leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/all-applicants-will-get-e-passes-in-tn-from-august-17-cm/articleshow/77561652.cms||Julie Mariappan
