August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Why Bengaluru must take cue from PM’s speech||BENGALURU: Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day address stressed for multi-modal connectivity and infrastructure, something Bengaluru needs to implement on a war footing. “We cannot work in silos. The entire country has to move towards multi-modal connectivity infrastructure,” the PM said. Experts say Bengaluru, plagued by poor coordination between various government agencies and also lack of first- and last-mile connectivity, could take a leaf out of the PM’s speech. The draft Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) had proposed elevated walkways of 300-1,500m at 10 locations, but it remains on paper.  The city’s major bus stations like Shantinagar, Mysuru Road Satellite terminus, Yeshwantpur and Peenya are not yet connected with Metro. For instance, Yeshwantpur Metro station is not yet connected with the railway station, notwithstanding promises of a foot-over-bridge by BMRCL and SWR. “There is no integration in Bengaluru with various transport modes. BMTC constructed TTMCs as standalone projects using JNNURM funds wherever they got land, without looking at multi-modal integration. Bengaluru has missed the bus and the government should now come up with a plan to integrate different modes,” said RK Misra, urban mobility expert. Rajkumar Dugar, founder of Citizens 4 Citizens (C4C), blames BMRCL for the lack of integration. Bus and railway stations were already established, but Namma Metro was a new infrastructure facility which failed to integrate, he pointed out. An urban development department official said the absence of an umbrella agency like Unified Metropolitan Transportation Authority (UMTA) is the main issue. “It’s difficult to coordinate with multiple agencies and execute a project as there different stakeholders involved. We’re working hard to improve the integration,” the official pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/why-city-must-take-cue-from-pms-speech/articleshow/77567109.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||From LoC to LAC, India has responded to aggression in same language: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: The country and Indian army have responded to belligerence on the borders in the language of the aggressor and Ladakh has given the world a demonstration of the capability of the Indian soldier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said during his seventh Independence Day address, from Red Fort, on Saturday. "From LoC to LAC, whoever has raised eyes on the sovereignty of the country .... the armed forces and the country have responded in the same language. Respect for India's sovereignty is supreme for us. What our brave soldiers can do for this resolution, what the country can do, the world has seen this in Ladakh," Modi said. The remark was seen as a reference to the Galwan Valley clashes where, according to the defence establishment, Indian jawans retaliated against PLA’s aggression by inflicting many casualties on the Chinese side. The PM said despite recent adversities — a reference to the Covid-19 pandemic — there have been “misadventures” on the borders. Read Also74th Independence Day: Major announcements made by PM ModiNEW DELHI: In his address to the nation on India's 74th Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday made some major announcements ranging from the digital health mission scheme to the new cyber policy. From the ramparts of the Red Fort in his one-and-a-half hour long speech, PM ModiWhile he did not name either China or Pakistan, the PM referred to the threats of expansionism and terrorism, in that order, represented by the two hostile neighbours, saying that India’s tough stance has been appreciated. “Recently, as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, 184 countries out of 192 supported India. This is a matter of great pride for every Indian. This is an example of how we have made our place in the world. And this is possible only when India itself is strong, India is powerful and safe,” he said. The brief reference to the ongoing military stand-off in Ladakh came as discussions to disengage at friction points and de-escalate are stalemated due to China’s refusal to pull back its troops despite several rounds of talks. The two sides are now digging in and Indian forces are preparing supplies to last through the winter. “When we embark on an extraordinary journey with an extraordinary goal, the path will also be full of challenges and these challenges too are extraordinary. Notwithstanding the recent adversities, there have been misadventures along the border which threw a challenge to the country. But whoever tried to threaten the sovereignty of our country right from the LoC to the LAC, the army of the country, our brave soldiers have given a befitting reply,” he said. Modi said, “The whole country is full of zeal, driven by conviction and moving forward with unwavering devotion to protect India’s sovereignty. The world has seen what our brave jawans can do in Ladakh...Today, I pay obeisance to all the brave men and soldiers who sacrificed their lives”. In the rest of his speech, Modi expounded in detail on the theme of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ in the context of decisions such as curbs on defence imports that are to be indigenised, national infrastructure projects, a new education policy, development of Tejas fighters, a plan to connect all villages by fibre optical networks, and reforms in taxation and the MSME sector. India can’t continue to be an exporter of raw materials and receiver of finished goods, he said. Modi also said the beginning of the construction of the Ram Temple at Ayodhya is a “peaceful culmination” of the age-old Ram Janambhoomi issue. “The citizens of India have shown exemplary restraint and wisdom, and acted responsibly... Peace, unity and harmony are going to be the strengths of self-reliant India.” There was a pointed reference to the middle class as Modi reassured this vocal segment that the government has not lost sight of their needs. “Whether it is the agriculture sector, small-scale industries sector or the people in services sector, almost all these people, in a way constitute a huge middle class of India,” he said. The government is constantly working to fulfil dreams of the middle class. The middle class has the power to do miracles. So middle class families get the greatest benefits of ease of living. Cheap internet, affordable smartphones and flight tickets — all these things are going to increase the strength of the middle class,” he said. Home loan rates have become cheaper and funds have been set up to complete distressed projects, he added. Watch I-Day 2020: Our brave soldiers give befitting reply to all who challenge India's sovereignty, says PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/from-loc-to-lac-india-has-responded-to-aggression-in-same-language-pm-modi/articleshow/77567373.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||New cybersecurity policy coming for digital India||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that India will soon have a new cyber security policy as the country goes digital, and dependence on cyberspace increases manifold. “In a short span of time, a draft of new cyber security policy would be presented to the nation. In the coming times, we will have to integrate everything and then work within the framework of this cyber security. We will formulate strategies to move forth,” he said in his Independence Day speech. The focus on a fresh framework to secure cyberspace comes amid heightened threat due to the tension at the borders and was accompanied by a reiteration on connecting the country’s six lakh villages through an optic-fibre network over the next three years. PM also set a 1,000-day deadline for connecting Lakshadweep through a submarine optical fibre cable network to provide high-speed internet connectivity on the lines of a recent initiative in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Modi said that while India’s dependence on cyberspace is increasing strongly in an era of technology, cyberspace carries its own risks and threats which were evident to the world. “It can be a threat to the social fabric of our country, our economy and can even threaten the development of our nation; we are very well-aware of that. India is very cautious and is planning to take steps to combat these risks,” he said, adding that new systems to protect the cyberspace are continuously being developed. The government had first prepared a National Cyber Security Policy in 2013, Last year, the National Security Council Secretariat had sought inputs for a new five-year framework. Over the years cyber attacks have become more complex with the population using the internet for its daily needs growing at a rapid pace. India has the second-highest number of internet users and among the top spam senders and is seen to be highly vulnerable to cybercrime. Several government establishments, such as NHAI, have faced attacks in recent weeks. Watch In coming 1000 days, every village will be connected with optical fibre: PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-cybersecurity-policy-coming-for-digital-india/articleshow/77568282.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Govt mulling revising legal age of marriage for girls, hints PM Modi||NEW DELHI: In a hint that government is considering revising upward the legal age of marriage for girls which is currently 18 years, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday a decision on “what should be the right age of marriage for girls” would be taken as soon as a committee set-up to study the issue submits its report. “To end malnutrition among girls, to assess what should be the age of marriage, we have set-up a committee,” the PM said. As of now, while the legal age of marriage in India is 18 years for girls, it is 21 for boys. Anaemia and malnutrition are common afflictions in underage mothers and relate to marriages taking place in the 16-18 age group. That proportion, though declining, is significant even now. Read AlsoFrom LoC to LAC, India has responded to aggression in same language: PM ModiThe country and Indian army have responded to belligerence on the borders in the language of the aggressor and Ladakh has given the world a demonstration of the capability of the Indian soldier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said during his seventh Independence Day address, from Red Fort, onThe task force headed by social activist Jaya Jaitly was set-up in June as a follow-up to the announcement made by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the Union budget for 2020-21 where she stated, “women’s age of marriage was increased from 15 to 18 years in 1978, by amending the erstwhile Sharda Act of 1929. As India progresses further, opportunities open up for women to pursue higher education and careers. There are imperatives of lowering maternal mortality ratio (MMR) as well as improvement of nutrition levels. The entire issue about the age of a girl entering motherhood needs to be seen in this light.” Read AlsoPM Modi pushes for self-reliant India with 'Make for World' callPrime Minister Narendra Modi made the call for ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ the central theme of his seventh Independence Day speech, seeking to pitch the country as a manufacturing hub, with “Make for World” as the mantra so that that local value additions help the country make the switch from a supplierThe task force has the mandate to examine matters pertaining to the age of motherhood, imperatives of lowering maternal mortality rate, improvement of nutritional levels and related issues. It has to also suggest suitable legislations or amendments in existing laws and a detailed rollout plan with timelines to implement these recommendations. TOI has learnt that the task force which was supposed to give its report till July 31, is yet to submit it to the government. The 2001 census said, “In the age group of 15-49 years — the prime child bearing age group — 81.4% of women are married. This percentage is high due to lower female age at marriage in many parts of the country." The age of marriage has been a point of debate for long. The National Human Rights Commission too has raised the need for uniform age for marriage for both men and women from time to time. In 140 countries the age of marriage is 18 for both men and women. Even the Law Commission in a consultative paper on family laws in 2018 suggested that the legal age for marriage for both men and women across religions should be recognized at 18 years, the universal age for majority. It does not, however, seem likely that the male age of marriage will be reduced given the government's focus on dealing with malnutrition in underage and young brides. Settling a very critical issue pertaining to under age marriages, the Supreme Court in 2017 had ruled that “sexual intercourse with a minor wife amounts to rape, as under no circumstances can a child below 18 years give consent, express or implied, for sexual intercourse”. However, the government’s proposal to bring the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act in synchronisation with the judgement to make child marriages “void ab initio” (invalid at the outset) is yet to take the shape of a decision. An analysis of child marriage and teenage pregnancies shared by National Commission for Protection of Child Rights and voluntary organisation Young Lives in 2018 shows that while overall prevalence of child marriage among 15 -19 year - old girls declined significantly from 26.5% in 2005-06 to 11.9% in 2015-16, poverty and status of education are key factors in the circumstances that lead to child marriage. The study also reveals that amongst the married girls aged 15 to 19 years, 31.5% girls were found to have babies. Almost a quarter of the married girls in the age group of 15 to 16 years had at least one baby. Watch Centre considering to fix legal age of marriage for girls||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-mulling-revising-legal-age-of-marriage-for-girls-hints-pm-modi/articleshow/77568323.cms||Ambika Pandit
August 16, 2020||World||Biden says India-US share special bond, highlights Trump admin's 'harmful' action on H1B visa||WASHINGTON: Joe Biden, presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, on Saturday (local time) took a snipe at the Trump administration for its crackdown on legal immigration including 'sudden' and 'harmful' actions on H1B visa and promised that if elected he would continue to rely on Indian-American diaspora that binds the two nations together. In an event 'South Asians for Biden', the former Vice President extended his wishes on Independence Day to all Indian Americans and Indians all across the world and said New Delhi and Washington share a "special bond that has deepened over many years". "Happy Indian Independence Day, we share a special bond that I've seen deepened over many years as a US Senator, and vice president. I watched, 15 years ago I was leading the efforts to approve the historic civil nuclear deal with India. I said that the United States and India became closer friends and partners, then the world will be a safer place," he said during the virtual event. "But I know it is hard and my heart goes out to all those of you who have been the targets in a rise in hate crimes, the crackdown of legal immigration, including the sudden and harmful actions on H1B visas made America stronger and brought our nation's closer... As President, I'll also continue to rely on Indian American diaspora. It keeps our two nations together, as I have throughout my career, my constituents in Delaware. My staff of the Senate," he added. On June 22, the US President Donald Trump had signed a proclamation to temporarily suspend H1B and several categories of work visas till the end of the year in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. Biden praised Kamala Harris by saying she is smart, tested, and prepared, adding that the California Senator's mother's immigrant story to America makes her inspiring. "Kamala Harris. Will we all know she's smart, she's tested, she's prepared. But another thing that makes Kamala so inspiring is her mother's immigrant story to America that started in India, with the pure courage and brought her daughters to this moment," he said. Speaking after Biden, Harris wished Independence Day and said Indian and US communities are bound together by so much more than our shared history and culture. "To the people of India and to Indian Americans all across the United States. I want to wish you a happy Indian Independence Day. On August 15, 1947, men and women all over India rejoiced in the declaration of the independence of the country of India today on August 15, 2020, I stand before you as the first candidate for Vice President of the United States of South Asian descent," she said. Watch India-US share special bond, Trump admin's action on H1B visa 'harmful': Joe Biden||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-says-india-us-share-special-bond-highlights-trump-admins-harmful-action-on-h1b-visa/articleshow/77568365.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Biden says India-US share special bond, highlights Trump admin's 'harmful' action on H1B visa||WASHINGTON: Joe Biden, presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, on Saturday (local time) took a snipe at the Trump administration for its crackdown on legal immigration including 'sudden' and 'harmful' actions on H1B visa and promised that if elected he would continue to rely on Indian-American diaspora that binds the two nations together. In an event 'South Asians for Biden', the former Vice President extended his wishes on Independence Day to all Indian Americans and Indians all across the world and said New Delhi and Washington share a "special bond that has deepened over many years". "Happy Indian Independence Day, we share a special bond that I've seen deepened over many years as a US Senator, and vice president. I watched, 15 years ago I was leading the efforts to approve the historic civil nuclear deal with India. I said that the United States and India became closer friends and partners, then the world will be a safer place," he said during the virtual event. "But I know it is hard and my heart goes out to all those of you who have been the targets in a rise in hate crimes, the crackdown of legal immigration, including the sudden and harmful actions on H1B visas made America stronger and brought our nation's closer... As President, I'll also continue to rely on Indian American diaspora. It keeps our two nations together, as I have throughout my career, my constituents in Delaware. My staff of the Senate," he added. On June 22, the US President Donald Trump had signed a proclamation to temporarily suspend H1B and several categories of work visas till the end of the year in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. Biden praised Kamala Harris by saying she is smart, tested, and prepared, adding that the California Senator's mother's immigrant story to America makes her inspiring. "Kamala Harris. Will we all know she's smart, she's tested, she's prepared. But another thing that makes Kamala so inspiring is her mother's immigrant story to America that started in India, with the pure courage and brought her daughters to this moment," he said. Speaking after Biden, Harris wished Independence Day and said Indian and US communities are bound together by so much more than our shared history and culture. "To the people of India and to Indian Americans all across the United States. I want to wish you a happy Indian Independence Day. On August 15, 1947, men and women all over India rejoiced in the declaration of the independence of the country of India today on August 15, 2020, I stand before you as the first candidate for Vice President of the United States of South Asian descent," she said. Watch India-US share special bond, Trump admin's action on H1B visa 'harmful': Joe Biden||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/biden-says-india-us-share-special-bond-highlights-trump-admins-harmful-action-on-h1b-visa/articleshow/77568367.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Covid warriors will be first ones to get vaccine, says govt||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 warriors will be the first ones to get the dose of any vaccine once it is developed, junior health minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey said on Saturday. “Our scientists are working very hard on it. Three vaccines are in various stages of testing,” Choubey said. Interacting with reporters on the sidelines of the I-Day celebrations at the Red Fort , he also hailed the National Digital Health Mission unveiled by the PM Narendra Modi in his address to the nation. “This is a historic day for the country’s health sector. This will bring widespread change in the field of health,” Choubey said. On the proposed health ID card for each citizen, Choubey said if a citizen travels from Patna to Bengaluru, a doctor in the southern city will be able to access the person’s health data. Modi in his address said, “When scientists will give us the green signal, it will be produced on a mass scale and all preparations have been made for it.” AGencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-warriors-will-be-first-ones-to-get-vaccine-says-govt/articleshow/77568401.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Modi, Oli speak first time after Nepal map controversy but border issue doesn’t come up||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi spoke to his Nepal counterpart K P Oli Saturday for the first time since the map controversy erupted earlier this year. Indian government sources described the conversation, at the behest of Oli, as essentially a courtesy call meant to convey his greetings to India on Independence Day, adding that cooperation on Covid-19 was the only issue discussed in detail during the talks that lasted for over 10 minutes. Oli also congratulated India for its recent election as a non-permanent member of the UN security council. The border issue didn't come up in the meeting. “The leaders expressed mutual solidarity in the context of the efforts being made to minimise the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in both countries. Prime Minister offered India’s continued support to Nepal in this regard,” said the government in a statement. “Prime Minister thanked the Prime Minister of Nepal for his telephone call and recalled the civilisational and cultural links that India and Nepal share,” it added. The two leaders had last spoken on April 10. “The two PMs agreed to continue discussions on bilateral matters in the future,” said the Nepal foreign ministry, adding that Nepal looked forward to “meaningful” bilateral cooperation with India. Despite its reservations over Nepal’s move to issue a new map showing Indian territory in Uttarakhand as its own, India has been keen to carry forward bilateral cooperation in other areas with Nepal. Indian ambassador V M Kwatra will meet Nepal foreign secretary S D Bairagi on Monday to review progress in development and economic projects in Nepal, as the government had announced earlier, in keeping with the 2016 oversight mechanism. India is still reluctant though to give in to Nepal's demand for a dialogue on the border issue. Nepal has so far formally asked for a dialogue on the Kalapani border dispute at least four times since November 2019 when India issued its new political map.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-oli-speak-first-time-after-nepal-map-controversy-but-border-issue-doesnt-come-up/articleshow/77568431.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||Biden Administration to place US-India ties on 'high priority'; will not tolerate cross-border terrorism in South Asia||WASHINGTON: The Joe Biden Administration will place a "high priority" on continuing to strengthen the US-India relationship, his campaign said on Saturday adding that if elected he will have "no tolerance" for cross-border terrorism in South Asia. Biden campaign on Saturday released a policy document, which says Biden Administration will work with India to support a "rules-based and stable Indo-Pacific region" in which no country, including China, is able to "threaten its neighbours with impunity. "Biden will deliver on his long-standing belief that India and the United States are natural partners, and a Biden Administration will place a high priority on continuing to strengthen the US-India relationship," it said. "No common global challenge can be solved without India and the United States working as responsible partners, Biden's campaign said on Joe Biden's agenda for the Indian American community," it added. On immigration, Biden will "preserve family unification as a core principle of our immigration system", increase the number of visas offered for permanent, work-based immigration -- Green Cards, overturning the Trump administration's switch to a merit-based system. "He will support first reforming the temporary visa system for high-skill, speciality jobs to protect wages and workers, then expanding the number of visas offered and eliminating the limits on employment-based green cards by country, which have kept so many Indian families in waiting for too long. Biden will restore and defend the naturalization process for green cardholders," the document read. On the rising tide of hate and bigotry on India Americans, Biden will "enact legislation prohibiting someone convicted of a hate crime from purchasing or possessing a firearm." "Biden will appoint leaders at the Department of Justice who will prioritize the prosecution of hate crimes, and he will order his Justice Department to focus additional resources to combat hate crimes -- including religion-based hate crimes -- and to confront white nationalist terrorism," the policy document read. "As the world's oldest and largest democracies, the United States and India are bound together by our shared democratic values: fair and free elections, equality under the law, and the freedom of expression and religion. These core principles have endured throughout each of our nations' histories and will continue to be the source of our strength in the future," the document said. Biden will ensure that South Asian Americans are represented in his administration, starting with his Vice-Presidential nominee, Senator Kamala Harris, whose mother emigrated from India to study and build a life in the United States. "Our government will reflect the diversity of the United States, and Indian American voices will be included in shaping the policies that impact their communities. From fighting COVID-19 to building our economy back better to reforming our system of immigration, a Biden-Harris Administration will be one that Indian-Americans can count on," it said. Biden played a lead role, both as Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and as the Vice President, in systematically deepening the US' strategic engagement, people-to-people ties, and collaboration with India on global challenges, the campaign said. "In 2006, Biden announced his vision for the future of US-India relations: 'My dream is that in 2020, the two closest nations in the world will be India and the United States'," it said. He has also worked to make that vision a reality, including leading the charge in Congress, working with Democrats and Republicans, to approve the US-India Civil Nuclear Agreement in 2008, said the campaign. The Obama-Biden administration continued to deepen collaboration between India and the United States on strategic, defence, economic, regional, and global challenges, it said. Watch Biden Administration to place US-India ties on 'high priority', says policy document||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-administration-to-place-us-india-ties-on-high-priority-will-not-tolerate-cross-border-terrorism-in-south-asia/articleshow/77568448.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Biden Administration to place US-India ties on 'high priority'; will not tolerate cross-border terrorism in South Asia||WASHINGTON: The Joe Biden Administration will place a "high priority" on continuing to strengthen the US-India relationship, his campaign said on Saturday adding that if elected he will have "no tolerance" for cross-border terrorism in South Asia. Biden campaign on Saturday released a policy document, which says Biden Administration will work with India to support a "rules-based and stable Indo-Pacific region" in which no country, including China, is able to "threaten its neighbours with impunity. "Biden will deliver on his long-standing belief that India and the United States are natural partners, and a Biden Administration will place a high priority on continuing to strengthen the US-India relationship," it said. "No common global challenge can be solved without India and the United States working as responsible partners, Biden's campaign said on Joe Biden's agenda for the Indian American community," it added. On immigration, Biden will "preserve family unification as a core principle of our immigration system", increase the number of visas offered for permanent, work-based immigration -- Green Cards, overturning the Trump administration's switch to a merit-based system. "He will support first reforming the temporary visa system for high-skill, speciality jobs to protect wages and workers, then expanding the number of visas offered and eliminating the limits on employment-based green cards by country, which have kept so many Indian families in waiting for too long. Biden will restore and defend the naturalization process for green cardholders," the document read. On the rising tide of hate and bigotry on India Americans, Biden will "enact legislation prohibiting someone convicted of a hate crime from purchasing or possessing a firearm." "Biden will appoint leaders at the Department of Justice who will prioritize the prosecution of hate crimes, and he will order his Justice Department to focus additional resources to combat hate crimes -- including religion-based hate crimes -- and to confront white nationalist terrorism," the policy document read. "As the world's oldest and largest democracies, the United States and India are bound together by our shared democratic values: fair and free elections, equality under the law, and the freedom of expression and religion. These core principles have endured throughout each of our nations' histories and will continue to be the source of our strength in the future," the document said. Biden will ensure that South Asian Americans are represented in his administration, starting with his Vice-Presidential nominee, Senator Kamala Harris, whose mother emigrated from India to study and build a life in the United States. "Our government will reflect the diversity of the United States, and Indian American voices will be included in shaping the policies that impact their communities. From fighting COVID-19 to building our economy back better to reforming our system of immigration, a Biden-Harris Administration will be one that Indian-Americans can count on," it said. Biden played a lead role, both as Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and as the Vice President, in systematically deepening the US' strategic engagement, people-to-people ties, and collaboration with India on global challenges, the campaign said. "In 2006, Biden announced his vision for the future of US-India relations: 'My dream is that in 2020, the two closest nations in the world will be India and the United States'," it said. He has also worked to make that vision a reality, including leading the charge in Congress, working with Democrats and Republicans, to approve the US-India Civil Nuclear Agreement in 2008, said the campaign. The Obama-Biden administration continued to deepen collaboration between India and the United States on strategic, defence, economic, regional, and global challenges, it said. Watch Biden Administration to place US-India ties on 'high priority', says policy document||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/biden-administration-to-place-us-india-ties-on-high-priority-will-not-tolerate-cross-border-terrorism-in-south-asia/articleshow/77568454.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||Trump says 'probably not' taking part in Putin's Iran conference||BEDMINSTER: US President Donald Trump said Saturday he probably wouldn't take part in an emergency Iran summit proposed by Russian President Vladimir Putin. "Probably not, I think we'll wait till after the election," Trump said at a news conference at his golf club in Bedminster, New Jersey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-probably-not-taking-part-in-putins-iran-conference/articleshow/77568475.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||Trump vows to trigger 'snapback' of Iran sanctions at UN||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump said on Saturday he would move next week to trigger a "snapback" of sanctions on Iran at the United Nations. "We'll be doing a snapback," Trump told reporters one day after the U.N. Security Council rejected a US bid to extend a U.N. arms embargo on Iran. "You'll be watching it next week." The United States has threatened to trigger a return of all U.N. sanctions on Iran using a provision in a 2015 nuclear deal between Iran and world powers, known as snapback, even though Trump abandoned the accord in 2018. Diplomats have said the United States would face a tough, messy battle in any such move.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-vows-to-trigger-snapback-of-iran-sanctions-at-un/articleshow/77568484.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Covid shot: Companies offer WFH allowance||NEW DLEHI: Now, in its sixth month, work from home (WFH) in India has had its share of hiccups. From erratic internet connectivity to power cuts to uncomfortable chairs, the transition hasn’t been quite smooth for many. But since it’s part of the ‘new normal’, companies are taking steps to make remote working easier for employees. A couple of months ago, Google had announced it would give every employee $1,000 to buy necessary equipment and office furniture. Now, several Indian startups have also introduced benefits to keep up productivity and motivation of their staff. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesEdtech startup Great Learning, which has announced WFH till September, started a monthly Covid-19 allowance of Rs 1,000 in June, which covers Wi-Fi, internet and UPS installations, official phone expenses and workstation setup. Recently, they’ve also started collaborating with furniture rental apps to home-deliver ergonomic chairs and desks. Until now, about 204 of their 500-plus employees have availed the benefits. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage“By the end of May, we accepted that this would be a fairly long drawn work-from-home situation,” says Karthik G, director, people operations. “It hit us that a lot of our employees are young and working from home for the first time, and would never invest in a good internet connection or comfortable chair.” In addition to the allowance, the company also offered to pay for special requirements such as LAN cabling for employees who required high speed internet. For companies, WFH allowances make good business sense apart from the empathy, says Kartik Mandaville, CEO of HR tech firm Springworks. Besides a one-time allowance of up to Rs 25,000 for a home office setup, it offered a one-time reimbursement of Rs 3,000 for headphones and a monthly internet reimbursement of Rs 1,500. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Bengaluru-based cloud service provider G7 CR Technologies has even shipped free chairs and desks from its office to the homes of employees who required them, apart from providing home inverters to those who had frequent power cuts. In addition, it gave a one-time WFH package of Rs 18,000 for purchasing UPS and other furniture. Payments solution company Razorpay is crediting a no-questions-asked allowance to all employees’ salaries. “This can be used to rent comfortable office furniture, upgrade broadband connection, or any other essentials the employee wishes for,” says Anuradha Bharat, head, people operations, Razorpay. The Indian division of Salesforce, which has given its 2,500 employees the option to work from home for the rest of 2020, is also giving a benefit of $250 (Rs 18,500 approximately) for setting up home offices. Many believe these allowances will become the norm and include more facilities. “These are small amounts of money we are talking about, so the question is what would you rather have: an employee who is in discomfort or motivated?” says Great Learning’s Karthik G.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-shot-companies-offer-wfh-allowance/articleshow/77568557.cms||Sonam Joshi
August 16, 2020||Business||Covid shot: Companies offer WFH allowance||NEW DLEHI: Now, in its sixth month, work from home (WFH) in India has had its share of hiccups. From erratic internet connectivity to power cuts to uncomfortable chairs, the transition hasn’t been quite smooth for many. But since it’s part of the ‘new normal’, companies are taking steps to make remote working easier for employees. A couple of months ago, Google had announced it would give every employee $1,000 to buy necessary equipment and office furniture. Now, several Indian startups have also introduced benefits to keep up productivity and motivation of their staff. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesEdtech startup Great Learning, which has announced WFH till September, started a monthly Covid-19 allowance of Rs 1,000 in June, which covers Wi-Fi, internet and UPS installations, official phone expenses and workstation setup. Recently, they’ve also started collaborating with furniture rental apps to home-deliver ergonomic chairs and desks. Until now, about 204 of their 500-plus employees have availed the benefits. Coronavirus outbreak: Complete coverage“By the end of May, we accepted that this would be a fairly long drawn work-from-home situation,” says Karthik G, director, people operations. “It hit us that a lot of our employees are young and working from home for the first time, and would never invest in a good internet connection or comfortable chair.” In addition to the allowance, the company also offered to pay for special requirements such as LAN cabling for employees who required high speed internet. For companies, WFH allowances make good business sense apart from the empathy, says Kartik Mandaville, CEO of HR tech firm Springworks. Besides a one-time allowance of up to Rs 25,000 for a home office setup, it offered a one-time reimbursement of Rs 3,000 for headphones and a monthly internet reimbursement of Rs 1,500. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Bengaluru-based cloud service provider G7 CR Technologies has even shipped free chairs and desks from its office to the homes of employees who required them, apart from providing home inverters to those who had frequent power cuts. In addition, it gave a one-time WFH package of Rs 18,000 for purchasing UPS and other furniture. Payments solution company Razorpay is crediting a no-questions-asked allowance to all employees’ salaries. “This can be used to rent comfortable office furniture, upgrade broadband connection, or any other essentials the employee wishes for,” says Anuradha Bharat, head, people operations, Razorpay. The Indian division of Salesforce, which has given its 2,500 employees the option to work from home for the rest of 2020, is also giving a benefit of $250 (Rs 18,500 approximately) for setting up home offices. Many believe these allowances will become the norm and include more facilities. “These are small amounts of money we are talking about, so the question is what would you rather have: an employee who is in discomfort or motivated?” says Great Learning’s Karthik G.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-shot-companies-offer-wfh-allowance/articleshow/77568540.cms||Sonam Joshi
August 16, 2020||India||PM Modi pushes for self-reliant India with 'Make for World' call||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi made the call for ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ the central theme of his seventh Independence Day speech, seeking to pitch the country as a manufacturing hub, with “Make for World” as the mantra so that that local value additions help the country make the switch from a supplier of natural resources and raw materials and importer of finished products. “Our country has plenty of natural resources. It is the need of the hour that we start the value addition of these natural resources and human resources; and to take the country to new heights. How long shall we continue to export raw material to the world? How long will the process of exporting raw material and importing finished goods continue? So, we will have to be self-reliant,” Modi said, while pointing to self-sufficiency in key food products such as wheat. In address to an industry chamber two months ago, he had called upon companies to play a big role in the global supply chain. On Saturday, the PM indicated that the government intends to integrate rural industry and the farm sector into the overall strategy, promising to set up special economic zones in rural areas. “A web of agriculture and non-agriculture industries will be created. We have tried to create FPO (Farmer Product Association) which will go a long way in their economic empowerment,” he said. In mid-May, the PM had given a call for self-reliance while announcing the phasing out of the coronavirus-induced lockdown and amid border tension with China, which has intensified since then, prompting the government to impose curbs on Chinese imports, investments and mobile applications. India is heavily dependent on China for mobile phones, electronic goods and pharmaceuticals, resulting in a massive trade deficit. In the first term, the government had launched the ‘Make in India’ campaign, focused on boosting domestic production, increasing the share of the manufacturing sector in the economy. Drawing upon his earlier slogan of manufacturing in the country with “zero defects”, while ensuring “zero effect” on the environment, Modi suggested policies, processes and products must be “par excellence”. Referring to the skepticism over the call for self-reliance, Modi said the goal of self-reliance would indeed entail challenges, but the country had found solutions to various challenges and pointed to the production of N95 masks and PPE kits, which were not manufactured in the country until the Covid-19 outbreak. He also said that ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ meant an overall strategy, that was not limited to limiting imports. “When we talk about becoming self-reliant, we do not merely refer to decreasing the import demands. When we talk of self-reliance, it is about our skills, our human resources. When we start sourcing things from abroad, our capabilities start depleting and consequently, it gets completely destroyed over generations. We need to preserve it and enhance that calibre of ours. We need to accentuate our skills, our creativity and with that we need to touch new heights. We need to strengthen skill development for a self-reliant India, for improving our competency.” Watch Independence Day 2020: We must embrace the mantra of ‘Make for World’, says PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-pushes-for-self-reliant-india-with-make-for-world-call/articleshow/77568558.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: These patients opted for home quarantine, beat the pandemic||HUBBALLI: Although being informed about having tested positive for the novel coronavirus can be a bit of a dampener, many Covid-19 patients in Hubballi-Dharwad managed to recover, not merely from the shock, but also from the infection, all of this while opting for isolation at home. Among those who have successfully beaten the infection without paying a visit to the hospital are elderly patients, one of whom is a 67-year-old trader at the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) yard in Deshpande Nagar in Hubballi, who went into a tizzy of panic, when on July 13 he was informed via a call from the officials of the health and family welfare department that he had been confirmed infected. The government having decreed that Covid-19 patients who were either asymptomatic or suffering mild symptoms could opt for isolation at home, the elderly man opted to stay in a room on the second floor of his home, which had an adjoining bathroom. The 67-year-old man admitted to TOI that he could not sleep on the day he was confirmed infected. “I was given tablets for the fever I had, and the next day, it abated a little. By the third day, my condition had improved. I had no fever and my throat was no longer sore. I was also being given kashaya made at home, and I started practising yoga. I never watched TV, but started reading books. Healthy food, good sleep and some pills helped me recover, and I was declared fit to be out of quarantine after a fortnight,” he said. In another case, a 37-year-old man, resident of Old Hubballi, working at a private firm, said that he had a sore throat and fever when he was confirmed infected. “I stay with my mother, and I opted for home quarantine. I consulted our family doctor, and my neighbours were kind enough to get me the medicines I needed, and they provided us food for nearly a fortnight,” he said. The patient was equally effusive in expressing gratitude to doctors at the Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, who called him regularly and ensured he stayed positive. His routine was not dissimilar to that of the elderly patient, only that he opted to watch movies during his stay at home, while staying on a healthy diet that included lot of dry fruits. “I started feeling much better from the very third day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/these-patients-opted-for-home-quarantine-beat-the-pandemic/articleshow/77567781.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 16, 2020||Hubballi||Special incentives get Kalyana Karnataka Rs 30,000 cr investment||Hubballi: Special incentives offered by the state government for Kalyana Karnataka in its New Industrial Policy 2020-2025 is now yielding results with several investors showing interest in the region. The government has already cleared proposals worth Rs 30,626.50 crore in a month. Minister of large and medium scale industries Jagadish Shettar told TOI that the government is committed to ‘Kalyan’ (welfare) of the region. “As a result of various subsidies and concessions announced for investors, many are approaching us voluntarily and we are clearing proposals on priority basis,” he added. Gaurav Gupta, principal secretary to government, commerce and industries department, Bengaluru, said the government has already allotted land and provided all infrastructures. “Though the outer limit to set units is two years, some industries may start production within 6 months and some in a year. As the region is near to Hyderabad airport, and as Kalaburagi airport is expected to attract more airlines, all industries are expected to start operations within two years,” he said. Over 3,000 acres of land is being developed at Kadechur village in Yadgir district for the past 4-5 years, he said further. “Now, 16 pharmaceutical and drugs industries have been allotted land and they are investing Rs 962.5 crore and will create over 3,000 jobs,” he said. Karnataka Udyog Mitra (KUM) managing director H M Revannagowda said Kalaburagi district is getting investment to the tune of Rs 1,680.3 crore while Ballari has cleared proposals worth 16,962.9 crore. “Koppal has got investment of Rs 761 crore, while Kalaburagi and Yadgir have got joint investments of about Rs 82.20 crore. As of now investors have assured us of creating 7,000 jobs,” he said. “We welcome this development wholeheartedly, but our three long pending demands — 100% tax exemption on the lines of Himachal Pradesh to pharmaceutical industry, introduction of turnover-based tax exemption to ensure investors focus more production, to set up inland depot container at Wadi Railway Junction and runway upgrade at Kalaburagi airport on par with international airports to promote exports — have not been met,” said Hyderabad-Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Kalaburagi) president Amarnath Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/special-incentives-get-kalyana-ktaka-rs-30000-cr-investment/articleshow/77566763.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 16, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Five held in Fruit Irfan murder case||HUBBALLI: The Old Hubballi police have arrested five accused in the Irfan alias Fruit Irfan murder case on Saturday. The arrested accused are Aftab Mohammadali Bepari,23, a resident of Manikilla area of Dharwad, Tousif Sadiq Nippani,24, of Shaikh Compound, Dharwad, Atiyabkhan Tadkod,23, a resident of Madarmaddi, Dharwad, Amir Tamatgar, 22, of Old Hubballi and Mohin Dadasab Patel,29, of Madihal area in Dharwad. The police stated that they have recovered three pistols, seven live bullets, an SUV, a moped, two motorbikes and four mobile phones from the accused. An officer who is part of the investigation said that the investigation is continuing, and some more arrests in this case are yet to be made. They said prima facie it looks that Fruit Irfan was shot dead over a property issue. The deceased was involved in the real estate business and was a rowdy-sheeter. Old rivalry or real estate disputes may be the reason for the murder. The police said it is still not clear who fired at Irfan, and only a detailed investigation will throw more light on it.  Irfan was shot dead on Karwar Road on August 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/five-held-in-fruit-irfan-murder-case/articleshow/77566865.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hubballi||NWKRTC staff utilise pandemic time to create a garden and hone their skills||HUBBALLI: Utilising the lockdown period productively, staff of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) have created a garden in the 20-gunta area surrounding the main workshop in the city. With reduced schedules and trips, drivers, conductors and other staff were not getting enough work during the lockdown and unlock phases. Feeling the need to utilise the free time in the best possible way, the staff of mofussil depot-2 created a beautiful garden using the scrap material available in the depot. H Ramangoudar, divisional controller of NWKRTC Hubballi rural division told TOI that the staff voluntarily took up the work. They brought saplings, sand, mud, compost and other things. They also brought kerb stones which were removed during construction of the divider on Gokul Road, after obtaining permission from the authorities. The staff manually weeded and levelled the ground. The work began in the first week of April and is still going on. Every day around 25 staff join hands to beautify the garden, said Ramangoudar. Apart from developing the garden, the staff also utilised the time to hone their skills. Drivers underwent a driving skill development programme that included tips on safe driving. A training was conducted for drivers and conductors to enhance their social behavioural skills, including behaviour with passengers. Shivaraddi, depot manager, said, “Besides developing the garden, the staff spent their time creating awareness on coronavirus and undertook sanitisation drive.” The staff expressed happiness that without spending a penny they developed the garden and took part in many programmes. The garden is shining bright with saplings of coconut, mango, guava, various flowers, shrubs and artificial plants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nwkrtc-staff-utilise-pandemic-time-to-create-a-garden-and-hone-their-skills/articleshow/77566823.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 16, 2020||Hubballi||In Covid times, bicycles help youngsters stay fit||HUBBALLI: The closure of gyms and parks, coupled with the fear of using public transport, has pushed the sales of bicycles up in Hubballi-Dharwad. On the one hand, fitness enthusiasts keen on keeping themselves in shape and members of the public on the lookout for an economic mode of transport are both purchasing these eco-friendly vehicles, thereby resulting in bicycle traders registering sales that are the highest in many years. Proprietor of Senior Cycle and Co in Hubballi Manish J Shah expressed delight with most people enquiring about bicycle models ending up purchasing them in the twin cities. “In fact, bicycle manufacturers are struggling to meet the rising demand. In Ludhiana in Punjab, which is where most of the bicycle manufacturing companies are based, scarcity of labourers has resulted in the firms struggling to ensure continuous supply,” he said. Shah said that, a bulk of the customers in the 20 to 50 age group were keen on purchasing premium bicycle models, while the elderly opted for the standard models. “In the urban areas, many milkmen, vegetable vendors and daily wage labourers are using bicycles,” he added. Amrut Pavaskar, partner of Born 2 Pedal, echoed Shah’s observations on the spike in the sale of bicycles. He said that his company had registered a rise in the sale of the premium models. “People are apprehensive about taking walks in the park, and the closure of gyms, swimming pools, yoga studios, et al, means that cycling is one sure way to keep fit, and so the demand for bicycles,” said Pavaskar, noting that a small section of the populace in the twin cities had taken to riding bicycles even for routine activities and carrying out of everyday chores. Owner of Lalpath Lab Collection Centre Sudhindra M, has been riding his bicycle for the past four to five years, pedalling 30km on average daily. “I use my bicycle to collect blood samples. Earlier, it cost Rs 700 in fuel every week, but I am spending only Rs 100 on fuel now. I am also keeping myself fit, and I feel much healthier. It is my contribution to the environment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/in-covid-times-bicycles-help-youngsters-stay-fit/articleshow/77566651.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 16, 2020||Mangaluru||'Cardiology at Doorsteps' gets a dedicated website||MANGALURU: Cardiology at Doorstep Foundation, an initiative led by Dr Padmanabh Kamath, professor, and HOD cardiology, KMC Mangaluru, launched its website on Saturday. Cardiology at Doorsteps is a flagship WhatsApp group initiated by Dr Padmanabh Kamath in February 2018, to help patients in rural and remote parts of the country. So far, about 30,000 ECGs have been posted in two Whatsapp groups and more than 5,000 heart attacks diagnosed. The group has saved more than 10,000 lives through these initiatives and has been instrumental in installing 232 ECG machines in rural health centres and Jan Aushadhi Kendras, Dr Kamath said. Speaking TOI, Dr Kamath said, “Our mission is to save lives with the help of modern IT infrastructure and by providing medical equipment to rural areas. During this Covid pandemic, we have seen so many bizarre things happen around us. We have seen people getting alienated because of quarantine rules or isolating themselves for the fear of Covid, especially the underprivileged and the elderly patients. All this has led to greater disasters due to delay in diagnosis and treatment. With the launch of the website and with 24 hours of Cardiac helpline as an active interface, we intend to circumvent all these obstacles. I could not have launched it on a better day than our Independence Day. The whole concept of liberating our patients from dependence on others and giving them independence and freedom is our motto.” Nearly, 2,500 members are part of the Whatsapp group that covers 20 districts of Karnataka and there are two separate groups for overseas patients and jawans. By the end of this year, the aim is to install 250 ECG machines, cover three more districts including those bordering Kerala and reach out to at least 50 lakh people. “On Friday, we distributed Covid essentials kits to most of our CAD ECG machine donors aged above 65. Our prime concern is our senior citizens and their well-being,” Dr Kamath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cardiology-at-doorsteps-gets-a-dedicated-website/articleshow/77566536.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Blame game begins over Swarna Palace hotel fire||VIJAYAWADA: While the preliminary report by Krishna district joint collector has pointed fingers at Ramesh Hospitals for the fire at hotel Swarna Palace on August 9, the latter has shifted the blame to the district administration and hotel management. In an audio message released on Saturday, managing director of the hospital group P Ramesh Babu alleged that the probe into the issue is biased and targeting the hospital only. Why have the doctors, who were not even present at the time of the fire, been detained but not anyone from the hotel management, he asked. Explaining the agreement they had with Swarna Palace, he said the maintenance, housekeeping and facility management services were with hotel, while emergency medical care, doctors and nurses were the responsibility of Ramesh Hospitals. “The hotel was taken on lease as it had been used as a quarantine centre by the district administration for passengers who came from abroad. It was turned into a Covid care centre with the permission of the district medical and health officer. The district collector referred many government officials for treatment to the centre and they recovered,” he said, adding that a deliberate attempt is being made to vilify him. Ramesh Babu reiterated that the police did not arrest any one from the hotel management but have targeted the hospital management unilaterally though they had nothing to do with the unfortunate tragedy. Ramesh Hospitals was the first in the state to get fire NOC in 2012 and they have JCA certification for patient safety, he said. Meanwhile, film actor Ram Potineni has come to the defence of Ramesh Hospitals. In a series of tweets, he said a “huge conspiracy” is being hatched to show the CM of AP in bad light. “I request @ysjagan garu to look into it as some people under him might be doing this without his knowledge. This is causing huge damage to his reputation and honest approach, amongst all of us,” he tweeted. He further said that diverting the issue from fire to fees is “only to fool all of us”. He also posted screenshots of bills issued by Swarna Palace, and held the hotel management, not the doctors, responsible for the fire. In another tweet, Potineni said Swarna Palace was being run as a quarantine centre by the state government till Ramesh Hospitals took permission to turn it into a Covid care centre. “Had this fire accident taken place three weeks earlier when it was being run by the government, who would they blame?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/blame-game-begins-over-swarna-palace-hotel-fire/articleshow/77566541.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Pilot clinics to monitor patients post discharge||CHENNAI: After reporting an average of 5,700 cases for the past 15 days, the state health department is now working aggressively to push the Covid-19 curve downwards. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan tells TOI the road ahead is tough, but the state’s new plans that include the new sequela clinics for treating complications in people who have recovered, wards for people who show Covid symptoms despite testing negative and micro plans for peri-urban areas, will help check the infection. Do you think we are at the beginning of the end in the Covid-19 pandemic?We are not seeing a huge increase in the number of fresh cases reported across the state every day. The positivity rate – number of people testing positive over the total number of people tested — is around 8% and active cases are less than 53,000. There is a plateauing in the graph, but we are continuing to test aggressively using RT-PCR. We are also encouraging people to follow the golden rules of wearing masks, social distancing and hand hygiene. We can’t drop the guard now.  Public health experts are praising the state’s decision to stick to RT-PCR for diagnosis. But doctors are saying many there are false negatives. Some of them show clinical symptoms of Covid. We don’t account for them?Some patients admitted with severe acute respiratory infection test negative in RT-PCR. As per protocol they are not recorded as Covid-19 cases. The sensitivity of RT-PCR is just 70%. There is margin of error is up to 30%, and doctors are now finding an increase in such patients walking into hospitals. We now consider them as “clinical covid” case. We don’t just to RT-PCR on patients anymore. We look for inflammatory markers in the blood and results of chest X-ray and CT scans. If there are signs of Covid, they are admitted and treated. RT-PCR test results may be negative probably because the virus is not in the active reproductive phase. Yet symptoms are severe because the virus may have invaded several parts of the body, including lungs. We are now recording all these patients as clinical cases. Such patients are now kept and treated in isolation over the past few days across all GHs. Doctors are also saying that many patients are returning to hospitals with complications after discharge.That is true. This is why we have started sequela clinics at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and Rajaji Government Hospital. Doctors here will look into residual and new symptoms in patients post discharge. Nearly 80% of the patients in Tamil Nadu have recovered from the viral infection. Many don’t completely recover from pneumonia and some return with heart attacks, strokes and life threatening clots in other parts of the body. Patients are now being asked to come back to hospitals for review if they experience any abnormal symptoms. The sequela clinics in two hospitals will be a pilot for the entire state. While hospitals may be treating people who are discharged and those who are clinical Covid, will their deaths be recorded as Covid?Now, protocol allows us to record patients who test positive for Covid-19 in RT-PCR to be added into the toll. But we must keep track of these people to understand the effects of the disease and its after-effects. We are telling doctors to state the cause of death clearly so they can be analysed. We have asked scientists from NIE to analyse deaths due to Covid considering overall mortality.  Why are we not able to bring down the infection rate in the state?The positivity rate in some districts is high. Chennai, and its neighbours Tiruvallur and Chengalpet continue to report large number of cases. We see similar trends in Theni, Tenkasi, Cuddalore, Tiruvannamalai, Ranipet and Vellore. While Coimbatore is peaking, we are seeing a decline in Madurai and Virudhunagar. The dip was possible in Madurai because of aggressive testing, like in Chennai. Micro containment plans are ready for Tiruvallur and Chengalpet. As per the new plan, aggressive testing will be done in any area outside the containment zone where fresh cases are detected. This focussed testing will help isolate people early. The target given to health workers is to track and test all close contacts within 72 hours. Over time we are confident will see a downward spiral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pilot-clinics-to-monitor-patients-post-discharge/articleshow/77567099.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Can blended learning bridge the digital divide?||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 pandemic has severely disrupted academic activities. Academic institutions have closed down and exams have been cancelled. Some schools have shifted to online classes overnight in an attempt to make the best of a bad situation. However, the digital divide with access to technology still a far way off for large parts of the population, the online model has hit a few roadblocks. It is in this context, Prof Nimma Venkata Rao, former dean and faculty of education at Andhra University, is conducting research on online learning at the school-level and whether it can replace the conventional classroom structure. Prof Rao’s research delves into the concept of online learning, its own rules, advantages and challenges. “Education does not mean the mere acquisition of knowledge and experiences delivered across screens. It also means the development of habits, attitudes and skills which helps a person lead a full and worthwhile life,” said Prof Rao who has taken feedback from hundreds of parents who are concerned about their children’s education amid the pandemic. Speaking to TOI, Prof Rao said, “A majority of parents said that their children are missing the conventional classroom structure which involves interaction with peers and teachers. However, they are still going for home schooling if not online learning owing to the pandemic.” “But it is not wise to make 2020-21 a ‘zero academic year’ as there is a threat of dissociation with the learning process. At this juncture, a blended learning approach can serve the purpose with a scope of experiential and experimental learning,” he added. Prof Rao, who is also a member of the committee on new education policy constituted by the Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education, stressed on the need of devising adequate and suitable curriculum and online modules. “This will be an additional burden on teachers. Every state will have to evolve its own suitable model taking logistics into consideration,” the professor said. According to Prof Rao, Andhra Pradesh is in an advantageous position with regard to school education due to the various development schemes such as Nadu-Nedu, Amma Vodi and Gorumudda at work in the sector. “Village secretariats can be used as online (education) centres by provision of digital labs and video conferencing facility. This could become a model for other states,” Prof Venkata Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/can-blended-learning-bridge-the-digital-divide/articleshow/77566547.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 16, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Free power scheme helped 2.5L ryots’||Visakhapatnam: The Andhra Pradesh Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (APEPDCL) CMD Nagalakshmi Selvarajan on Saturday said a total of 2.46 lakh farmers benefited under the nine-hour power supply scheme, a part of the YSR Rythu Bharosa. While Srikakulam, Vizianagram and Visakhapatnam district get the nine-hour power in the night, Rajahmundry and West Godavari districts get the free power during day time. Unfurling the national flag to mark the 74th Independence Day celebrations here, Selvarajan said uninterrupted power was supplied to over 50 lakh consumers during the lockdown. She further said that enhancements of free power from 100 units to 200 units are being supplied to 7.60 lakhs SC/ST communities. For this, the government spent Rs 136 crore. The power tariff was reduced from Rs 2 to Rs 1.50 per unit for 25,748 aqua farmers, she added, while adding that the government spent Rs 376 crore for the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/free-power-scheme-helped-2-5l-ryots/articleshow/77566556.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||India's Covid deaths cross 50,000; highest spike of 67k+ cases on Saturday||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic crossed another grim milestone in India when the death toll from the virus went past 50,000 on Saturday. More than a fourth of these fatalities — 27% of the total — have been reported in the first 15 days of August alone. Over 13,500 deaths have been reported from across the country so far this month. By contrast, the whole of July saw a total of 19,122 fatalities. Saturday also saw the highest single-day rise in cases, with 67,103 fresh infections being reported, as per data collated from state governments. The previous highest daily count was also recorded this week — 66,037 cases on Thursday. India’s total caseload has now risen to 25,90,572. Saturday again saw more than 55,000 Covid-19 patients being declared cured, taking the total recoveries to over 18.5 lakh. Meanwhile, the number of active cases also increased by more than 10,000, the highest daily rise in seven days. India’s pool of active cases now stands at over 6.8 lakh. While Maharashtra accounted for the highest 12,614 fresh cases on Saturday, the state’s third highest single-day spike, Karnataka had the second highest cases among all states. Karnataka’s recorded as many as 8,818 fresh infections, the first time the count has crossed 8,000 in the state. Other states that reported their highest daily spike in infections were Bengal (3,074 new cases), Odisha (2,496), Rajasthan (1,337), Kerala (1,608), Jharkhand (1,242) and Madhya Pradesh (1,019). Meanwhile, Bihar became the eighth state in the country to register a total caseload of over 1 lakh on Saturday. The day’s death toll stood at 973, staying over 900 for the fourth day running. Maharashtra reported 322 fatalities, followed by Tamil Nadu (127, state’s highest so far), Karnataka (114), Andhra Pradesh (87), UP and Bengal (both 58). For the first time, Tamil Nadu reported “incidental Covid” — people with chronic ailments, organ failure or end stage diseases diagnosed with viral infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-deaths-cross-50000-highest-spike-of-67k-cases-on-saturday/articleshow/77568602.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Online applications for RTE seats to open on August 27||CHENNAI: Applications to the 25% seats reserved for entry-level classes in private schools under the Right to Education (RTE) Act for 2020-21 will be available online on August 27. As per the school education department’s admission schedule for RTE quota seats in LKG and Class I, the last date for applications is September 25. RTE admissions, which are usually conducted in May, has been postponed this year due to the Covid outbreak. As per the act, 25% seats must be reserved in private schools (non-minority schools) for children from economically and socially disadvantaged sections. There are more than one lakh seats available in around 9,000 schools across the state. However, there is no clarity whether RTE admissions are available to CBSE schools in the state. “The names of eligible applicants will be displayed on the school boards and the school education department’s website. The names of ineligible applicants also will be displayed along with the reasons for rejection,” school education secretary Dheeraj Kumar said in an order. If eligible applications exceed the 25% intake capacity, authorities will employ a random selection method on October 2. The names of selected candidates along with their application numbers should be will be on display on school notice boards and the department website. As per the new system introduced last year, private schools were tagged on GIS maps. Once parents register their address, schools located within a 1.5km radius from their residence will show up on the screen. A parent can select a maximum of five schools. Parents must upload their ward’s photo, birth certificate, Aadhar card or ration card of the parent or guardian, income certificate for weaker section candidates, community certificate for disadvantaged group. Disabled children, wards of scavengers and HIV infected among others would be given preference, but they must upload necessary certificates for admission. Parents can visit district-level educational offices for filling up online applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/online-applications-for-rte-seats-to-open-on-august-27/articleshow/77567123.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Course launched for NSTL scientists||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a first-of-its kind programme, the Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam (IIM-V) has launched a ‘Certificate Programme in Research and Development (R&D) Management’ for the scientists of Naval Science & Technological Laboratory (NSTL)/Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Saturday. It is being offered by IIM-V jointly with the Institute of Technology Management (ITM), DRDO. In his inaugural address, KS Varaprasad, distinguished scientist and DG-HR, spoke about the importance of managerial skills in addition to technical skills. Dr Samir V Kamat, Distinguished Scientist and DG – NS&M, stressed on the importance of risk assessment and mitigation in his keynote address. Prof M Chandrasekhar, director of IIM-V in his opening remarks, Dr OR Nandagopan, director of NSTL and Sanjay Tandon, director of ITM in their respective addresses emphasised the need of continuous learning to become ‘Atmanirbhar,’ echoing the ideas of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Prof B Srirangacharyulu, dean and programme director, IIM-V, while giving the programme details mentioned that it will be rich in content and delivery. He said project management, concepts of R&D Management, R&D process, R&D support function, technology management, innovation, risk management, organisational behaviour are some of the topics that will be covered in the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/course-launched-for-nstl-scientists/articleshow/77566561.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: S P Balasubrahmanyam stable but remains on life support, say doctors||CHENNAI: Playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who was admitted to MGM Healthcare in Chennai, with mild Covid-19 symptoms, continues to be on life support. His condition is critical. The 74-year-old singer was moved into the intensive care unit on Friday after his oxygen saturation dipped. He was admitted to the hospital on August 5. On Saturday, Dr V Sabanayagam, consultant and clinical lead, MGM healthcare, said the singer had been on life support in the intensive care unit for the past 48 hours but his condition is stable.  “He has been administered plasma therapy and the recommended medications such as remdesiver, steroids and medications to prevent blood clots. The life support is to help them breathe. He has been undergoing physiotherapy and frequently kept in a prone position to improve oxygenation. Doctors are monitoring his clinical parameters,” he said. SPB has been waking up from time to time. “He is aware of the treatment we are giving him,” the doctor said. While visitors are not allowed, health minister C Vijayabaskar dropped in at the hospital along with senior government doctors to enquire about SPB’s health. “The chief minister is concerned about SPB’s health. The hospital explained his health condition and our medical team has also offered help to the treating team. I also spoke to his son who is now quarantined. We are hopeful he will recover,” he said. Policemen were posted outside the hospital for crowd management. Earlier, the singer’s son, singer and film producer S P Charan released a video message assuring people that he was hopeful that his father would recover from the viral infection. “I have been receiving calls since the morning. Appa is stable now. He is responding well to the ventilator. His lungs are functioning better than they were yesterday. Doctors are confident he will pull through. But it will take time. ….Recovery will be slow,” he said, urging people to continue praying. On Friday, the hospital announced there was a setback in the singer’s health. On August 13, his condition deteriorated and based on the advice of the expert medical team he was put on life support in the intensive care unit. On August 5, the singer himself posted a video message on his Facebook page stating that he had tested positive for Covid-19 after showing mild symptoms. He said although doctors had advised him home isolation, he decided to get himself admitted to a hospital as he was concerned about the health of his family members. He requested people not to call him as he wanted some rest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spb-stable-but-remains-on-life-support-say-docs/articleshow/77567126.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 recovery rate improves in AP||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 8,732 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative caseload to 2,81,817. The toll increased to 2,562 as 87 more patients succumbed to the disease. About 10,400 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Saturday, outnumbering the fresh cases. There are currently 88,138 fresh cases with 1,91,117 recoveries and 2,562 deaths, reflecting a recovery rate of about 68%. East Godavari reported the highest number of infections with 1,126 cases on Saturday, followed by Chittoor 959, Visakhapatnam 894, Anantapur 851, and Kurnool 734. Of the 87 deaths, 10 are from Chittoor, nine from Guntur, eight east from East Godavari and West Godavari, seven each from Anantapur, Kurnool and Kadapa, six each from Nellore, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram, five each from Prakasam and Srikakulam, and three from Krishna district. The state’s case positivity rate soared past the 10% mark on Saturday, against the national average of 8.84%. The state so far conducted 28.12 lakh tests as of Saturday. The mortality rate remained stable at 0.9%. With the recoveries now outnumbering the fresh cases, the recovery rate has improved in the last few days. Anantapur has about an 80% recovery rate. Same is the case in Kurnool, West Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts with about 74% recovery rate. The recovery rate is limited to some 60% in East Godavari, which has been reporting the highest number of cases on a daily basis. Vizianagaram district has about 54% active cases, while it is 36% in Srikakulam district. East Godavari has the highest caseload of the state with 39,418 cases, followed by Kurnool 32,746, Anantapur 28,947, Guntur 25,549, Visakhapatnam 24,296, West Godavari 22,689, and Chittoor 22,478.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-recovery-rate-improves-in-ap/articleshow/77566570.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Low pressure over Bay of Bengal may bring light showers to Chennai||CHENNAI: After a dry spell, a system brewing over the Bay of Bengal could bring showers to the city for the next two days, say weathermen. The IMD has forecast another system likely to form over the Bay by the middle of next week, but weather enthusiasts say it may not have any effect on the Tamil Nadu coast. The regional meteorological centre (RMC), Chennai has forecast, “Sky condition is likely to be generally cloudy. Light rain is likely to occur in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 34C and 27C,” in the city for the next 48 hours. For the state, the RMC has forecast light that moderate rain may to occur at isolated places. According to meteorologists, the city is likely to get some spells due to favourable wind convergence caused by the low pressure near coastal Odisha. IMD’s regional weather inference said, “Yesterday’s well marked low pressure area over north coastal Odisha and adjoining areas of northwest Bay of Bengal and Gangetic West Bengal persists.” The nodal weather agency has also forecast, “A fresh low pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal around August 19.” Weather blogger Pradeep John said chances of the city getting rain is somewhat less when the monsoon is active over the northwestern regions like Gujarat, due to unfavourable wind patterns over this part of the country. “There are chances of light spells, mostly late at night or early in the morning, in the city between August 17 and 20,” he said. While the monsoon intensity may be somewhat less in Kerala, Karnataka and parts of TN, it is likely to be active in the northwest and central parts of the country for the next 10 days, he said. “The chances of rain for us from the fresh low pressure is less because it is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal which is quite far,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/low-pressure-over-bay-of-bengal-may-bring-light-showers/articleshow/77567131.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD recalls sacrifices of martyrs||Tirupati: Independence Day celebrations were observed at various locations in the temple city of Tirupati on Saturday. Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) executive officer (EO) Anil Kumar Singhal hoisted the national flag at the temple body’s administrative headquarters on Saturday morning. Addressing the workforce of the temple body after receiving the guard of honour, the EO called upon employees to renew their dedication to the service of devotees. During his address on the eve of the 74th Independence Day at the TTD parade grounds, the executive officer recalled the efforts of freedom fighters in the nation’s fight for independence. “Today is a sublime moment to pay tributes to all those who sacrificed their lives for our freedom. It is time for all of us to step into their shoes and offer the best possible services to devotees at Tirumala,” Singhal said. Singhal, along with additional EO AV Dharma Reddy, joint EO P Basant Kumar and CVSO Gopinath Jatti, handed out awards to senior officers and employees.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-recalls-sacrifices-of-martyrs/articleshow/77566577.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Getting down to the brass tacks||CHENNAI: On July 25, after pulling off her longest zero shopping spell lasting four months, Viji Narasimhan placed herself a fat online order that left her over the moon for a whole week — two shift dresses, a pair of distressed jeans, a couple of shirts and a sexy blouse. For the 30-year-old city techie, it was a reward for "surviving the worst months of my life and not resorting to retail therapy," — an addiction she’d vowed to break during lockdown. As someone who spent her evenings ‘impulse buying’ at least thrice a week at the mall, this indeed was a feat. But what surprised Viji more is that every single garment she purchased last month comes from an online thrift store — something her fast, retail fashion-consumed soul could have never been satiated with, previously. Viji could be representing a changing consumer dynamic in the fashion industry that several experts are predicting following the pandemic. As with any luxury goods industry, a critical need for recreating the ecosystem with ethical production, and safe, environment-friendly business practices has taken centrestage. This, alongside a sudden e-commerce boom and social media marketing, which is where most of the business takes place in the post-Covid era. Throwing light on the changing consumer behaviour, online searches examined by global fashion search platform Lyst revealed that during the pandemic months, customers looking for women’s sustainable fashion have been on the rise. It also showed a growth in consumers repairing and re-wearing what they have than buy new clothes and accessories. "The lockdown has given us time to take a long, hard look at what we are consuming and why. This, along with the obvious financial strain, is definitely making buyers look at sustainability in a new light — both in terms of the product and how much of it they need," says city designer Vivek Karunakaran. That’s why this may be a good time for homegrown brands built on the three Rs of ‘reduce, reuse and recycle’ to make their presence felt, as young city designer Sruti Ashok found out three months ago. Her Instagram thrift store, The ReLove Closet started with a charity initiative in April to raise funds for the NGO, The Kindness Foundation. "We ended up raising `7 lakh in a month by selling pre-owned clothing, bags, shoes and accessories," says Sruti, who, encouraged by the response, went on to launch it as a full-fledged online store soon after. The ReLove Closet now functions under two models — a reseller model where contributors can sell their pre-loved clothing and accessories, and a donation model wherein majority of the proceeds are donated to a social cause or NGO of the contributor’s choice. Garments are washed and dry cleaned, and the packaging sanitised, before going out for delivery. Witnessing the shift are also slow fashion advocates like Karishma Sehgal, who runs The Baksa Project, a label she started in Chennai in 2018 to repurpose her mother and grandmother’s saris into clothes for herself. She has also been advocating conscious fashion by educating people to cherish old clothes by mending them with creative tailoring or embroidery. "I’ve had at least 15 people reach out to me to learn these techniques, and am contemplating holding upcyling workshops online," says Karishma, who works out of Pune now. Labels like Karunakaran’s are also adopting innovative ways to retain the integral experiential, ‘touch and feel’ characteristic of luxury retail, without compromising on safety. The designer has tied up with Hyatt Regency to open a studio space for his brand, ‘Viia by Vivek Karunakaran’, in one of its suites, where customers will be met strictly on appointment and the space sanitized every few hours. Not only would this reduce overhead expenditure but it would also avoid crowding, while ensuring every customer is attended to, says the designer, who is also reinventing the brand to focus on high-end staples rather than occasional wear. "Instead of cocktail gowns, suits and jackets, we’re looking at garments people would go back to every day, like linen shirts and shorts. We’re also trying to eliminate excess raw material by planning ahead, and doing away with plastic packaging wherever we can," he says. Bigger brands across the country are also seriously looking at circular fashion and reducing their carbon footprint. Designer Anita Dongre has been working towards empowering traditional artisans and evaluating vendors and partnerships by their carbon-neutrality. The pandemic has shifted the way fashion seasons will be shown in the future, says popular designer Payal Jain. "It is time to merge seasonal collections into a simple format, with comfort, practicality, versatile usage and long term sustainability as prime concerns for the future, be it for the creators of fashion brands or the consumers," she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/getting-down-to-the-brass-tacks/articleshow/77567139.cms||Saranya Chakrapani
August 16, 2020||Goa||Goa economic revival plan: Civic bodies to be adopted||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said policymakers will adopt all of Goa’s 191 villages panchayats and 14 municipalities, including the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), by October 2 to make them self-sufficient with an economic revival plan. The directorate of higher education (DHE) and Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development (GIPARD) have submitted a report on steps to take to make the civic bodies self-sufficient. The study was carried out under the state executive committee and Disaster Management Act. Sawant said that the report has looked at cleanliness and beautification, maintaining of cultural heritage, developmental and ecological balance, civic and academic education to all, employment, entrepreneurship and opportunity, health living, time-bound service, people partnership, good governance, improving the happiness portion self-reliance in village panchayats and municipalities “Policymakers (colleges and various departments) will visit these villages and adopt them by October 2. Based on the potential of the village, they will be made self-sufficient,” he said. Sawant congratulated DHE and GIPARD for the report. “This report will give directions on how Goa will move ahead in the coming days. It will help the state to make villages and municipalities self-sufficient on the lines of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Atmanirbhar Bharat,” he said. A senior officer said that during the course of interaction with teachers, villagers sought packages for revival of their businesses in the form of tax concessions and a loan waiver scheme. DHE and GIPARD had been tasked with surveying all civic bodies, so that a detailed economic revival plan could be drawn up for the state. The idea was to analyse the potential for revival of sectors related to agriculture, animal husbandry, fishing, horticulture, tourism, MSME, traditional means of livelihood and the employment potential in each individual village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/econ-revival-plan-civic-bodies-to-be-adopted/articleshow/77567795.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||AIADMK CM war spills over, Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam call truce for now||CHENNAI: The debate over the AIADMK’s CM candidate for the forthcoming assembly polls is no longer a closely guarded secret. In the wake of supporters of deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam putting up posters in Theni district demanding that he be made the CM candidate, hectic parleys were held in the party on Saturday to defuse the crisis. A group of 14 ministers, sent as emissaries by CM Edappadi K Palaniswami, held two rounds of discussions with OPS and EPS at their official residences to put to rest all debate over the CM-candidature. Both EPS and OPS chose not to visit each other’s house. OPS also stood his ground not to yield to EPS’s invitation for a meeting to sort out issues, if any. Panneerselvam conveyed to the senior leaders that time was not ripe to discuss the chief ministerial candidature. What is evident is that fissures are wide, to the extent that the CM and his deputy needed emissaries to hold discussions.  The only positive outcome for the party and the government was a joint statement issued by EPS and OPS in the evening, warning party functionaries (read ministers) against airing their views before the media without the approval of the party high command. The statement, referring to the views expressed by some senior functionaries (ministers), said, “We won’t achieve anything by expressing our views in public.  The party leadership will follow the path of Amma (Jayalalithaa) and take important decisions on policies and alliance formation by holding discussions in the party in a democratic manner”. Exhorting the cadres to stay united, the statement said plenty of work had to be completed for the welfare of the people. The leaders should act more cautiously and responsibly as the party approaches the next assembly polls. Ministers Sellur K Raju and K T Rajenthra Balaji, who triggered the debate over the CM candidature, were conspicuous by their absence in the delegation. Senior ministers S P Velumani, P Thangamani, Dindigul Sreenivasan, K A Sengottaiyan, K C Veeramani and C Vijayabaskar were part of the delegation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-cm-war-spills-over-eps-ops-call-truce-for-now/articleshow/77567794.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Temples’ coffers dry up in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Temples of Telangana are feeling the Covid-19 heat. With revenues falling due to low turnout of devout in view of the pandemic, several temples are seeking the state government’s hand-holding to survive. Yadadri, one of the major temples in the state, earned Rs 20 crore less in the last four months from its normal income, forcing the temple management to meet the expenditure from its reserve funds. “Yadadri temple had earned Rs 110 crore in 2019-20. Since April this year, there is a deficit of Rs 20 crore,” temple executive officer N Geetha told STOI. The famed Sri Sita Ramachandraswamy temple has been down and out ever since the boat tragedy near Papikondalu last year. “After the tragedy, boats have been stopped and devotees from AP are not coming. The Covid-19 pandemic has spelt doom on the temple revenues further,” a senior endowments official said. Endowments officials said the plight of nearly 670 temples, which survive on hundi collections, is worse. A majority of temples are not only struggling to pay salaries to priests and other employees but also finding it hard to conduct daily rituals to the deities. The temples, which were shut from mid-March to June first week, reopened on June 8 but devotees are few. The situation is such that all the temples have stopped arjitha sevas and started offering online puja services. Vemulawada temple in Sircilla district earlier received over 10,000 devotees a day. “But now, hardly a 1,000 devotees have darshan of the lord,” in-charge EO D Krishna Prasad explained. The second biggest temple in the state is now finding it difficult to pay salaries to about 450 employees. “We may have to withdraw our FDs of Rs 30 crore,” he said. The temple’s annual income is Rs 80 crore. “Since April, the temple earned only Rs 5 crore revenue. Worse still, the staff salary bill alone is Rs 2 crore a month,” the EO explained. Kondagattu temple in Jagtial district is facing a severe financial crunch. Though its annual income is around Rs 14 crore, management of the Anjaneya Swamy temple had to withdraw Rs 2 crore towards payment of salaries to staff. “We are trying to meet the regular expenditure from the sale of prasadams like laddu and pulihora,” an official said. Officials said the endowments department’s woes are far from over. “From Rs 330 crore earnings in the last financial year, our income has fallen to less than Rs 30 crore,” an official rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/temples-coffers-dry-up-in-state/articleshow/77567142.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Feast at Raj Bhavan chapel low-key with invitees only||PANAJI: The annual morning mass held at the 500-year-old Raj Bhavan chapel on the occasion of the Feast of the Assumption of Mary was restricted to invitees and staff only this year due to the pandemic. “This had to be done due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The people of Goa have been very cooperative and watched the mass online instead of visiting the chapel. Next year, hopefully if the situation improves, we can open the place to devotees again,” secretary to governor, Rupesh Kumar Thakur told TOI. Rosario Rodrigues, a resident of Marivel, Dona Paula, who attends the feast mass every year said that he watched it online this year. “With even Sunday mass suspended across churches we couldn’t expect to be allowed at the Raj Bhavan for the feast mass,” Rodrigues said. During the annual feast on August 15, people from different walks of life attend the mass at the chapel, which is dedicated to the Blessed Virgin Mary, under the invocation of Nossa Senhora do Cabo. The feast mass could not be live-streamed. The technical team recorded the mass and then uploaded it on YouTube. “The Raj Bhavan staff is usually in charge of making arrangements for the devotees’ welcome. Hindu and Muslim staffers also believe in the power of ‘Our Lady’ and help out with tasks with enthusiasm,” sources said. “The pandol, which is erected for devotees to have refreshments after the mass, was not put up this year. Also, there was no stall set up for the traditional ‘khajekar’ to sell ‘kadio-bodio’ as part of the feast,” sources said. A flight of stairs from the chapel leads to a grotto within which is the altar dedicated to St Paula. Each year, the feast day sees devotees from from the nearby villages forming a serpentine queue at the grotto to seek the saint’s blessings. “Hundreds of people would line up every year at the grotto to seek blessings. But this year, there was no queue,” sources said. Besides the annual feast held at the chapel, the chapel is open to the public only for Christmas, Easter and morning mass on Sundays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/feast-at-raj-bhavan-chapel-low-key-with-invitees-only/articleshow/77567796.cms||Nida Sayed
August 16, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Neighbours seek guidance on Covid-19 patients in complexes||VISAKHAPATNAM: While the government allowed home isolation for asymptomatic Covid-19 patients and those with mild symptoms, it did not issue any guidelines for the residents living with them in their complexes, leaving people unsure about the precautions they need to take. P Kusuma, president of a residents’ association in Madhurawada said, “We have three Covid-19 patients in our complex. Other flat owners are worried about how to handle the situation. Do we need to sanitize the common spaces like rooftops and elevators? There is no one to guide us.” Residents say they are worried because the government was earlier demarcating localities with many Covid-19 patients into containment zones. But in case of complexes, there are no restrictions apart from the specific flats where Covid-19 patients are housed. Doctors, however, have categorically stated that there is no reason to panic and that neighbours should help Covid-19 patients in home isolation while ensuring that they do not come into physical contact with them. Visakhapatnam-based surgeon, Dr Alok Mazumdar said, “Don’t make any physical contact with Covid-19 patients until they test negative. Otherwise, you can move around your complex freely. There is no reason to panic.” According to health department guidelines, asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms can stay in home isolation along with caregivers and relatives in the same house. In fact, AP was among the first states to allow home isolation when a family of three tested positive for Covid-19 in East Godavari on May 23. Dr J Sudhakar said, “If a patient staying in a complex tests positive then common spaces should be sanitized. Other people living in the complex should use masks and gloves within the complex compound.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/neighbours-seek-guidance-on-covid-19-patients-in-complexes/articleshow/77566593.cms||Arpit Basu
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Owners abandon sick pets at Osmania University, five cases in a week||HYDERABAD: The pavements and open grounds inside Osmania University campus are turning into dumping grounds where people have been abandoning their pet animals who are ill. Some pet owners are also have the misconception that animals can transmit the SARS-CoV-2 virus which causes Covid-19. In the last one week, animal activists have seen at least five such cases where pet owners abandoned their dogs inside the campus. Rescue volunteers also say that every dog that they have rescued so far was found with some health issue. In one such case this week, volunteers rescued a black labrador which was found with hundreds of ticks on body. Shalini Chandrashekar, a volunteer who has been feeding stray dogs inside the campus since the lockdown started, said: “The labrador is also suffering from breathing problems which could be the result of tick fever.” In similar cases, volunteers found a German shepherd, golden retriever and also a pomeranian in the university within a span of just one week..” However, OU registrar Prof Ch Gopal Reddy said: “We have not received any complaints about people abandoning dogs inside the campus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owners-abandon-sick-pets-at-ou-5-cases-in-a-week/articleshow/77567153.cms||Moulika.KV
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: SDMC to e-auction shops lying vacant to generate funds||NEW DELHI: To increase its revenue, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has finalised a policy for e-auctioning of shops lying vacant for a long time. Most of these shops are located in central and south zones at places like Lodhi Road, RK Puram and MB Road. The civic agency has reduced their rentals and decided to lease them at Rs 56-Rs 70 per sq feet or existing market rate, whichever is higher. “The vacant shops can be e-auctioned on the basis of auctions held for nearby similar shops in the same market and therefore, the minimum reserve price of Rs 70 per sq feet may be fixed for auctioning of shops in central and south zone. In case, the rates for nearby shops are not available with the department then the rates of Delhi Development Authority, may be adopted. Likewise, the minimum reserve price for shops in the west zone may be fixed at Rs 56 per sq feet,” the proposal said. The terms and conditions for leasing out these shops have been decided by a committee headed by additional commissioner, land and estate, AA Tazir. There are over 110 such shops/stalls, which will be open for e-auction and the committee has recommended fixing a ceiling of allotting a maximum of two shops or units to one person on licence basis. A senior SDMC official said, “Despite being at prominent places, some shops have been lying vacant since long and their condition is dilapidated and renovation, if any, is to be made by the highest bidder.” The shop will be licensed for 10 years from the date of commencement of licence deed on monthly fee payment basis. After getting allotment of the shop, the licensee cannot contest thereafter and complain that the licensed public premise is not complete in any respect. If any internal changes are required, he/she can do it at own cost after obtaining prior written permission, as stated in the proposal. Also, the shops cannot be transferred to other people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-to-e-auction-shops-lying-vacant-to-generate-funds/articleshow/77567212.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Ragas and a side serving of rasam||CHENNAI: Music and food have always gone hand-in-hand for Carnatic vocalist Sudha Ragunathan. Her guru, legendary musician M L Vasanthakumari (MLV) helped her master not just the seven notes but also the culinary arts. That’s why, when the lockdown extended, Sudha decided to regale her rasikas by launching her own show, Sooda’s Kitchen, wherein she dishes out delicious food to the beat of her own music. Clad in a brown kanjeevaram, and adorned with minimal jewellery, Sudha stands over the stove, stirring Neelgiri dum aloo while singing a ‘thillana’ she created for the occasion. "I created one with ‘dum, dum’ in it just for fun," says Sudha, who launched the show on her YouTube channel, Simply Sudha, during the lockdown. "When the national lockdown was announced, I enjoyed the downtime doing things I loved. But, when it got extended, I realised this would not end soon," says Sudha, adding that her son Kaushik, encouraged her to try out things online. "People were getting panicky and anxious with all the uncertainty. And I wanted to give something back to the audience. A singer reaches a certain stature only when you get acknowledgement and appreciation from the audience," says Sudha. And that’s how Sooda’s Kitchen — named after her mother Choodamani, better known as Chooda, and herself — was born. "When I was with MLV amma, who loved cooking, she would instruct me how to make various dishes. She would say there is a strong connection between cooking and doing a concert — just like you cook with different ingredients, a concert has several elements such as swaram, ragam, compositions, how you connect to an audience," says Sudha. "You are preparing a concert to serve to the audience." She chooses the dishes and music, with care. "I go by the sound of the name of the recipe or find some connection between the two," says Sudha, who has done eight episodes so far. For instance, when she made cashew or mundiri pakoda, she sang Mandhari Begada raga. "When I made a saptaswara cutlet with seven veggies, I sang the Sobhillu saptaswara, a composition of saint Thyagaraja, and another of his songs, which had the word ‘saptaswara’ in it," says Sudha. "When I made mullangi chappati, I sang a raga called Lathangi to rhyme with it." And her fans have been loving it, with some of her videos getting more than one lakh views. "They try out the dishes also and tell me how it turns out," says Sudha, who plans to bring out more episodes. "I do it when I am inspired; suddenly the dish and the raga to go with it just lights up in my mind"||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ragas-and-a-side-serving-of-rasam/articleshow/77567175.cms||Priya Menon
August 16, 2020||Goa||IT body lauds new telecom policy, wants quick roll-out||Panaji: Welcoming the state government’s move to frame a telecom infrastructure policy 2020 for Goa, Goa IT Professionals (GITP) on Thursday asked the government to implement the policy in a timely manner. GITP said that quick implementation through a single-window system will help improve rural connectivity. GITP president Gurudev Naik said that earlier policies meant to improve the state failed due to a “lackadaisical approach” to implementation. “Only time-bound implementation through the much touted single-window-system will have the desired impact and help the citizenry in these most difficult times,” said Naik. Over a month earlier, an IT professional had strung up a portable modem on a tree for better signals and the video of the incident was widely circulated. With the pandemic, all sectors shifted to work from home (WFH), but the lack of reliable overground and underground telecom infrastructure has affected productivity. A few weeks earlier, Goa technology association said that productivity of Goan IT companies has plummeted due to poor internet services.  “Despite starting in 2007 and opting for a supposedly robust public private partnership-based, Goa Broad Band Network (GBBN) as opposed to state wide area network (SWAN), majority of the state is still struggling with connectivity woes,” said Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/it-body-lauds-new-telecom-policy-wants-quick-roll-out/articleshow/77567816.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||No PoS unit, ration shop at Tivim shut||Saligao: The department of civil supplies and consumer affairs has shut operations of fair price shop number 57 at Tivim till October 31 as the owner allegedly refused to use a PoS machine. Inquiries are under way. With Ganesh Chaturthi fast approaching, cardholders of shop 57 have been instructed to collect their ration quota from fair price shop number 68. “We have temporarily attached ration cards of fair price shop 57 at Cansa, Tivim, to fair price shop 68 at Tivim with immediate effect for a period of three months. Ration card holders are requested to collect their monthly quota for August, September and October from the shop opposite Dhumaskar hospital,” a press note issued by the civil supplies department stated. Although civil supplies inspector Rajesh Arlekar said the Tivim village panchayat has been informed of the development, several consumers have complained that they have visited the shop 57, only to find it closed with no notice pasted on its door.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-pos-unit-ration-shop-at-tivim-shut/articleshow/77567822.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu engineering students get real with virus, embrace virtual lab tests||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 pandemic has brought with it several challenges and some new opportunities too like the resuscitation of virtual labs project of the ministry of human resources development that had remained moribund for almost a decade. Though online classes have started, professional colleges were unable to conduct experiments without opening their labs to students. The virtual labs project, which allows students to do their experiments remotely by using cloud computing, will also help them access video lectures, demonstrations and reference books. “Virtual labs are like simulators. All engineering experiments except chemical and biotech ones can be done in virtual mode,” said Sandeep Sancheti, vice-chancellor, SRMIST. The labs are essentially graphical front-end working in synchronization with a back-end consisting of a simulation-engine running on a server or actual measurement data or a remotely-triggered experiment. “Virtual labs are safer and better for experimentation. The students are doing experiments individually instead of groups where one or two will do the experiments and others will just measure the readings,” he said. The virtual experiments can be done 24x7 instead of four or five hours in the regular mode. “Many institutes can come together and offer virtual experiments to their students to make it affordable. There is no limit for the number of attempts and they will get access to high-end equipment,” he added. He further said virtual labs can lead to virtual education and universities. “There are many tools for online classes and exams. If we develop effective virtual labs, it would give final push to establishing virtual universities,” Sancheti said. “We are sensitizing our staff to virtual experiments. We will allow our students to do virtual experiments from next week,” said RM Kishore, vice-chairman, RMK Engineering College. Students have to do 12 to 15 experiments per lab course in a semester. The virtual experiments will cover most of the experiments. “A student would get just one chance in a physical lab experiment. He or she can get a chance to do multiple experiments. It is free of cost. Anybody can join and access the website and do the experiments. At present, we are giving it as value-addition,” he added. “In the present situation when students are not able to come to colleges and do physical experiments, virtual labs would offer them help. These labs can develop the curiosity of students. It will play an important role even after Covid,” said M K Surappa, vice-chancellor, Anna University. National Institute of Technology, Karnataka in Surathkal is one of the pioneers in setting up virtual labs. Many TN institutions have already approached the NITK for setting up and accessing virtual labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-engg-students-get-real-with-virus-embrace-virtual-lab-tests/articleshow/77567821.cms||A Ragu Raman
August 16, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Navratnalu schemes implemented’||Visakhapatnam: The state tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao hoisted the tricolour flag and received the guard of honor from the police forces at the Police Barracks on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion he said the government has been implementing the Navaratnalus scheme for the all-round development of the state. He said work would be taken up on around 1,000 km road with an estimated cost of Rs 1,000 crore in villages, which lack road connectivity. Meanwhile, preparation are on to build a 516 km national highway connecting all mandals of the Visakha tribal belt. The minister also said that the government would implement a complete liquor ban in a phased manner by 2024. Earlier, he inspected the parade ground where his vehicle got stuck in the mud. Police personnel pushed the vehicle and helped it out of the rut. He felicitated Covid-19 frontline warriors and police personnel. YSRC Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy, municipal minister Botcha Satyanarayana and Vizag MP MVV Satyanarayana participated in the Independence Day celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/navratnalu-schemes-implemented/articleshow/77566603.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Data on migrant students to ensure education continuity in Goa||PANAJI: The directorate of education (DoE) has asked all schools to submit information on migrant workers’ children enrolled with them. DoE said it is being sought for onward submission to the Union ministry of education to ensure that there is no discontinuation in their education. Education director Santosh Amonkar has asked government, aided and unaided schools, from primary to higher secondary school level, including special schools, to provide the required information. “The Covid-19 pandemic has caused an unprecedented public health emergency worldwide, including in India, leading to varying stages of lockdown. Due to this, large number of migrant labourers, along with their families and children, have returned to their native places and are likely to stay there for varying periods. This may lead to disruption in studies and learning of the children,” Amonkar said. He said this data is necessary so that the challenge thrown by the pandemic does not stop the learning of these students. The Centre, in its guidelines, has told states that a database may be prepared by each school by personally contacting parents or guardians of all children studying in their school, through phone, WhatsApp, neighbours or peer groups. “Their tentative place of stay during this period may also be noted. Such children, who have left, may be shown separately in enrolment as temporarily unavailable or migrated. While all care must be taken to ensure that their names are not struck off the rolls (as the possibility of their return anytime is always there), their numbers may be reported class-wise to the DoE to compensate for any input costs to be incurred by the school such as mid-day meals, distribution of textbooks and uniforms if not already completed,” the education ministry said in its guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/data-on-migrant-students-to-ensure-education-continuity/articleshow/77567798.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Graft case: Key documents seized from accused||HYDERABAD: A day after Keesara tahsildar E Balraju Nagaraju and three others were caught by Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths while accepting Rs 1.10 crore alleged bribe in Rampally, ACB officials on Saturday claimed they found a few documents, including letters pertaining to the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) belonging to a prominent MP, from the residence of one of the accused, K Anji Reddy. ACB officials said they were yet to ascertain why documents pertaining to the MP were in possession of Anji Reddy, a realtor. “We do not know whether Anji Reddy knows the MP. In case he knew the MP, we need to probe why the documents were in his possession,” a senior ACB officer, privy to the details of the investigation, told STOI. On Saturday, ACB officials, in a press note, declared the arrest of Nagaraju, Rampally village revenue assistant Bogu Sai Raj, realtors Chowla Srinath Yadav and K Anji Reddy. On Friday, based on a tip-off about a huge graft transaction between the tahsildar and three others with regard to a civil dispute, ACB laid a trap when the cash transfer was taking place at the Kapra residence of Anji Reddy. “Nagaraju had demanded Rs 2 crore bribe from Srinath Yadav to do an official favour to clear a land issue pertaining to 19 acres, 34 guntas in Rampally, Keesara mandal to process the file in favour of the original pattadars and furnish orders of district collector Medchal-Malkajgiri district. Apart from the recovered cash ,many incriminating documents were recovered from his possession,” ACB officials said in the note. Officials said that apart from the seized Rs 1.10 crore, which was the partial bribe amount, they recovered unaccounted cash of Rs 8 lakh from Nagaraju’s car, Rs 28 lakh cash and a kg of gold ornaments and a locker key from his residence. Many immovable properties were also identified. The Keesara tahsildar was booked in a disproportionate assets (DA) case five years ago. Following the latest trap, a new DA case would be filed against him by the ACB sleuths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/graft-case-key-docus-seized-from-accused/articleshow/77567199.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||‘Destruction does not equate devpt, will benefit industry’||Panaji: Responding to BJP spokesperson who said that the infrastructure projects in Mollem are necessary for the future development of the state, the Save Amche Mollem group said that there is an overwhelming evidence that these projects are ill-planned and will have disastrous impact on the environment and ecology. This, they said will not benefit Goans or the state. “Any observer, including BJP, needs to be clear that destruction does not equate development of the state and is a fallacy unless ‘the state’ now means ‘wealthy individuals and selected business interests’,” the group stated in its pressnote. It is fundamentally clear that this destruction will benefit industrial interests that will maximise profit with no safety nets to the well-being of Goans, the group said in its pressnote. “Around 150 scientists and tourism experts have called for Cumulative Impact Assessment study to understand the impacts of all three of these projects, that the BJP spokesperson has deemed as ‘well-studied’,” they stated. Until such a cumulative assessment is made, there cannot even be an implication that the projects are “well studied”, the group claimed. “The statement that Goa has no potential to generate electricity, shows that the state government has paid no attention to advances being made in the rest of India. In the last eighteen months itself, power generation has exceeded demand, with peak power shortage being 0.7%,” the group stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/destruction-does-not-equate-devpt-will-benefit-industry/articleshow/77567830.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Round IV of varsity ranking test on Aug 25||Panaji: Round IV of the Goa University Admissions Ranking Test (GU-ART) will be held on August 25, GU has said in a circular. The round is being held to fill vacant seats in the postgraduate programme in French, philosophy and social work. The exam will be held through the online mode and guidelines for conduct of the exam will be sent online to students, GU has said. The applications from students will be accepted upto 6pm on August 20, the varsity has said. Students who have completed their graduation or are in their final year of graduation are eligible to apply. “GU-ART shall be of one paper of 100 marks, containing 50 objective Multiple Choice Questions (MCQ) of 2 marks each. There shall be negative marking, where half a mark shall be deducted for each wrong answer. No marks will be deducted for unanswered questions. The duration of the GU-ART will be of 90 minutes,” Goa University has said. The GU-ART question paper will be made up of 15 questions in Section I which will be of the least difficult level. Section II will contain 15 ‘difficult’ questions and Section III will include 20 ‘most difficult’ questions. “Admissions to the post graduate programmes shall be entirely based on GU-ART. The marks/percentage obtained by the students while graduating would only be used to ascertain the eligibility of candidates for the programme. Selected candidates who are in the final year of graduation shall be granted provisional admission,” GU has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/round-iv-of-varsity-ranking-test-on-aug-25/articleshow/77567853.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Enact law to stop criminals from entering politics: Madras high court to Centre||CHENNAI: The Centre should enact a law prohibiting candidates with criminal background from participating in elections, the Madras high court has observed. “It is reported that persons with criminal backgrounds are becoming policy makers in many parts of the country. It has to be prevented and the system has to be cleansed. This is possible only if the top leaders of political parties are firm in not admitting criminals in their political parties. The leaders should have a vision for decriminalisation of politics,” a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice VM Velumani said. Citing a 2019 report of Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR), the court said, “The report reveals that 43% (233 out of 539) of elected MPs are facing criminal cases. Of which 29% (159 MPs) have serious criminal cases pending against them.” Therefore, the central government has to come out with a comprehensive legislation to prohibit persons with criminal background from contesting elections to parliament, state legislatures and local bodies as observed by the Constitutional bench of the Supreme Court in Public Interest Foundation and others Vs Union of India case, the court added. The judges made the observations while hearing a habeas corpus petition challenging detention of Janarthanan under the Puducherry Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act. According to the detention order, the accused faces 19 criminal cases for alleged offences including murder and attempt to murder. Recording the same, the court said, it is evident from media reports that criminal elements in Puducherry have close connection and support of political parties. Political parties are having criminals as their members and also office-bearers. “It is brought to the notice of this court that many cases pending against the detenu are in connection with inter-gang rivalries and in which country made bombs are used to murder opposite gang members,” the bench said. Pointing out the delay in probing the cases, the judges said, this would speak about his clout with political parties, especially ruling parties and police. But for political interference, police would have filed charge sheets, the court added. “It is appearing in the media that rowdy gangs are operated by many politicians, communal and religious leaders throughout the country. There seems to be a syndicate between the police force, political leaders and rowdy gangs and hence, the safety and security of the people are jeopardised,” the court said. The bench then suo motu impleaded DGP of Puducherry as party respondent and directed to file a report as to the number of such persons accommodated in political parties, and the status of such pending criminal cases in the union territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/enact-law-to-stop-criminals-from-entering-politics-court-to-centre/articleshow/77567869.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Colonel Santosh Babu’s wife joins as deputy collector||HYDERABAD: On the occasion of Independence Day, Santoshi, wife of martyr Colonel Santosh Babu, handed over her joining report to the Telangana chief secretary, Somesh Kumar at BRKR Bhavan here on Saturday. As per the decision of the chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Santoshi was appointed as deputy collector in the Revenue Department. Santoshi will undergo the mandatory training as deputy collector. Earlier, Hyderabad district collector Sweta Mohanty and TRS MLA Gadari Kishore Kumar handed over the documents pertaining to the allotment of 711 sq yards of land at Banjara Hills to Santoshi. The 39-year old colonel was among 20 Indian soldiers who were killed in the Galwan Valley during a violent clash with Chinese troops on June 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/col-babus-wife-joins-as-dy-collector/articleshow/77567205.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Mollem, Collem villagers create virtual human chain||PANAJI: Keeping aside fear of infection and the risk to them from the pandemic, a large group of villagers from Mollem and Collem, on Independence Day, held a demonstration in Mollem against the three projects that will see the destruction of large forest area within the Bhagwan Mahaveer Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park. Also, many citizens and students wrote to chief minister Pramod Sawant on the occasion of Independence Day to raise their concerns over the projects. Citizens in different parts of Goa created a human chain as a way of protesting against the projects to which approvals have been granted by the ministry of environment, forests and climate change (Moefcc). “As our representative, we hope that today serves as a good reminder to reflect the aspiration of Goans from across the state, a very important one being protecting our ecology and biodiversity. Almost 16 different representations have been sent to the National Board for Wildlife, Central Empowered Committee and your office. This includes 150 tourism stakeholders, the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa to more than a 100 architects and 700+ students,” citizens said in their letter to the CM. Students created a virtual human chain by standing in front of a tree or at a favourite green spot and sharing it on social media. Nine-year-old, Taleigao-based, Jake Dias, said, “It is important to fight the Mollem campaign as our wildlife will be destroyed forever and our birds will have no home.” Many musicians also came forward to rally around the forest through their own Earthsongs for Mollem. Ponda based, Jyotsna Dessai student of MSc Zoology, said, “When you visit a place like Molem, even once, you are bound to form a connection with it and I feel that there is no better tool than music to portray this bond.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mollem-collem-villagers-create-virtual-human-chain/articleshow/77567872.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Chided by mom, boy hangs self||Hyderabad: A 14-year-old student hanged himself on Saturday in Trimulgherry allegedly after his mother did not allow him to play games on phone. The class ninth student, was allegedly addicted to the games. “After attending online classes, he was allegedly always playing games on the smartphone,” said inspector Ravi Kumar. The family had asked the boy to concentrate on studies. “On Saturday morning, his mother scolded him for playing games and took the phone away,” added the officer. The boy locked himself inside his room. When the mother went to check on him at around 2.30 pm, she found him hanging to the ceiling fan. Police found no suicide note. A case of suspicious death was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chided-by-mom-boy-hangs-self/articleshow/77567214.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||NSUI wants education fees waived, threatens stir||Panaji: The Congress party’s student wing, the National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), has threatened to launch a hunger strike on Monday if the Goa government does not waive off college and school fees for the current academic year. NSUI state president, Ahraz Mulla said he had expected chief minister Pramod Sawant to announce the cancellation of fees during the interaction with students on Friday. “The economy of the state is in turmoil and expecting parents to pay high fees during this difficult time is next to impossible,” said Mulla. He said that because of financial constraints, many students are willing to drop out of college, which will in turn affect education and put the future of the state at stake. “Considering the financially weaker students, NSUI strongly demands for a fee waiver for all students who cannot afford fees during this difficult time, failing which NSUI will sit on a hunger strike on August 17,” said Mulla. NSUI had also submitted a plea to governor Satya Pal Malik seeking a waiver of school and college fees because the Covid pandemic has affected the ability of parents to pay the academic fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nsui-wants-education-fees-waived-threatens-stir/articleshow/77567873.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||CMCH’s in-house artificial limb centre gifts first prosthetic leg||COIMBATORE: The in-house artificial limb centre in Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) has successfully fitted its first prosthetic leg on a 40-year-old woman. The centre released a video as part of Independence Day celebrations where in the woman was seen taking up her first physiotherapy session with the new prosthetic leg. The woman’s ankle was severely damaged due to uncontrolled and severe diabetes. She lost her ability to walk after her heel bone on left leg was removed a year ago. One of her toes too was removed. Director of orthopedic institute at CMCH Dr Vetrivelchezhian said, “The artificial limb centre was set up to ensure all our amputees get the ‘independence’ to perform their own functions and duties and return to work. The woman’s measurements were taken last week, and we created a mould for her prosthetic leg. Once we were satisfied with the mould, we then created the prosthetic using polypropylene, the most sought-after material for light weight calipers. On Friday, it was prepared and ready for a fitting.” The limb centre planned to discharge the woman only once she is able to walk comfortably without a walker. Stating that the woman worked at a mill for Rs 250 a day, CMCH dean Dr P Kalidas said, “We want her to get back to work or at least find another comfortable job that pays her a good salary. The 10-bedded artificial limb centre that was recently inspected by health minister Dr C Vijaya Baskar and local administration minister S P Velumani, now has at least 10 amputees, who lost their limbs over the last one year. We plan to create limbs for them. For now, we will focus on fitting lower limbs and then move to upper limbs.” The hospital has at least 10 patients undergoing amputation due to accidents or diabetes every month. “After we amputate them, patients go home and are completely dependent on their families,” said Dr S Vetrivelchezhian. The district disability welfare department and district social welfare department does give amputees prosthetics under the state scheme for artificial limbs, but they have provided limbs for only 50 to 60 people so far because it depends on fund allotment. "Getting an artificial limb in our centre requires no submission of extra documents. The limb creation and physiotherapy are covered under the Chief Minister's Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme. We received Rs 50 lakh as reimbursements from the scheme for the many surgeries we performed," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cmchs-in-house-artificial-limb-centre-gifts-first-prosthetic-leg/articleshow/77567215.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Not testing brought-dead, kin can be disastrous, say experts||Coimbatore: The state government’s decision not to test people, who are declared brought dead to hospitals, for Covid-19 has evoked mixed reactions from epidemiologists and doctors.In the district, 15 people were found positive for the virus after death. They were all patients who were brought dead to hospitals.District collector K Rajamani said, “Though we don’t have exact numbers, at least 30%-40% of these cases were earlier treated in private hospitals and referred to government hospitals after their survival chances dropped to nil. There are also instances of bringing patients to hospitals too late.”TOI has data showing that another 40 Covid-19 patients had died within 24 hours of hospitalization.Earlier, samples were collected from the body of a brought-dead patient for Covid-19 testing and the body was either cremated by city corporation officials or given for deep burial, and not handed over to the family members, if according to kin the deceased had flu-like symptoms and acute respiratory illness. But with changed regulations, while the body would be packed as in the case of a positive fatality, that would be handed over to the family.Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “We will closely monitor the family and ensure more than 20 people are not attending the funeral. If they develop symptoms, they will be tested. We are only following the central government’s policy not to test people who are brought dead.”Many epidemiologists with the health department fear that the state has taken this decision to reduce the number of Covid-19 deaths on paper. In the district alone, this would bring down the death numbers by 10%.An official, who requested anonymity, said, “There has been a lot of pressure on the health department to bring down death numbers or provide reasons for the spike. However, the move to stop testing people who are brought dead, especially if they had flu-like symptoms or SARI symptoms, could lead to spread of virus.”The official says a brought-dead Covid-19 patient must have infected at least two close family members, who might remain asymptomatic. “Once the body is returned to them, the family will conduct a funeral that is likely to be attended by at least 30 people. Another 100 people might visit them in batches of five or 10 daily. Those leading funeral rites might also get infected. It could have disastrous consequences.”Less than two months ago, a 77-year-old communist party member from Velandipalayam was brought to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) with severe breathlessness. He died a few hours later. Doctors collected two samples of sputum from his chest, one before death and after death. As both the samples tested positive for the virus, authorities screened his family and contacts, and found his wife and three of his associates were infected.In Jothipuram too, a woman was tested positive for the virus after her father, who was declared brought dead to CMCH, found to be infected. There are many cases of funerals becoming Covid-19 transmission points, including in the Nilgiris.Experts too say when the district is in the surge phase, it would be advisable to test at least the family members of the brought-dead patient. Dr K Kolandaswamy, former director of public health, said, “In the case of brought-dead patients who had SARI symptoms, the family members, especially who attended to the patients, must be tested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/not-testing-brought-dead-kin-can-be-disastrous-say-experts/articleshow/77567221.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Cong: Roy fixed Valpoi bypoll & let Rane win||Valpoi: The Valpoi block of Congress on Friday alleged that Roy Naik had indulged in “fixing” with incumbent legislator Vishwajit Rane during the 2017 assembly byelection of the Valpoi seat. The allegation comes eight days after Roy and Ritesh, sons of Congress’ Ponda MLA Ravi Naik, formally joined BJP. Roy was the Congress candidate for the 2017 bypoll, while Rane, who was the sitting legislator, had resigned from Congress and was the BJP candidate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-roy-fixed-valpoi-bypoll-let-rane-win/articleshow/77567878.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Ticket to home: Labourers made gold ‘carriers’||NEW DELHI: Smuggling operations post the Covid-19 pandemic have changed significantly. While daily cases being recorded at the Indira Gandhi International Airport are around 10% of what they used to be, the ‘carriers’ are not trained men and women, but instead, migrants who cannot afford to purchase airline ticket. Customs officials said in several cases, they found labourers and people from the lower economic strata being used to smuggle gold or drugs in exchange for an airline ticket, with the smugglers promising them a journey to their hometown. In order to avoid arrests, the gold is being distributed to several such ‘carriers’ so that neither is carrying more than 1kg. “In a recent case, 11 people were caught, each carrying less than 1kg of gold and while the gold was seized, only large recoveries can lead to an arrest. So in many cases, while a case is made against the labourers, there are no arrests as the amount is so little,” a Customs official told TOI. The officer stated that while passenger profiling is generally done for smugglers coming out of certain regions, like Rajasthan and Kerala, no such recoveries has been made upon the resumption of commercial flight operations. “The usual modus operandi would be concealing the gold in the rectum, or even turning it into gold-coloured paste. All these methods are not coming through at the Delhi airport, which is an indicator that the regular channels in terms of experienced carriers is yet to resume,” said the official, adding that those caught smuggling gold over the past two months have generally been bringing them in their luggage. On August 6, two men were apprehended at IGI, trying to smuggle gold bars weighing 466 grams from Riyadh. Later in the same week, four more men were apprehended bringing in gold biscuits, weighing around 800 grams. “The profiling of the men showed that generally, those arriving in with the gold had no prior experience and therefore were not concealing it in the rectum or using ingenious ways. It appears that they are promised a ticket journey in exchange for smuggling gold, where they are instructed to hand it over to another person at the airport,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ticket-to-home-labourers-made-gold-carriers/articleshow/77567223.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Panel to create awareness on curbing addictions||PANAJI: North Goa district has been identified as one of the most vulnerable among 272 districts in India in terms of substance and alcohol abuse. North Goa collector R Menaka e-launched the District Nasha Mukt Bharat Campaign via video conference and a Powerpoint presentation on Saturday. Stating that the youth are the most vulnerable group in society, Menaka stressed that the departments of home, health, education and various media have an important role to play in curbing drug menace in the state. The newly-formed District Nasha Mukt Bharat Campaign Committee, North Goa District formed under the chairpersonship of the north collector/district magistrate has chalked out various awareness programmes aimed at various sections of society in an effort to curb the menace of addiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panel-to-create-awareness-on-curbing-addictions/articleshow/77567874.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||As land prices spike, so do bribe amounts||Hyderabad: Keesara tehsildar EB Nagaraju on Friday night was caught by ACB sleuths taking a bribe of Rs 1.10 crore. The bribe was offered in connection with a land in Rampally Dayara in Keesara mandal in favour of some persons and a real estate agency. ACB officials said two businessmen offered the bribe to the tehsildar to issue the proceedings of the land and start developing it. Medchal-Malkajgiri district officials said an acre of land now costs Rs 20 crore and this could be the reason the businessmen offered him Rs 1.10 crore to settle the row over 28 acres. This was only the tip of the iceberg of land litigations. Sources said skyrocketing land prices in Hyderabad and surrounding areas have become a major source of cash flow to some of the revenue employees. At least half a dozen major cases reported in the city and surrounding areas in the last one year have revenue officials caught in the web of bribery and land litigations. A senior revenue official pointed out more complaints had started coming after the government initiated the land records updation programme (LRUP) in 2016 and Rythu Bandhu scheme. Due to high land rates, there is competition among the officers to bag plum postings like tehsildar in Rangareddy and Medchal districts. A majority of them get postings with the purported blessings of politicians, sources said. A case in point: Nagaraju, who began his career as a junior assistant in the revenue department, continued to function in RR district despite rising through the ranks and expanded his network of operations. “The entire department (revenue) is getting a bad name following the actions of a handful of officers, especially those working in Hyderabad and erstwhile RR districts. We have represented to the state several times to transfer field-level officers in the erstwhile RR district. But, our pleas have fallen on deaf ears,” Vanga Ravinder Reddy, president of Telangana Revenue Employees’ Services Association (TRESA), told STOI. Interestingly, there was no let-up in the bribery cases involving revenue officers even after CM K Chandrasekhar Rao made no bones about the growing corruption in the department. “The fact that the department is being revamped, including a merger with the panchayat raj department shows the government’s seriousness in putting an end to corruption,” an official said. Last year, ACB had come out with a list of ‘most corrupt’ departments based on the number of cases registered. The revenue department had the dubious distinction of topping the charts, followed by the municipal administration and home (police) department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-land-prices-spike-so-do-bribe-amounts/articleshow/77567224.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Cops in search of don’s pistol||Coimbatore: The crime branch -CID has formed a team to nab a Sri Lankan national, who is in possession of a pistol owned by late Sri Lankan underworld don Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka.Lokka had the pistol with him when he was hiding in Coimbatore, police sources said. Following his death on July 3, Amani Dhanji of Colombo and Madurai-based lawyer Sivakami Sundari, who took the body to Madurai for cremation, had handed over the weapon to his accomplice, a Sri Lankan national staying there.Lokka was hiding in a rented house at Green Garden at Cheran Maa Nagar here with Dhanji. He had obtained an Aadhaar card in the name of Pradeep Singh, with the help of Sundari and her friend Dhyaneswaran.The CB-CID, who produced the trio before the CJM court on Saturday, sought 10 days custody. They have also booked them under the Arms Act, 1959 and the Foreigners Act, 1946.Meanwhile, Sundari has filed a petition before the CJM court, seeking conditional bail. It will come up for hearing on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cops-in-search-of-dons-pistol/articleshow/77567216.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Issue guidelines for exams, say teachers||COIMBATORE: Days after the University Grants Commission (UGC) told the Supreme Court that states cannot override its direction to hold end-semester exams for final year students within September 30, student bodies in the district on Saturday reiterated their demand to cancel final year exams, stating conducting the same amid the pandemic would be a risky affair. Dhinesh Raja, district secretary, Students Federation of India, said results were crucial for final year students as they had to decide on taking up higher studies or jobs. “Many students are in their hometowns doing part-time jobs. If exams are held during the lockdown, which is extended till this month-end, how would they reach their colleges and exam halls?” Pointing out that states were presently dealing with different kinds of issues, he said it was unfair for the UGC to ask them to hold exams now. “Kerala, for instance, is dealing with rain and landslide issues. Tamil Nadu is trying to contain the Covid-19 spread. How can states hold end-semester exams amid these issues? If final year exams must be held, they could be allowed conduct the same after the pandemic subsides.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/issue-guidelines-for-exams-say-teachers/articleshow/77567220.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Cub at Nehru Zoo named ‘Santosh’ after Galwan martyr||Hyderabad: On the occasion of 74th Independence Day, Nehru Zoological Park named one of the three cubs born to a Royal Bengal Tigress “Asha”, as “Santosh” in honour of Late Colonel Santosh Babu who laid down his life fighting the Chinese troops in Galwan. Other two cubs were named “Sankalp” and “Surya”. Curator N Kshitija hoisted the Triclour at the administrative building in the presence of the administrative, veterinary and field staff. Certificates and cash rewards were given to employees who rendered excellent services during the year. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cub-at-nehru-zoo-named-santosh-after-galwan-martyr/articleshow/77567290.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Rain intensity likely to dip in Goa after August 17: Met department||PANAJI: Heavy rainfall that has been lashing parts of the state since Friday is expected to continue on Sunday. The India meteorological department (IMD) had attributed the reason for the showers to the formation of a low pressure area over the Bay of Bengal, which intensified on Saturday. “The formation over the Bay of Bengal is currently in the stage of a well marked low pressure area, owing to which the windspeed has increased over Goa and so has the rainfall activity. The intensity of rainfall is likely to reduce from August 17 onwards after the well marked area dissipates,” IMD scientist, Rahul M said. IMD had earlier warned of heavy rainfall and issued an orange alert from August 14-16. There are chances of another low pressure likely to form above the Bay of Bengal by August 19, but its development and impact of rainfall over Goa are being monitored by IMD. “The impact of that system is not showing very significantly right now but we can expect some increase in rainfall by August 19 depending on its intensity. IMD will have a clearer picture about this phenomenon by August 17.” Rahul M said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rain-intensity-likely-to-dip-after-august-17-met-dept/articleshow/77567892.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Two pose as fake railway officials for free travel in Delhi, arrested||NEW DELHI: Two men posing as railway officials to travel for free in trains were arrested from Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station on Friday. Tickets and identity cards of passengers were being checked at Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station in view of the Independence Day. Two passengers, who were stopped for checking, said they were railway officials and tried to enter the station to board the Golden Temple Express. However, when cops questioned them they could not show valid ID cards, said Harendra K Singh, DCP, Railways. Police said the accused have been identified as Martand Rubab Kamble (21) and Omkar Bairagi Waghmode (20). During questioning, Kamble told police that he earlier worked with a railway vendor in a cyber café and was aware of railway operations and how he could disguise as an employee and travel for free. He later made fake railway employee ID card and started travelling without buying tickets. Both confessed of using fake IDs for free railway journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-pose-as-fake-rly-officials-for-free-travel-arrested/articleshow/77567272.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Avail forage crop subsidy, farmers told||Coimbatore: The district administration is all set to give out the state’s subsidy for cultivating fodder crops and harvesting them to encourage forage crop cultivation among farmers and address the issue of fodder shortage. According to a release from the district administration, in the first scheme, 100% subsidy would be given for cultivating ratoon sorghum and velimasal (hedge lucerne) to farmers who have irrigated lands. Farmers could avail the scheme to cultivate the same on 25 cents to one acre. Similarly, 100% subsidy would be given for cultivating fodder grass, ratoon sorghum, maize, fodder cowpea and velimasal on irrigated fields. Farmers could avail this scheme to cultivate them on 10 cents to one acre. Farmers, who don’t have irrigation facilities, would be given fodder sorghum and fodder cowpea seeds to cultivate the same on 25 cents to two acres. In addition, to make harvesting of these forage crops easier, 150 mechanised harvesting devices worth Rs 25,000 each would be given at 75% subsidy.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/avail-forage-crop-subsidy-farmers-told/articleshow/77567258.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Areas in Sakhali, Bicholim flooded||Bicholim: Heavy rains that lashed the state on Saturday caused the water levels of the Valvanti river at Sakhali and the Bicholim river to rise, which led to inundating of low-lying areas along the rivers. Similarly, the water level of the Chapora river at Sal village in Bicholim taluka rose due to the discharge of water from the Tillari dam area. Bicholim station fire officer Shripad Gawas said the situation was under control as the Chapora, Valvanti and Bicholim rivers had not yet crossed the danger levels. However, at Sakhali, water was pumped back into the Valvanti to avoid flooding of the town. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/areas-in-sakhali-bicholim-flooded/articleshow/77567889.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Forensic experts seek 10 acres in Coimbatore to set up state-of-the-art lab||COIMBATORE: The state government should provide 10 acres in the city to set up a state-of-the-art forensic laboratory, experts at the Regional Forensic Science Laboratory at Race Course said. The lab is functioning in the building belonging to the public health department and the space is not adequate, the experts said. Though a team of forensic experts met district revenue officer Ramadurai Murugan a few weeks ago seeking land for a new facility, the district administration was ready to provide only one acre near Sulur, they said. “The government should allot the land at Thomas Park in Race Course belonging to the Tamil Nadu Housing Board. We don’t need money from the state government as the Union government is ready to provide more than 100 crore to set up a lab, which will function round-the-clock,” an expert told TOI. “The new facility will be able to analyse DNA samples. Now, DNA retrieved from samples is analyzed in the Chennai forensic lab. We can also set up a training centre to train judicial and police officers. The facility will also house staff quarters and have rooms for trainees.” Sleuths of the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), Central Bureau of Investigation and National Investigation Agency had visited the lab at Race Course, the expert said. “RAW officials visited the lab two weeks ago to discuss about the death of Sri Lankan gangster Angoda Lokka.” The lab started functioning at Race Course in 1974. It has seven divisions. The main division is toxicology, which analyses internal organs like liver and kidneys, and urine and blood. Toxicology experts can detect presence of poisonous substances like pesticides and insecticides. The lab result is given to courts within five days. The lab receives 2,000 viscera every month in connection with cases in Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Tirupur and Erode. The prohibition division can analyze illicit liquors including arrack and toddy. The narcotics division can analyze only ganja, not drugs like ketamine, heroin or opium. The biology division can trace blood and semen stain on clothes and weapons, and also hair, saliva and diatom. The serology division can identify animal blood, human blood and bird blood. The computer division can retrieve audio, video and image files from mobile phones and computers. The division is rendering assistance to CBI, NIA and crime branch -CID police. The excise division can analyze and certify liquor made in three distilleries in western Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forensic-experts-seek-10-acres-in-city-to-set-up-state-of-the-art-lab/articleshow/77567237.cms||A Subburaj
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Nilgiris records 32 new Covid-19 cases||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The Nilgiris district logged 32 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,033. With two patients discharged, the total number of patients discharged in the Nilgiris stands at 915. Of the new 32 cases, including 13 women, 18 were from Anikorai village. The 18 cases were contacts of a Chennai returnee. Banahatty village reported eight positive cases, all of whom were contacts of a vendor, who had a travel history. The remaining six cases were secondary contacts of earlier positive cases with travel history. As many as 115 active cases are being treated at government hospitals in Ooty and Coonoor, besides Covid care centres. The hill district saw a drop in recovery rate by 2%. The current recovery rate is 88.5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-records-32-new-cases/articleshow/77567253.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Retired TNSTC staff protest delay in issuing benefits||COIMBATORE: Retired Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) employees on Saturday protested delay in issuing them retirement benefits. They also sent postcards containing their demands to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Representatives of the Tamil Nadu Government Transport Retired Employees’ Association said around 10,000 of them, who had retired after April 2019, have not received benefits such as provident fund and gratuity so far. Its vice-president M Arunagirinathan said, “Around 85,000 retired transport employees across the state have also not yet been given arrears in dearness allowance for five years.” He said the state should hike the pension based on the 2007 agreement. “Other government departments have implemented this, but the transport department is yet to do so.” The association members said in the case of pensioners’ death their kin must be provided a family welfare fund of Rs 50,000 and if an employee passes away during service, a compensation of Rs 3 lakh. They also demanded the state to implement medical insurance scheme for retired employees. Around 200 retired employees in the district sent postcards to the chief minister. They said they would carry on the protest till August 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/retd-tnstc-staff-protest-delay-in-issuing-benefits/articleshow/77567229.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Frontline workers honoured on I-Day||Coimbatore: The Independence Day celebrations were a low-key affair in the district. Collector K Rajamani hoisted the national flag and accepted the guard of honour on VOC Ground on Saturday morning.He honoured 90 Covid-19 frontline workers – seven from the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, six from the ESI Hospital, 11 from public health and preventive medicine department, five from medical and rural health service department, eight from city corporation, 15 from police department, six each from municipality and town panchayat, five from rural development and panchayat raj department, one from transport department and 20 from revenue and disaster management department – by giving away certificates for their remarkable work.The district administration has noted down details of people who attended the function and they were allowed in only after checking them for temperature and other visible symptoms. Unlike the previous years, the event was conspicuous by the absence of hours-long cultural programmes. Public and students were not allowed to attend the function.Tahsildars and deputy tahsildars, meanwhile, visited the houses of freedom fighters to honour them.City corporation commissioner J Sravan Kumar hoisted the tricolour at the corporation main office at Town Hall. He distributed certificates and a cash award of Rs 2,000 each to 22 officials, who had completed 25 years of service with excellent track record.In neighbouring Tirupur, collector K Vijayakarthikeyan hoisted the national flag and accepted the guard of honour at the Chikkanna government arts college.The collector then honoured 349 Covid-19 frontline workers – 272 government employees, seven volunteers and 70 police personnel – by distributing certificates to them. He also distributed financial aid to the tune of Rs 3.67 crore to 15 beneficiaries. At Isha Yoga Centre, Dr Nirmala, dean, ESI Hospital, hoisted the tricolour. “We have treated 3,750 Covid-19 patients at the ESI Hospital so far. Compared to earlier, most patients are now having issues related to lungs. The elderly, diabetics and people with hypertension, kidney issues and cancer problems should be extra cautious. They should avoid social gathering and stepping out of their houses,” she said during her special address.The tricolour was also hoisted at the Bharathiar University and several other colleges in the district to mark the Independence Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/frontline-workers-honoured-on-i-day/articleshow/77567288.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||District logs 290 Covid cases; six deaths take toll to 171||COIMBATORE: The district recorded 290 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally to 8,569, of which 2,175 are active cases. The toll also rose to 171 as the state included six deaths that occurred in the district in the past two days in its bulletin. At least 175 patients were cured and discharged from hospitals and Covid care centre in the district in the day. With this, the number of people recovered from Covid-19 has increased to 6,223. According to a health official, the new cases were reported from Singanallur, Ukkadam, Ganapathy Managar, Kappikadai area in Villankurichi, Selvapuram and Pollachi, among other areas. Most of the cases were from the existing containment zones. Of the six deceased, three died in private hospitals on Friday, two in the ESI Hospital on Thursday and the remaining in the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Thursday. One of the deceased was an 82-year-old man, who was admitted to a private hospital with fever, cough and malaise on July 31. He died of hypoxia arrest and pneumonia. The other two who died in private hospitals include a 63-year-old woman, who was hospitalized with breathing difficulties on August 6 and died of pneumonia and respiratory arrest, and a 68-year-old woman, who died of respiratory failure hours after hospitalization on Friday. She had fever, cough and breathing difficulty. The patients who died in the ESI Hospital comprise an 88-year-old man, who died of diabetes mellitus, systemic hypertension and pneumonia on the fourth day of hospitalization and an 80-year-old woman, who died a day after admission. In CMCH, the patient died of type-2 diabetes mellitus and bronchial asthma hours after hospitalization. He was 75 years old. Neighbouring Tirupur, meanwhile, recorded 68 new cases of Covid-19, taking the count to 1,495, of which 460 are active cases. The district also saw three deaths. The toll now stands at 44. Two of the patients - a 75-year-old woman and a 46-year-old man – who died were undergoing treatment in CMCH. While the elderly woman was hospitalized on July 28, the man died on Thursday, a day after admission. The other deceased was a 70-year-old woman, who was admitted to Tirupur government hospital with cough on Sunday and died on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-logs-290-covid-cases-six-deaths-take-toll-to-171/articleshow/77567279.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 16, 2020||Salem||Independence Day celebrated across districts in Salem region||SALEM: The 74th Independence Day was celebrated in Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Erode districts on Saturday Collector S A Raman accepted the guard of honour and unfurled the National Flag in the celebrations in the Salem district. He issued meritorious services certificate to 57 government officials who worked to control the Covid pandemic in the district. The collector also handed over Chief Minister’s Police Medals to personnel who had excelled in their work. Salem city police commissioner T Senthil Kumar, superintendent of police Deepa S Ganigar and other officials took part in the function. As per the state government’s instruction, concerned tahsildars across the district, handed over medals, certificates and garlands to freedom fighters at their houses. The Salem Municipal Corporation also celebrated the Independence Day. Commissioner R Sadheesh hoisted the flag and accepted the guard of honour At Periyar University, vice-chancellor P Kolandaivel presided over the celebrations and hoisted the National Flag. He also paid respects to the statue of Periyar. Similarly, Namakkal collector K Megraj, Dharmapuri collector S Malarvizhi, and Erode collector C Kathiravan, Krishnagiri collector S Prabhakar unfurled the National Flag and distributed welfare assistance to beneficiaries to the tune of several lakhs in their resepective districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/independence-day-celebrated-across-districts-in-salem-region/articleshow/77567260.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Large blobs of tar surface at Benaulim||COLVA: Two unusually large tar balls measuring 1.5ft in length and 1ft in height have washed up on the Benaulim beach. It is normal to find small tar balls deposited on Goa’s beaches, especially just before the onset of monsoon and thereon till October. Former scientist from National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Antonio Mascarenhas said that it could be that smaller units got aggregated on the sea bed before being pushed and transported by the waves. The tar balls need rapid analysis for correct interpretation, he said. Tar balls are lumps of solidified crude oil found in or on the sea that get washed ashore. According to experts, tar ball pollution has severe consequences not only on the scenic beauty of beaches, but also to marine life. Another ex-NIO scientist, Virupaxa Banakar, said that tar balls on beaches are the result of washing off of crude oil on open oceans. They are indicative of oil spills and are hazardous to marine and beach environment. The layer of oil that forms on seawater undergoes physical and chemical alteration called weathering before it finally washes up and get deposited on beaches as sticky black lumps or balls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/large-blobs-of-tar-surface-at-benaulim/articleshow/77567894.cms||Nisser Dias
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Lab to conduct voice analysis from September||The Regional Forensic Science Laboratory will start voice analysis from September. “We plan to use the service of a Tirupur-based expert for voice analysis as the government has not appointed staff for the lab,” said an official. Currently, voice analysis is done at the forensic science lab in Chennai. During the visit of the President, Prime Minister and chief minister, food samples are tested at the laboratory. But it lacks the national accreditation board for testing and calibration laboratories’ accreditation. “Our results are accurate and reliable. Recently, the Rajasthan forest department sent us samples collected from a tiger carcass to detect presence of poisonous substances,” the official said. “We can also collect DNA from fingerprints.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lab-to-conduct-voice-analysis-from-september/articleshow/77567254.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Erode||Independence Day celebrated across districts in Salem region||SALEM: The 74th Independence Day was celebrated in Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Erode districts on Saturday Collector S A Raman accepted the guard of honour and unfurled the National Flag in the celebrations in the Salem district. He issued meritorious services certificate to 57 government officials who worked to control the Covid pandemic in the district. The collector also handed over Chief Minister’s Police Medals to personnel who had excelled in their work. Salem city police commissioner T Senthil Kumar, superintendent of police Deepa S Ganigar and other officials took part in the function. As per the state government’s instruction, concerned tahsildars across the district, handed over medals, certificates and garlands to freedom fighters at their houses. The Salem Municipal Corporation also celebrated the Independence Day. Commissioner R Sadheesh hoisted the flag and accepted the guard of honour At Periyar University, vice-chancellor P Kolandaivel presided over the celebrations and hoisted the National Flag. He also paid respects to the statue of Periyar. Similarly, Namakkal collector K Megraj, Dharmapuri collector S Malarvizhi, and Erode collector C Kathiravan, Krishnagiri collector S Prabhakar unfurled the National Flag and distributed welfare assistance to beneficiaries to the tune of several lakhs in their resepective districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/independence-day-celebrated-across-districts-in-salem-region/articleshow/77571733.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu spent Rs 6,650 crore for fighting Covid: CM Edappadi K Palaniswami||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Saturday said the state had spent Rs 6,650 crore from the state’s own resources for Covid relief and preventive measures. The state does the highest number of RT-PCR tests in the country and maintains a high recovery rate. In his Independence Day speech, the fourth in a row at Fort St George, Palaniswami said the government was taking efforts on a war-footing by following proper procedures, “honestly and truthfully,” to rescue the people from coronavirus. “Certainly, the government will stand by the people forever. I, who enjoys love and support of you (people), reiterate again that I will work day and night for the welfare of the people,” Palaniswami said. He announced a new veterinary college and research institute in Udumalpet in Tirupur district this year, and enhanced freedom fighters pension from Rs 16,000 to Rs 17,000 and pension for legal heirs from Rs 8,000 to Rs 8,500. Faced with strident criticism from the opposition for not getting NEET exemption for Tamil Nadu, Palaniswami announced that his government has decided to provide 7.5% NEET quota for government school students through a legislation. The state government has also laid the foundation stone for 11 medical colleges with the approval of the Union government to realize the dreams of rural and economically backward students, he said. Listing out the achievements of his government in various sectors “overcoming several challenges,” the chief minister hoped that Tamil Nadu economy would soon get back to normalcy. The state has signed 41 MoUs for investments worth Rs 30,664 crore to generate employment to 67,212 people. Tamil Nadu tops the list of states in terms of loan sanction (Rs 7,043 crore) under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee scheme of the Centre as part of the stimulus package for MSME sector. “Through a legal battle, the state has established its rights over the Cauvery through the constitution of Cauvery water management authority. This year, the water from Mettur dam was released on June 12, the customary date for water release, and it reached the tail end areas ten days earlier than usual. As a result, 4.11 lakh acres have seen kuruvai cultivation,” the chief minister said proudly. The state government also enacted in February a legislation to protect Cauvery basin agricultural zone, to prevent hazardous industries from setting shop there. The state realized 100tonnes of food grain production for six years in a row. The state government has allotted Rs 700 crore for Cauvery-Gundar river link scheme, and was implementing several water resources programmes, including Athikadavu-Avinashi scheme and Tamirabarani-Karumeniyar-Nambiyar interlink, the CM said. Since the state maintains a cordial relationship with the neighbouring states, Andhra Pradesh released 8tmcft of water in Krishna river instantly for Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-spent-rs-6650cr-for-fighting-covid-cm/articleshow/77567292.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Fund-starved TSRTC diverts loan to pay staff salaries||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has diverted nearly Rs 600 crore loan it borrowed to replace its outdated fleet of buses towards payment of salaries to employees. The loan was obtained to also pay dues to TSRTC Credit Cooperative Society and towards remission of pending dues to the provident fund account of the employees. A senior official admitted that Telangana State Road Transport Corporation had no choice but to utilise the loan amount to make salary payments to the employees as there was no income to the corporation in April and May due to total lockdown. Not a bus was operated during those two months. Though the corporation has started operating 30-50% of its 10,000-bus fleet after the lockdown was lifted from June 1 onwards, occupancy ratio did not pick up. TSRTC, which used to earn Rs 12 crore per day before the coronavirus pandemic hit the state, is not even getting Rs 2 crore per day revenue in the post-lockdown days as not many people were using RTC bus services due to Covid-19 scare. Also, neither services in Greater Hyderabad region nor the inter-state services have resumed. Only district bus services were being operated. As a result, the already loss-making TSRTC had to utilize the loan amount. The official said the corporation requires about Rs 140 crore per month towards payment of salaries to its employees. “The corporation also had to make payments to hired bus owners and the amount was adjusted from the loan amount,” the official said. Now, the TSRTC management has approached the state government for financial help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fund-starved-rtc-diverts-loan-to-pay-staff-salaries/articleshow/77567891.cms||Roushan Ali
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Kallar tribes protest seeking land at alternative location in ATR||Coimbatore: Twenty-three Kallar tribes families, who were moved from their settlement in the Anaimalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) after heavy rain and landslips last year, protested at Theppakulamedu on Saturday urging officials to provide them land for housing in new location. All the 23 families are currently residing in six houses in the quarters of tea workers at Thaimudi estate near Valparai.Over 50 people staged the agitation holding placards. They demanded land at Theppakulamedu, which is three kilometres away from their previous settlement. About ten people from Udumanparai settlement also joined the protest extending support to the protesters. The Kallar tribes were originally nomadic farmers inside the ATR. Some decades ago, they settled at a piece of land which they named as Kallar settlement. They were cultivating pepper in the surrounding areas and during off seasons, they collected honey and weaved bags from forest-based products for their livelihood.“In August 2019, our houses were damaged due to heavy rain and landslips that followed. When we attempted to construct straw huts, officials stopped us and assured us to provide us an alternative location within ten days. Until then we shifted to quarters of tea estate workers at Thaimudi estate,” said S Anish Kumar, 23, one of the protesters.“We have been attending multiple meetings and selected Theppakulamedu as a place for our new settlement. Theppakulamedu will suitable for our lifestyle. But nothing has happened on the ground,” Anish said.Another protester Jayalakshmi Jeyapal, 30, said with our farmland inside the forest, it has been difficult to travel to the settlement on daily basis to look after the crops. “Besides, due to practical problems, we stopped collecting honey. While we are struggling to sustain financially, the estate management has been repeatedly asking us to vacate the houses in its quarters.”When contacted, an official from ATR said, “As per the Forest Rights Act, title deed could be given only to tribal families that had been residing in a piece of land in the forest for three generations (75 years) prior to December 2005. Accordingly, we had prepared title deeds for the families at the Kallar settlement and forwarded it to the district administration.”“It is violation of the act to give title deed for the alternative location that the families were seeking as it was occupied only this year,” the official said, adding, “However, if the families insist on deed for the new location, we could forward their resolution passed at their committee level seeking deeds for Theppakulamedu to our superiors for consideration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kallar-tribes-protest-seeking-land-at-alternative-location-in-atr/articleshow/77567291.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Spartan ceremonies mark Independence Day celebrations||HUBBALLI: Although it was a ceremony stripped of frills and pageantry, the Independence Day celebrations held at Nehru Ground in Hubballi on Saturday amid the Covid-19 crisis, was certainly not lacking in either patriotic zeal or fervour. The absence of children, who have for long been an integral part of the Independence Day celebrations, was conspicuous on Saturday, since the fear of the pandemic had prompted the government to decide against their participation. Hubballi tahsildar Shashidhar Madayal unfurled the Tricolour at Nehru Ground, and was offered the guard of honour. Although there was no parade, a group of teachers rendered patriotic songs to mark the occasion. Paying tribute to the martyrs, the sacrifice of whom helped India cast off the shackles of imperialism, Madayal called on people to throw themselves into nation building. The tahsildar also listed some of the government’s marquis initiatives, and called on people to avail of the benefits of schemes. He said that, as many as 1,47,719 families with either antodaya or BPL cards had been given rice, wheat, pulses and kerosene during the lockdown. Covid-19 warriors honoured In Ballari, Karnataka forest minister BS Anand Singh unfurled the National Flag, which was hoisted at a height of 150m at the Rotary Circle in Hospete. The event was witnessed by a large crowd. Healthcare personnel and others who had served as frontline Covid-19 warriors were honoured on the occasion for staking their life in the battle against the pandemic. Creation of jobs, infrastructure development top priorities: Shivaram HebbarIn Karwar, Uttara Kannada district in-charge minister Shivaram Hebbar, who unfurled the National Flag at the Police Parade Ground, on Saturday outlined his two-pronged vision for the coastal district: Generating employment and upscaling infrastructure in the district. Emphasising his commitment to ensuring the overall development of Uttara Kannada, Hebbar said that he was keen on heralding an era of prosperity in the district by developing ports, agriculture, tourism and fishing. He said that development of all sectors would generate direct and indirect employment opportunities for thousands of people. “The government is eagerly pursuing irrigation projects in Kali, Gangavali, Aghanashini and Sharavathi rivers, which will benefit the farmers. Farmers can now assess their crop losses and submit their assessment on an application. The government has acknowledged the need for an airport to give a fillip to tourism, and Rs 200 crore has been earmarked for a new civilian terminal at the Naval Airbase in Karwar,” said Hebbar. Asking environmentalists not to oppose all developmental projects, Hebbar said that the government would try to reach an agreement with fishermen protesting against the Sagaramaala project in Karwar. He also asked activists not to take up protest against the Hubballi-Yellapur project, which he said would hamper development of Uttara Kannada district. Hebbar also expressed regret over the violent clashes in Bengaluru, and urged people against taking law into their hands. “The government will take stringent action against anti-social elements indulging in violence,” said the minister. Karwar MLA Roopali Naik, Uttara Kannada deputy commissioner Harish Kumar, superintendent of police Shiva Prasad were among those who attended the ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/spartan-ceremonies-mark-independence-day-celebrations/articleshow/77566717.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: With biz hit, stall owners at RTC bus stands seek relief||HYDERABAD: The livelihood of hundreds of families’, who depend on income from the commercial establishments located in RTC bus stands and complexes, has been badly affected due to the coronavirus pandemic. The business was nil during lockdown for two-and-a-half months up to May 31 but it has not revived despite the lockdown being eased and the TSRTC management resuming bus services in the districts. TOI spoke to the stall owners who said while the business is almost nil in eateries as people are scared to eat outside food, others stores such as book stalls and xerox centres are hardly making 20 percent business when compared to the transactions during pre-pandemic days. “I have been running a tea-cum-coffee stall earning Rs 2,500 to 3,000 per day during pre-pandemic days. After reopening the shops in the bus stand from June second week, there has hardly been any business. Earning even Rs 200 to 300 per day has become difficult. Only few people are coming for coffee or tea,” said Ashok Kumar of RTC complex at Nalgonda. While almost all the commercial establishments are closed in the RTC bus stands located in Greater Hyderabad, including the Mahatma Gandhi Bus station, Dilsukh Nagar and Jubilee Bus station have a couple of stores open. “The city bus services have not been resumed. Not many people are travelling by buses. Most of the buses are plying with 25 per cent 30 per cent occupancy,” said Ganesh Kumar, running a stall at Jubilee Bus Station. In the bus stands located in the districts, stall and shop management said the income has fallen drastically. “What we are earning is not even sufficient to pay the electricity bills. Many of us have borrowed money on huge interest to manage our home during this pandemic,” said Kamesh Babu who is managing a stall in Khammam bus stand. They have urged the TSRTC management and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to waive off the rentals for first two months of lockdown and give 80 percent rebate for the months of June, July and August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-biz-hit-stall-owners-at-rtc-bus-stands-seek-relief/articleshow/77567897.cms||Roushan Ali
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Corporation officials posted at Chennai checkposts relieved of duty||CHENNAI: A day after the chief minister announced that e-passes will be issued to all genuine applicants from August 17, Greater Chennai Corporation relieved all its revenue officials posted at nine city checkposts since May. Several assistant revenue officials and assistant engineers from the electrical department were posted at the checkposts to keep track of people who entered and exited the city. The nine checkposts were at Padiyanallur, Vellaivoyal Chavadi, Erani Amman temple, Mudichoor Road, Semmancheri, Muttukadu, Nazarathpettai, Kottamedu, Pakkam. On an average, about 7,000 applied for e-passes everyday to enter the city and now with lockdown easing, cross migration has led to heavy inflow of people from southern districts and neighboring states. “We had created the nine checkposts based on people movement and keeping in mind the inter-state borders. But now with e-pass issuance being relaxed and test positivity rate below 10%, this posting becomes invalid. The officials will be used for other Covid duty,” said T Jeya Sheela, assistant commissioner, general department. Police will continue to monitor the checkposts, a civic official said. “We will continue to monitor people entering the city using details in e-pass applications. Every day, the data is shared at the zonal level and then to the ward level workers. Through the home quarantine and isolation monitoring system, we will track all travellers,” Jeya Sheela added. According to the civic body, more than 2 lakh e-passes have been issued since May 1, of which 1 lakh applicants were inter-district travellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/corpn-officials-posted-at-city-checkposts-relieved-of-duty/articleshow/77567298.cms||Komal Gautham
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hamalis threaten to go on strike||Hyderabad: The hamali unions have threatened to bring to a complete halt the supply of rice through the public distribution system (PDS) in the state if their demands are not met within a week. Hamali union members said both loading and unloading of rice bags would be stopped at all the Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation warehouses after the Ganesh Chaturthi festival on August 22. Over 2.50 crore beneficiaries in the state depend on PDS rice for their daily food. The hamalis are demanding a hike in their daily wages and their services to be brought under grade-IV employees’ category. “Daily wages for hamalis have not been revised despite the wage agreement with the government expiring in December 2019 itself. Despite several reminders and representations made to the government, officials have not convened even a meeting to know what the hamalis are demanding,” Telangana civil supplies hamalis worker union state secretary Paladugu Sudhakar said. The hamalis are demanding that their wages be increased from Rs 16 per quintal to Rs 24 per quintal. “We have been working without any safety equipment against coronavirus. While government has announced additional financial packages for doctors and sanitation staff, it has left us out as if we are not frontline warriors,” said S Krishna, a hamali. TSCSC chairman Mareddy Srinivas Reddy said the government is positively looking into their issues and that their demands would be attended to within a week. TSCSC commissioner Satyanarayana Reddy is on leave and talks with the hamali unions are expected to be held on his return next week, Srinivas Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hamalis-threaten-to-go-on-strike/articleshow/77567898.cms||Roushan Ali
August 16, 2020||Thane||Mumbai: RTO agent dies as SUV hits a tree after birthday party||MUMBAI: A 30-year-old man, who had gone with friends to celebrate his cousin’s birthday at a Bhiwandi eatery, died in a road accident, while others suffered minor injuries at Sion on Eastern Express Highway early on Saturday. Waseem Akhtar Shaikh, an RTO agent, died within few hours of admission following multiple head injuries, his cousin Javed Gani and three others suffered minor injuries. Shaikh, a resident of Lokhandwala in Andheri, is survived by wife and two children. Chunabhatti police said Gani promised a dinner party for friends on his 40th birthday. Shaikh, Gani and three others joined them at Lokhandwala. “A witnesses said late on Friday Shaikh drove them in his Toyota Fortuner and went to Bhiwandi Dhaba, where they had dinner and left around 2.30am. Shaikh was driving. It was around 3.30am when Shaikh crossed Priyadarshini Park and was nearing Everard Nagar to take the BKC connecting road, when he lost control of the vehicle,” said senior inspector Deepak Pagare. Police said the car was speeding when it rammed into a Gulmohar tree. The safety air bags protected him from the front, but the car, after hitting the tree, turned round twice and again dashed it from the driver’s side, which caused injuries to Shaikh. Gani was seated next to him and three friends behind. Gani, his friends and the public took Shaikh to Sion hospital, but he died within few hours of admission. Police have booked Shaikh for rash driving and negligence, and are likely to seek an expert’s opinion on whether there was a mechanical fault with the seven-seater SUV. Police suspect Shaikh dozed off while driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/rto-agent-dies-as-suv-hits-a-tree-after-birthday-party/articleshow/77569182.cms||Ahmed Ali
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: RTO agent dies as SUV hits a tree after birthday party||MUMBAI: A 30-year-old man, who had gone with friends to celebrate his cousin’s birthday at a Bhiwandi eatery, died in a road accident, while others suffered minor injuries at Sion on Eastern Express Highway early on Saturday. Waseem Akhtar Shaikh, an RTO agent, died within few hours of admission following multiple head injuries, his cousin Javed Gani and three others suffered minor injuries. Shaikh, a resident of Lokhandwala in Andheri, is survived by wife and two children. Chunabhatti police said Gani promised a dinner party for friends on his 40th birthday. Shaikh, Gani and three others joined them at Lokhandwala. “A witnesses said late on Friday Shaikh drove them in his Toyota Fortuner and went to Bhiwandi Dhaba, where they had dinner and left around 2.30am. Shaikh was driving. It was around 3.30am when Shaikh crossed Priyadarshini Park and was nearing Everard Nagar to take the BKC connecting road, when he lost control of the vehicle,” said senior inspector Deepak Pagare. Police said the car was speeding when it rammed into a Gulmohar tree. The safety air bags protected him from the front, but the car, after hitting the tree, turned round twice and again dashed it from the driver’s side, which caused injuries to Shaikh. Gani was seated next to him and three friends behind. Gani, his friends and the public took Shaikh to Sion hospital, but he died within few hours of admission. Police have booked Shaikh for rash driving and negligence, and are likely to seek an expert’s opinion on whether there was a mechanical fault with the seven-seater SUV. Police suspect Shaikh dozed off while driving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rto-agent-dies-as-suv-hits-a-tree-after-birthday-party/articleshow/77567387.cms||Ahmed Ali
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt weakening democracy’s pillars: Uttam Kumar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday said the independent functioning of legislature, executive, judiciary has become a matter of concern under Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) governments at the Centre and the state respectively. After unfurling the national flag at Gandhi Bhavan, Telangana Congress president said the previous Congress government made a conscious effort to strengthen independent functioning of the pillars of the democracy. “But after 2014, the central and the state governments are trying to weaken them. The people are having doubts over the independent functioning of legislature, executive and judiciary presently,” Uttam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-weakening-democracys-pillars-uttam/articleshow/77567900.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Education a far cry for kids in resettlement colonies in Chennai||CHENNAI: Covid-19 has taken education further away from children of economically backward families living in resettlement colonies in the city. Most children living in the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenements in Perumbakkam are struggling to get access to the internet. “We are unable to afford it, especially now that both my husband and I have no job,” said T Kayalvizhi, a domestic worker and resident of the tenements. She said since the school year began earlier this month, her son has not been able to attend a single online class. “The classes go on for six hours a day and all learning material is online. We do not have the means to access it,” she said. A few parents have also removed their children from private schools they were attending due to a sudden hike in fees. “I tried requesting them for concessions or at least to give my daughter a scholarship since she’s a top student. But they denied it saying they themselves are struggling to pay teachers. I am looking for other schools that charge nominal fees,” said T Raghavendran, another resident. He said the decision to pull his daughter out of school has affected her deeply. “She is very upset, cries a lot and is worried that she will not be able to study further. While I won’t let that happen, we are also worried about her future, given the current scenario,” he said. Raghavendran said many children, who are going through similar situations, are affected more. “My daughter has stopped eating properly and is constantly worried. She feels that she will not be able to study further or achieve her dreams,” said P Rukmini, whose daughter studies at the government high school at Perumbakkam. Here, even the teachers have been having a hard time taking online classes. “A majority of the students have no means to get online. So we are calling them over the phone, sending study material on WhatsApp. We can’t even visit the tenements as it’s a containment zone,” said a teacher from the school. The tenements have more than 25,000 children and only two government schools — one for primary and one high school. The others have enrolled their wards in private schools and many parents are struggling to afford it since the pandemic left them unemployed. They urged that more government schools be set up in the locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/education-a-far-cry-for-kids-in-resettlement-colonies/articleshow/77567331.cms||Aditi R
August 16, 2020||Nagpur||Eyebrows raised as PCCF revokes RFO’s suspension||NAGPUR: In an unusual case, the principal chief conservator of forests (HoFF) has revoked the suspension of a range forest officer (RFO) Sachin Shinde from Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR). Shinde was suspended in the Rs29 lakh scam. PCCF N Rambabu’s decision has perplexed many senior forest officials who asked whether such a suspension issued by an IFS officer, who heads the administration, can be revoked? Shinde was suspended on July 16, 2020 by Poonam Pate, deputy director (core) of NNTR, after an inquiry committee report indicted Shinde for various irregularities like non-payment of wages. However, Shinde lodged a complaint with the PCCF office on July 23, and also sought the help of the Forest Rangers’ Association countering his suspension as illegal and demanded revocation. He also condemned a press note issued by Pate highlighting his suspension in the media. As an administrative head, Pate had suspended Shinde RFO under Section 4 of the Maharashtra Civil Services (Discipline & Appeal) Rules, 1979. Senior officials feared revoking such suspensions will set a wrong precedent. Justifying his decision, PCCF Rambabu said, “As the post of deputy director (core) is not notified in the Maharashtra Civil Services Rules, Pate is not competent to suspend the RFO. Under these rules, a conservator of forest (CF), deputy conservator (DyCF) or a deputy director of social forestry has been granted suspension powers.” However, a section of forest officials said that Pate is using powers under the Maharashtra Civil Services Rules as head of the office and is taking administrative and financial decisions related to the establishment and accounts matters by passing bills, sanctioning tenders, leave of staff, including RFO cadre. “Therefore, she is competent to suspend the RFO. Otherwise, all the administrative and financial decisions taken by her as deputy director are illegal and need to be cancelled,” they said. “Even if the suspension order of Shinde is technically wrong, either the suspension order should have been ratified or the field director should have been asked to ratify it. On the contrary, it has not been done. It has been revoked without taking the opinion of Pate’s immediate superior, field director or APCCF (wildlife), Nagpur East,” they said. Officials said the proposal of revocation of suspension of RFO cadre goes to the state government for approval even if it is technically wrong. But in this case, it has not been done. On the contrary, Rambabu says, “The department head of Shinde is conservator of forests & field director. Had the decision been taken by him then I would have had no problem. The suspension order has been revoked and the field director has been asked to take a call,” Rambabu said. Rambabu also said that after the suspension, the RFO’s headquarters have been kept at Sakoli only where Pate herself is based. Besides, she should have not made Shinde’s suspension public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/eyebrows-raised-as-pccf-revokes-rfos-suspension/articleshow/77581054.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sion bridge to go for two lines, will be rebuilt in 30 months||MUMBAI: Sion bridge, which links Dharavi, LBS Road and Eastern Express Highway, will be reconstructed to pave the way for laying of fifth and sixth lines between CSMT-Kurla on Central Railway. The lines exist between LTT-Thane and Diva-Kalyan. The plan is to have these two lines up to CSMT, but in phase I it will be built till Parel. These two lines will help segregate mail/express and suburban traffic, so more suburban services can operate on the fast corridor. CR’s chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said, “The 5th and 6th lines will be laid on the west side of the existing tracks. Now, the space where the tracks are proposed is infringed by the bridge’s pillars. The pillars will have to be shifted so that space can be made available for laying of tracks.” CR will float tenders for the bridge work above the tracks. A senior CR official said, “The tenders will be finalized in three months, after which work will take at least 30 months to complete. The cost of work above the tracks is estimated to be Rs 25 crore.” BMC will undertake work on the approach roads outside railway area, which will cost Rs 25 crore too. The bridge width of 15m will stay the same. The official said, “Right now, the span of the bridge is 27m with one pillar at 13m and another at 14m. The new bridge will have a single span of 52m, opening up enough space for tracks.” CR will also demolish another bridge between Sion-Matunga which has direct access to Dharavi, but that will be done only after the Sion bridge work is over. The official said, “As part of the 5th and 6th lines we have begun work on building a platform on the west. At Kurla, an elevated track is being built for Harbour line. The harbour line tracks at the ground level will be used as 5th and 6th lines after the elevated work is completed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sion-bridge-to-be-rebuilt-cr-will-add-5th-6th-lines/articleshow/77567386.cms||Manthan K Mehta
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Deserted Wellington railway station turns training ground for athletes||CHENNAI: Till March this year, the scenic Wellington station — part of the Nilgiri Mountain Railway — was a popular tourist attraction. It has, over the years, played host to numerous film shoots but with the Covid-19 pandemic bringing train services to a halt, the railway station soon became a pale shadow of itself. A group of 10 state and national level athletes have made the station premises their training floor for the past four months. For six hours every day — three each in the morning and evening — they use the station’s length, about 120m, for speed and strength training. The platform comes into play during endurance training sessions and the road leading to the station is used for long-distance runs. A small patch of ground near the station is utilized by these athletes to train with spikes. In order to follow social distancing norms, they have split into two groups. Tamil Nadu’s Sreekiran Nandakumar, who won 800m gold at the U-20 Eurasian athletics meet in Kazakhstan last year, feels the station provides a peaceful atmosphere to train. “We do have other roads where one can run, but there will be vehicles and we have to make way for them. Thankfully, we don’t encounter such issues here,” the 18-year-old told TOI. Sreekiran is gearing up for the Indian Grand Prix scheduled to be held on September 12. Apart from Sreekiran, the other prominent athlete in the group is Mujamil Ameer, who won 800m bronze at the senior Nationals last year. Mohamed Azarudeen, who has been the coach and mentor to these athletes, made sure the necessary clearances were in place before the sessions commenced. “We have a few athletes who are employed with the Railways and they ensured all permissions were taken ahead of training at the station,” said Azarudeen, a level-2 coach. Interestingly, a 400m synthetic athletic track was opened at Ooty’s HADP (Hill Area Development Program) Stadium in June. However, with the stadium about 18km from Wellington, the athletes are happy training where they are currently. “The Wellington station is close by for all the athletes. While the facilities at the HADP Stadium are top-notch, commuting becomes an issue,” said Azarudeen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/deserted-wellington-rly-station-turns-training-ground-for-athletes/articleshow/77567347.cms||Prasad RS
August 16, 2020||Goa||24 women, 5 with infants, at Ponda hospital||PONDA: On Day 2 after the Ponda sub-district hospital started operations as a full-fledged Covid facility for ante natal cases, 12 women, including five with newborns, were admitted on Saturday. “Of the18 pregnant women that had been admitted on Friday, six who were found to be asymptomatic have been sent to care centres,” Dr Vikas Kuwelkar, the medical superintendent of the 220-bed hospital, told TOI. Pregnant women with mild symptoms or those who are asymptomatic will not be lodged at the Ponda Covid hospital, Kuwelkar said. On Saturday, 43 new coronavirus cases were recorded in Ponda taluka, taking the number of active cases to 533. From a total number 1,162 cases, 625 persons have recovered, while four have died. It may be recalled that though the casualty wing of the Ponda sub-district hospital was shifted to the Dilasa palliative care centre at Farmagudi, health authorities have not shifted the ultrasound machine as it is required at the Covid facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/24-women-5-with-infants-at-ponda-hosp/articleshow/77567908.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
August 16, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: 50-year-old Covid-19 patient alleges overcharging by hospital||NAVI MUMBAI: A 50-year-old poor Covid patient, recently admitted to Dr D Y Patil hospital in Nerul, alleged he was told to pay Rs85,000 for treatment although he was recommended by NMMC under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Health Scheme, which is free for citizens. The hospital claimed the patient did not have the papers. “I was admitted to the hospital by NMMC on July 20. Since I have a saffron ration card, I was told by civic officials that treatment will be free under Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana. But on August 7, when I recovered, the hospital told me to pay Rs85,000. I was shocked and told them that since I came through NMMC I did not have to pay anything. But I have not yet got my discharge,” said the unemployed Nerul resident. He added, “My family cannot afford to pay Rs85,000. Had I known treatment would cost me so much, I would have told NMMC to admit me to its own hospital.” Hospital CEO Dr Rahul Peddawad said on Friday, “I am at not aware of this case but the earlier assured agreement for 200 beds between NMMC and our hospital has not been finalized. If the patient has certain issues, nodal officers must look into it.” NMMC health official Dr D Ghadge said the patient had not completed the online form process for the scheme. “His family also approached us. Will will check the paper formality and submit it to the hospital soon,” Dr Ghadge added. RTI activist Anarjit Chauhan, who also complained to NMMC about the case, told TOI: “It is ridiculous for the hospital to charge a poor patient Rs85,000 while keeping him in the ward for many days. This is against charter rights, under Article 21 of the Constitution (right to life and personal liberty). NMMC must take stern action and inquire why the patient was denied the scheme for nearly a week.” He added, “This is a serious issue, as other poor patients may also be suffering for not being competent to complete the paperwork.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/50-yr-old-covid-patient-alleges-overcharging-by-hosp/articleshow/77567385.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Nagpur||‘Nagpur Pattern’ to rid district of Covid, says Raut||Nagpur: District guardian minister Nitin Raut announced that a Nagpur Pattern will be developed to free the district from the novel coronavirus. He said this during the Independence Day programme here on Saturday. He did not elaborate on the plan.“The entire world is fighting against Covid-19. The state government’s top priority is health. Therefore, government is concentrating hard on freeing the entire state from novel coronavirus,” he said.Raut added that the government is taking all efforts to boost economic and education sectors. “All government agencies, hospitals are working tirelessly in pandemic. A plan has been prepared to improve health infrastructure in the district. The plan to develop jumbo Covid Hospital on the lines of those in Mumbai and Pune is moving ahead,” he said.The guardian minister felicitated 17 plasma donors as Covid Warriors on the eve of Independence Day. “Government had sanctioned funds of Rs58 crore for the pandemic. I will ensure there would be no shortage of funds in the future too. All parties have come together and are working for freeing the district from pandemic. People should take care of their health and get tests done, and treatment too if they develop any symptoms,” he said.Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, ZP president Rashmi Barve, CP Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay, Special IG KM Mallikarjun Prasanna, NIT chairman Sheetal Teli-Ugale, collector Ravindra Thakre, CEO of ZP Yogesh Khumbajkar, Rural SP Rakesh Ola, additional municipal commissioner Jalaj Sharma, additional collector Shrikant Phadke, RDC Ravindra Khajanchi and other officials, social activists were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-pattern-to-rid-district-of-covid-says-raut/articleshow/77566190.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Nine minors get bail in Palghar lynching case||MUMBAI: Nine of 11 juveniles, all tribals, accused in the lynching of two seers and their driver in Kasa taluka of Palghar district on April 16, were granted bail by the juvenile justice board (JJB), Bhiwandi, on Friday, after police failed to file the final report. This came over a week after 10 accused, against whom a charge-sheet was not filed within the stipulated 90 days, were granted default bail by Dahanu sessions court. The accused, released on personal surety of Rs30,000 each, are likely to walk out of prison next week. State crime investigation department (CID), which took over investigations from Kasa police, had arrested 11 persons aged 12-17. Nine of them were arrested two days after the crime, while two were nabbed few weeks later. They were sent to Bhiwandi children’s remand home. CID, which had strong evidence against two minors, filed a final report against them with JJB on August 7. They were held guilty of murder, attempt to murder, rioting, public mischief (for circulating rumours) and other charges. Guardians of the nine, through their lawyer, sought bail as police had not found evidence against them. JJB presiding officer on Friday granted them bail as CID did not file the final report against the nine within the stipulated 90 days. Police were unable to gather evidence against the minors in the lynching and subsequent mob violence. Seers Chikne Maharaj Kalpvirkshagiri (70), Sushilgiri Maharaj (35) and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30), heading to Surat for a funeral, were lynched by a mob in Gadchinchale village on April 16. Police had arrested 154 adults, 226 witnesses were examined and 808 suspects were detained. Three charge-sheets in three FIRs registered with Kasa police were filed in Dahanu court on July 15 and August 6. Twenty-eight accused had applied for default bail on as the charge-sheet was not filed in time. The court granted them default bail but for 18 a charge-sheet was filed later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/9-minors-get-bail-in-palghar-lynching-case/articleshow/77567384.cms||Sandhya Nair
August 16, 2020||Goa||Pools in Calangute, Candolim under watch in dengue war||CALANGUTE: The Covid-19 induced lockdown that began in March and the continued near-total shutdown of tourism businesses in the months that followed had an unexpected side effect in the Calangute-Candolim tourism belt fear of a dengue outbreak due to stagnant water in swimming pools, water tanks and low-lying areas in shuttered properties, especially when the monsoon arrived in June. That fear led to timely preventive measures being taken by the Candolim primary health centre (PHC) along with the Calangute panchayat. “There have been no dengue cases. While there were a few malaria cases, none has been reported over the past few weeks,” Dr Roshan Nazareth, medical officer of Candolim PHC, said. The PHC decided to act on the situation in May itself. “Hotels were shut, so we knew that water would stagnate in swimming pools and tanks. With the help of the local panchayat, we introduced fish in the pools that feed on mosquito larvae,” Nazareth said. Some swimming pool and tanks were emptied. “At other places, we sprayed larvicide, which prevents mosquitoes from breeding, but that was mostly at construction sites. We even instructed hotel owners to put more chlorine in their pools, which is also effective against mosquito breeding,” Nazareth said. There are around 200 swimming pools in Calangute and around half of that in Candolim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pools-in-calangute-candolim-under-watch-in-dengue-war/articleshow/77567909.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||20% tickets booked for Konkan trains||Mumbai: Only 20% tickets have been booked for trains that have been organized to and from Konkan to cater to Ganesh festival rush. Till 6pm on Saturday, only 1,048 seats were booked, as against the capacity of 5,356 in four trains that were scheduled today. A Central Railway (CR) official said, “The response has been extremely poor, with seats lying vacant in 2A, 3A and even sleeper class. We hope that demand picks up gradually as today was the first day of booking of trains.” A total of 182 services have been planned across CR and Western Railway from various stations of Mumbai and Konkan till September 5. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/20-tickets-booked-for-konkan-trains/articleshow/77567383.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Rising Covid cases: Congress seeks Vishwajit Rane’s ouster||PANAJI: Holding health minister Vishwajit Rane accountable for the increase in Covid-19 cases in Goa, Congress demanded that Rane should be dropped from the cabinet. Rane, said state Congress president Girish Chodankar, not only failed to take measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus but also oversaw the “fraudulent cover-up” of the extent of the pandemic in the state. Chodankar also said that due to lack of oversight, around 30,000 passengers were able to enter Goa without being tested. “Rane should be sacked immediately and a criminal case should be filed against him for wilful exposure of Goans to the coronavirus and fraudulent cover-up of the state of the pandemic in Goa,” said Chodankar. “The BJP should admit having lied that Goa was Covid-free and apologise for the spike in cases despite claiming and parading on all media that Goa is Covid-free.” Chodankar said that Rane has been “lying consistently since March” about the health department’s preparedness to control the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rising-covid-cases-cong-seeks-ranes-ouster/articleshow/77567913.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||No preliminary investigation report yet for Calicut AI Express crash||Mumbai: A week has passed following the Air India Express Calicut crash that killed 18 people. Since then, over a dozen flights have been landing daily in Calicut, flying in about 2,000 passengers. There has been no official word yet on initial findings, at least for the benefit of the pilots operating into these table top runways or for the sake of families of the deceased. Going by a statement issued by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) on Thursday, the stakeholders will have to wait till January to learn the lessons from the crash. “Let’s wait for the accident report the much heard refrain is a bureaucratic approach to accident prevention,” said wing commander (Wg Cdr), K Dinesh, a former Indian Air Force (IAF) officer. Wg Cdr Dinesh, an aviation safety consultant, has been part of IAF “Go Team” , that rushes to the site to make a first assessment of what went wrong. “Unlike accidents that occur in remote areas or over the sea, those that take place at airports leave several clues. The Go Team can make an assessment, within a day or two, of what most likely went wrong based on evidence collected from the scene, wreckage, speaking to air traffic control, first responders etc. The assessment is usually 99% correct,” he said. “The team submits the assessment to the chief of air staff and immediate advisories are issued to avert any further accident. The findings are also made public, to assuage fears. Subsequently, a detailed Court of Inquiry looks into the matter and submits a final report within two months,” he added. “Waiting longer than required to learn lessons from a crash is akin to pushing aviation safety out of the window. It’s important to identify, without much delay, what happened and convey it to the relevant stakeholders. It is the most important aspect in the chain of accident prevention,” he said. Keeping the public informed in the initial days following the crash is also an aspect followed in civil aviation accidents. US National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) note about its investigation process says: “At least once daily during the on-scene phase of an investigation, one of the five members of the safety board itself, who accompanies the Go-Team, briefs the media on the latest factual information developed by the team…There is no speculation over cause.” Another important step is releasing a preliminary report to learn the initial lessons following a crash. Under International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Annex 13 norms, a preliminary report should preferably be released in a month’s time, it may or may not be made public. Pakistan made public its preliminary investigation report about four weeks after the May 22 PIA crash. But the AAIB order issued on August 13 says nothing about submission of a preliminary investigation report for Calicut crash. Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert, said that the Indian Procedure Manual of Accident investigation, 2012 (6.1.1) says that a preliminary investigation report should be submitted preferably within ten days of the accident. “It shall contain the requisite information including safety hazard, either in human factor, aircraft factor or other relevant factor that is prima facie evident during the early stage of investigation such as lack of piloting proficiency, if any… to enable framing and implementation of immediate corrective safety measures,” he quoted. Wg Cdr Dinesh says: “The fact that Indian authorities want us to wait until the final report publication indicates that we do not have the practice of initial assessment by a Go Team. Safety is yet to be understood by us in its full form yet,” he said. Under ICAO norms, an accident investigation should not be carried out to apportion blame. It should be carried out only to know the causes of the accident so as to prevent future occurrences. “Not releasing a preliminary report. Waiting for months together for the final report to learn the lessons goes against the very purpose of carrying out an investigation,” says Wg Cdr Dinesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-preliminary-investigation-report-yet-for-calicut-ai-express-crash/articleshow/77567926.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Nagpur||Woman dies of Covid, 20 test positive||Wardha: A 63-year-old woman from Hinganghat died due to coronavirus while undergoing treatment on Monday. Meanwhile, 20 more persons tested positive and 34 have been discharged after recovering. Among the positive, 13 are men 13, while 7 are women, They are from Wardha (10), Hinganghat (5), Arvi (2) Ashti (1), Deoli (1) and Pulgaon (1). According to information from the district collector’s office, after 34 got discharged, the total count of active positive is 92 while 320 have been discharged after recovering. Total 423 persons have been infected by coronavirus in district of which 11 died while undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-dies-of-covid-20-test-positive/articleshow/77594258.cms||Balwant Dhage
August 16, 2020||Nagpur||16 Covid positive cases in Chanda||Chandrapur: With the detection of 16 new cases, the Covid 19 total in Chandrapur climbed up to 1121 on Monday. In all, 61 patients were discharged raising the tally of cured patients up to 749. This has left 361 active patients under treatment. There was no death reported in district and the toll still stands at 9. Newfound patients on Saturday include eight from Chandrapur city, three from Rajura tehsil, three from Bhadrawati teshil and one each from Mul and Bhejgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/16-covid-positive-cases-in-chanda/articleshow/77597206.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||MLC kin’s car runs over twoat Banjara Hills||Hyderabad: Two died and three were injured in an accident at Banjara Hills Road No 92 on Friday night. The car belonged to the daughter-in-law of an MLC from AP. Banjara Hills police said that contract worker K Sudhakar and Nagesh, a watchman, died on the spot. The car was driven by the MLC’s driver Venkaehwarlu. One of the politico’s employees was in the car at the time. The incident took place at 11.30 pm when five workers of the electricity department were performing maintenance work. The driver allegedly drove in a rash and negligent manner and hit the workers before hitting Nagesh, who was standing on the road. “The persons seated in the car threatened us. They damaged their car’s number plate before they fled away by abandoning the car,” the complainant Ravindra Mohan, additional assistant engineer said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mlc-kins-car-runs-over-twoat-banjara-hills/articleshow/77567623.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Village-level screening centres enrol community in Covid fight||BENGALURU: In an effort to involve the village community in the pandemic battle, the government launched Gram Arogya Seva Kendras (GASK) to screen people for Covid-19. The initiative, which began from a hamlet in Chikkaballapura’s Gauribidanur taluk, has now grown in size, covering districts like Hassan and Belagavi among others. The screening centres, simply put, are for the people and by the people. Anganwadis or other government structures have been turned into GASKs, which are run by local ASHA and anganwadi workers with the assistance of villagers, who have contributed towards the purchase of basic health equipment like the infrared thermometer, pulse oximeter, digital blood pressure meter and a glucometer. Each of these kits is valued at Rs 6,500 to Rs 10,000. The concept was introduced in Gauribidanur’s Vidurashwatha village, popularly known as the Jallianwala Bagh of the south as 32 people were massacred by British forces in 1938, in early April. The number of GASKs has grown to 120 in the past few months. As the fear of Covid-19 gripped the entire region, a few officials conceptualised involvement of the community in tackling the health hazard effectively. Special officer deputed to the taluk, Varaprasad Reddy, and Chikkaballapura ZP CEO Fauzia Tarannum decided to experiment with the concept by setting up sub-centres or health screening centres at the village level. “We decided to create these sub-centres, which helped us in pandemic management. The screening was effective and tracking of people was easy. We could also shift the infected to the designated centres quickly with a better turnaround time,” explained Tarannum. The district administration used the initiative to reach out to residents in villages with no access to primary healthcare centres (PHCs). Chikkaballapura has 16 PHCs in its jurisdiction. HOW THEY WORKAfter door-to-door surveys are conducted, GASK staff screen the vulnerable section of society —those aged above 60 and below 10 years and people with co-morbidities — on a daily basis. “The staff check their saturation levels, BP and sugar levels. If the parameters are above or below the normal range, the GASK refers the person to the nearest PHC for further course of action,” said Tarannum, adding that all staff at the centres have been equipped with PPE kits and trained in screening by the district health officer. Lack of funds a hurdleAll gram panchayats in the state have been asked to replicate the concept, which is proven an effective tool in containing virus spread in the hinterlands. However, officials say there’s a lack of funding from the state to sustain the initiative during and after Covid-19. “For the current fiscal, we don’t have a separate allocation for GASKs to help the 6,021 GPs. As a result, we have written to all district CEOs to generate internal revenue and look for donors to procure health equipment kits for GASKs,” said RDPR principal secretary LK Atheeq. Also, With normalcy likely to be restored in the coming months, the government may not be able to divert ASHA and anganwadi workers for GASK duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/village-level-screening-centres-enrol-community-in-covid-fight/articleshow/77566965.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
August 16, 2020||Mysuru||10 days after landslide, body of third victim recovered in Kodagu||MADIKERI: Members of the national and state disaster response forces have been toiling for ten days when five people were buried alive in Brahmagiri Hills in Kodagu, and on Saturday, the body of 21-year-old Ravikiran, one of the victims of the landslide, was recovered. Ravikiran had been staying at Talacauvery temple chief priest Narayanachar’s home when disaster struck. As on Saturday, three of the five victims of the landslide have been unearthed, while the fate of two other victims remains unknown. In the meanwhile, Kodagu district in-charge minister V Somanna on Saturday participated in various rituals at the Talacauvery temple. The minister presented a cheque of Rs 2.5 lakh each to the two daughters of the late priest Narayanachar in Bhagamandala. Meanwhile, Swamy Anandathirtha’s sister Susheelamma Kedilaya was given a cheque of Rs 5 lakh. Somanna was accompanied by Kodagu deputy commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy, superintendent of police Kshama Mishra, MLA KG Bopaiah, MLC Sunil Subramani and MP Pratap Simha. “The district administration will take the decision on continuing with the rescue operation,” said Somanna, adding that the state government would allow farmers to estimate the losses they had incurred owing to the flood. “The ryots will have use a dedicated application to claim compensation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/10-days-after-landslide-body-of-third-victim-recovered-in-kodagu/articleshow/77567772.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad rains: Officials on high alert, 2 choppers deployed||HYDERABAD: With several rivulets and streams flowing to the brim due to incessant rains, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has put officials on high alert. The CM spoke to the chief secretary, director general of police and ministers and asked them to monitor the situation round-the-clock. With some districts receiving heavy rains and facing floods, he instructed the officials to set up two control rooms in Hyderabad. Following CM’s instructions, two helicopters have been kept ready. They will be utilised to rescue those stranded in floods. Along with the helicopter owned by the state, one chopper from the military is also kept for use. According to the CMO, ministers have been told to camp in their respective districts and coordinate with district collectors and superintendents of police on the flood situation.Following the instructions of CM, chief secretary Somesh Kumar held a teleconference with the district collectors and took stock of the arrangements put in place for handling the situation arising out of incessant rains. The municipal administration department asked all municipal commissioners to be at their headquarters and set up 24x7 control rooms. Director of municipal administration N Satyanarayana asked commissioners to deploy emergency response teams with required equipment, ensure sanitation and stocks of disinfectants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-on-high-alert-2-choppers-deployed/articleshow/77567561.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Now, HAM operators assist teams on ground with contact tracing||BENGALURU: Amateur radio operators or HAMs have once again been roped in to fight Covid-19. While previously they helped monitor home-quarantine violations, this time they’ve been tasked with assisting the government in facilitating contact tracing via real-time radio communication. With the government dividing Bengaluru into 8 zones to handle cases, Bommanahalli appears to have become the focal point for the HAM operators, who have set up ward-level control rooms in their homes to coordinate with the zonal team. Eighty to 100 HAM operators are presently helping booth-level volunteers and ward committees carry out door-to-door surveys, assist patients and trace contacts of those testing positive for the virus. “The service of HAM operators is crucial as they are keeping the volunteer force and ground staff informed through real-time radio messaging. It has drastically cut down the turnaround time for contact tracing and patient assistance as none of the smaller booth-level teams have to reach the zonal control room to receive their next assignment,” explained IAS officer P Manivannan, who’s the zonal in-charge. As per the duty roster of HAM operators, each ward-level control room has to conduct roll calls at 8am, 2pm and 8pm to assess people on ground. “We have installed our wireless systems in bureaucrats’ cars to get real-time feed of Covid operations,” said S Satyapal, director, Indian Institute of HAMs. The main reason why the government has roped in HAM operators is that it doesn’t have a licence for the specific purpose. The licensing system for radio frequencies is rigid — it may take three to four months, involves expenditure worth lakhs and has to be authorised by the Union ministry of telecommunication — and Karnataka can’t afford to wait for so long. “As a result, we have decided to rent out equipment from HAM operators and utilise their services,” said Manivannan. While HAM operators and Manivannan believe radio communication is helpful in real-time messaging, the government appears to be reluctant to use the same across the city. “With over 300 to 400 active HAM operators across the city, we are ready to pitch in. However, there has been no request from the government for our services in other zones,” said Satyapal. Other zonal heads and IAS officers are contemplating whether there is a need for HAM operators’ services or not. “With mobile services quite efficient in the city, there is no lag in our daily operations. It is to be seen whether the service will prove effective if introduced in our zone as well,” said IAS officer Manoj Kumar Meena, who is in-charge of east zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/now-ham-operators-assist-teams-on-ground-with-contact-tracing/articleshow/77566973.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||IAF Leads 4-hr Op To Rescue Stranded Farmers||Hyderabad: A massive rescue operation was launched by the Indian Air Force at Kundanpally village in Telangana’s Jayashankar Bhupalpally district, on Saturday, after 10 farmers were left stranded in the floodwaters. It took two IAF helicopters, pressed into action on orders from minister K T Rama Rao, close to four hours to bring the farmers to safety. The incident took place when the farmers went to retrieve the motors from their agricultural wells around 10am. Before they realised, the stream connecting their farmland started overflowing due to heavy rains forcing them to climb onto a tree to take shelter. From there, the farmers made multiple calls to the police and relatives. Pushed into action, villagers alerted the local MLA Gandra Venkata Ramana Reddy and panchayat raj minister, Errabelli Dayakar Rao, who in turn got in touch with KT Rama Rao. On KTR’s orders, chief secretary Somesh Kumar coordinated the rescue. Two IAF helicopters arrived around 2pm and later dropped them at an agriculture field nearby. In another incident near Baswapur bridge in Siddipet’s Koheda mandal, a lorry driver, M Shankar, went missing after his vehicle was washed away by the flood water early on Saturday morning. While the IAF was called in here too, the chopper could not take off from Hakimpet on time owing to bad weather. When the team finally arrived at the site 11.45am, the driver was ‘missing’, said local authorities. The mishap occured when Shanker (45) and a cleaner were heading from Siddipet to Husnabad. S Mahender, ACP Husnabad, said, “The driver was travelling in a sand lorry when a stream nearby was in spate at 5.30am. Caught in it, he held onto a tree waving to villagers to rescue him.” As news reached finance minister Harish Rao, he ordered the police commissioner and NDRF to launch a rescue operation to save the man. “But in the meantime, the man tried to crossover the floodwaters and villagers lost sight of him,” the ACP added. In a third incident in Karimnagar, a woman police officer led a team to rescue a biker stranded on a flyover in Huzurabad police stations limits, late on Friday. Mahender, who works in a wine shop, was stuck on a causeway while returning home after his stock arrived late. Stranded with water from a stream gushing, Mahender was holding on to his bike and a pillar for support for nearly an hour. Alerted about the incident, inspector Madhavi led a six-member team that reached the spot around an hour later. “The team members used a stick to check the depth of the floodwaters. Each member using a rope to lead one another on. When we reached near Mahender, we threw the rope at him and he was rescued,” confirmed one police official involved in the operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/iaf-leads-4-hr-op-to-rescue-stranded-farmers/articleshow/77567512.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Nallabelli mandal in Warangal receives highest rainfall in T||Heavy rainfall lashed Warangal on Saturday with Nallabelli mandal recording over 27cm rain, the highest in the state. This is also the highest rainfall recorded in the district in ten years. Several low lying areas were inundated with flood waters gushing into houses. District authorities confirmed that hundreds had been evacuated and shifted to relief centres in Warangal city and Narsampet. The municial administration has opened helpline numbers for rain-related grievances. Elsewhere, Karimnagar’s Huzurabad and Vekatpuram in Bhupalpally recorded 19 cm of rainfall each. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nallabelli-mandal-in-warangal-receives-highest-rainfall-in-t/articleshow/77567589.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Ganja worth Rs 2cr seized on its way to Maharashtra||Hyderabad: In a major drug bust, a vehicle was caught with cannabis or ganja worth over Rs 2 crore by the directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI), Hyderabad zonal unit in the city outskrits on Friday. A team of official intercepted the goods carriage vehicle, which was carrying empty plastic crates. The official grew suspicious and further examined the vehicle. According to DRI officials, the ganja was kept concealed in the cargo area behind the empty plastic crates in several bags. Preliminary investigation indicated that the vehicle was carrying ganja from Visakhapatnam Agency area and was destined for Maharashtra via Hyderabad. Acting on specific information, the officers nabbed the driver and seized 1,050 kg ganja worth Rs 2.62 crore from his possession. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ganja-worth-rs-2cr-seized-on-its-way-to-maharashtra/articleshow/77567592.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Inter board does U-turn, says no classes till Aug 31||Hyderabad: Despite the state government announcing that classes for intermediate second year students will start from August 17, classes — digital or physical — will not start at least till August 31. Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) on Friday issued proceedings to commence classes from August 17 and withdrew the order within a few hours. In fact, BIE commissioner Syed Omer Jaleel, who had issued proceedings with regards to online classes on Friday, was forced to withdraw them as per instructions of higher officials as educational institutions cannot resume academic year till August 31 as per the central government instructions issued in Unlock 3.0 guidelines. “The orders issued in the commissioner’s proceedings in the context with attendance of all staff to their respective institutions with effect from August 17 onwards is hereby withdrawn,” another proceeding from the commissioner’s office said, adding that instructions on the functioning of government and private aided junior colleges and monitoring of online classes would be issued at a later stage. In the proceedings issued on Friday, which was later withdrawn, the commissioner had asked all junior lecturers to make efforts for admissions of students into their colleges. They were also asked to create WhatsApp groups of students for hand-holding and reach out to students who were not having television or smartphone connectivity. Principals and junior lecturers were further instructed to monitor online classes to be telecast on Doordarshan (DD) Yadagiri, T-SAT, and YouTube and ensure all students of second year attend online classes. A BIE official said they were ready with the required material to start digital classes and were waiting for government’s nod to begin classes. Principals working in government junior colleges, meanwhile, said that instead of issuing proceedings a day or two before classes were scheduled to begin, time should be given to sanitise colleges and for staff to make arrangements to reach their workplaces. Students and parents said the board should give clarity as they were expecting classes to start from Monday. “ If classes are not going to start any time soon, the board should inform parents and students,” M Srinivas, a parent, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-board-does-u-turn-says-no-classes-till-aug-31/articleshow/77567614.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||KCR honours poet Ramanujam with Dasaradhi award||Hyderabad: Renowned poet Tirunagari Ramanujam was presented the Dasaradhi Award for 2020 by CM K Chandrasekhar Rao at Pragati Bhavan on Saturday.  CM felicitated Ramanujam with a memento, shawl and a cash prize of Rs 1,01,116. He said Ramanujam deserves the Dasaradhi award. He said ‘Bala Veera Sathakam’, ‘Aksharadhara’ and ‘Tirunagareeyam’ written by Ramanujam were popular. The CM appreciated the poet for his command in Telugu, Sanskrit and modern literature as well. KCR hoped Ramanujam would continue to contribute more to enrich Telugu literary world. Ramanujam recited a poem he wrote praising CM as the modern day ‘maha Vishnu’. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-honours-poet-ramanujam-with-dasaradhi-award/articleshow/77567639.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials to inspect buildings and terrains across Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: In view of the incessant showers, which are likely to continue over the next few days, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) has now pressed into action services of town planning department officials. The officials have been instructed to check dilapidated buildings across the city and inspect sloping terrains, especially in Jubilee Hills and Banjara Hills. Those residing in dilapidated structures or in huts near sloping terrains were cautioned to either repair the premises or vacate. The instructions were given following a wall collapse in Malakpet circle. No casualties were reported. “Instructions to identify dilapidated buildings were given ahead of monsoon. On Saturday, after the minor incident occurred wherein a chunk of an old wall collapsed, the circular with additional guidelines was issued,” a GHMC official said. As per the civic body’s records, 668 buildings are structurally unfit of whom 453 were identified in the previous year. The remaining buildings were identified as part of this year’s monsoon action plan. “All buildings need not be demolished, some of them can be renovated. We have already demolished 71 buildings in parts of city,” said a GHMC official. Meanwhile, GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar instructed officials to inspect cellars of buildings. Officials were instructed to inspect safety measures taken up around cellars such as soil strengthening and construction of retaining walls. “Officials have bben instructed to act immediately on complaints or messages received from India Meteorological Department (IMD) and GHMC control room, and be ready in case of emergency,” the commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-to-inspect-buildings-and-terrains-across-city/articleshow/77567580.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Waterlogging and power outages in Hyderabad pockets||HYDERABAD: Non-stop showers across the city on Saturday resulted in water logging and power cuts in several areas. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), the Begumpet observatory had recorded 22.6 mm of rainfall till 8.30 pm. The widespread rainfall is expected to continue over the next few days due to the influence of multiple weather systems persisting over the state and its neighbours. “The city will receive light to moderate rain and thunder showers for the next two days,” said IMD Hyderabad on-duty officer, GNRS Srinivas. According to the Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS) figures up to 7 pm, Charminar received the highest rainfall of 44.8 mm followed by Asifnagar (43.3 mm), and Bahadurpura (39.8 mm). Meanwhile, water levels in the Hussainsagar went above the full-tank-level (FTL) capacity of 513.4 metres with Saturday seeing an FTL of 513.6 metres. “We are constantly monitoring the situation. Before the water is released downstream, an alert is issued to ensure the safety of citizens in low-lying areas,” said a senior GHMC official. Sec’bad locals wary of flooding: Residents of Secunderabad said that flooding may occur in residential areas as three lakes in the cantonment area — Ramannakunta, Tirumalagiri, and Hasmathpet — abutting these places were filled to the brim. However, SCB health and sanitation officials assured they were monitoring the situation and are taking all measures to ensure safety of residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-logging-and-power-outages-in-city-pockets/articleshow/77567547.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Waiting for polls in J&K after delimitation: PM||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi on Saturday hoped for an early end to the delimitation exercise in J&K so that it could pave the way for elections that will result in the participation of elected MLAs and a chief minister in the UTs’ development. Modi described the year following the nullification of Article 370 as regards J&K as a “major milestone in the new development journey”. He said, “The delimitation exercise is going on in J&K under the leadership of a retired chief justice of Supreme Court. We want early completion of the delimitation exercise so that there are polls... there should be J&K MLAs, its own cabinet, its CM so that it can march towards development with a new vigour.” The PM said basic rights were provided to women and Dalits in J&K over the past one year and a life of dignity ensured for refugees. He added that it was a matter of pride that the grassroot representatives — panch and sarpanch — were actively pursuing development in the UT with sensitivity. On Ladakh, Modi said a central university, research centres as well as hotel and management courses were coming up. He said Ladakh, like Sikkim that has emerged as an ‘organic’ state in the northeast, could create its own niche as a carbon-neutral unit. Meanwhile, TOI has learnt that the delimitation panel with former SC judge Ranjana Prakash Desai as chairperson and election commissioner Sushil Chandra and state election commissioner of the state concerned as ex-officio members, has held several meetings since April 29. Besides J&K, the panel has been set up to carry out delimitation exercise in four northeastern states — Asaam, Nagaland, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh. The assemblies of the states have already nominated the associate members who will aid the delimitation commission. The panel, a source told TOI, is studying the census data submitted by the Registrar General of India to work out a broad map of the new constituencies, keeping in mind not only the Delimitation Act but also the J&K Reorganisation Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/waiting-for-polls-in-jk-after-delimitation-pm/articleshow/77568782.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Vijai Sardesai launches Covid counselling and support facility||MARGAO: Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai, in association with Dessai Medical Research Centre, launched a Covid-19 counselling and support service facility on Saturday, with a collaborated helpline for corona positive patients to provide proper guidance and care to fight the virus. A dedicated ambulance was also commissioned on the occasion. Both the initiatives have been sponsored by Sardesai’s ‘We for Fatorda’ charity foundation. Stating that a robust system of home isolation was crucial for better management of Covid situation in the state, Sardesai said that economically weaker sections opting for home quarantine in the constituency would be provided with pulse oximeters, oxygen concentrators and the ambulance equipped with a nurse and oxygen facility would help patients reach the Covid hospital in case of emergency. “We For Fatorda’s helpline no. 8888411111 will coordinate all necessary help with the Dessai Medical Research Centre,” he added. Sardesai also said that he has already written to health minister Vishwajit Rane with a request to declare Margao Ravindra Bhavan as a Covid care centre dedicated for Fatorda constituency. A bus pull out bay, commissioned by Sardesai near Damodar Ling at Fatorda, also became operational from Saturday. “This road is the only operational modern road in Fatorda and Goa. It is a smart road with dedicated ducts for water, electricity, sewerage and fibre optics. These are symbols of technological enhancements in road construction. It is a forward-looking initiative that symbolises modernity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sardesai-launches-covid-counselling-support-facility/articleshow/77567925.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Jaganmohan Reddy vows to continue fight for special category status||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Saturday reiterated the demand for special category status for Andhra Pradesh. Incidentally, this is the first time in many months that the chief minister has spoken about the SCS, one of the main poll planks of all political parties in the 2019 state assembly and Lok Sabha elections. Jagan, who hoisted the national flag and took guard of honour at India’s 74th Independence Day celebrations in the city, reiterated the SCS demand after a year-long silence in his address, stating that the state government would continue to fight for its constitutional right of SCS till it is granted. The last time he made a reference to SCS was in his speech at the Niti Aayog conference in 2019 in Delhi, where he emphasised the need to roll out the promise made during the state’s bifurcation. It was only the other day that the government, in its affidavit to the high court, mentioned that the implementation of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014 is not over as several provisions of the Act and some promises made on the floor of the Parliament have not been rolled out yet. In continuation to this, the chief minister said his government will continue to raise the demand even though the central government has been indifferent to it. He said the wounds of bifurcation are still afresh and not healed yet. “We are initiating measures to heal those wounds and address the aspirations of the people of all regions,” he said. He further said that untouchability still prevails in the society much against the constitutional spirit, and his government has been trying to give social justice through different forms. “Decentralisation of governance through three capitals, introduction of English medium in government schools, implementation of economic and political reservations for the neglected sections are some of the measures this government has initiated in the last 14 months. These initiatives would establish social justice and create equal opportunities to people and places,” he asserted. Jagan termed the opposition to English medium as a “different form of untouchability” prevailing in the society. He also termed the opposition to decentralisation of power as “denial of equal justice and equal opportunities to the people of three regions” in the state. He expressed concern over the high levels of illiteracy rate in the state among the neglected sections and asserted that his government is working to correct this injustice. He recalled how his government has been working to give life to health and education sectors in the state through Nadu-Nedu. “The schools, colleges and hostels in the education sector and hospitals in the health sector are being given a facelift with better infrastructure,” the chief minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/chief-minister-last-mentioned-scs-at-2019-niti-aayog-conference-in-delhi/articleshow/77566832.cms||Gopi Dara
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: After a long wait, 7 Manila kids touch down looking for ‘new’ life||NEW DELHI: Indira Gandhi International Airport saw a unique set of travellers from the Philippines on Saturday morning. Six children, all requiring liver transplant and one who needed post-transplant assessment, had arrived from Manila in a special flight with their parents, six of whom are also the liver donors. According to Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director and paediatric gastroenterologist at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, where the transplant will be carried out, the children suffer from a rare birth defect known as biliary atresia in which the duct connecting the liver and the intestines is either absent or malformed at birth. “Without a transplant, these children can’t survive for long,” said Dr Sibal. Because the Philippines doesn’t have advanced medical facilities and many Filipinos requiring life-saving surgeries travel to India, several children were scheduled to fly to Delhi for liver transplants around the end of March. However, the Covid-19 restrictions on international flights scuppered their plans. At least four children died awaiting a flight to India, while two others became too sick to travel. “We managed to bring these seven children, aged between one and three-and-half years, with the help of the embassies of the two countries and charitable organisations that offered to pay for their treatment. Actor Sonu Sood helped arrange the flight,” disclosed Dr Sibal. He disclosed that if the children had been forced to wait any longer, they could also have developed fatal complications. A problem for Apollo was in deciding who would accompany them on the flight to the hospital. “We couldn’t send our doctors because they would then be required to be in quarantine for 28 days— 14 days in the Philippines and 14 in India,” said Dr Neerav Goyal, head of Apollo’s liver transplant, hepatobiliary and pancreatic unit. But realising that some Indian students studying medicine in the Philippines were returning home on the special flight, the Apollo team trained them for any exigencies during travel. “Thankfully, no medical emergencies arose,” Dr Goyal said. The seven youngsters are in quarantine at Apollo with their parents, also the liver donors. Once they complete their isolation and test negative for Covid-19, the transplant procedures will begin. Bernie said he was relieved to finally have his only son, Barak, in Delhi after months of waiting. “One other child was supposed to come with us but died a day before our flight to India. I feel lucky, therefore, that my son survived two bouts of pneumonia in May and June,” the 35-year-old church minister said. Rollam Mendoza’s daughter, Emma, underwent liver transplant at Apollo three years ago. The girl needed to visit Delhi urgently after developing some complications. “I have mixed feelings because I am happy about my daughter's treatment, but sad to see so many babies suffering,” Mendoza said. Every year, hundreds of patients visit India for specialised medical treatment and surgeries from countries like the Philippines, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Uzbekistan, Kenya, Nigeria and Malaysia, where advanced medical facilities aren’t readily available. Such patients couldn’t fly in because of the Covid lockdown. Some were also scared to visit, given India’s high incidence of infection, said doctors. Dr Goyal noted, “We have many patients from within the country who require urgent transplant but they are reluctant to come to the hospital for the fear of Covid infection.” He added that people shouldn’t postpone or delay life-saving surgeries because hospitals are taking the utmost precautions to prevent the spread of any infection. “We screen all in-patients and their attendants for the coronavirus. Strict zoning and segregation are done for Covid-positive patients to ensure there is no cross infection with the remaining hospital patients,” claimed Goyal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-a-long-wait-7-manila-kids-touch-down-looking-for-new-life/articleshow/77567930.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 10 fresh deaths, 1,800 new Covid cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana recorded 1,863 new cases and 10 deaths on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases recorded so far in the state crossed the 90,000 mark with 90,259 cases in total, while the total number of deaths stood at 684. A total of 66,196 patients have recovered so far in the state. There are 23,379 active cases currently. The case fatality rate has been on a decline in the state for the last month, coming down from 0.80% on August 1 to 0.75% now within a fortnight. The case fatality rate is calculated as the percentage of people who die from a specific disease among the population affected with the disease. “Case fatality rate is low across the country due to factors like more number of young patients and around 80% of Covid-19 patients being asymptomatic. Telangana’s case fatality rate is among the lowest in the country and is decreasing further, which is a good sign,” said a senior official from the state health department. There are 16,221 patients who are currently in home isolation. Despite plans, testing in the state remained low with 21,239 samples being tested on Saturday even as the state government had planned to cross 40,000 samples per day. Among districts, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) recorded 394 cases, followed by 175 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri which recorded the second highest number of cases. This was followed by Rangareddy with 131 cases, Karimnagar with 104 cases, Warangal Urban with 101 cases, Rajanna Sircilla with 90 cases and Sangareddy with 81 cases. All other districts in the state recorded new cases as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-10-deaths-1800-covid-cases/articleshow/77567457.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||‘Three vaccines in trials, blueprint for distribution ready’, says PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said that a blueprint for production and distribution of the Covid-19 vaccine is ready and mass production of a vaccine will start as soon as the government gets the green signal from scientists for its production and use. He said three vaccine candidates are in different stages of clinical trials in the country, adding that whenever there is talk of Covid-19, the question that comes to everyone’s mind is when will a vaccine be ready. “I want to tell people, the talent of our scientists is like that of ‘rishi munis’ and they are working very hard in laboratories. Three vaccines are in various stages of testing. When scientists give us the green signal, there will be production on a mass scale and all preparations have been made for it,” Modi said. Modi also announced the launch of the National Digital Health Mission, which includes linking all health records of an individual with a health ID. TOI had earlier reported that the prime minister will announce roll out of the scheme on August 15. “Every Indian will get a health ID card. Every time you visit a doctor or a pharmacy, details will be logged into your profile on a na-tional scale. From the doctor’s appointment to the medication advised, all details will be available in your health profile,” Modi said. In the first phase, the scheme has been rolled out in the Union territories of Chandigarh, Ladakh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Puducherry, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Lakshadweep. Modi began his speech with a tribute to those fighting the virus. “We are passing through strange times. Today, I don’t see children here at the Red Fort because of the pandemic we are facing. On behalf of the entire nation, I want to thank all corona warriors. All those healthcare workers, doctors and nurses, who have worked tirelessly to serve the nation,” the PM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/three-vaccines-in-trials-blueprint-for-distribution-ready-says-pm-modi/articleshow/77568786.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Frontline warriors feted on Independence Day in Goa||MARGAO: On the occasion of the 74th Independence Day several covid warriors were felicitated at a function held at the Mathany Saldanha Administrative Complex, Margao. South Goa district collector Ajit Roy and superintendent of police, Pankaj Kumar Singh honoured plasma donors, Ishwar Hosmani and Akash Belgal; SP Serafin Dias, PI Sachin Narvekar; station fire officers Herculan Gil D’Souza and Shailesh Gawde; Kadamba Transport Corporation driver, Prashant Komarpant. Additional collector Agnelo Fernandes honoured health services staff nurse, Kanchan Shirodkar; ESI Hospital employees, Mosin Ahmad Idrisi and Maruti Gatkeri. Deputy collector Vishal Kundaikar honoured Awal Karkun, Rohan Paes; circle inspectors Nishikant Gaonkar, Ramakant Naik, Rohidas Kudnekar; UDC, Yatin Sanvordekar; talathis, Govind Naik, Anay Rane, Nazareth Fernandes, Jitendra Kamat and Varsha Tendulkar. Deputy collector John Fernandes honoured talathis Varsha Naik, Shenon Lemos, Benjamin Afonso, Sudatt Shanbhag, Siddhesh Chowgule, Kalpesh Deulkar, Gaurav Dangui, Rupa Naik, Gislin Pereira, Vallabh Dangui, Sanket Dessai, Prabhakar Naik, Pritesh Naik, Desmond Oliveira, Prarthana Dessai, Rupak Naik, Anjani Gawas, Nagesh Naik, Umesh Fadte, Sadguru Naik and Nilima Naik Deputy collector Snehal Prabhu felicitated talathis of Mormugao Taluka Hanumant Mandrekar, Amresh Naik, Dattaram Korgaonkar, Anuraj Gawas, Ravindra Parab, Gaurish Naik, Maniur Ahmad Bepari, Ponda Taluka Talathis Mahesh Pai, Prasad Borkar, Sitaram Naik, Swati Naik Karmali, Gautam Salunke, Magan Borkar, Jagannath Gaonkar, Jaimini Bandodkar, Pandu Naik, Dipak S Naik, Sarika Dhatkar, Talathis of Quepem Taluka Sadanand Dessai, Yogesh Phaldessai, Talathis of Cancona Taluka Dattaram Velip and Ramesh Naik. Roy launched the Nasha Mukt Bharat campaign, an initiative of ministry of social justice and empowerment. Along with North Goa, South Goa district figures among the 272 districts in India selected for the campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/frontline-warriors-feted-on-i-day/articleshow/77567929.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Mobile courts in all judicial districts by August-end||HYDERABAD: The state’s judiciary is making rapid strides towards turning its functioning from the physical mode to online methods. A Venkateswar Reddy, high court registrar general, said out of the 10 judicial districts in the state, half of the districts have already equipped themselves with mobile vans and video-conference facility. Reddy said remaining districts would also be provided with the facility by this month-end. “This will enable the state’s judiciary achieve giant strides in dispute resolution,” he added. The authorities were taking the district courts in mobile vans to the doorsteps of litigants and lawyers, he said. These mobile vans are equipped with video-conference facilities and their inner view resembles a court room. These mobile vans are being arranged with the help of district collectors to assist lawyers and parties in person who cannot afford computers and internet at their homes to argue cases through video-conference or online mode. Warangal, Karimnagar and Nizamabad courts have already equipped themselves with vans to take district courts to the doorsteps of lawyers and litigants. On Saturday, two more districts — Adilabad and Mahabubnagar — acquired these vans. In Adilabad, the facility was inaugurated by principal district judge Indira Priyadarshini on the occasion of Independence Day celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mobile-courts-in-all-judicialdistricts-by-august-end/articleshow/77567487.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Schools won’t open till govt sure about safety, says Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Saturday that Delhi government would not open schools unless it was convinced about the safety of students. At the Independence Day function organised at Delhi Secretariat, Kejriwal said the Covid situation was under control and thanked all, including the Centre, corona warriors and different agencies and people, for together making it possible. From next week, the government will start sending oxygen concentrators to homes of the patients whose oxygen levels drop to lower levels even after recovery, Kejriwal announced. From next month, the AAP government will launch a two-and-a-half-month campaign against dengue. Kejriwal devoted the large part of his 22 minutes speech to Covid fight and the ‘Delhi model’ besides revival of economy and hailed corona warriors who helped people during the pandemic by risking their lives. Seven corona warriors representing their community were present at the function, which was shifted to the Secretariat from Chhatrasal Stadium in view of the current situation. The CM also remembered soldiers who lost their lives on the borders while protecting the country. “In June, many people were leaving Delhi because of coronavirus spread and many were afraid of coming to Delhi. But in a few weeks, two crore people of Delhi have controlled the situation with their resolve, hard work and dedication. We have a long way to go, we have not won the battle but we are in a much better position now,” Kejriwal said adding the Delhi model is now being discussed all over the country, and has become a case study across the world. Kejriwal said the capital fought Covid-19 with a scientific approach and came up with various new initiatives. “We have come across some recovered patients who lost their lives at home because their oxygen levels dropped even after being Covid negative. We will send oxygen concentrators to the homes of such patients,” Kejriwal said adding that the home isolation model of the government helped reserve a lot of beds for serious patients and many beds got vacant because of it. “In many states, people are not getting tested because they do not want to be sent to quarantine centres for 14 days,” Kejriwal said. Kejriwal said Delhi government is the only government to provide an assistance of Rs 1 crore on the death of a corona warrior. “This gave the corona warriors assurance that there is a government that takes care of them,” Kejriwal added. “Delhi was the first state where plasma trials began and a plasma bank was created. More than 750 patients have received plasma and their lives have been saved,” he said further. The CM said the government has taken steps like opening a job portal and reducing VAT on diesel to get the economy back on track. “Despite the revenue of Delhi getting drastically reduced, we did not let our subsidy get affected during the crisis. The subsidies will continue even in the coming days,” Kejriwal added. Over opening of schools, Kejriwal said: “I want to assure parents that we care about your children as much as you do. Unless fully convinced, we are not going to open the schools. The safety and health of your children are very important to us.” Watch Covid-19: Schools won’t open till govt sure about safety, says Delhi CM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-schools-wont-open-till-govt-sure-about-safety/articleshow/77568280.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No freedom from Covid cloud, Red Fort wears a ‘deserted’ look||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 took away a lot of shine from the traditional Independence Day ceremony at Red Fort, though it did not deter Prime Minister Narendra Modi from delivering his customary speech of an hour and a half. The forecourt overlooking the ramparts did not have the cheering schoolchildren, the VIP seating courteously deferred to social distancing, and the guests did not mind the six feet that separated each of them, accepting the necessity smilingly, though the smiles were hidden behind face masks, some, of course, designer ones as becoming of India’s 74th anniversary of freedom from colonial rule. As resplendent as always with the saffron-white-green preponderance, the whole ceremony, however, was scaled down due to the pandemic. Around 4,000 invites had been sent out instead of four times that in a normal year. Even of that, as a security official revealed, many did not turn up on Saturday due to the risk of infection. Of course, there was special attention paid to this aspect of Independence Day 2020. At the main entrance, the invitees underwent thermal scanning by security personnel garbed in personal protective equipment gear. On each seat in the VIP enclosure were a hand sanitiser kit, a pair of gloves and a hand towel. The number of guests seated on the ramparts was reduced from 400 to 130, with the foreign dignitaries and other guests being provided a separate enclosure on the lawns, all at arm’s distance from each other. And when the PM arrived around 6.50am, it wasn’t the schoolchildren’s enthusiastic cheers that greeted him. Instead, he found NCC cadets occupying the space usually seating the white-dressed children. Modi stepped out in a cream-coloured, half-sleeve kurta, on his head a white turban streaked with saffron. He was greeted by defence minister Rajnath Singh and escorted to the guard of honour. On the red sandstone ramparts, the PM unfurled the national flag, assisted by major Shweta Pandey. As the Jana Gana Mana played, Modi solemnly saluted the flag and afterwards waved to the audience. At 7.30am, Modi began his third longest Red Fort speech ever. At 90 minutes, it was two minutes shorter than his 2019 oration. As in the past few years, Modi spoke extempore and continued with his practice of not being shielded by a bullet-proof glass panel. Conspicuous by their absence at the Red Fort function were the school children. Dressed in white and national colours, they have become as synonymous with the function as the medieval Mughal fort. But with the virus lurking everywhere, the kids were not included in this year’s ceremony. In their place were 500 youngsters from the National Cadet Corps. The Prime Minister, who has made it a habit to interact with the school kids, appeared to miss the energetic gaggle. In his address, he said, “Today, our children are not here with us. The coronavirus pandemic has halted all of us.” Security was tight at the venue and across the city. Red Fort itself was under the scrutiny of 4,000 security personnel, NSG snipers, SWAT commandos and more than 300 cameras. The 350 Delhi Police personnel who were part of the guard of honour had been in quarantine as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-freedom-from-covid-cloud-red-fort-wears-a-deserted-look/articleshow/77568288.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Buyers forgo safety as sanitised Panaji market opens for business on Saturday||PANAJI: The hustle bustle returned to the Panaji fish market on Saturday after the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) unsealed the building above the market. The market which was sanitised on Friday was back to being dirty and several buyers were seen shopping flouting safety norms.  Not only did maintaining social distancing go for a toss, shoppers were seen pulling their mask down to negotiate with the fish vendors. “The CCP must keep a watch on such irresponsible people and take them to task. Despite the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Panaji, the CCP inspectors are failing to ensure social distancing among buyers and sellers,” a customer, said. Another complaint of shoppers was that the market was back to its dirty state despite being cleaned and sanitised on Friday. “The fish market is filthy. There is no cleanliness being maintained by the vendors and all the fish waste is thrown around in the open,” said Kenneth Fernandes, a resident of Old Goa. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said that some CCP workers went on leave Saturday being Independence Day. “A few cleaners are deployed at the Panaji fish market to clean it on a daily basis. However, after they went on leave, the premises were left uncleaned for the day. We are, however, monitoring the workers to ensure that pending tasks are completed,” he said, adding that the premises will be cleaned on Sunday. The unsealing of the fish market building however has brought smiles to the faces of fish vendors. “People have started to slowly trickle in and are confidently purchasing fish like earlier. However, it may still take a few weeks for the crowd to regularise since many Hindus do not eat fish during Shravan,” vendor Deva Lamani said. With many trawlers anchored due to rough weather and lack of migrant labour, most of the fish in the market is from Malvan, Devgarh and Karwar, vendors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/buyers-forgo-safety-as-sanitised-panaji-market-opens-for-biz-on-sat/articleshow/77567934.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Despite kids living in Hyderabad, old turn to NGOs for help||HYDERABAD: The pandemic has dealt a heavy blow to Hyderabad’s elderly population. Shunned by their families living in the same city, many of them are left at the mercy of NGOs to source their basic essentials. Representatives of social groups and helplines say, they have been flooded with calls — since the lockdown was lifted — either from aging couples in dire straits or children asking them to provide help to their parents, as they are unmwilling to take on the responsibility. HelpAge India’s helpline number, for instance, has been receiving at least 40 such calls every month. “In some cases the children, staying in the same city, have thrown their elderly parents out of the house and in other cases, they have refused to take care of them during the pandemic,” said Shyam Kumar, advocacy officer, HelpAge India, sharing one such case of Jayakanth (name changed), a 70-year-old retired employee living with his 65-year-old wife in Uppal. Since the pandemic hit the city, he has been requesting his IT professional son and daughter-in-law, who live in Kondapur, to stay with them. “But the son flatly refused. He said he is willing to shell out money, but not move in with his old parents,” Kumar said adding, “The old couple can hardly manage without any domestic help. And more than that, they are lonely and scared of being confined inside the house. They fear if anything happens to them, they have no one to reach out for immediate help.” But Jayakanth's isn’t a standalone incident. Other NGOs too admit to getting multiple such calls. “We received a call from a private employee from Begumpet who asked us to send free groceries and medicines to his elderly parents staying in Secunderabad. He said that he doesn’t want to take the risk of meeting his 80-year-old parents as they are more prone to contract the coronavirus. I asked him to use an online shopping portal to help his parents but he didn’t want to spend a rupee on them. Such instances are heart-breaking,” said the founder of Youngistaan Foundation, Y Arun Daniel. After receiving multiple such calls, Arun started helping the elderly with grocery and cooked food, with the limited resources the NGO raised. “While we do get calls from NRI children — from the US, Australia and Gulf countries — requesting us to check up on their old parents to provide some help, their situation is understandable. But it is sad to see how children staying in same city as their elderly parents, in some cases in same locality, are refusing to look after them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-kids-living-in-city-old-turn-to-ngos-for-help/articleshow/77567496.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC front-runner in keeping judiciary functional, says CJ||HYDERABAD: High court Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan on Saturday said India would overcome all hurdles in combating Covid-19 and emerge victorious. He also said Telangana high court was front-runner in the country in keeping the judiciary functional during the pandemic. Unfurling the Tricolour on the 74th Independence Day celebrations, the CJ said: “We as a nation would soon register a resounding victory against the coronavirus pandemic due to the inherent tenacity we possess within us.” Stating that Indians got rid of 300 years of imperial rule and secured independence, he said: “No matter how perilous the situation is and how difficult the terrain is, we will emerge victorious after overcoming all hurdles.” He said Telangana was the first state to launch mobile vans taking district courts to the doorsteps of the people. “We launched the mobile vans for the benefit of the litigants. All the districts will have mobile vans taking justice to the doorsteps of people soon. This is the first-of-its-kind initiative in the entire country,” CJ Chauhan said. Congratulating the judges, lawyers and people for making the high court functional, the CJ said they switched to the digital mode and started conducting courts through video-conferencing mode immediately after the lockdown. “Ours was the only high court where all the nine benches functioned through online mode during this crisis,” he added. Justices A Rajashekher Reddy, P Naveen Rao, A Abhishek Reddy and several other judges, registrars and staff participated while observing Covid-19 norms like social distancing, wearing masks, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-hc-front-runner-in-keeping-judiciary-functional-says-cj/articleshow/77567531.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||In a first, three Delhi cops President guests for At Home||NEW DELHI: Sub-inspector Sunita Maan, 39, had only seen Rashtrapati Bhavan from the gates whenever she was posted on security duty there. On Saturday, she was a guest of the current occupant of the iconic residence. As an invitee to the At Home reception by President Ram Nath Kovind on the occasion of Independence Day, Maan was one of the three police personnel present — for the first time in the history of Delhi Police —at the customary event at Rashtrapati Bhavan. Maan, deployed at Maidangarhi police station in south Delhi, worked with the large migrant population at Bhati Mines during the Covid-19 lockdown. “The President mentioned the corona warriors in his speech and I was overwhelmed,” Maan said. “To hear my 10-year-old daughter say, ‘I am proud of you, mum’ when she learnt I had been invited to Rashtrapati Bhavan made me realise I had done something to make a difference.” During the lockdown, Maan visited localities where a substantial number of teenagers and women resided and educated them about menstrual hygiene. Drawn by her kindness, the residents later approached her with their problems during the lockdown and she was able to manage dry rations for them. Liker her, head constable Manish Kumar, posted at the office of DCP, Dwarka, the second of the three invitees, was a messiah for the impoverished people living during the lockdown. From setting up a community kitchen — an act that was mentioned by the PM in his Mann Ki Baat talk — to providing milk to newborns, Kumar took it upon himself to ensure no one slept hungry during the difficult time. Kumar also hit upon the well-reported Covid awareness drive in Dwarka in which he modified helmets to look like the novel coronavirus to draw people’s attention. “I got tested for Covid on the insistence of my colleagues, but I proved negative both times,” smiled Kumar. “From trying to bring a smile on the faces of senior citizens by celebrating their birthdays to ensuring masks and hand sanitisers for all, my colleagues and I tried to make the lockdown an easy experience for all.” Kumar, who writes poetry, had gone to Rashtrapati Bhavan during a poetry event, but not entered the building. The third invitee, head constable Jitender, 43, felt he was triply lucky to be ushered into the President’s house on Saturday. “It’s my son’s birthday today and my daughter’s tomorrow,” he said on Saturday. “When working in traffic, I was once deployed outside Rashtrapati Bhavan. It was a remarkable experience to be sitting inside for high tea.” Jitender got infected and spent part of May in isolation. While on rest for a week in his village in Haryana after recovery, he learnt that a colleague’s wife was critical and immediately reached Delhi to donate plasma. Commissioner of Police S N Shrivastava expressed his happiness on Twitter. “They richly deserve being invited to At Home at Rashtrapati Bhavan. Their selfless service involving humanitarian work during the lockdown period has been truly recognised,” the tweet said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-a-first-three-delhi-cops-prez-guests-for-at-home/articleshow/77568295.cms||Sakshi Chand
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Make oximeters available in villages, AAP workers told||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday urged Aam Aadmi Party workers across the country to put in personal efforts to save lives around the country during the Covid-19 pandemic. The convener for the party urged workers to set up oxygen-testing centres, especially in villages, and advocated the use of home isolation in the fight against Covid. Kejriwal said that AAP was planning to distribute the responsibilities of providing oximeters in villages among its volunteers. “The person responsible for the oximeter in a village will send his machine to the houses of the people who need it to test their oxygen levels. Along with getting tested, this will help them to go to a nearby hospital in time. The biggest problem with Covid is the failing oxygen levels, which results in loss of lives,” he said, appealing to volunteers, supporters and donors. The CM explained to the party workers how Delhi has managed to bring the Covid situation under control and said its experience can be used in other parts of the country. “We are not trying to find faults. All governments are doing their best in this situation. We are just trying to extend a helping hand. We will work together to ensure all lives are saved,” he said, to ensure that the efforts do not turn into a confrontation with ruling parties of different states. Kejriwal asked the party workers to help set up oxygen testing centres in as many villages as possible, saying that they will be trained on how to use a mask, sanitisation and other steps. The CM underlined that over 60,000 new cases and around 1,000 deaths were being reported in the country every day. He added that every government, including central government, is addressing the situation in different ways but the society cannot run away from its responsibility. Kejriwal claimed that Delhi’s home isolation formula and provision of oximeters to the patients is better way to prevent deaths in the country. “People can receive treatment at home, and panchayats can help ensure oximetres and oxygen cylinders reach patient’s homes to help save more lives,” he said. Many people from different parts of the country have come forward to donate oximeters. AAP MLA Jarnail Singh stated on Twitter that as an advance birthday gift to the CM, the Tilak Nagar unit of the party will provide 500 oximeters to the Punjab unit and oximeters would be taken to villages of Punjab. Kejriwal’s birthday is on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/make-oximeters-available-in-villages-aap-workers-told/articleshow/77567943.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Banned, but manjha injures hundreds of birds on Independence Day in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With kites covering the sky across the capital on Independence Day, hundreds of bird injuries were reported on Saturday. More than 90% of the “sharp” cuts were caused by glass-coated kite string, hospitals said. The number of birds reported injured is expected to spike further in the next 48 hours. Dr Haravtar Singh, who works at two charitable bird hospitals — at Chandni Chowk and Karol Bagh — said most of the cases he operated had suffered injuries due to the banned manjha. “Till 2 pm at Chandni Chowk, I had received around 35 cases, out of which over 30 had suffered manjha injuries. The situation at Karol Bagh was similar. The birds can suffer long-term damage and some may be unable to fly again,” said Singh, adding that a majority of the cases were of pigeons. “There will be a sharp spike in the cases by Sunday. More people will discover injured birds and the manjha, which is stuck at places, is likely to cause injuries to more unsuspecting birds,” he added. The manjha was banned in 2017 by Delhi government, citing a large number of injuries and deaths caused to both humans and birds. Sunil Jain, who runs the charitable bird hospital at Chandni Chowk, said despite a ban existing on paper, manjha continues to take away lives. “Last year, we recorded more cases than the year before that and it shows how the ban is not being implemented. We have already received a number of injured birds this year and by Monday, this figure will rise even further,” added Jain. Wildlife Rescue, a bird hospital in Wazirabad, said till Thursday evening, eight injured kites had arrived at their hospital. “We expect this figure to increase by Sunday and Monday,” said Shehzad. PETA India says people can reach out to them on their emergency and helpline numbers to report injured birds. “Last year, 700 birds were injured due to the manjha in Delhi. In the next couple of days, more birds with manjha-induced injuries are expected to be rescued and hospitalised even as trade and use of banned sharp kite threads continue in the capital,” said a PETA spokesperson. Watch Hundreds of birds injured due to banned manjha on Independence Day in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/banned-but-manjha-injures-hundreds-of-birds-on-i-day/articleshow/77568292.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 16, 2020||Goa||Deprived by Goa, Makadmares find pride and joy in honouring Tricolour||MARGAO: They have no roof over their heads to shield from the vagaries of nature. Their thatched huts don’t have lights for their children to study. There are days they go hungry when they find no work. Nevertheless, despite abject poverty and deprivation, a sense of patriotism glows bright in their lives. The 100-odd Makadmare tribals got together in their settlement at Nirankal, near Bethora, Ponda on Saturday and celebrated India’s 74th Independence Day. Rustic though in form and substance, the spirit of the celebration was by no means inferior. As the kids cried “Bharat mata ki jai,” and saluted the Tricolour, a sense of pride of being an Indian resonated from the depth of their beings. “It was a soul-searching moment,” says the person who helped the Makadmares prepare for the celebrations, insisting on anonymity. “The state may have failed them by depriving them of the basic necessities of life even after 74 long years after independence, but here they are, celebrating their Indian-ness with more of gratitude than grudge.” Tribe headman Gopal Pawar said they have been celebrating Independence Day for the past few years “in our own small way, ever since we came to know about its significance.” “This year, we hoisted the Tricolour, and our hearts swelled with pride and joy,” he said. This, when until a few years ago, the government had not even acknowledged the existence of the Makadmare tribe in Goa. It was only after a spirited movement by social activists to get them enfranchised that the tribals voted for the first time in the 2017 state assembly elections. Three years later, for the political class and the officialdom, the existence of the tribe is still confined only to the electoral rolls. Taking suo motu cognisance of TOI’s article ‘For the Makadmare tribe, a roof and electricity remain distant dreams’ published in the edition dated June 15, the Goa Human Rights Commission had called for reports from the director of tribal welfare and the chief electrical engineer of the electricity department by July 2. Responding to the notices, both the tribal welfare department and the electricity department expressed their inability to bring any ‘light’ into the lives of these tribes citing statutory orders and official circulars. Director of tribal welfare Sandhya Kamat in her reply said that the Makadmare tribe didn’t figure in the list of the tribes notified in the Constitution (Goa Daman and Diu) Scheduled Tribes order, 1968, and as inserted by Act 18 of 1987, as also in the circular issued by the state director of social welfare in terms of SC and ST Order (Amendment) Act, 2002. “…it is submitted that the Makadmare tribe does not fall under ST community and hence the said matter doesn’t pertain to director of tribal welfare. The department of tribal welfare doesn’t have any documents/information pertaining to Makadmare tribe as per office records,” Kamat said. The chief electrical engineer, Raghuvir Keni, in his reply to the notice, said that as their dwellings are made up of inflammable materials, “it will be unsafe to release electrical connection to such structures, which may cause fire accident (and therefore) hazardous to life and property.” The TOI article had pointed out the hardships faced by the 20-odd families of Makadmare tribals living in thatched huts with no electricity connection, which invariably leads to darkness enveloping their settlement by sunset. The TOI report had also pointed out that in the absence of toilet facilities, the tribals are compelled to answer nature’s call in the open, inviting the wrath of the locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deprived-by-state-makadmares-find-pride-and-joy-in-honouring-tricolour/articleshow/77567942.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
August 16, 2020||Goa||Nod for Rs 6 crore as fuel subsidy for private bus owners||PANAJI: Transport minister Mauvin Godinho on Saturday said approximately Rs 6 crore has been sanctioned towards fuel subsidy for private bus operators and will be released to 195 beneficiaries shortly. “Two of the five files have been cleared,” he said. Another 429 applications are yet to be approved. The total subsidy that will ultimately be released is Rs 18.1 crore. “The Covid-19 pandemic has inconvenienced not only private bus owners but also the state government, despite which the fuel subsidy is being released. A token amount was distributed among a few private bus operators on Friday,” Godinho said. Operators said the subsidy was pending since 2017 and were happy that it was sanctioned before the fast-approaching Ganesh Chaturthi. He also announced that private buses would be hired for operations under the Kadamba Transport Corporationvia the PPP model. “Initially, we will take these buses on for five years. Private operators can run the buses along with KTC’s bus conductors,” he said. He also said that old private buses can be replaced to ensure that the operators continue to be in business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nod-for-rs-6cr-as-fuel-subsidy-for-pvt-bus-owners/articleshow/77567941.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Firm opens R&T centre at Genome Valley||Hyderabad: City-based contract research organisation Sai Life Sciences Ltd on Saturday announced the expansion of its research & development capacities with the commissioning of its new research and technology centre at Genome Valley. The new centre marks the completion of phase-I of the company’s $150 million (over Rs 1,000 crore) investment commitment under its Sai Nxt initiative. The company said the centre will accelerate the discovery and development of new drugs. Spread over 83,000 sq ft, the centre is equipped with facilities such as 250 fume hoods, intelligent lab design, satellite analytical testing, process safety lab and collaborative works spaces. Inaugurating the facility, industries & IT minister KT Rama Rao called it a matter of pride that Hyderabad is emerging as an innovation hub helping over 1,000 global innovators improve healthcare and R&D. KTR also laid the foundation stone for Genopolis, a multi-tenanted laboratory and manufacturing space for lifesciences and pharma companies at Genome Valley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/firm-opens-rt-centre-at-genome-valley/articleshow/77567557.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Three out of four naval gallantry awards for Goa-based Navy men||PANAJI: Three of the four Indian Navy personnel who received gallantry awards on Independence Day are based in Goa at INS Hansa. The list of gallantry awardees includes commanding officer of the MiG 29K White Tigers squadron Captain Mrigank Sheokand, who manoeuvred a MiG 29KUB fighter away from populated areas in South Goa before ejecting from the stricken aircraft that was on fire. The defence ministry said Sheokand displayed exemplary presence of mind, extreme selflessness and pointed the aircraft towards the only unpopulated barren land behind Verna industrial estate before ejecting along with the trainee pilot. The incident occurred on November 16 last year during a routine training sortie when the aircraft suffered multiple bird hits and lost both its engines. Sheokand took over the controls of the blazing jet and directed the aircraft away from the Zuari Oil Reserve and the heavily populated region of Vasco. Sheokand is one of the most experienced pilots of the Navy’s MiG-29K fleet. He is a qualified flying instructor with more than 2,000 hours of total flying experience. For his bravery, he has been awarded the Nao Sena Medal (gallantry). The bravery of the other two naval personnel from INS Hansa is no less daring, with helicopter pilot Cdr Dhanush Menon and air crew diver Haridas Kundu displaying courage and exceptional skill to rescue two men during operation Varsha Rahat at Belagavi. The two have also been awarded Nao Sena Medals for gallantry. Menon is the flight commander of INAS 322, the ALH squadron at INS Hansa. A search and rescue mission on August 9 last year saw Menon and Kundu in an advanced light helicopter trying to rescue the men who were trapped on a tree in Haloli for three days. The situation was made worse due to low visibility, heavy rain and power transmission lines. “The officer took the extremely dangerous decision to reduce hover height to 125ft, displaying courage and exceptional skill to maintain the aircraft at hover for 25 minutes only 15 feet clear of the hazardous obstructions and saving the lives of two souls in distress. Lowering the rescue basket at the tight spot, between the dangers of transmission tower, roof of the shed and the tree called for exemplary situation awareness and alacrity for a precise rescue,” the defence ministry said. Kundu braved the six-feet deep water and the tumultuous current and even opted to stay behind while the men were winched up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/three-out-of-four-naval-gallantryawards-for-goa-based-navy-men/articleshow/77567946.cms||Newton Sequeira
August 16, 2020||Madurai||35 dead, 1,211 new cases in south Tamil Nadu; It’s 21 and 670 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: As many as 35 deaths were reported on Saturday in the ten southern districts and 21 in the eight central districts of Tamil Nadu of the novel coronavirus even as the number of cases continued to rise. The southern districts saw a rise of 1,211 fresh cases while the central region saw 670. The overall southern regional tally rose to 73,815 cases, including 12,700 active ones, 59,899 discharged and 1,216 deaths. In the central districts, the overall death toll stood at 288 while the positive cases so far add up to 21,860 and active cases are 5,194. Among Saturday’s deaths, four people were below 50 years of age. Five districts in south Tamil Nadu, including Madurai, reported less than 100 new cases though Theni continued to lead the table with 213 of which 11 were children. Three more Covid-19 deaths were also reported in Theni and the total cases stood at 9,703 cases, including 3,042 active ones and 115 deaths. The district continues to have the highest number of active cases in the southern region. Kanyakumari (182), Tirunelveli (169), Virudhunagar (167) and Dindigul (118) clocked over 100 cases. Madurai district reported 90 cases on Saturday taking its total to 12,643, including 1,028 active ones. The district also saw six deaths on Saturday, which took its toll to 315. Less than 100 cases were reported in Tenskasi (87), Ramanathapuram (59) and Sivaganga (49). Among the central districts, the number of cases in Tiruvarur increased by two. Of the 21 deaths in the region, Thanjavur and Pudukottai recorded seven each, Trichy five, Ariyalur and Tiruvarur one case each. Seven cases were reported from private hospitals while the rest was registered in government hospitals. Pudukottai continued to produce the highest number of fresh cases with the district recording 170 on Saturday taking its tally to 3,990. Health department officials attributed it to intensified testing. Trichy came next with 117 cases. The total positive cases of 5,762 were the highest of a district in the region. Trichy collector S Sivarasu said since the number of samples has been increased to 1,500 to 2,000 a day, the positive cases were also increasing. Thanjavur district recorded 109 cases making the total count 4,764. Ariyalur district reported 73 positive cases while Perambalur reported 26 fresh positive cases. A majority of the new cases in Perambalur were primary contacts and secondary contacts of existing Covid-19 positive cases. The cases recorded in other districts were Nagapattinam – 81, Karur – 40 and Tiruvarur – 54.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/35-dead-1211-new-cases-in-south-tn-its-21-and-670-in-central-dists/articleshow/77567947.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Trichy||Trichy railway division handles 9% more freight||TRICHY: Trichy railway division has handled 10.9 tonnes of commodities to various destinations in the financial year 2019-20, an improvement of 9% over the corresponding year, and its highest ever in any financial year, divisional railway manager Ajay Kumar said. Addressing the Independence Day, he said the division has also loaded 2.9 tonnes of freight during April to July. “In passenger amenities, retiring rooms at Trichy junction have been renovated with improved amenities. All 103 stations have Wi-Fi facility. Eight express rakes out of 13 primarily maintained at Trichy division have been converted with Uthkrisht standard coaches”, he added. Trichy is the first division in Southern Railway to complete bio toilet fitment in all coaches. It is the second division in Indian Railways and first in SR to implement E-office, he stated. “Speed of Thanjavur–Ponmalai down line increased from 95 kmph to 110 kmph. CCTV-based rolling in examination has been introduced at Trichy junction. Foot over bridge (FOB) works at 19 stations are in progress”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-railway-division-handles-9-more-freight/articleshow/77567581.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Trichy||35 dead, 1,211 new cases in south Tamil Nadu; It’s 21 and 670 in central districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: As many as 35 deaths were reported on Saturday in the ten southern districts and 21 in the eight central districts of Tamil Nadu of the novel coronavirus even as the number of cases continued to rise. The southern districts saw a rise of 1,211 fresh cases while the central region saw 670. The overall southern regional tally rose to 73,815 cases, including 12,700 active ones, 59,899 discharged and 1,216 deaths. In the central districts, the overall death toll stood at 288 while the positive cases so far add up to 21,860 and active cases are 5,194. Among Saturday’s deaths, four people were below 50 years of age. Five districts in south Tamil Nadu, including Madurai, reported less than 100 new cases though Theni continued to lead the table with 213 of which 11 were children. Three more Covid-19 deaths were also reported in Theni and the total cases stood at 9,703 cases, including 3,042 active ones and 115 deaths. The district continues to have the highest number of active cases in the southern region. Kanyakumari (182), Tirunelveli (169), Virudhunagar (167) and Dindigul (118) clocked over 100 cases. Madurai district reported 90 cases on Saturday taking its total to 12,643, including 1,028 active ones. The district also saw six deaths on Saturday, which took its toll to 315. Less than 100 cases were reported in Tenskasi (87), Ramanathapuram (59) and Sivaganga (49). Among the central districts, the number of cases in Tiruvarur increased by two. Of the 21 deaths in the region, Thanjavur and Pudukottai recorded seven each, Trichy five, Ariyalur and Tiruvarur one case each. Seven cases were reported from private hospitals while the rest was registered in government hospitals. Pudukottai continued to produce the highest number of fresh cases with the district recording 170 on Saturday taking its tally to 3,990. Health department officials attributed it to intensified testing. Trichy came next with 117 cases. The total positive cases of 5,762 were the highest of a district in the region. Trichy collector S Sivarasu said since the number of samples has been increased to 1,500 to 2,000 a day, the positive cases were also increasing. Thanjavur district recorded 109 cases making the total count 4,764. Ariyalur district reported 73 positive cases while Perambalur reported 26 fresh positive cases. A majority of the new cases in Perambalur were primary contacts and secondary contacts of existing Covid-19 positive cases. The cases recorded in other districts were Nagapattinam – 81, Karur – 40 and Tiruvarur – 54.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/35-dead-1211-new-cases-in-south-tn-its-21-and-670-in-central-dists/articleshow/77571616.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||In big step to break taboo, PM talks of sanitary pads||New Delhi: In his Independence Day address, Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighted the government's efforts towards affordable access to sanitary napkins for women, earning praise from many who saw it as a step towards breaking taboos associated with menstruation. Modi said the government has started giving away sanitary napkins at Re 1 to empower women and keep their health in check under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Kendra scheme. "In 6,000 Jan Aushadhi Kendras, more than 5 crore sanitary napkins have been provided to women in a short period of time," he said, perhaps becoming the first PM to address the issue of menstruation in his speech from the ramparts of Red Fort, which drew applause on the social media. The PM said his government has been persistently concerned about providing better healthcare for "poor sisters and daughters".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-big-step-to-break-taboo-pm-talks-of-sanitary-pads/articleshow/77568789.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Madurai||Innovative events mark I-Day at schools, colleges||Madurai: Schools and colleges held low-key yet innovative celebrations for Independence Day this year along with the usual flag hoisting ceremonies. The Mepco Schlenk Engineering College and its alumni association at Sivakasi in Virudhunagar district planted 12,000 saplings, in the Miyawaki method on Saturday to mark Independence Day. The saplings include 100+ varieties of species. College principal, Dr S Arivazhagan, said that the forest was finally possible after two years. At Adhyapana school, the flag-hoisting ceremony was held digitally and streamed live on YouTube. The flag was hoisted at the school ground by dean of academics, Visesh Aiyer Some schools felicitated frontline Covid-19 warriors. Students also received prizes for various achievements in academics and extra-curricular activities. S Venkatesan, a teacher from Othakadai Girls Higher Secondary School, was awarded by the district collector T G Vinay, for his service in the department of education. A 25-year-old blind woman from Madurai, Purana Sundari M, who recently cleared this year’s UPSC civil services exams, unfurled the national flag at her alma mater, Pillaimar Sangam Higher Secondary School. G Dhevayani, who secured top rank in the Class XII examinations from Madurai, along with Sundari M were felicitated at a function by the Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/innovative-events-mark-i-day-at-schools-colleges/articleshow/77567952.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Invest in Goa, use our skilled manpower, CM tells businessmen||PANAJI: Making a strong pitch for boosting investments, chief minister Pramod Sawant extended an invitation to the business community to set up in Goa, while urging citizens to choose local over foreign goods in making the state ‘Swayampurna’. He was speaking on Saturday after unfurling the Tricolour on the occasion of Independence Day at Old Secretariat, Panaji. “On the lines of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pitch for ‘atmanirbhar’, let us pledge to also make Goa self-reliant. Through business and education, I will make Goa proud. I will buy local produce over foreign goods,” he said. Sawant said that the government has taken several steps to improve the economic condition of the state. “I appeal to businessmen in Goa as well as outside the state to invest here. They can utilise talented and skilled manpower available in the state to revive the economy,” he said. With an eye on attracting investments, the chief minister also said that the state government has revived the public-private partnership cell (PPP) and is aiming to get projects under the PPP mode. “We have considered investments in sectors like agriculture, tourism and industry through PPP cell,” he said. Sawant said that the government will set up citizen service centres at the panchayat level for availing government schemes. “People need not visit departments to seek information on schemes and forms. This will be made available through these centres, for which work will be completed by October 2,” Sawant said. Due to challenges, there may be delays in disbursing funds to social welfare beneficiaries, but the state government has not discontinued these schemes, Sawant said. On the Covid-19 front, the chief minister said that the state is providing quality healthcare and management facilities to patients. He said that more than 2,500 Covid tests are being conducted everyday in the state, which is among the highest across the country. Sawant also said after ESI hospital was converted into a full-fledged Covid hospital, the government commenced a second Covid hospital at Ponda. He said Covid care centres have opened at the taluka level for treating asymptomatic patients. All major infrastructure work viz Mopa airport, Zuari bridge, super specialty hospital and other projects would be completed, Sawant said. To promote green energy, he said the government has set a target of generating 150 megawatts of solar power in the near future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/invest-in-goa-use-our-skilled-manpower-cm-tells-bizmen/articleshow/77567948.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘No public immersion this Ganesh Chaturthi’||NEW DELHI: There will be no idol immersions in the Yamuna, public congregations, or even community celebrations in parks this Ganesh Chaturthi. Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has come up with guidelines for the festival, asking people to immerse idols at homes using buckets or containers. All upcoming idol immersion festivities may follow the same protocol. “Idol immersions shall not be allowed during the forthcoming Ganeshotsav in any public place, including the river Yamuna, any other waterbody, public place, pond, or ghat,” said the order, dated August 13. A DPCC official said that religious functions and large congregations cannot gather under the guidelines by the District Disaster Management Authority as part of Unlock 3.0, so permission cannot be granted for celebration and immersion procession. This year, Ganesh Chaturthi will be celebrated on August 22. “Last year, we allowed community celebration at local parks where artificial ponds were created for immersion. However, this year even that is not possible as a large number of people gathering at a place is against the rules. This will increase the risk of transmission of infection by the novel coronavirus and is against the guidelines issued dated July 31,” said the official. The official said that for other upcoming festivals, the body may issue fresh directions based on the next set of guidelines. Regarding the idols, DPCC directions state they should be made from natural materials, like traditional clay. Baked clay and plaster of Paris, on the hand, are a no-no. Painting of idols is also discouraged. “In case idols are painted, only water-soluble and non-toxic dyes should be used,” said the notice. The violations of any of these directions, which are issued under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, include imprisonment for up to five years, or fine up to Rs 1 lakh, or both. DPCC has directed all agencies to also submit an action-taken report each week in this regard, beginning Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-public-immersion-this-ganesh-chaturthi/articleshow/77567949.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Staff crunch hits Covid survey plans in dists||HYDERABAD: At a time when experts project Covid-19 numbers to rise substantially in September — crossing the 4,000-mark per day — especially across Telangana’s districts, state offcials’ plan to conduct door-to-door surveys has hit a roadblock. The hurdle: shortage of manpower in many districts. As per latest figures released by the state health department, nearly 60% of the new Covid-19 cases being recorded in the state now are from districts far away from Hyderabad limits. It is in view of these rising numbers that the state had charted plans to conduct the survey — to identify patients and begin early treatment. “The survey is conducted by field level medical personnel, Asha workers and ANMs (auxillary midwives) as they are the ones who have maximum access to villagers. Currently, certain districts are finding it difficult to carry out the surveys routinely,” said an official from the state health department. “While there is already a shortage of manpower — some PHCs have just two ANMs — the fact that many field workers are now affected by coronavirus, has made matters worse,” he added. The Centre for Covid monitoring, which is a think tank comprising experts from FICCI (Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry), ASCI (Administrative Staff College of India) and FTCCI (Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry), has projected that by the end of September, new cases being recorded per day will cross the 4,000 mark. Majority of these cases are expected to be reported from districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/staff-crunch-hits-covid-survey-plans-in-dists/articleshow/77567590.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: East corporation may replace wood with stubble for cremations||NEW DELHI: East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) is planning to use crop stubble (parali) in place of wood at crematoriums under its jurisdiction. The matter was discussed at a standing committee meeting on Friday after a resolution was moved by Ajay Sharma, a councillor from Welcome Colony (ward 39) for purchasing the cakes made from stubble. He said that burning of stubble in farms has been the main source of pollution in the city every winter. Leader of House, EDMC, Parvesh Sharma also supported the proposal and informed the committee that an NGO, which is purchasing stubble from farmers, has already agreed to supply cakes made with stubble at a reasonable price to the civic body. “We are all aware how the national capital becomes a gas chamber after neighbouring states start burning stubble while preparing their farms for the next crop. While they are doing it to save the cost of disposing of stubble, we can contribute in reducing pollution and also helping these farmers financially,” he said after the proposal was approved in the standing committee. Sharma further stated that the eco-friendly solution will help resolve the problem of environment pollution and also minimise the use of wood. There are five crematoriums under EDMC’s jurisdiction and all these places use wood for cremation. The proposal will be placed in the next house meeting for final approval. A senior official, present in the meeting, said, “The proposal has been sent to the commissioner and after understanding its aspects, viability etc. it will be presented in the House. At present, around 5,000 -6,000kg wood is required in a month. Naturally, their use will decline if we get an alternative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/east-corpn-may-replace-wood-with-stubble-for-cremations/articleshow/77567956.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 16, 2020||Madurai||Ganja seller murdered by armed gang in Madurai||MADURAI: A 48-year-old ganja seller was murdered by an unidentified gang on Saturday near T Andipatti village. The victim, R Senthilpandi (48), was on his way to Melur from Thiruvathavur on Saturday afternoon on his two-wheeler when the incident happened. Police and forensic officials with a dog squad went to the spot. Police said that the victim’s head was smashed and multiple cut injuries were found in the body. Senthilpandi had undergone a kidney transplantation after his kidneys failed, with his wife donating her kidney. Police sources said that the victim was a ganja seller and a notorious rowdy element involved in many cases in Madurai district. They added that there is an existing rivalry between Senthilpandi and ‘Load’ Murugan and his associates over selling ganja, which could have led to the murder. Police suspect ‘Load’ Murugan’s associates could be involved. An investigation is underway to nab those murderers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ganja-seller-murdered-by-armed-gang-in-madurai/articleshow/77567954.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Madurai||70% of active Covid cases in Madurai need oxygen support||MADURAI: Around 70% of active Covid-19 cases in Madurai district comprise patients who need oxygen support and require hospitalization, according to data from district health department. Doctors are urging the public to consult them immediately if they show any symptoms to avoid the illness turning severe and resulting in mortality. In Madurai district, the total number of cases is 12,643, of which 1,028 are active. There have been 315 deaths. However, of the active cases, more than 700 are hospitalized and require oxygen support. Infrastructure has not been an issue so far as the district has facilities for 1,200 beds with oxygen support and 357 intensive care unit (ICU) beds. “Patients should not underestimate Covid-19. Nowadays, we are finding some patients consulting a doctor only after their symptoms turn highly severe. Even Covid-19 patients, who are asymptomatic or show mild symptoms must understand that their condition may worsen any time, especially if they have comorbidities,” said a senior doctor at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH). Doctors further warned the public not to try self-medication with paracetamol and antibiotics and try to manage symptoms without consulting them. “There is no hard and fast rule as the disease is still unpredictable. Whenever someone shows even mild symptoms of Covid-19, they must always consult a doctor,” said Dr Prem Ananth P, a consultant interventional pulmonologist. He added that there are instances of patients showing clinical symptoms even after results of swab samples tested through RT-PCR are returning negative. “In such cases, we find clear signs of viral pneumonia through the CT scan. Patients must not take it lightly. Prompt monitoring, treatment and follow up are necessary,” said Ananth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/70-of-active-covid-cases-in-madurai-need-oxygen-support/articleshow/77567957.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 16, 2020||Goa||Kala Academy’s theatre college to shift to old PWD building||PANAJI: Kala Academy’s college of theatre arts, which is now in its third year, is gearing up to move to its new premises in the old PWD building near Rua de Ourem creek. Minister of art and culture Govid Gaude on Friday carried out an inspection of the building. “We were looking for an alternative place and have decided to shift the premises to the old PWD building,” he said. “The approvals for the same are in process. We are hoping to shift there soon after we get possession of the property from the PWD.” The heritage building, which served as a government office since the Portuguese regime in Goa, is already equipped with parking facilities, pristine green lawns, and toilets. “The ambience of the location is very good,” principal Ramrao Wagh said. “It’s almost exactly what a college campus should be like. We can establish a library indoors and carry out rehearsals in the lawns.” He further said that thestudents are likely to be moved there this academic year itself, as soon as colleges shift from online to physical classes. “Monday onwards we will send a team to carry out cleaning, wiring, painting and other tasks. Classes, which are currently being carried out online, due to the pandemic are likely to start at the campus in September. By that time, We want to keep everything ready. There will be no structural modifications to the heritage building.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kala-academys-theatre-college-to-shift-to-old-pwd-bldg/articleshow/77567955.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Trichy||Doctors, nurses, ambulance, sanitary staff among feted||TRICHY: As the 74th Independence Day celebrations turned out to be a low key affair across the country on Saturday, it was no different in the state too. The Trichy district administration restricted its celebrations to flag hoisting and awarding of frontline health workers in the fight against Covid-19. Hoisting the Tricolour at the Armed Reserve Police force ground in the city, collector S Sivarasu accepted the guard of honour accorded by the police force. As advised by the government, the march past was not performed. The collector honoured 98 frontline health workers including doctors from modern medicine, Indian medicine and homeopathy streams, nurses, sanitary workers and 108 ambulance workers in the health department and staff of local bodies for their service in the past five months. “The role of frontline health workers must be appreciated. So, we have used this opportunity to appreciate them with certificates to encourage them,” the collector told TOI. Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH) dean Dr K Vanitha, medical superintendent of MGMGH Dr R Yeganathan, district epidemiologist Dr A Aravinthkumar and district programme manager, district AIDS prevention control unit (DAPCU) Dr S M Manivannan and staff nurse S N Jayabharathi were among the recipients of the award. Before flag hoisting, the collector paid tributes to the martyrs of World War 1 at the memorial site in Gandhi market area. Unlike previous years, the collector visited 10 freedom fighters at their houses and honoured them. Usually, Independence Day celebrations would see the participation of about 1,000 spectators but the number was down to about 300 this year as the state government cancelled the cultural programmes of school and college students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/docs-nurses-ambulance-sanitary-staff-among-feted/articleshow/77567616.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19 boost: Delhi's Tihar Jail almost doubles wages of its inmates||NEW DELHI: The wages of inmates at Tihar Jail have been revised and nearly doubled ahead of Independence Day. According to officials, wages for skilled labour has been hiked from Rs 171 to Rs 308 per day, while semi-skilled and unskilled labourers will be paid Rs 248 and Rs 194 per day, respectively as against Rs 138 and Rs 107 earlier. Sources said the wages were revised keeping the Covid-19 pandemic in mind since a number of inmates have been saving the money for their families. On Independence Day, Tihar Jail authorities also remitted sentences by up to one month for inmates found to have a record of a good conduct. Jail sources said the decision to increase the wages was taken up by the home department of Delhi government after inmates appealed for a hike to sustain their family members who have lost jobs during the lockdown. Wages are paid to convicted prisoners for working inside the jail, which can either be voluntary or a part of their punishment. The wage is fixed on the basis of skill-level and the rates are revised from time-to-time. Around one-fourth of wages that convicts earn are used to pay compensation to the victims of the crimes they have committed. Jail sources said that wage hike will benefit about 4,000 convicts who are employed at the production centers at the jail or are engaged in housekeeping, gardening or at the kitchen. Tihar authorities said that apart from the wages, convicts maintaining good conduct have been granted special remission by the prison department. Convicts who have a prison term of up to one year were given a remittance of 15 days, while those with jail term of more than five years were given a remittance of 20 days. Convicts serving more than five years of sentence have been given a 25-day remittance. According to jail officials, remittance of sentence can be granted by the director general of prisons based on the conduct of the convicts. Watch Delhi: Independence day gift to Tihar Jail inmates, wages increased||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-boost-tihar-almost-doubles-wages-of-its-inmates/articleshow/77568315.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||37 power line tripping cases recorded due to kite manjha in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Kite flying is an integral part of Independence Day celebrations, but this decades-old tradition can be hazardous, even fatal, when metal-coated manjha (kite string) is used to fly kites. On Saturday, a total of 37 incidents of power lines tripping were reported from different parts of the capital due to the entanglement of manjha in electric installations. The number went up from 26 last year. Metal-coated manjha is a good conductor of electricity and not only poses grave danger to the kite flyer, but also results in disruption of electricity supply in an area. Discoms had appealed to Delhiites to not fly kites near electric installations and overhead power lines on the occasion of Independence Day. Discoms had said that people needed to be cautious due to the ongoing pandemic as entanglement of manjha may interrupt power supply to hospitals and other essential services. On Saturday, Tata Power-DDL reported 22 cases of tripping in its area in north Delhi, while 15 such incidents were reported from areas under BSES Rajdhani Power Limited and BSES Yamuna Power Limited. “The entanglement of kites in electric installations led to a total of 22 tripping in Tata Power-DDL areas. One 33KV grid, two 66 KV circuits and one 33KV circuit were impacted. These trippings impacted power supply to approximately 56,000 consumers,” a Tata Power-DDL spokesperson said. According to estimates, tripping of one 33/66 KV overhead line can disrupt power supply to over 10,000 residents of an area, while tripping of a single 11 KV line might cause disruption to over 2,500 residents. Discoms said disrupting power supply and causing damage to power equipment is punishable under the Electricity Act and the Delhi Police Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/37-power-line-tripping-cases-recorded-due-to-kite-manjha/articleshow/77568320.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Rains fail to deter celebrations in Vijayawada||VIJAYAWADA: Rains and the Covid-19 outbreak failed to dampen the observance of Independence Day in the city as schools, colleges and offices shifted celebrations online. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy hoisted the national flag at state-level celebrations at the Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium in the city. Large portions of the ground were waterlogged following continuous rainfall and a special track was laid inside the stadium to facilitate the movement of the chief minister’s vehicle and parade. Traffic was diverted on Mahatma Gandhi Road from Benz Circle to Old Bus Stand in view of the celebrations. Chief secretary Nilam Sawhney hoisted the flag at AP secretariat. “Freedom enjoyed by us is the result of sacrifices made by the freedom fighters. Similarly, frontline warriors are sacrificing their lives to protect us from Covid-19 and we should respect them,” Sawhney said. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz hoisted the flag at Machilipatnam and awarded certificates to officials who rendered service during the Covid-19 outbreak. Employees of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) participated in celebrations held at the head office. Social distancing norms were followed. Commissioner Prasanna Venkatesh hoisted the flag and appreciated sanitation workers and health wing authorities who have been working since the start of the outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rains-fail-to-deter-celebrations-in-vij/articleshow/77566962.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Local don killed in Rein Bazar||Hyderabad: An alleged history-sheeter was killed by unknown persons with sharp-edged weapons in Rein Bazar on Saturday night. The incident happened on the road when the victim, Kanda Ayaz, was travelling. He died on the spot immediately after he was attacked, lying in pool of blood. Police reached the spot along with a forensic team. The officials suspect he was killed by someone with a personal enmity. A case was registered under section 302 of IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/local-don-killed-in-rein-bazar/articleshow/77567634.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Posters in Theni want O Panneerselvam as next CM||MADURAI: At a time when there is talk within AIADMK on the chief ministerial candidate for the next assembly election, people of a village in Theni have put up posters expressing the desire that O Panneerselvam, a native of the district, should become the next chief minister. Posters saying ‘OPS, #2021 CM for OPS’ have been put up throughout the district by Kenjampatti villagers. Incidentally, the village is the native place of Krishnan, personal assistant to Theni MP and OPS’ son O P Ravindranath Kumar. However, he denied he has anything to do with the posters. AIADMK office-bearers in Theni said they were not linked to the posters and were as surprised as others who saw them on Saturday. S Murugan, 32, who works as a programmer in Bengaluru, said he was part of the team that put up the posters. “Appa (OPS) was the person selected by Amma(Jayalalithaa) to occupy the chief minister’s chair. He is the only person who deserves to occupy it by all means and hence we just came out with this poster,” he said. Asked about AIADMK’s prospects in the next election and alliance with BJP, he said the alliance with BJP was something that Jayalalithaa herself had entered into and he did not see anything wrong with it. Palpandi, another villager, said their village has 220 votes and the posters were long due. “If you come to our village you will see that we have nothing more to desire in terms of infrastructure like roads and water supply, as we got it all from OPS. So it is natural that we would want him to be the next CM,” he said. Selvam (name changed), another villager, said that the villagers had decided to come up with the posters after hearing that there was a proposal to make EPS the chief minister candidate again. “It is something that many ministers are against, and our village is the first to say it out loud,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/posters-in-theni-want-ops-as-next-cm/articleshow/77567958.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Doctors in this Dakshina Kannada hospital trek in PPE kits to reach patients||MANGALURU: Given that the world is currently in the midst of an unprecedented health crisis, it is little wonder then that the medical profession has perforce undergone a radical transformation. While the more tech-savvy doctors have switched to telemedicine to consult patients, doctors of Shri Krishna Hospital in Kakkinje, Belthangady taluk in Dakshina Kannada have opted for a rather adventurous method to offer treatment to those in need – garbed in personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, doctors are trekking to remote villages in the far reaches of the Western Ghats. Medical director of the hospital, which is located at the foot of the Western Ghats in Belthangady, Dr Murali Krishna Irwathraya pointed out that theirs was the only healthcare institution within a 40km-radius in the Charmadi area. “Our ambulances can be booked with a phone call. Since doctors are generally disinclined to work in rural areas, we are a small team of doctors working at our 30-bed facility. One of the doctors is my wife Dr Vandana M Irwathraya. Many patients visit our hospital from distances as far as 25km. We also have a dedicated ambulance to ensure that accident victims are brought to the hospital without delay,” Dr Murali Krishna told TOI. He said that, following the enforcement of the lockdown, the hospital was compelled to suspend operations under the ‘Shri Krishna Yogakshema’ initiative under which the doctors made door-to-door visits to patients in surrounding villages.. “But when we found that patients were struggling, we resumed door-to-door services a month ago. There have been instances wherein doctors have had to trek for a kilometre wearing PPE kits since the terrain is such that the ambulance cannot go all the way to the patients’ homes. We provide general body check-up, dressing, nebulisation and ECG services on such visits. All staff deployed on these visits are provided PPE kits,” Dr Murali Krishna added. The doctor said that patients and those in charge of tending to them were also imparted basic lessons on hygiene, yoga and the benefits of pranayama. “This programme was launched five years ago, and it turned out to be a blessing for the people when the pandemic struck,” he said. One of the instances that Dr Murali Krishna said they were unlikely to forget was of a fortuitous visit to the home of a patient, the family members of whom were convinced was dead, and had started preparing for her final rites. “When our team checked the patient’s vital parameters, the doctor found that she was alive, and suffering from severe hypoglycemia – a condition wherein the sugar level in your blood drops – and was given IV fluids. Sometime after that, she regained consciousness,” he recalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/doctors-in-this-dakshina-kannada-hospital-trek-in-ppe-kits-to-reach-patients/articleshow/77567790.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 16, 2020||Mysuru||CM BS Yediyurappa will offer bagina at KRS reservoir||MANDYA: Chief minister B S Yeddyurappa will offer bagina to the Cauvery River at KRS reservoir on August 21, said district in-charge minister Narayanagowda. Speaking to the media after hoisting the national flag as part of Independence Day celebrations in Mandya on Saturday, Narayanagowda said that the district administration has been tasked with making preparations for offering bagina on August 21, which happens to be the day Ganesha festival will be celebrated. “Yediyurappa will offer bagina at KRS reservoir and later at Kabini reservoir on the day of the Ganesha festival. It will be a simple affair due to the pandemic. It is our dharma to offer bagina to sacred rivers and pray for good rain,” Narayanagowda said. The water level at KRS reservoir was at 124.4 ft against a maximum level of 124.8 ft with inflow of 8,847 cusecs, while outflow was 5,317 cusecs. Farmers stage protest Meanwhile, farmers under the aegis of Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha (KRRS) staged a protest in Mandya on Saturday, urging the state government to completely ban illegal stone mining in and around the KRS dam, as it is endangering the reservoir. The agitators who converged at Nalvadi Circle, shouted slogans against the state government for allowing the mining mafia to endanger the reservoir. Pramoda Devi Wadiyar, a senior member of the erstwhile Mysuru royal family, visited the KRS reservoir on Saturday and expressed happiness over blessings received from Cauvery Mata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/yediyurappa-will-offer-bagina-at-krs-reservoir/articleshow/77567737.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Madurai||Low-key celebrations in southern districts||Madurai: As the lockdown made full-fledged celebrations impossible, many organisations and individuals celebrated it in a small manner on Saturday. The district collectors hoisted the flags and later revenue officials including local tahsildars visited the homes of freedom fighters and handed over shawls and distributed sweets to them. As most of the freedom fighters are over 90 years and are in the Covid-19 vulnerable category, it was decided to honour them in their homes. Residents’ welfare associations also held low key celebrations on their premises. At the Madras high court bench, administrative judge Justice M Sathyanarayanan hoisted the national flag on the court campus. Covid frontline workers including doctors, health workers and cleanliness workers were honoured at the function. Deputy director of archaeology R Sivanandam hoisted the tricolour at the excavation site in Keeladi. Locals and workers cleaned the site for the flag pole and decorated it in advance for the event. This is the third consecutive year in which archaeologists are celebrating Independence day at the excavation site. Ganeshan, a homeless person rescued by the Idhayam Trust, hoisted the flag in a function held on the trust premises. RTI activist K Hakim, trust members Madharsha and Mani, among others participated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/low-key-celebrations-in-southern-districts/articleshow/77567965.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||No corruption, claims Delhi University, seeks funds for 12 colleges||NEW DELHI: Taking “strong exception” to allegations of corruption levelled against it by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, the Delhi University administration has claimed that the charges are false and that the government should release the necessary grants for all 12 fully-funded DU colleges. In response, the government reiterated that it ordered a financial audit of seven colleges, including six of those fully funded by Delhi government, only after “many parents and students of these colleges complained about financial irregularities.” The press release issued by DU’s dean of colleges on August 14 stated that the varsity has taken “strong exception to the sweeping statement alleging graft charges in the 12 colleges by GNCTD.” Sisodia had recently alleged corruption and ordered audit at a few of the colleges. “The inability of Delhi government-funded DU colleges to pay staff salaries despite a 70% increase in budget allocation in the last five years indicates corruption,” the deputy CM had said. In its response, DU stated that there are three types of audit, which are conducted on an annual basis in the university— internal audit conducted by DU-approved panel of auditors, examiner local funds account audit conducted by Delhi government and the AGCR conducted by CAG. “The audit reports of all these colleges till date reflect that the financial affairs are managed as per norms of University of Delhi and general financial rules.” DU explained that the increase in expenditure was due to the implementation of the 7th Central Pay Commission, which increased the salary per person by approximately 25%; the increase in wages paid to contractual staff; an increase in salary of ad hoc faculty by approximately 60%; and an annual increment of 3% over the period of five years. Increase in dearness allowance and addition of new courses also resulted in increased expenses, the varsity added. Apart from salaries, the increase in expenditure is due to “inflation; increased number of students due to implementation of EWS reservation; and increase in electricity, water supply, sanitation and security bills on account of shifting to new campuses.” “The cumulative effect of all the above factors increased the expenditure under the head other than salary by approximately 300% - 500%,” the dean of colleges added in the statement. DU also said that the governing bodies of all the 12 colleges have been formed as per rules and regulations. “As per DU rules, there is no linkage between formation of governing body and release of grant-in-aid. Withholding of funds has caused extreme hardship to staff and students of these colleges.” Asking the government to release grants, DU said that the “colleges cannot be involved in graft cases at all and it is unfortunate that the statement in the media by the deputy CM has offended the sentiments of staff members and students who have worked hard to build the academic standards of their institutions.” Delhi government officials in a statement said that “funds being given by Delhi government to the colleges are public money and it is the responsibility of the government to keep an account of public money on the complaint of the public. For this reason, the government has decided to conduct a financial audit of colleges of DU. Why is the University of Delhi scared of audits is beyond comprehension. If Delhi University feels that there is no financial mess, then there is no need to fear. The truth will come out in the audit.” They also questioned why DU has not paid the salary of staff for the last three months despite the government releasing the funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-corruption-claims-du-seeks-funds-for-12-colleges/articleshow/77567963.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: 25kg charas seized in trap set by cops||TUTICORIN: Twenty-five kg of ‘charas’ (a drug made from ganja) valued at Rs 2.5 crore was seized by the Tuticorin police on Saturday. Police lured the peddlers into their trap and caught them red-handed with the drugs that were packed in cake form in small bundles of brown paper. The accused have been identified as K Senthil Kumar, 43, of Nagercoil and M Durairaj, 44, of Nanguneri. Inquiry with them revealed that two men Mani and Maheswaran had handed over the drugs and asked them to deliver it near Tiruchendur in Tuticorin district. “They are former Goondas Act detainees. They did not have any idea about smuggling and acted only as carriers. We are on the lookout for the two main accused from Dindigul and Nagercoil, who operated the arrested men. Only after arresting them, we will know the source of the contraband item and its destination,” Jayakumar said. In the last one month, the Tuticorin district police had registered 25 cases and arrested 32 people for peddling drugs. Probe with accused in one of the cases led to the arrest of the two on Saturday. The arrested duo had initially brought samples worth a few thousand rupees and made to bring a larger quantity, following which they came on a bike with a 25kg stock and were caught. The operation began late on Friday and continued till Saturday. Cases pending against the arrested duo include murder, theft and brewing illicit arrack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/25kg-charas-seized-in-trap-set-by-cops/articleshow/77567962.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Sanitary workers hoist tricolour at corporation school||MADURAI: A group of sanitary workers got the unique opportunity to hoist the tricolour at a corporation school on the occasion of the country’s 74th Independence Day. The workers, known as ‘Thooimai Panniyalargal’, are a group of six who regularly clean and sanitize ward 67, Singarathoppu. “We do our best in cleaning the four schools as we want the children studying here to have a clean environment,” said Koolu, 55, the eldest among the workers. Their efforts were recognised by headmaster of the Corporation Middle School, A Joseph Jayaseelan. “I realised they were warriors during this pandemic, risking their lives to give us a clean and hygienic environment,” he said. Jayaseelan says that it is eight months since he assumed charge as the headmaster and was impressed by their dedication during the lockdown. “Even when the school was closed the workers continued to clean the premises regularly. Our school is one of the cleanest and greenest in the city thanks to them,” he said. Three sanitary workers - Koolu, Sekhar and T Alagupandi - came to the school in their best uniforms early in the morning and hoisted the flag. “We have seen the flag being hoisted in television and films. This is indeed a great honour,” said Alagupandi who has studied up to the sixth standard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sanitary-workers-hoist-tricolour-at-corpn-school/articleshow/77567961.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Madurai||Welfare measures distributed||Madurai: The 74th Independence Day was celebrated without much fanfare in the southern districts with district collectors unfurling the tricolour and distributing welfare measures to a handful of beneficiaries. In Madurai, District Collector Dr T G Vinay hoisted the flag at the Armed Reserve Grounds and distributed welfare measures to the tune of Rs 28.74 lakh to 72 beneficiaries. Officers including revenue officials, teachers and police personnel who had performed outstandingly were honoured at the event. Tenkasi district celebrated its first Independence day after being bifurcated. District Collector Arun Sundar Dayalan hoisted the tricolour at an event held in the local school. In Dindigul, collector M Vijayalakshmi hoisted the flag following which colourful balloons and pigeons were released as a mark of peace. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/welfare-measures-distributed/articleshow/77567971.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Dad gone, inspector masks her grief, leads Independence Day parade||TIRUNELVELI: When she led her contingent at the Independence Day parade, inspector N Maheshwari did not give the slightest hint that she had lost her father the previous night. She was there at the ground to perform her duty before rushing 230km by road to attend his final rites in Dindigul district. Her father Narayanaswamy, 83, passed away at Vadamadurai due to age-related ailments. Her husband Balamurugan, who is with the intelligence unit of Tirunelveli city police, had returned to work after recovering from Covid-19. With him under quarantine for two weeks, Maheshwari was busy with Independence Day parade rehearsal and looking after her children. Sunk in grief over her father’s demise, she wanted to leave immediately, but she did not want things to go wrong at the parade as it would be inappropriate to have a substitute at the last moment to lead it. She did not inform her seniors and was at the VOC Stadium ground on Saturday morning. The mask helped cover her grief as she led the parade with her usual deep voice. The guard of honour was accepted by district collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish. Soon after the parade, Maheshwari and Balamurugan hurriedly left the ground, rushing to Vadamadurai. It was only at this point that officers came to know about her loss. Praise and condolence messages started pouring in for her on social media as pictures of the officer leading the parade were widely circulated. Maheshwari was inconsolable and was not in a position to talk about her act and the grief she hid for more than 13 hours. She reached Dindigul in the afternoon and paid her last respects to her father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dad-gone-cop-masks-grief-leads-parade/articleshow/77567968.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Old bus stand, Goa Bagayatdar shortlisted for Ponda matoli bazaar||PONDA: With Chovoth (Ganesh Chaturthi) around the corner, the Ponda Municipal Council (PMC) is yet to decide on the venue for the annual matoli bazaar. Traditionally, it was held at the Budhwar Peth (Upper Bazaar), but considering the safety of the people visiting the bazaar due the rising number of vehicles, the council had been organising it at the ‘airport road’ for the last couple of years. However, after shopping at this venue, those availing public public transport had to carry the goods all the way to the Upper Bazaar bus stop to catch a bus. Due to the instability in the council following the resignation of the PMC chairperson and with the new municipal chief not yet to be elected, during the last council meeting the outgoing chairperson Venkatesh Naik authorised the municipality’s chief officer Kedar Naik to decide on the venue of this year’s matoli bazaar. Naik said the Goa Bagayatdar and Indira market complex at the old bus stand have been shortlisted, and the pros and cons are being studied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/old-bus-stand-goa-bagayatdar-shortlisted-for-ponda-matoli-bazaar/articleshow/77567959.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Trichy||Spastics Society director gets ‘Best Social Worker Award’||TRICHY: Director of The Spastics Society of Tiruchirapalli, C Shanthakumar, 58, has been presented with the Best Social Worker Award of 2020 for his service to children with cerebral palsy.  The award was given by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami during the 74th Independence Day function in Chennai on Saturday. The award carries a 10g gold medal and a certificate of appreciation by the chief minister. The spastics’ society has been providing rehabilitation services to the children of cerebral palsy through its main centre in Trichy city, Lalgudi, Thuraiyur, Manapparai and Musiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spastics-society-director-gets-best-social-worker-award/articleshow/77567648.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Ceremonial parade and floral tributes mark observance of I-Day at naval units||VISAKHAPATNAM: The defence establishment including the Eastern Naval Command (ENC), Naval Science and Technology Lab (NSTL) and Sainik School, Korukonda conducted various activities on the occasion of the 74th Independence Day on Saturday. A ceremonial parade was held at the Eastern Naval Command (ENC) consisting of platoons of naval personnel drawn from various ships, submarines, establishment and Defence Security Corps. Vice-Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, ENC took the salute and inspected a 50-men armed guard. Speaking on the occasion, the Commander-in-Chief said various administrative measures such as setting up wellness centres, awareness campaigns and quarantine centres for the naval community had checked the spread of Covid-19 amongst the naval community and assured support, especially for critical cases. The Commander-in-Chief congratulated INS Jalashwa, Airavat and Shakti for safely bringing home over 3,500 Indian nationals as part of Operation Samudra Setu during the pandemic. He also appreciated the efforts of naval dockyard for manufacturing medical equipment for Covid-19 patients. The Commander-in-Chief reminded personnel of the tense security situation in the backdrop of the standoff between Indian and Chinese armies in Ladakh. He added that with changing security dynamics, maritime security in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR) is vital and the ENC should be prepared to face challenges from traditional and non-traditional asymmetric threats. In a parallel event at the Victory at Sea War Memorial on Beach Road, Vice-Admiral Kalidoss Srinivas, project director of Ship Building Centre, Visakhapatnam paid floral tributes to martyrs. At the NSTL, director OR Nandagopan hoisted the flag and appealed to scientists and officers that research delays must be reduced to speed up ongoing projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ceremonial-parade-and-floral-tributes-mark-observance-of-i-day-at-naval-units/articleshow/77566975.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Madurai||23% growth in freight earnings in Madurai railway division||Madurai: Cancellation of trains due to the Covid-19 pandemic resulted in heavy loss in passenger revenue. But, the earnings through operating goods trains have increased to Rs 71.6 crore this fiscal against last year’s Rs 58 crore, recording a growth of 23%, Madurai divisional railway manager (DRM), V R Lenin said Speaking after hoisting the Tricolour at the 74th Independence Day celebrations organized at the divisional office here on Saturday, Lenin said that it is the highest ever goods earning during this period.Speed of goods trains which used to be slower has increased with the average speed touching 40.9kmph, thereby showing an improvement of 67.6%, he said. The division has run 174 parcel and 112 special trains.The DRM said that a total of 1.52 lakh passengers cancelled bookings during the pandemic and Rs 6.7 crore has been refunded till July.The division has transported 35,618 stranded migrant workers to their home states through Shramik specials and earned Rs 3.2 crore. Lenin said that during the lockdown several important works have been completed in the division taking advantage of the suspension of regular train services. A portion of the second line between Madurai and Tuticorin and its electrification was commissioned for a stretch of 44km between Kadambur-Milavittan-Gangaikondan- Thattaparai on July 15.Complete track renewal work was completed on the Trichy - Dindigul and Virudhunagar- Vanchimaniyachchi section for a length of 12.89km. Yard remodelling work at Milavittan for the connectivity of the Milavittan- Melmarudur new line as part of Madurai-Tuticorin via Aruppukottai new line was commissioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/23-growth-in-freight-earnings-in-madurai-railway-division/articleshow/77567974.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Minor rape case: Panel meets girl’s kin, former peers||HYDERABAD: A high-power committee, formed to investigate the alleged rape of a 14-year-old girl at an orphanage in Ameenpur, plans to interview children who were earlier staying at Maruthi Home, where the incident occurred. The committee met the family of the minor at Bowenpally and some former inmates of the orphanage on Saturday. “No children, so far, have alleged similar abuse or harassment. They may open up in due course of time,” a WCWD official told TOI. According to Rangareddy DCPO, Maruthi Home, where the 14-year-old girl was sexually assaulted, was last inspected in April. “The inspections are done once every three months. But even during the inspection, the incident did not come to light. At least four members from the inspection committee would go for inspection. They check the medical profile of the girls,” said DCPO Satish Babu. According to a official, several girls from the Bharosa Centre and WCWD were also shifted to the home. “Elopement victims from Bharosa Centre and rescued girls by WCWD were also sent to that home. They were up-to-date with documents and would maintain the home well following Juvenile Justice Act. The incident came as a shock for many of us,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-rape-case-panel-meets-girls-kin-former-peers/articleshow/77567654.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 16, 2020||Trichy||Fake e-pass racket busted in Karur dist, five arrested||A fake e-pass racket at Pallapati in Karur district was busted by the district administration on Saturday, resulting in the arrest of five people. The Aravakurichi police arrested a car driver G Venkatesh, 23, of Nanguneri in Tuticorin district, the owner of TT travels in Pallapatti, Thamimun Ansari, 25, of Pallapatti and three passengers Iqbal, 22, Shakeel, 22 and Kaja Mohideen, 22, of Pallapatti. The racket came to light through messages circulated on WhatsApp groups in Pallapatti by Ansari. According to the message, he offered to take anyone to any part of the state using e-pass for 2,000 per head. However, it was revealed during investigation that they did not have a valid e-pass. As the issue came to the notice of the Karur district collector, T Anbazhagam, he directed the revenue divisional officer (RDO) of Karur, N S Balasurabamanian, to plan an operation to nab Ansari and his aides. Balasurabamanian assigned village assistant of Aravakurichi, Subramanian to go ahead with the mission. Following this, Subramanian contacted TT travel agency and asked them to take him to Chennai. After striking a deal, Subramani went to the agency on Friday evening and paid 2,000. As planned by the agency, Subramani waited at a particular location in Pallapatti when a car driven by Venkatesh arrived there. Iqbal, Shakeel and Mohideen were already inside. Subramani boarded the car and as the car reached the Aravakurichi bypass on Saturday morning, a police team led by sub-inspector of police, Aravakurichi, R Saravanan intercepted the vehicle. “Inquiry revealed that they had been doing this for the last few months. They took some people to Chennai and few to other parts during the period,” said Saravanan. Police booked all of them on charges of violation of lockdown norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fake-e-pass-racket-busted-in-karur-dist-five-arrested/articleshow/77567650.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Trichy||Cop bags CM’s award for blood donation to pregnant woman||TRICHY: S Syed Abuthahir, a constable attached to Manapparai police station, was honoured with a medal and cash reward of Rs 10,000 by chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami at Chennai on Saturday for his timely action of donating blood to a pregnant woman to facilitate her delivery during the lockdown. “I never expected a small help to a pregnant woman with blood donation to bring such laurels. But I feel very honoured. If such encouragement is given, it will boost the force’s morale and they would do better service,” he told TOI on the way to Trichy from Chennai after receiving the award. What brought Abuthahir the award was his compassion towards a pregnant woman, Sulochana, 25, who was sent back by a private hospital due to shortage of O positive blood to perform caesarean delivery in Manapparai on April 6. On seeing the woman and her husband waiting for a vehicle to return during the lockdown, Abuthahir, who was on duty on the road, approached them and volunteered to donate blood. As he donated the blood at the right time, the caesarean was performed and a baby girl was born the same night at the hospital. Appreciating his action, the then superintendent of police, Zia Ul Haq, had honoured him with cash reward. He was one among 27 people selected for the CM’s special awards for best services during the pandemic and one of the three in the police department to get the award at the Independence Day function. Abuthahir said that DGP J K Tripathy had also appreciated and encouraged him to continue such service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cop-bags-cms-award-for-blood-donation-to-pregnant-woman/articleshow/77567653.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 16, 2020||Madurai||VOC port all set to become transshipment hub at Rs 7,000-cr||Tuticoirn: V O Chidambaranar Port would be transformed into a transshipment hub at an outlay of Rs 7,000 crore, port chairman T K Ramachandran said in his Independence Day message on Saturday. After hoisting the national flag at the port, Ramachandran said the Tuticorin port, which is one of the 12 major ports in the country, would take up the mammoth task in four phases. According to the chairman, the ministry of shipping is pro-actively working towards achieving ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat’ (self-reliant India) by promoting ‘port-led industries’ and attaining self-reliance in port infrastructure development. The port has earmarked 1,689 acres of land for development of port-based industries. Diverse industries from fertilizers, petrochemical, edible oil, LNG and wind blade segments have expressed interest to set up industries in the space. Port officials said two oil companies had expressed interest in setting up their facilities. Earlier, after accepting the guard of honour by CISF personnel, Ramachandran released the Covid-19 manual of the VOC Port. The first copy was received by deputy chairman of the port Bimal Kumar Jha. All the officers and staff who rendered meritorious service during the Covid-19 pandemic were given a standing ovation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/voc-port-all-set-to-become-transshipment-hub-at-rs-7000-cr/articleshow/77567973.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hubballi||Lesson on Karnataka freedom fighter included in Maharashtra varsity syllabus||HAVERI: Although he was the only Kannadiga to participate in the epochal ‘Dandi March’ led by Mahatma Gandhi, few people in Karnataka, leave alone the rest of India, have heard of Mailar Mahadeva, a freedom fighter who has also participated in the ‘Quit India’ Movement. However, a lesson on this little-known historical personality, once known as the Bhagat Singh of Karnataka, has been included in the syllabus of the Kannada optional paper at the Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University in Nanded, Maharashtra. The lesson on Mailar Mahadeva is a drama written on the freedom fighter by Manu Baligar, president of the Kannada Sahitya Parishat (KSP). Member of Mailar Mahadeva National Memorial Trust VN Tippanagoudar said that the organisation had managed to get lessons on the freedom fighter included in the Kannada textbooks for class VII. “We are in talks with the authorities concerned to set up study centres to encourage research on Mailar Mahadeva at the universities. But varsities have not expressed interest to undertake such an initiative,” Tippanagoudar said. Baligar said that he had been intimated by the Maharashtra university about the inclusion of his drama on Mailar Mahadeva, which is a narrative focussing on his heroics in the freedom struggle, in its curriculum. “It will help the younger generation learn about the sacrifice of Mahadeva and his family members. It is disappointing that universities in Karnataka are disinclined to include him in their curriculum,” he added. Aam Aadmi Party member Vikas Soppin rued the neglect that Mailar Mahadev had suffered in his home state. He urged varsities in Karnataka to establish a study centre in Mahadev’s name to educate the next generation about his legacy and contribution to the nation. Chairman of the department of Kannada at Swami Ramanand Teerth Marathwada University Prof Ramesh Mulage said that Mailar Mahadev was a staunch follower of the Mahatma, who had never taken up arms in his struggle against the British. “His life and the sacrifices he made need to be remembered, and will serve as an inspiration for the youngsters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/lesson-on-ktaka-freedom-fighter-included-in-maharashtra-varsity-syllabus/articleshow/77566982.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
August 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Waltair div goods revenue rises||Visakhapatnam: The Waltair division of East Coast Railway (ECoR) achieved an originating loading of 66.82 million tonnes (MT) during 2019-20, against 61.91 MT in the previous financial year, an improvement of 7.93 %. Unfurling the national flag to mark the 74th Independence Day here on Saturday, Waltair divisional railway manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava said the division earned a goods revenue of Rs 8,166.3 crores during 2019-20 against Rs 7,306.3 crores the previous financial year, marking an increase of 11.77 %. Shrivastava further said the division also achieved passenger earnings of Rs 562.18 crores during 2019-20, as against Rs 554.39 crores in the previous year, an increase of 1.41 %. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/waltair-div-goods-revenue-rises/articleshow/77566985.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Mapusa says no to temporary stalls near Ganesh pandals||SALIGAO: The Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC), in a public notice issued on Friday, stated that temporary stalls for the sale of flowers, lottery tickets etc near sarvajanik Ganesh pandals and along adjoining roads will not be allowed. The pandals will also have to be sanitised every day. Matoli bazaars will be set up near Sai Baba temple at Cunchelim, near Quality Bazaar at Xim-Khorlim, near Lohia Garden and near the Bandekar petrol pump at Karaswada. The municipality has also made social distancing and the use of face masks and face shields mandatory during the course of the festival. While it has stated that Ganesh idols can be immersed in the Tar river and in an artificial pond near Bodgeshwar temple, citizens may also perform the ceremony at neighbourhood wells or artificial tanks, which will subsequently be desilted by the council. Only two people per household will be allowed for visarjan. Common processions with idols from housing societies or clusters of houses should be avoided, the municipality has stated. Aarti and bursting of firecrackers along roads and at immersion spots will also not be allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-says-no-to-temporary-stalls-near-ganesh-pandals/articleshow/77567969.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Trichy||Site for debris recycling plant identified in Trichy||TRICHY: Trichy Corporation has identified a site in Panjapur to establish a construction and demolition (C&D) waste recycling plant for processing construction debris that is presently being dumped in vacant plots and waterbodies. The corporation on Saturday floated a request for proposal (RFP) for collection, transportation, processing and management of construction and demolition waste under public-private partnership (PPP) model. As per the plan, the plant will accept the construction debris for a price and recycle the same into flooring tiles and pavement blocks, and sell them. A private organisation with expertise in operating the plant will be identified. Two acres of land is okayed near Panjapur sewage treatment plant (STP). “We have carried out a study through which we inferred a significant demand for the construction debris recycling plant. Design, build, finance, operate and transfer (DBFOT) model is considered,” a senior corporation official said. Srirangam and K Abishekapuram zones that have a significant number of decades-old buildings were identified as potential localities to generate construction waste. “The absence of C&D plant was a blot in Trichy’s cleanliness accolades which robbed the city’s chances of securing top 10 ranks in cleanliness surveys. The facility will safeguard water bodies from pollution,” the official added. A suitable private player will be identified within the next two months to materialise the proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/site-for-debris-recycling-plant-identified-in-trichy/articleshow/77567659.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 16, 2020||Trichy||Covid warriors in Trichy felicitated||TRICHY: Trichy Corporation felicitated Covid-19 warriors, including sanitary workers involved in preventive measures in the city, as part of Independence Day celebrations. Officials including 11 medical officers, engineering department officials and sanitary officials were felicitated with a certificate of appreciation by corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian in a low-key event held at the corporation’s main office. As many as 12 revenue assistants instrumental in carrying out door-to-door fever surveillance were appreciated by the civic body for additionally carrying out the health department’s activities. Sanitary workers attached to Ponmalai zone and Bhima Nagar Siddha hospital received a special mention for their support in preparing Kabasura Kudineer. The civic body also honoured 11 employees who had completed 25 years of service. Meanwhile, in the independence day celebration held at Bhel campus near Trichy, executive director R Padmanabhan said that the factory has planned to ensure that targets are achieved and customer requirements are fully met despite the pandemic. He commended the work done by anti-Covid taskforce in operating helplines and propagating advisories through dedicated social media groups to ensure safe practices in the factory and townships.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-warriors-in-trichy-felicitated/articleshow/77567673.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Trichy||Three women get Kalpana Chawla award for bravery||TRICHY: The Tamil Nadu government awarded three women the Kalpana Chawla award for displaying bravery in rescuing two youths from drowning. The Perambalur women were given a rousing welcome on their return to Aadhanur, their native hamlet. On August 12, the women - R Senthamilselvi, S Muthammal and A Ananthavalli - hailing from Aadhanur were washing their clothes at Kottarai dam. As a portion of the reservoir was brimming with rainwater, a group of youths from Siruvachur after playing cricket were taking a leisurely dip. Although the women had warned the youths about the risks, as many as 12 youths were taking bath in the dam. While two youths identified as Pavithran and Ranjith drowned, two more youths identified as Pravinkumar and Karthik were battling for life. The women on hearing the alarms raised by the youths using their sarees rescued the two youths from drowning without showing any hesitation. Their action had received the praise of locals on social media platforms, and the district administration subsequently appreciated the women. District Collector V Santha had nominated them for Kalpana Chawla award. They received the award in Chennai in the presence of Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The district administration had arranged transport facility for the women to travel to Chennai. The women said they had spontaneously helped the youths without expecting any recognition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/three-women-get-kalpana-chawla-award-for-bravery/articleshow/77567687.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 200 illegal children’s homes in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The alleged rape of a minor girl at a city orphanage recently, has brought to light the illegal mushrooming of child care institutes (CCIs) across Telangana. According to officials of the women and child welfare department (WCWD), there are over 200 such shelters up and running in the state — most of them in Rangareddy and Medchal districts. Within Hyderabad, there are at least five. Apart from flouting norms under the Juvenile Justice Act, many of them operate out of crammed spaces — some as small as a bathroom — often discreetly, with no signboard outside the CCI. “Most of them spring up in the outskirts and not core city limits as the arrangement make its easier to escape from the officials’ watch,” said a WCWD official, raising an alarm about the safety of children living in these CCIs — a fear echoed by many activists. “The children in these places are very vulnerable to all kinds of abuse. Since these CCIs — rapidly growing in numbers — are not on the government’s radar, nobody knows what happens inside the homes. The children could be abused or forced to beg by the staff or even trafficked,” said Mamatha Raghuveer, founder of Tharuni NGO, who works with Telangana Women Safety Wing. She added, “Most of them are running a business, using those kids to attract charity funds...Maybe just 10% of these unregistered orphanages are genuine.” Given the large number of these shelters, WCWD officials say it is impossible to initiate action against all of them. “Whenever we identify an unregistered CCI, we crack the whip on them. But often, they go unnoticed. Also, while some owners, after our intervention, shut the orphanage down, they open another one within two years,” the official said. In 2019, 18 unregistered homes were shut in Rangareddy. While the District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) of Rangareddy, Satish Babu, maintained that regular inspections are conducted to weed out those lacking proper facilities “like food, hygiene, utilities and audit reports”, Dr Tripurana Venkataratnam, former chairperson of Telangana State Commission for Women raised doubts over the quality of these inspections. “Though there is an inspection committee that monitors the CCIs, it exists only on paper. The quality of the inspections is very poor,” said Dr Tripurana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-200-illegal-childrens-homes-in-t/articleshow/77567691.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Hostel becomes self-reliant by making Bunt masala powders||MANGALURU: The pandemic has hit the economy hard, not only in Mangaluru, but worldwide. A few organisations have been devising their own innovative solutions to bounce back to normal. One such organisation is Buntara Yane Nadavara Mathr Sangha in Mangaluru. The organisation’s Sri Ramakrishna Vidyarthini Bhavan at Lalbagh, a hostel meant for students as well as working women from all communities, has started making traditional Bunt masala powders used in day-to-day cooking. This came about since hostels are closed since the lockdown was clamped, and the authorities are finding it difficult to maintain the infrastructure as well as pay the salaries of the hostel staff. It’s no secret that the Bunt community is well known for their hospitality, as many from the coastal district have established hotels and restaurants in other parts of the country, especially in Mumbai. Even videos of actor Shilpa Shetty cooking traditional Tulu cuisines have gone viral on several occasions. The hostel consists of two cooks, three assistants, four house-keeping staff and two security personnel. Ajith Kumar Rai Maladi, president of Buntara Yane Nadavara Mathr Sangha, and the management committee were of the firm opinion not to fire anyone. However, they had to find a way to pay the salaries of the staff and maintain the hostel. After discussions with members, the president and the woman members of the committee arrived at a solution—to manufacture traditional Bunt cooking masala powders. This includes the coastal districts’ favourite ‘kori aajadina masala (chicken fried masala)’, 3 in1 chicken masala, royal chicken masala, sambar powder, rasam powder and an exclusive herbal immunity booster kashaya (herbal powder). Sarika Bhandary, secretary of the hostel committee says, “We operate on a no-profit-no-loss basis. The mess bill is calculated at the end of the month, and shared among the hostellers. In the meeting several suggestions came up, but everyone was for making masala powder. Our members Latha Shetty, Sharmila Shetty and Mamatha Marla are experts in the field of making traditional Bunt style of masala powders, and they voluntarily supported with their recipes. The women have successfully manufactured 200 kg of masala powders in the first consignment, by maintaining hygiene and taste, and the second batch is ready for sale. p3masalapowder Making of masala powder by committee members and staff of Sri Ramakrishna Vidyarthini Bhavan in Mangaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/hostel-becomes-self-reliant-by-making-bunt-masala-powders/articleshow/77566459.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Trichy||Work on to decongest Trichy airport terminal||TRICHY: Airports Authority of India has taken up capacity modification at the present terminal building by renovating the passenger movement area and avoid congestion in the security hold and immigration sections. Airport director S Dharmaraj said while addressing the Independence Day celebrations at the airport that the work would be completed by March 2021. This is apart from the ongoing construction of a new integrated terminal buildings and allied airside infrastructure works at an estimated Rs 1,000 crore. Acquisition of land and its subsequent transfer for runway expansion at Trichy airport have also been expedited and constantly pursued with the district collector to complete the process post-Covid-19. “Commencement of courier operation has also been accelerated”, he further stated. Meanwhile, 5.5 acres acquired in Kottapattu village is to be handed over to AAI at the earliest for installation of a simple approach lighting system for the runway. The ongoing re-carpeting work of runway has been expedited so that it will be fully ready during the lockdown period itself. “So far we have handled 120 rescue flights in which around 20,000 people stranded in various countries have arrived here. It is also noted that an Ethiopian flight was operated from another continent too”, the airport director added. Earlier, he appreciated the frontline workers who have been valiantly battling Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/work-on-to-decongest-trichy-airport-terminal/articleshow/77567689.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Trichy||Four die as mini truck rams parked lorry||TIRUVARUR: Four people died on the spot when a mini truck rammed a stationary lorry near Mannargudi in the wee hours of Saturday. According to the police, the deceased have been identified as C Venkatachalam, 39, of Alangudi, and P Vengakachalam, 23, of Aranthangi, both from Pudukottai district, P Chandrasekar, 23, of Darapuram, and K Shibu Maji, 21, of West Bengal. The van was heading towards Mannargudi from Thanjavur. In the incident, all the four labourers died on the spot, while driver R Ramesh, 31, of Nathapalayam in Tiruppur district, escaped with injuries. He has been admitted to the government hospital in Tiruvarur. On information, Mannargudi DSP Rajmohan and a police team rushed to the spot and retrieved the bodies and sent them to Mannargudi government hospital for post mortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4-die-as-mini-truck-rams-parked-lorry/articleshow/77567694.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Librarian wins IIPP’s outstanding community leader award||Mangaluru: Vishala B K, librarian, St Agnes College has been named outstanding community leader for the year 2020 by the city-based International Institute for Public Policy. Vishala, who has served at the St Agnes College for 34 years, augmented her own educational qualifications with an MPhil and a PhD in Library and Information Science. In keeping with the digital age in which she works and functions, Vishala claims web-designing, developing blogs, e-journal management and library automation as her specific areas of expertise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/librarian-wins-iipps-outstanding-community-leader-award/articleshow/77566465.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Trichy||Home-quarantined advised to buy pulse oximeter, thermal scanner||THANJAVUR: District collector M Govinda Rao has instructed Covid-19 positive patients who have opted for home quarantine to have a pulse oximeter and a thermal scanner for their own usage. He also warned medical shops of stringent action if found charging exorbitant prices for the devices. “People in home quarantine should have one oximeter to monitor their oxygen level being supplied to their brain and a thermal scanner to check body temperature frequently. If they find anything abnormal, they should immediately approach the government hospital for further treatment,” the collector said. “If anyone is found selling pulse oximeter and thermal scanner at rates higher than the maximum retail price, action will be taken against the concerned medical shops by the district administration,” he warned. A pulse oximeter costs between Rs 1,800 and Rs 3,000. Few companies are offering up to Rs 2,000 discount on the device. Likewise, a thermal scanner costs between Rs 1,500 and Rs 3,000, sources said. The district administration has taken various measures to combat the spread of coronavirus in the district. People infected by the virus are sent to isolation wards established in Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur for treatment. This apart, three more Covid-19 centres have also been established in Vallam, Annai Engineering College in Kumbakonam, and slum clearance board building in Pattukottai. As of now, around 100 people are under home quarantine in the district, health officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/home-quarantined-advised-to-buy-pulse-oximeter-thermal-scanner/articleshow/77567700.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mangaluru||95% of devpt works complete at Padubidri Beach: Officials||Udupi: Chandrashekar Naik, assistant director, tourism department, said, “Padubidri Beach is liklely to get Blue Flag certification by the end of this year. About 95% of development works that include the construction of toilets, installation of solar lamps and dustbins and greywater treatment plants have been completed. Currently, peripheral works like parking area are being undertaken by KRIDL and gardening work by the PWD is under progress. The beach is getting ready for inspection by the national and international jury.” To plan sustainable tourism and healthy coastal management, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change has conceived an integrated coastal management scheme, Beach Management Services (BEAMS), to reduce existing pollutants on beaches and to aspire and achieve high international standards like Blue Flag in India. There are 33 very stringent criteria to be complied to, based on which a beach is certified as Blue Flag, and permitted to hoist its flag. The moment a blue flag is hoisted on a beach, the mention is made in the global headquarters of the Foundation for Environment Education in Copenhagen, Denmark. Tourists who are familiar with Blue Flag beaches and its standards then plan their holidays in that country. Some of the works undertaken include bio-toilet blocks, changing rooms with shower panels, jogging track, and children’s play area for recreational activities of beachgoers, provision of purified drinking water on the beach to avoid plastic bottle on beaches, CCTV cameras for 24x7 surveillance, watchtowers and safety flags.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/95-of-devpt-works-complete-at-padubidri-beach-officials/articleshow/77566478.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 16, 2020||Gurgaon||77 fresh Covid cases in Gurugram, 1 dies of infection||GURUGRAM: The city on Saturday reported 77 new Covid-19 cases. This is the 18th day in a row that the city has been recording less than 100 fresh cases. At present, Covid cases in Gurugram stand at 10,185. The health department said 62 people recovered on Saturday. The total number of recoveries so far is 9,350. However, one person succumbed to the infection in the city on Saturday, an official said. So far, 130 people have died of Covid in the city, ang among them 92 had comorbidities. As many as 1,40,858 people have been put under surveillance in the district. The health department has sent 1,35,024 samples for testing, of which 1,22,694 turned out to be negative, while the results of 519 are still awaited. On Saturday, 12 people were put under government quarantine. The district has a total of 702 active cases, of which 589 are under home isolation. The health authorities have collected 2,145 samples in the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, Faridabad on Saturday recorded 180 new Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/77-fresh-covid-cases-in-gurgaon-1-dies-of-infection/articleshow/77567739.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Covid warriors feted on occasion of I-Day||MANGALURU/UDUPI: Brevity marked the 74th district level Independence Day event held under the new normal in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. The programme was telecast live on the local cable television network and on the Facebook page of district minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari and district administration, and was over in 45 minutes from the time that Poojari arrived at the venue till the parade commander sought his permission to disperse. Lauding the resolve shown by the district administration in handling the fallout of the pandemic, Poojari said the state government is doing everything in its power to stem its spread as per directions and guidance given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The administration has taken a firm step to ensure free testing for Covid-19 and treatment of patients. The government has taken the pandemic as a challenge, and is confronting it headlong, Poojari said. The highlight of the event was the felicitation of corona warriors from different departments. They included Dr Ramachandra Bairy, DHO, who successfully recovered from Covid-19, and he was among 15 people from the health, revenue, police and industries departments, and five from urban local bodies, including four pourakarmikas – two each from Ullal CMC and Mangaluru City Corporation, and a senior health inspector from Ullal city municipality, who were felicitated. Missing from the celebration was a march past by the personnel of uniformed services and cultural programmes that the department of public instruction arranged each year. The need to maintain social distancing meant that the gathering inside the venue was limited to officials and invitees, though a good number watched the proceedings from outside. Waterproof canopies were arranged for the police to stand under, for the brief duration of the function. Amidst the strict time schedule drawn up for the event, the administration however did not fail to recognise the resolve shown by Aakash Madivalaiah Hiremath, a student of Morarji Desai Residential School, Machchina in Belthangady taluk, for his performance in the SSLC examination of 2019-20. Dignitaries that included Nalin Kumar Kateel, DK MP and others felicitated Aakash, while the department of social welfare presented him a cheque for Rs 10,000. In Udupi, deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha, who stood in for district minister Basavaraj Bommai, delivered the Independence Day address. A march past by police personnel and NCC cadets, honouring corona warriors was the highlight. The DC highlighted measures taken to address the situation caused by Covid-19 and natural calamities. He made a special mention of efforts of all stakeholders in ensuring Udupi topped both the PU and SSLC result charts in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/covid-warriors-feted-on-occasion-of-i-day/articleshow/77566494.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 16, 2020||Faridabad||77 fresh Covid cases in Gurugram, 1 dies of infection||GURUGRAM: The city on Saturday reported 77 new Covid-19 cases. This is the 18th day in a row that the city has been recording less than 100 fresh cases. At present, Covid cases in Gurugram stand at 10,185. The health department said 62 people recovered on Saturday. The total number of recoveries so far is 9,350. However, one person succumbed to the infection in the city on Saturday, an official said. So far, 130 people have died of Covid in the city, ang among them 92 had comorbidities. As many as 1,40,858 people have been put under surveillance in the district. The health department has sent 1,35,024 samples for testing, of which 1,22,694 turned out to be negative, while the results of 519 are still awaited. On Saturday, 12 people were put under government quarantine. The district has a total of 702 active cases, of which 589 are under home isolation. The health authorities have collected 2,145 samples in the past 24 hours. Meanwhile, Faridabad on Saturday recorded 180 new Covid-19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/77-fresh-covid-cases-in-gurgaon-1-dies-of-infection/articleshow/77569236.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Every child at this govt school celebrated Independence Day at home||MANGALURU: Teachers from the Government Higher Primary School, Nallur in Karkala ensured that every child enrolled in this school celebrated Independence Day at home. Nagesha, the headmaster said, “We were inspired to involve the students more systematically and purposefully following the TOI report.” TOI recently reported how this school rings the bell every day for students to study at home. “Since the school is located in an elevated area, we bought a new mike set, and the horn speaker is tied to a mango tree and now we not only ring the school bell every day but also conduct an assembly. At least 75-90 students can listen to the school assembly and participate in it from their homes,” he said. On the occasion of Independence Day, we requested parents to purchase a cloth/paper flag and to distribute sweets in their homes after the celebration. Students were asked to wear their white uniform. “We were surprised that most students hoisted the national tricolour and shared pictures on the school’s Whatsapp group. I am thrilled at the response,” he said. The school also organised a formal function at the campus attended by all the seven teachers, including the headmaster along with Dr Rajesh and Dr Prashanth, alumni of the school, businessmen Bhaskar Shetty and Sathish Shetty, SDMC president Umanath and a few localites. It has been a week since the school started organising regular morning assembly that also allows the children to speak through their mobile phones. Every day, a child gets an opportunity to make a presentation and introduce a book that the he/she has read — lessons learnt from it, what he/she liked about it and where it is available. Under the government’s Vidyagama programme, teachers are conducting ‘Vatara shale’ in eight places. Students in small groups are introduced to a competency bridge course held between 9.30am to 12.30pm every day. The school’s current student strength is 123 (Class 1 to 7).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/every-child-at-this-govt-school-celebrated-i-day-at-home/articleshow/77566521.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 16, 2020||India||FB guided by ‘political considerations’ in application of hate speech rules: WSJ report||NEW DELHI: The Rupert Murdoch-owned Wall Street Journal newspaper has claimed in a detailed report that Facebook is guided by “political considerations” when the social media giant applies hate speech rules to prominent Hindu nationalists in India. The report refers to BJP politician T. Raja Singh, who has made several controversial comments on his Facebook account, following which the moderation team had classified him as “dangerous”. The investigation, which was conducted with the help of several current and former Facebook employees, claims that the moderation team asked for him to be banned from the platform worldwide, saying that his “rhetoric could lead to real-world violence”. But he still functions on Facebook, where he is followed by 1.23 lakh, though his page is no longer verified with a blue badge. “The company’s top public policy executive in the country, Ankhi Das, opposed applying the hate speech rules to Singh and at least three other Hindu nationalist individuals and groups flagged internally for promoting or participating in violence,” the report states. WSJ said that it had reached out to Das, Singh and BJP for comments, but did not receive any inputs for the story. The report says “Das has provided the BJP with favourable treatment on election related issues.” According to WSJ, Das told the tech giant staff members that punishing violations by politicians from the BJP would “damage the company’s business prospects” in India, which is Facebook’s biggest market in terms of number of users. The report also quoted Facebook’s spokesperson, Andy Stone, who acknowledged that “Das had raised concerns about the political fallouts that would result from designating Singh a dangerous individual, but said her opposition wasn't the sole factor in the company’s decision to let Singh remain on the platform.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fb-rule-on-hate-speech-guided-by-political-considerations/articleshow/77568813.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||18 of 106 waterways fit for transporting cargo: Study||NEW DELHI: Only 18 national waterways are feasible for cargo movement and 25 others are feasible for ferry and cruise for tourism purpose out of the 106 national waterways notified in 2016, a study by the Inland Waterway Authority of India (IWAI) has found. Before 2016, only five NWs were notified and cargo movement is operational to some extent on these waterways. These include Ganga-Bhagirathi and Brahmaputra rivers. The government had enacted the Inland Waterway Act in 2016 to give national waterway (NW) status to another 106 rivers and canals in one go taking the total number to 111. Sources said this was done after the ministry was struggling for more than nine years to get a bill passed to declare Barak river in Assam as a new NW. Earlier, the shipping ministry required a new law for declaration of any NW and no work, including feasibility study, could be carried out. Sources said developmental activities have been initiated in the case of 13 NWs and work is yet to start in the remaining four for cargo vessel movement. A master plan is also being prepared for feasible NWs in both freight and ferry categories, they added. Based on the feasibility studies and detailed project reports of the additional 106 NWs, the IWAI has found that rivers such as Barak and Kopli in Assam, Mandovi, Zuari and Kumerjua in Goa, Narmada and Tapi in Gujarat can be used for cargo movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/18-of-106-waterways-fit-for-transporting-cargo-study/articleshow/77568814.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Catering industry re-invents for pandemic times; many launch takeaway outlets||MANGALURU: While the hotel industry is re-inventing hospitality to survive the Covid-19 pandemic, caterers have opted for new business models. With big fat weddings moving to Zoom, Google Meet, and other virtual platforms, gone are expensive hotel bookings and catering services. Most caterers had several events booked on their calendars and as soon as the lockdown was announced, everyone started panicking and the customers were worried if they would receive the refunds. “During the pre-covid days, even an ordinary simple wedding ceremony would mean booking the caterer for a minimum of at least three days. The pandemic has left the restaurants and hotel industry bleeding and now, it is good to see that many caterers are making a comeback by launching takeaway outlets and offering home delivery service. Many were forced to reduce staff or cut salaries, said Umesh, a caterer from Puttur. Kamath Caterers launched Kamath’s Food Express on Friday. “I had been planning to launch a food counter for the past 10-12 years, but did not have the time to go ahead with it. There has been a demand from the public to launch a counter, and the menu is shared on Whatsapp. We have not tied up with any food aggregator and will put in place our delivery system. Currently, we have launched only a lunch service that will soon be followed by breakfast and evening snacks. There is a demand for non-veg food too that we plan to introduce gradually,” said Sudhakar Kamath of Kamath Caterers Kamath feels elaborate functions are not going to be back soon. “Many customers who initially postponed events such as weddings are now calling us to say that the event will be restricted to 50 people and their children are happy if their friends are around.” Shree Mangala Caterers launched Party Food, a takeaway counter in Jeppu, recently. “It is a matter of survival. We have cooks and other staff to be taken care of. However, the business is picking up slowly. We also offer home delivery,” said Jeevan of Party Food.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/catering-industry-re-invents-for-pandemic-times-many-launch-takeaway-outlets-/articleshow/77566529.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 16, 2020||India||NHAI live bid for collection of toll to thwart cartelisation||NEW DELHI: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will hold live online auction of completed highways for collecting toll to eliminate any scope of cartelisation. The auction will be held for a specific duration, say for 30 minutes or an hour, allowing people to bid live and the highest bidder will get the contract. Prior to the live auction, the NHAI will float the bid documents giving details of the project and current tollable traffic so that the bidders can make informed decisions. Sources said the proposal will be cleared by the highways authority next week. “The proposal came up before the Executive Committee last week and it was felt that we need to provide some on-screen facilities at our regional offices or other centres where the prospective bidders can come and participate in the live auction. Now these plans are being fine tuned,” NHAI bids out highway stretches built with 100% government funding to private toll collection agencies for a year. The successful bidder pays the quoted amount in monthly instalments. Sources said the live auction was disbanded after trial a few years back when provision of online auction was not available. The highways authority has also identified 6,400 km of NHs, which can be tolled after completing small remaining stretches and this would generate additional revenue of around Rs 1,200 crore annually. “While private builders take provisional approval for tolling after completing 75% work, we have not been doing so even if the road is 95% complete. We have taken it as a priority to complete them and collect toll,” said an NHAI official. In 2019-20, NHAI had earned nearly Rs 8,000 crore in the form of toll collection from public funded roads. Meanwhile, some of the private players collecting toll on NHAI funded highways said the live online auction may not be that encouraging.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nhai-live-bid-for-collection-of-toll-to-thwart-cartelisation/articleshow/77568817.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 16, 2020||India||NREGS work demand slows, gives hope against blowout||NEW DELHI: Even as MGNREGS continues to turn over record performance in the pandemic year as compared to previous financials, the demand for work has actually dipped over the last two months after the initial sharp spike. The graph is being seen as a first, though uncertain, sign that the programme may not become unsustainable as it appeared in the immediate aftermath of post-lockdown opening up. The “work demand from households” under the job scheme is a significant parameter of employment needs on the ground. The households that are provided actual employment is much less. According to the scheme performance reviewed by TOI, 3.08 crore households sought work in July while the figure stood at 4.07 crore in June. The dip in July was sharp which was surprising because the post-lockdown demand trend was moving upwards expectedly given that conventional avenues of employment had come to a halt over Corona restrictions. By mid-August, 1.48 crore households have demanded work, which is in line with the July trend. This is in contrast with the graph for April and May. As many as 3.33 crore households sought work in May which was part of the rise following the opening up. The scheme opened on April 20 and within ten-odd days in the new financial year, the number of households which registered for employment stood at 1.17 crore. Union rural development ministry believes the work demand based on households seeking employment indicates that the programme is stabilising and will not go through the roof as it appeared. However, officials refused to hazard a guess on whether the fall in demand July onwards can be called a definitive pattern. The onset of monsoon and agriculture season was anyway expected to dilute the demand. How the scheme goes further from here will depend on how the pandemic pans out, with key influencing factors being economy and return of migrants to cities. “We cannot forecast the future because nobody knows how the pandemic will behave,” an official said. As per figures, the 143.91 crore persondays have already been generated in 2020-21 as compared to 217.62 crore persondays in 2019-20 — 66% in just four months. While the output this year is still likely to overshoot last year’s, a slowdown in demand will limit the year-on-year jump. The initial spike had raised concerns that MGNREGS may just break all records and could become financially unsustainable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nregs-work-demand-slows-gives-hope-against-blowout/articleshow/77568825.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
August 16, 2020||Nagpur||Four deaths, 163 positive in Amravati||Amravati: While four Covid deaths took the district’s death toll one short of a century to 99, the highest single-day spike of 163 took the district’s positive count to 3929. With 97 patients getting discharge on Monday, the number of recovered patients reached 2680. This left 1150 active cases, including 27 getting treated in Nagpur. The civil surgeon’s office reported that four persons, all males, died while undergoing treatment at the Covid hospital. They included a 60-year-old male from village Shirajgaon Band, a 42-year-old male from Dhamangaon Railway town, a 75-year-old from New City, Badnera and a 55-year-old from Chaparasipura locality. The rural belt reported 67 cases to take its count past 1000 to 1045. The highest 15 cases came from Daryapur tehsil that took its count to 67. Eleven cases each came from Teosa and Chandur Bazar tehsils that took their respective count to 44 and 63. Warud tehsil reported seven cases to take its count to 63 while Achalpur tehsil reported six to take its count to 68. Five cases came from Chikhaldara that took its count to ten while Morshi tehsil reported four to take its count to 63. Two cases from Arvi in Wardha district also tested positive. Single cases came from eight villages. The spike of 163 beat the previous high of 154 reported on August 2. This was the eighth 100-plus single day spike reported this month and 10th overall. The month of August itself has accounted for 1773 cases at 104.29 cases per day. The city saw central jail reporting the highest ten cases that took its count to 36. Badnera, Reliance Mall and Rajapeth reported four cases each to take their count to 264, six and 26 respectively while Rampuri Camp, Gopalnagar, Navjivan Society in Kathora Naka and Amba Gate reported three cases each to take their respective count to 78, 20, three and 24. Two cases each came from Namuna Lane, Jaynagar, Shyam Chowk, Krushnanagar and Vyankat Colony that took their respective count to 21, two, two, 46 and two. Single cases came from 51 other localities, including a 46-year-old female doctor from the district women’s hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-deaths-163-positive-in-amravati/articleshow/77598425.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Fierce legal battle to decide capital fate||VIJAYAWADA: Even as the state government stands firm on its policy decision to trifurcate the state capital in a bid to ensure decentralised development, farmers who had given their land for Amaravati are putting up a strong fight. As many as 53 separate petitions including 15 PILs (Public Interest Litigations) have been filed before the Andhra Pradesh High Court contesting the government’s decision. While majority of the petitions have been filed by individual farmers, most of the PILs have been filed by Amaravati Parirakshana Samiti and other farmers’ associations in Amaravati. These associations have moved the high court with a fresh petition or through an interim application whenever the state government has taken a decision with regard to the capital. The farmers’ associations have challenged the government for not completing development work in Amaravati even before the government announced its plans for decentralisation. They have challenged the government’s call for objections to the expert committee report as well. More than five petitions have been filed for inviting objections to the expert committee report without revealing the same and not specifying the context of the notices. Read AlsoCapital status brightens realtors’ fortunes in VisakhapatnamEnquiries for plots and flats in north-coastal Andhra Pradesh have spiked following the announcement of Visakhapatnam as the executive capital of Andhra Pradesh.Further, the state government’s proposal to give house sites in Amaravati to the landless poor from Vijayawada, Guntur and other places and the decision to shift vigilance commission and commissionerate of enquiries have also been challenged by farmers. Farmers have managed to get interim relief in those matters as the high court has stayed the shifting of offices and also set aside the government orders on land allotment. The farmers have also opposed the proposed changes to the master plan to include a new zone in the Amaravati master plan to facilitate land allotment for housing. Relying on the promissory estoppel and the doctrine of legitimate expectations, the farmers have moved a number of petitions seeking completion of works as per the Amaravati master plan and have sought compensation for the delay in completion of trunk infrastructure work. While the state government is firm on the three-capital formula, farmers as well as other litigants are firm on exploring all legal options. The high court has taken up the hearing of all these petitions together. With all litigants very particular about their point of view, a marathon hearing is expected with top advocates locking horns. Watch Andhra Pradesh: Why farmers are fighting over fate of Amaravati||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/fierce-legal-battle-to-decide-capital-fate/articleshow/77566639.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Octopus base to be shifted to Vizag, hunt on for land||VISAKHAPATNAM: Authorities have begun scouting for a suitable piece of land in Visakhapatnam to shift the headquarters of Organisation for Counter Terrorist Operations (Octopus) headquarters from Amaravati. According to sources, over 235 acres of land would be allotted to the anti-terrorist force on the outskirts, between Anandapuram and Padmanabham mandals. Earlier, the state police department had decided to set up a regional centre of Octopus in the city keeping in view possible terror threat perception to the Port City. The department planned to set up one unit of commandos. Former DGP RP Thakur had announced it during his visit to the city before the general elections in 2019. “An Octopus wing should be here because the city is vulnerable to attacks through seaways. We have many sensitive defence establishments here. Keeping this in mind, we asked for one unit of 100 commandos. Now, we are getting an entire unit, which will strengthen the Port City,” said an IG-rank officer to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/octopus-base-to-be-shifted-to-vizag-hunt-on-for-land/articleshow/77566652.cms||Siva G
August 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||620 out of 670 mandals in Andhra witness normal to excess rainfall this monsoon||VISAKHAPATNAM: The on-going well-marked low pressure coupled with bountiful rains since the onset of the monsoon has increased the season’s rainfall surplus by 27.5%. As of Saturday, only two districts— Srikakulam, and Vizianagaram — have reported a rainfall deficit with a shortage of 23.5% and 10.5% respectively. Visakhapatnam has seen 4.3% surplus rainfall. The four Rayalaseema districts have seen 43% surplus rainfall this year. Anantapur witnessed a record 312mm rainfall against the normal 172 mm, reflecting 82% additional rains. Similarly, Chittoor saw 76% surplus rain while Kurnool received 67% surplus. The rainfall has not only augmented reservoir levels but has also pushed up the groundwater levels. As per official statistics, 620 out of 670 mandals in the state have either received excess or normal rainfall while 47 mandals have received lower than normal rain. Three mandals have seen scanty rainfall. 40 of the 47 mandals that have received less than usual rainfall are in north-coastal Andhra Pradesh. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast, light to moderate rains or thundershowers are likely across north-coastal Andhra Pradesh as well as south-coastal parts and the Rayalaseema region in the next 24 hours. Further, the IMD has predicted that a fresh low-pressure area may form over northern Bay of Bengal around August 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/620-out-of-670-mandals-in-ap-witness-normal-to-excess-rainfall-this-monsoon/articleshow/77566662.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Stress-free Independence Day for state’s dog squads||Visakhapatnam: Independence Day celebrations come with a tonne of extra workload for dog squads across the state that run pillar to post smelling out danger. But with no major Independence Day celebrations scheduled this year and public gatherings at a minimum, the dog squads will spend a relatively stress-free August 15. A Chandrasekhar, reserve sub-inspector of city’s security wing said, “We don’t have a specific schedule for the dog squad this year. We have asked handlers to keep them ready so that they can be deployed as and when required.” Officials in charge of dog squads said that the deployment of dog squads usually increased four to five days before important dates such as Independence Day, Republic Day or major festivals. While these dogs usually attend two to three calls a day, on significant dates like Independence Day, they have to attend to nearly five or even six calls in a day. “But this year, the scenario is different. There is no programme involving VIPs in our district. Nor will public places be very crowded,” said S Chiranjeevi, reserve inspector of Vizinagaram police. Chiranjeevi added that the dog squads will be kept on standby. The situation is the same in Guntur district. Officials have decided to deploy dog squads if and when there is a requirement. “We are gathering local inputs. We will deploy dog squads if there is a requirement,” said SVD Prasad, additional SP of armed reserve of Guntur police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/stress-free-independence-day-for-states-dog-squads/articleshow/77553778.cms||Arpit Basu
August 16, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Villages downstream of Prakasam barrage on alert||VIJAYAWADA: Following incessant rainfall for the third consecutive day in the catchment areas upstream of Karnataka and Telangana, the Krishna river is in spate. Officials released 47,125 cusecs of water on Saturday from the Prakasam Barrage by lifting 70 gates and stopped Pattiseema motors. Most of the water was released to the irrigation canals on Krishna’s eastern and western banks. The river received inflows from Munneru rivulet following rains in Telangana and Guntur district. On the other hand, Krishna district administration issued a high alert for the villages downstream of Prakasam Barrage as flood water is likely to touch one lakh cusecs by Sunday morning. Tahsildhars have been directed to shift residents of low lying areas to safe places. Measures have been initiated to prevent, human and livestock loss. Officials are arranging flood relief camps at multiple locations. Ward volunteer have been going door to door updating residents of Krishna riverybund about the flood situation in Vijayawada. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz inspected the flood situation at Prakasam Barrage and conducted a meeting with irrigation and revenue officials. Imtiaz said rains will continue for two more days as per IMD and directed officials to exercise cautious. Special flood helpline number 0866-2474805 has been set up at the collector’s camp office to monitor the flood situation. Meanwhile, rainwater was seen overflowing on roads at Seetharamapuram, Moghalrajapuram and Bhavanipuram among others. Special action teams of VMC cleared blocked drains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/villages-downstream-of-prakasam-barrage-on-alert/articleshow/77566676.cms||Venu Lanka
August 16, 2020||India||PM announces a solar park to fulfil dream of green Ladakh||NEW DELHI: The Prime Minister on Saturday set Ladakh on course to a carbon-neutral future and announced a 7,500MW solar park there, even as funding incentives are being lined up to energise the mega project at the heart of Narendra Modi’s vision for India’s youngest Union Territory. “Ladakh has several specialties. Not only do we have to preserve them, we have to nurture them as well. As Sikkim has made its mark as an organic state in the northeast, Ladakh — Leh and Kargil — can also create their own niche as a carbon-neutral unit,” Modi said in his I-Day speech, listing the proposed solar park among the Centre’s initiatives. Parallelly, the renewable energy ministry is moving to partly fund the linked transmission line, the cost of which was making power unaffordable. “The transmission project is being included in the Centre’s Green Energy Corridor Phase-II for viability gap funding (VGF),” renewable energy minister Raj Kumar Singh told TOI. This will make the line eligible for up to 40% VGF. TOI was the first to report on January 13, 2019 the project being planned by state-run renewable energy agency SECI at an estimated investment of Rs 45,000 crore. The project is to be completed by 2023 and estimated to save 12,750 tonne of carbon emission annually. The project envisages a 5,000-MW unit at Morey plains, 215km east of Leh. A 2,500-MW unit is to be built at Suru in Zanskar, 245km east of Kargil. Some 25,000 acres in Leh and 12,500 acres in Zanskar has been earmarked for the project. The Leh and Kargil hill councils will earn Rs 1,200 per hectare, with 3% annual escalation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-announces-a-solar-park-to-fulfil-dream-of-green-ladakh/articleshow/77568832.cms||Sanjay Dutta
August 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Bus hits bike, one dead||Visakhapatnam: One person died while another was injured after a bus hit their bike on the ghat road of Simhachalam temple on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as 22-year-old Ramdas Pavan, who was riding the bike. The injured pillion rider has been identified as A Uday Kumar. The crash took place when the bus was coming down from the temple and the bikers were going towards it. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bus-hits-bike-one-dead/articleshow/77566705.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Nagpur||70 Covid positive in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: There is respite as far as the death toll is concerned as after about three weeks, the district recorded no death on Monday. There are 70 new positive patients of whom 47 are men and 23 are women. 711 active positive patients are in the isolation wards. Currently, 133 persons are admitted in the isolation ward of GMC Yavatmal. 36 positive patients were discharged on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/70-covid-positive-in-yavatmal/articleshow/77596509.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Solar energy to power Siachen base camp||NEW DELHI: Siachen Base Camp and the Siachen Brigade headquarters at Partapur in the Nubra valley of Ladakh are set to be powered by solar energy, according to renewable energy minister Raj Kumar Singh, reports Sanjay Dutta. “SECI has awarded contracts for setting up two solar-storage power plants of 1 mega watt each at Siachen (Base Camp) and Partapur. Both will have 2 mega watt of battery storage for round-the-clock supply,” Singh told TOI. The Siachen project will meet the lighting and heating needs at Base Camp I, II and III. The Partapur project will meet similar needs of the Army’s 102 Brigade tasked with defending the strategically vital glacier. Singh said the projects will reduce the Army’s dependence on diesel for running generators and more than halve the cost of power. “Siachen base camp will get power at Rs 9.89 per unit and Partapur at Rs 10.34 against Rs 24-25 per unit for supply from generators,” he said. The tariffs are for 25 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/solar-energy-to-power-siachen-base-camp/articleshow/77568839.cms||Sanjay Dutta
August 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: Covid claims 5 women, 1 man on Saturday, 369 new cases||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-19 death tally shot up to 99 on Saturday with five women and one man succumbing to the virus. The state’s active caseload rose to 3,753 with 369 new infections on Saturday. Also, 333 patients were declared cured, the highest single-day recoveries since the pandemic. Two women from Moti Dongor, Margao — a 65-year-old with comorbid conditions and a 53-year-old — died at Goa Medical College (GMC). After Vasco, Margao is witnessing its biggest spike with the tally of active cases touching 413 on Saturday. Two more women — an 83-year-old from Fatorda and a 79-year-old from Agasaim — both with comorbid conditions also died while under treatment in the GMC. A 71-year-old woman from Baina with underlying health conditions and an 89-year-old patient from clergy home, Margao, succumbed to the virus at the ESI-Covid hospital. Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s son, Utpal Parrikar, also tested positive. Utpal, who lives in Taleigao with his family, underwent a test after he started getting a fever four days ago. He has opted for home isolation, he told TOI. Cases reported at the primary health centre at Chimbel, under whose jurisdiction Taleigao falls under, has seen a steep rise. Its count reached 227 on Saturday as 20 new cases were detected. An IPS officer also tested positive. In the past few weeks, the number of cops testing positive has increased. Panaji’s count climbed to 188 with five more cases detected in the capital. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said they had an easy day on Saturday for the first time in the last few days as their daily case count was small. The capital’s daily average during the last couple of days has been 15 to20 cases. Cases reported under the jurisdiction of the primary health centre in Porvorim increased to 144. The tally of Mapusa urban health centre stood at 137. Chief officer of Mapusa municipal council, Kabir Shirgaonkar said, they will take a call on opening Mapusa fish market only after the Ganesh Chaturthi. Corlim saw its active cases increased to 96 on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-claims-5-women-1-man-on-sat-369-new-cases/articleshow/77567427.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Goa: No leniency being shown for nursing mothers, say teachers||PANAJI: Teachers’ WhatsApp groups in the state are abuzz with the case of a 59-year-old teacher from Vasco, who succumbed to the infection just months before retirement. The teacher was required to travel to her school in Curtorim from Vasco. Her brother-in-law, a teacher at a school in Utorda, has also tested positive. Upset, teachers said that only some institutes are making an exemption for pregnant teachers, but no such leniency is being shown towards those with comorbidities and even those who are currently nursing mothers. “Vasco is like the Covid hotspot of the state, yet almost all schools in the area are calling teachers to work. Even teachers whose schools are very close to containment zones are being called to work. My own school is very close to the MPT Hospital, yet no leniency of any kind is being shown. Teachers are unnecessarily being called to work when central government guidelines clearly state that school teachers can be allowed to work from home,” teacher with the Deepvihar School, Kalpana Pai, said. “Forget internet connectivity, we do not even have electricity in the college most of the time to be able to conduct classes from here,” said a teacher from a college in a rural area in South Goa. Pai said she has written to the secretary for school education of the Union ministry of education appealing that these guidelines are implemented in Goa as well. President of the All Goa Secondary School Teachers’ Association Dattatrey Naik said that a large number of teachers are over 40 and are therefore bound to have some or the other comorbidity. Earlier, the secretary of education said that the state does not have any ready data of teachers with comorbid conditions. A teacher residing in Altinho, Panaji, and teaching at a college in South Goa has recently tested positive. “I think as head we need to be more compassionate to nursing mothers and comorbid cases. If possible they should be permitted to work from home or at least introduce flexi-timings for them,” teacher at S S Dempo College, Panaji, Smitha Bhandare Kamat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-leniency-being-shown-for-nursing-mothers-teachers/articleshow/77567455.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||12 women, including 5 with infants, admitted to Ponda Covid hospital||Ponda: On Day 2 after the Ponda sub-district hospital started operations as a full-fledged Covid facility for ante natal cases, 12 women, including five with newborns, were admitted on Saturday. “Of the18 pregnant women that had been admitted on Friday, six who were found to be asymtomatic have been sent to care centres,” Dr Vikas Kuwelkar, the medical superintendent of the 220-bed hospital, told TOI. Pregnant women with mild symptoms or those who are asymptomatic will not be lodged at the Ponda Covid hospital, Kuwelkar said. On Saturday, 43 new coronavirus cases were recorded in Ponda taluka, taking the number of active cases to 533. From a total number 1,162 cases, 625 persons have recovered, while four have died. It may be recalled that though the casualty wing of the Ponda sub-district hospital was shifted to the Dilasa palliative care centre at Farmagudi, health authorities have not shifted the ultrasound machine as it is required to monitor pregnancies at the Covid facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/12-women-including-5-with-infants-admitted-to-ponda-covid-hospital/articleshow/77567474.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
August 16, 2020||Goa||15-Nida-Day after fish market sanitized, rain and people play spoilsport||Day after fish market sanitized, rain and people play spoilsport 300 words plus pics Panaji: Hustle bustle at the Panaji fish market returned on Saturday as buyers were relieved after the corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) unsealed the building above, where Covid positive cases emerged, and sanitized the fish market on Friday. However, a day after the task of cleaning the area, the market was back to its untidy state. From fish waste to rainwater passing through to trash, the area was a complete eyesore. “We had been coming to the fish market once in a week due to the building above it being sealed. Now, though there are no new cases, the fish market is filthy. There is no cleanliness maintained by the vendors and all the fish waste is thrown around in the open,” said, Kenneth Fernandes, a resident of Old Goa. While it’s a welcome relief that the fish market can be visited without any fear, this has translated into several buyers being careless by not maintaining social distancing or pulling their mask down to negotiate with the fish vendors. “The CCP must keep a watch on such irresponsible people and take them to task. Despite the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Panaji, the CCP inspectors are failing to ensure social distancing among buyers and sellers,” another customer, said. Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said that some of the CCP workers went on voluntary leave due to it being Independence Day. “A few cleaners are deployed at the Panaji fish market to clean it on a daily basis. However, after they went on leave, the premises was left uncleaned for the day. We are however monitoring the workers to ensure that pending tasks are completed,” he said, adding that the premises will be cleaned on Sunday. The unsealing of the fish market building however has brought smiles on the faces of fish vendors. “People have started to slowly trickle in and are confidently purchasing fish like earlier. However, it may still take a few weeks for the crowd to regularize since many Hindus are abstaining from consuming fish due to the month of Shravan,” fish vendor, Deva Lamani said. With many of Goa’s trawlers anchored due to rough weather and lack or migrant labour, most of the fish in the market is sourced from Malvan, Devgarh and Karwar, vendors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/15-nida-day-after-fish-market-sanitized-rain-and-people-play-spoilsport/articleshow/77567491.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Cong seeks Rane’s ouster over Covid mismanagement||300 words Panaji: Holding health minister Vishwajit Rane accountable for the increase in Covid-19 cases in Goa, Congress on Friday demanded that Rane should be dropped from the cabinet. Rane, said state Congress president Girish Chodankar, not only failed to take measures to prevent the spread of the virus but also oversaw the “fraudulent cover-up” of the extent of the pandemic in the state. Chodankar also said that due to lack of oversight, around 30,000 passengers were able to enter Goa without being tested. “Rane should be sacked immediately and a criminal case should be filed against him for wilful exposure of Goans to the coronavirus and fraudulent cover-up of the state of the pandemic in Goa,” said Chodankar. “The BJP should own up and admit having lied that Goa was Covid-free and apologise for the spike in cases despite claiming and parading on all media that Goa is Covid-free.” Over the last three days, the number of Covid-19 cases has seen a spurt with 570 cases being detected on Thursday. A handful of industrial estates have turned into hotspots for the virus, giving the Congress another avenue to attack Rane, who hold the industries portfolio. Chodankar said that Rane has been “lying consistently since March” about the health department’s preparedness to control the pandemic. He also questioned the delay in commissioning the South Goa district hospital and the refusal to use the facility as a dedicated Covid hospital. The party also accused the state government of misplaced priorities by questioning the wisdom over the proposal to hand over the Rs 350 crore, 500-bed super speciality medical facility at the Goa Medical College and Hospital to a private hospital while the state suffers due to the lack of adequate Covid hospitals. The party blamed Rane and chief minister Pramod Sawant for misleading the people by hiding the truth about Covid cases and the state’s preparedness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-seeks-ranes-ouster-over-covid-mismanagement/articleshow/77567488.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Sardesai launches Covid counselling and support facility||Margao: Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai, in association with Dessai Medical Research Centre, launched a Covid-19 counselling and support service facility on Saturday, with a collaborated helpline for corona positive patients to provide proper guidance and care to fight the virus. A dedicated ambulance was also commissioned on the occasion. Both the initiatives have been sponsored by Sardesai’s ‘We for Fatorda’ charity foundation. Stating that a robust system of home isolation was crucial for better management of Covid situation in the state, Sardesai said that economically weaker sections opting for home quarantine in the constituency would be provided with pulse oximeters, oxygen concentrators and the ambulance equipped with a nurse and oxygen facility would help patients reach the Covid hospital in case of emergency. “We For Fatorda’s helpline no. 8888411111 will coordinate all necessary help with the Dessai Medical Research Centre,” he added. Sardesai also said that he has already written to health minister Vishwajit Rane with a request to declare Margao Ravindra Bhavan as a Covid care centre dedicated for Fatorda constituency. A bus pull out bay, commissioned by Sardesai near Damodar Ling at Fatorda, also became operational from Saturday. “This road is the only operational modern road in Fatorda and Goa. It is a smart road with dedicated ducts for water, electricity, sewerage and fibre optics. These are symbols of technological enhancements in road construction. It is a forward-looking initiative that symbolises modernity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sardesai-launches-covid-counselling-and-support-facility/articleshow/77567497.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Technocrat donates Rs 42 lakh for machines||PANAJI: To aid the state in its fight against Covid-19, Padma Bhushan Ajai Chowdhry, the cofounder of HCL, has donated Rs 42 lakh to the Goa government. The funds have gone towards the purchase of five high performance ventilators and five high flow nasal oxygen respiratory support systems. A decontaminating chamber for N95 masks will also be procured with the funds. Chowdhry’s son resides in Goa and the technocrat spends at least five months in Goa. This spurred him to support the government’s efforts. The funds were donated through Swayam Charitable Trust, a trust that also provided Rs 1.2 crore to the National Capital Territory of Delhi. “I have selected the best Indian Ventilator - the award winning Noccarc V310, as I strongly believe in encouraging Indian products. Also, I have selected the world’s first N95 Decontaminating machine created by Chakr, a IIT Delhi incubated company,” said Chowdhry as he called the pandemic one of the toughest challenges the world is facing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/technocrat-donates-rs-42l-for-machines/articleshow/77567498.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||1,276 fresh Covid cases, positivity rate at 7% in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 1,276 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking its total tally to over 1.51 lakh. The death toll, meanwhile, rose to 4,188 with 10 more fatalities. According to the state health department, 5,667 RT-PCR tests and 12,604 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. “The positivity rate – number of positive people among those tested — has increased to 7%,” an official claimed. As many as 1,36,251 patients have recovered, migrated out or been discharged, while the number of active cases stands at 11,489, of which 5,809 are in home isolation. Delhi is conducting 67,969 tests per million.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1276-fresh-covid-cases-positivity-rate-at-7-in-delhi/articleshow/77568876.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||Fever, cough, body pain... Scientists decode likely order of symptoms||LOS ANGELES: Scientists have found the likely order in which Covid-19 symptoms first appear, an advance that may help clinicians rule out other diseases, and help patients seek care promptly or decide sooner to self-isolate. According to the study, published in the journal Frontiers in Public Health, the likely order of symptoms in patients with Covid-19 is fever, followed by cough, muscle pain, and then nausea, and/or vomiting, and diarrhoea. “This order is especially important to know when we have overlapping cycles of illnesses like the flu that coincide with infections of Covid-19,” explained study co-author Peter Kuhn, a professor of medicine and biomedical engineering at the University of Southern California (USC) in the US. With this new information, Kuhn said doctors can determine what steps to take to care for patients, and prevent their condition from worsening. The researchers believe identifying patients earlier may reduce hospitalisation time since there are better approaches to treatments now for Covid-19. In the current study, the scientists predicted the order of symptoms from data on the rates of symptom incidence of over 55,000 coronavirus cases in China, all of which were collected from February 16 to 24 by the WHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/fever-cough-body-pain-scientists-decode-likely-order-of-symptoms/articleshow/77568874.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Demand for self-storage doubles amid lockdown||Though she works for an ecommerce startup, Catherine Rency doesn’t post reviews. However, the meticulousness of the two masked men who covered the mirror of her cupboard in bubblewrap that frantic Friday in June, got a glowing testimonial out of her. The men belonged to a ‘self-storage facility’ that would vertically cram all her worldly belongings at a sliver of the huge rent for her Andheri 3BHK. This temporary 16-sqft vault helped Rency-—whose lease was expiring in July—return home to Tuticorin a lighter person. All the invisible baggage of Covid—WFH, layoffs, cost-cutting, midnight evictions—is translating into visible baggage at warehouses in Bhiwandi, Govandi, South Mumbai and Navi Mumbai, as the demand for self-storage facilities in the city has doubled during the lockdown. Renters vault to large stowing units to stack sofas, clothes and toysOnce favoured chiefly by expats and commercial enterprises, this nascent industry—that was born almost seven years ago to decrease your clutter by offering storage space in the region of Rs 100 to 250 per square foot a month—has suddenly seen a boom with takers including everyone from renters boomeranging to their parents’ home after being laid off to students packing upon realising that the only classrooms they need to attend are virtual. Unlock these measured vaults full of sofas, almirahs, clothes, prams, toys, oil paintings and office chairs and you will find the pivots forced by the pandemic in many lives, an unexpected comma between the old and the new normal. “Everyone has their own story,” says Deepali Sanghavi, pan-India coordinator of on-demand warehousing facility BoxMy-Space, whose phone has been ringing from 8.30 am to 11.15 pm from the start of lockdown with calls from strangers living in chawls and in rowhouses alike who confide about everything from the loss of job to a nightmarish landlord. "We get almost 100 calls a day, which is double the amount before March," says Sanghavi, whose firm recently stowed away 100 chairs from an office. “We even get mails at midnight now,” she adds. Space Valet, a self-storage facility which offers boxes for small items, as well as storage units for businesses and households, has now been getting as many enquiries per day as it used to get per week before Covid. As the lockdown sprawled on, so did the demand for space. “Initially, our smaller storage units and spaces were the most popular as professionals living alone or sharing flats were vacating with their items," says co-founder Devak Davda. “Then, we saw demand for larger spaces increase when businesses started taking drastic steps and slightly more established professionals, some with young kids, started also moving out of the city,” says Davda, adding that the lockdown has thrown up clients in the age group of 20 to 35 from neighbourhoods like Andheri, Bandra, Goregaon, Thane, Parel, and Santacruz. Desperation has been the chief catalyst for the concept of self-storage, a billion-dollar industry in countries like Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore. Though it has been around for years in India, the industry has floundered for recognition. It took a crisis to lead people to search for keywords like “rented storage”. “Earlier, when we tried listing ourselves online, we would be clubbed with either real estate or packers and movers, both of which are very different segments from ours,” says Disha Doctor of Your Space, a self-storage firm that launched in 2017. Doctor’s firm has four warehouses in different pockets of the city and is now signing on more warehouses to cope with escalating demand. Apart from virtual tours of the storage facilities—some embellished by what can be described as elevator music-—these portals and apps let you take an online inventory of your items stored and segregated neatly enough to please the likes of Marie Kondo. Except for gas cylinders and combustible items, most stuff is welcome in these spaces. Which is perhaps why besides householders, business, renters, pub owners, online art exhibitioners, Doctor's firm—that offers humidity controlled environment for musical instruments and artworks—also received enquiries for “food storage” during the lockdown. “We had to redirect them to cold-storage facilities as we don’t store perishables at the moment,” says Doctor Sometimes, callers themselves need to be put in a box. Sanghavi, for instance, has identified a category of renters: “They get a quote from us simply to threaten their landlord into lowering the rent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-demand-for-self-storage-doubles-amid-lockdown/articleshow/77568866.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||No hurry to lift lockdown entirely: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||MUMBAI: Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday indicated he is in no hurry to completely lift the lockdown. While virtually interacting with state Covid task force members Dr Shashank Joshi and Dr Rahul Pandit, Thackeray pointed out that wherever there’s been a hurry to end the lockdown, it has had to be reimposed. He also said that there is a misunderstanding that Covid only affects senior citizens and not children.Referring to news reports about 97,000 children getting infected with Coronavirus after schools reopened in America, he said Covid affects everybody from a six-month-old child to people of any age. “It will not be proper for us to push them into this due to overconfidence,” Thackeray noted. Don’t want 2nd wave due to excessive confidence: CM Uddhav Thackeray“We are in the first wave and I don’t want the second wave in Maharashtra under any circumstances. And the second wave comes when we pat our backs on how we controlled the coronavirus and become complacent,” he said. Thackeray said he knew the poor were badly affected but expressed fear that if students in schools get infected after they open or if an office is reopened and the virus spreads among employees, ending the lockdown that will then have to be imposed “will not be in our hands.” “We will gradually keep opening up as part of Mission Begin Again,” he said On the measures taken by the state government, Thackeray said that in the country, the state was probably the first to form a task force in Mumbai and in the districts too. The task force of the state has not been restricted to Mumbai and has helped share knowledge about drugs and treatment guidelines to doctors even in remote areas. Referring to the health issues faced by those who have recovered, Thackeray said there is a need to look at post-Covid care. Thackeray also spoke on the need to have permanent large facilities like the Nesco grounds and said there is a need to create them across the state and also focus on research in the fields of immunology and virology. The CM also said that more research on plasma, which is more than a 100-year old therapy, is needed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-hurry-to-lift-lockdown-entirely-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray/articleshow/77568888.cms||Sanjeev Devasia
August 16, 2020||World||US to make virus strain for controversial human tests||Chicago: US government scientists have begun efforts to manufacture a strain of the coronavirus that could be used in human challenge trials of vaccines, a controversial type of study in which healthy volunteers would be vaccinated and then intentionally infected with the virus. The work is preliminary and such trials would not replace large-scale, Phase 3 trials already underway, according to a statement by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), part of the National Institutes of Health. Most vaccine trials rely on inadvertent infection. "Should there be a need for human challenge studies... NIAID has begun investigations of the technical and ethical considerations," the agency said. That includes efforts to manufacture a suitable Sars-CoV-2 strain, draft a clinical protocol and identify resources that would be required to conduct such studies. Small challenge studies would be done in small isolation units to control the virus. Larger studies involving 100 people or so would have to be done at multiple spots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/us-to-make-virus-strain-for-controversial-human-tests/articleshow/77568900.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Gurgaon||‘Say sorry’: 12 teens bully boy in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: The family of a 17-year-old boy, a British resident of Indian origin, has approached police with a complaint against 12 boys, who roughed him up on July 23 in Sushant Lok. According to the complaint, the boy stopped attending online classes and engaging with his family and friends after the incident. After much coaxing, the boy finally opened up to his family on Saturday. The family then approached police, following which a medical test was also conducted on the 17-year-old. An FIR was registered under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 147 (rioting) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sushant Lok 1 police station. The boy told his family that when he was returning from a birthday party on July 23, the group stopped him and asked him to apologise to a particular boy. What happened before this, and why they demanded an apology is not known. The family said that incident took place in Sushant Lok 1. A video of the assault, which the family shared with TOI, shows the accused tearing up the boy’s T-shirt and asking him to say sorry multiple times. The video also shows the boy being shoved around and thrashed even as he starts apologising. He is then made to repeat after them that he will say sorry for what he has done. At least two boys in the group recorded the assault on their cellphones. The family said that when the boy reached home, his clothes were torn but when asked, he vaguely referred to an incident at the party. He stopped stepping out of the house after this. On Saturday, his mother took to social media and narrated the incident. She wrote, “A group of teens viciously attacked & tortured my 17-year-old son physically, mentally & emotionally on July 23 at Peach Tree, Sushant Lok. My son did not retaliate or fight back or even attempt to call anyone as he knew his life was in danger and he was outnumbered. He was too scared to even inform his own family as he thought that if he told anyone, the boys will thrash him again.” The boy’s aunt told TOI an FIR had been registered. “As soon as we found out about the incident, we went to the police to file a complaint. My nephew was taken for a medical examination on Saturday and his statement was also recorded in front of the magistrate,” she said, adding the boy was traumatised and it seemed to be a case of “teenage jealousy”. Asked if he knew any of the accused, she said he had interacted with them on social media platforms, but never in person. “Some of them he did not even know,” the aunt said. Police sources said that boy had said something about the person he was being asked to apologise to on a social media platform. This led to animosity between them and the other boy confronted him with his friends to take revenge for his insult on social media, a police officer said, adding the investigation was on. Police are yet to confirm the age of all the accused. Watch Gurugram: 12 teens bully boy, force him to say ‘sorry’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/say-sorry-12-boys-bully-teen-returning-home-rough-him-up/articleshow/77567716.cms||Shubhra Pant
August 16, 2020||India||Grocer a director in Chinese online gambling firm||HYDERABAD: How did a small-time grocer from Delhi become a director in a Chinese company that allegedly ran an illegal online gambling racket in India worth more than Rs 1,000 crore? Neeraj Tuli, one of the three Indian directors held along with a Chinese national, told police in Hyderabad that he was a grocer who ran a small neighbourhood shop in Delhi’s Karol Bagh area. He claimed he had no clue that his name was being used to run the company and found out about it only when the police arrived at his doorstep. Tuli accused his chartered accountant neighbour P Hemant of tricking him into signing some documents which made him part of the business. Officials are on the lookout for Hemant, who is missing. “Tuli claimed Hemant, under the pretext of helping him audit his accounts, got many documents signed by him. It is true that Tuli is a grocer, but we are not taking his claims at face value. He will be questioned further,’’ said an officer. Investigators are believed to have produced documents in Tuli’s name which declared him a director of various firms operating under Beijing T Power based out of China. The eight firms — Growing Info Tech Pvt Ltd, Sily Consulting Services Pvt Ltd, Pan Yun Technology Services, Linkyun Technology Pvt Ltd, Dokypay Technology Pvt Ltd, SpotPay Technology India Pvt Ltd, Daisylink Financial Pvt Ltd and Huahuo Financial Pvt Ltd — were registered in India either in 2019 or 2020. All the firms belong to Beijing T Power, which was establishing new companies and running online gambling by admitting members only through references. Payment was accepted through e-payment gateways such as PayTM and Cash Free, investigators said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/grocer-a-director-in-chinese-online-gambling-firm/articleshow/77568918.cms||Srinath Vudali
August 16, 2020||Salem||Covid-19: 127 more deaths, no dip in active cases in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 127 deaths–highest so far –on Saturday, which took the cumulative death toll in the state to 5,641. The state added 5,860 fresh cases of Covid-19 pushing the case tally to 3,32,105. The active cases in the state rose to 54,213 compared to 53,499 on Thursday. The 11 northern districts together reported 54 deaths compared to 35 deaths in the southern districts and 21 in the central districts. The eight western districts reported 17 deaths. While Chennai topped the districts with 26 deaths, Pudukkottai and Thanjavur reported seven each. A dozen people whose deaths were reported on Saturday had no comorbidities. For the first time, the state reported “incidental covid” – people with chronic ailments, organ failureor endstagediseases diagnosed with the viral infection. Saturday’s list includes two 56-year-olds, one a heart patient with diabetes and hypertension and another who had liver disease, diabetes and hypertension, a 35-year-old renal disease patient on dialysis, along with diabetes and hypertension. A 72-year-old male from Ranipet admitted to the government headquarters hospital there, who died a week after admission, was also added to the list of “incidental covid”. “We are including all of them in the Covid death registry. But we wanted to say the infection may haveexpediteddeathbutdid not directly cause it,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Hotspot Chennai reported 1,179 fresh cases. For the second consecutivedaythecity is reporting cases in four digits after coming down to three digits for a week since August 7. The adjoining districts Tiruvallur (422), Chengalpet (376), Kancheepuram (184), together reported 982 cases and12deaths.Theother seven northern districts reported 1,088 cases and16 deaths. Cuddalore(340), Ranipet(260), Vellore (153) and Thiruvannamalai(100) reported a three digit increase, but the incidenc ein Villupuram(84), Kallakuruchi (81) and Thirupathur (70) were high. While Ranipet reported five deaths, Tiruvannamalai reported four, Vellore and Kallakuruchi reported three deaths each. The 10 southern districts clocked 1,211 cases and 35 deaths. While Theni (213) continued to remain on top, Kanyakumari reported 182 cases, Tirunelveli (169), Virudhunagar(167) and Dindigul(118). With six deaths each, Madurai and Virudhunagar recorded the highest number of deaths.The activecasesin the region were12,700. While the central districts added 670 cases and 21 deaths, the western districts added 712 cases and17 deaths. Coimbatore(290), Salem (200), Pudukkottai (170),Trichy (117) and Thanjavur (109) recorded high numbers of cases. While Coimbatore reported six deaths, Trichy clocked five deaths, and Namakkal and Tirupur three each. Health officials in Coimbatore said the number of patients with severe symptoms have increased considerably,whichhasledtothe rise in thefatality rate. Attheendof theday,5,236 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured to 2,72,251.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/covid-19-127-more-deaths-no-dip-in-active-cases-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77568925.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19: 127 more deaths, no dip in active cases in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 127 deaths–highest so far –on Saturday, which took the cumulative death toll in the state to 5,641. The state added 5,860 fresh cases of Covid-19 pushing the case tally to 3,32,105. The active cases in the state rose to 54,213 compared to 53,499 on Thursday. The 11 northern districts together reported 54 deaths compared to 35 deaths in the southern districts and 21 in the central districts. The eight western districts reported 17 deaths. While Chennai topped the districts with 26 deaths, Pudukkottai and Thanjavur reported seven each. A dozen people whose deaths were reported on Saturday had no comorbidities. For the first time, the state reported “incidental covid” – people with chronic ailments, organ failureor endstagediseases diagnosed with the viral infection. Saturday’s list includes two 56-year-olds, one a heart patient with diabetes and hypertension and another who had liver disease, diabetes and hypertension, a 35-year-old renal disease patient on dialysis, along with diabetes and hypertension. A 72-year-old male from Ranipet admitted to the government headquarters hospital there, who died a week after admission, was also added to the list of “incidental covid”. “We are including all of them in the Covid death registry. But we wanted to say the infection may haveexpediteddeathbutdid not directly cause it,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Hotspot Chennai reported 1,179 fresh cases. For the second consecutivedaythecity is reporting cases in four digits after coming down to three digits for a week since August 7. The adjoining districts Tiruvallur (422), Chengalpet (376), Kancheepuram (184), together reported 982 cases and12deaths.Theother seven northern districts reported 1,088 cases and16 deaths. Cuddalore(340), Ranipet(260), Vellore (153) and Thiruvannamalai(100) reported a three digit increase, but the incidenc ein Villupuram(84), Kallakuruchi (81) and Thirupathur (70) were high. While Ranipet reported five deaths, Tiruvannamalai reported four, Vellore and Kallakuruchi reported three deaths each. The 10 southern districts clocked 1,211 cases and 35 deaths. While Theni (213) continued to remain on top, Kanyakumari reported 182 cases, Tirunelveli (169), Virudhunagar(167) and Dindigul(118). With six deaths each, Madurai and Virudhunagar recorded the highest number of deaths.The activecasesin the region were12,700. While the central districts added 670 cases and 21 deaths, the western districts added 712 cases and17 deaths. Coimbatore(290), Salem (200), Pudukkottai (170),Trichy (117) and Thanjavur (109) recorded high numbers of cases. While Coimbatore reported six deaths, Trichy clocked five deaths, and Namakkal and Tirupur three each. Health officials in Coimbatore said the number of patients with severe symptoms have increased considerably,whichhasledtothe rise in thefatality rate. Attheendof theday,5,236 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured to 2,72,251.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-127-more-deaths-no-dip-in-active-cases-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77568922.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 16, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19: 127 more deaths, no dip in active cases in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 127 deaths–highest so far –on Saturday, which took the cumulative death toll in the state to 5,641. The state added 5,860 fresh cases of Covid-19 pushing the case tally to 3,32,105. The active cases in the state rose to 54,213 compared to 53,499 on Thursday. The 11 northern districts together reported 54 deaths compared to 35 deaths in the southern districts and 21 in the central districts. The eight western districts reported 17 deaths. While Chennai topped the districts with 26 deaths, Pudukkottai and Thanjavur reported seven each. A dozen people whose deaths were reported on Saturday had no comorbidities. For the first time, the state reported “incidental covid” – people with chronic ailments, organ failureor endstagediseases diagnosed with the viral infection. Saturday’s list includes two 56-year-olds, one a heart patient with diabetes and hypertension and another who had liver disease, diabetes and hypertension, a 35-year-old renal disease patient on dialysis, along with diabetes and hypertension. A 72-year-old male from Ranipet admitted to the government headquarters hospital there, who died a week after admission, was also added to the list of “incidental covid”. “We are including all of them in the Covid death registry. But we wanted to say the infection may haveexpediteddeathbutdid not directly cause it,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Hotspot Chennai reported 1,179 fresh cases. For the second consecutivedaythecity is reporting cases in four digits after coming down to three digits for a week since August 7. The adjoining districts Tiruvallur (422), Chengalpet (376), Kancheepuram (184), together reported 982 cases and12deaths.Theother seven northern districts reported 1,088 cases and16 deaths. Cuddalore(340), Ranipet(260), Vellore (153) and Thiruvannamalai(100) reported a three digit increase, but the incidenc ein Villupuram(84), Kallakuruchi (81) and Thirupathur (70) were high. While Ranipet reported five deaths, Tiruvannamalai reported four, Vellore and Kallakuruchi reported three deaths each. The 10 southern districts clocked 1,211 cases and 35 deaths. While Theni (213) continued to remain on top, Kanyakumari reported 182 cases, Tirunelveli (169), Virudhunagar(167) and Dindigul(118). With six deaths each, Madurai and Virudhunagar recorded the highest number of deaths.The activecasesin the region were12,700. While the central districts added 670 cases and 21 deaths, the western districts added 712 cases and17 deaths. Coimbatore(290), Salem (200), Pudukkottai (170),Trichy (117) and Thanjavur (109) recorded high numbers of cases. While Coimbatore reported six deaths, Trichy clocked five deaths, and Namakkal and Tirupur three each. Health officials in Coimbatore said the number of patients with severe symptoms have increased considerably,whichhasledtothe rise in thefatality rate. Attheendof theday,5,236 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured to 2,72,251.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-127-more-deaths-no-dip-in-active-cases-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77568923.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19: 127 more deaths, no dip in active cases in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 127 deaths–highest so far –on Saturday, which took the cumulative death toll in the state to 5,641. The state added 5,860 fresh cases of Covid-19 pushing the case tally to 3,32,105. The active cases in the state rose to 54,213 compared to 53,499 on Thursday. The 11 northern districts together reported 54 deaths compared to 35 deaths in the southern districts and 21 in the central districts. The eight western districts reported 17 deaths. While Chennai topped the districts with 26 deaths, Pudukkottai and Thanjavur reported seven each. A dozen people whose deaths were reported on Saturday had no comorbidities. For the first time, the state reported “incidental covid” – people with chronic ailments, organ failureor endstagediseases diagnosed with the viral infection. Saturday’s list includes two 56-year-olds, one a heart patient with diabetes and hypertension and another who had liver disease, diabetes and hypertension, a 35-year-old renal disease patient on dialysis, along with diabetes and hypertension. A 72-year-old male from Ranipet admitted to the government headquarters hospital there, who died a week after admission, was also added to the list of “incidental covid”. “We are including all of them in the Covid death registry. But we wanted to say the infection may haveexpediteddeathbutdid not directly cause it,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Hotspot Chennai reported 1,179 fresh cases. For the second consecutivedaythecity is reporting cases in four digits after coming down to three digits for a week since August 7. The adjoining districts Tiruvallur (422), Chengalpet (376), Kancheepuram (184), together reported 982 cases and12deaths.Theother seven northern districts reported 1,088 cases and16 deaths. Cuddalore(340), Ranipet(260), Vellore (153) and Thiruvannamalai(100) reported a three digit increase, but the incidenc ein Villupuram(84), Kallakuruchi (81) and Thirupathur (70) were high. While Ranipet reported five deaths, Tiruvannamalai reported four, Vellore and Kallakuruchi reported three deaths each. The 10 southern districts clocked 1,211 cases and 35 deaths. While Theni (213) continued to remain on top, Kanyakumari reported 182 cases, Tirunelveli (169), Virudhunagar(167) and Dindigul(118). With six deaths each, Madurai and Virudhunagar recorded the highest number of deaths.The activecasesin the region were12,700. While the central districts added 670 cases and 21 deaths, the western districts added 712 cases and17 deaths. Coimbatore(290), Salem (200), Pudukkottai (170),Trichy (117) and Thanjavur (109) recorded high numbers of cases. While Coimbatore reported six deaths, Trichy clocked five deaths, and Namakkal and Tirupur three each. Health officials in Coimbatore said the number of patients with severe symptoms have increased considerably,whichhasledtothe rise in thefatality rate. Attheendof theday,5,236 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured to 2,72,251.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-19-127-more-deaths-no-dip-in-active-cases-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77568915.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 16, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19: 127 more deaths, no dip in active cases in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 127 deaths–highest so far –on Saturday, which took the cumulative death toll in the state to 5,641. The state added 5,860 fresh cases of Covid-19 pushing the case tally to 3,32,105. The active cases in the state rose to 54,213 compared to 53,499 on Thursday. The 11 northern districts together reported 54 deaths compared to 35 deaths in the southern districts and 21 in the central districts. The eight western districts reported 17 deaths. While Chennai topped the districts with 26 deaths, Pudukkottai and Thanjavur reported seven each. A dozen people whose deaths were reported on Saturday had no comorbidities. For the first time, the state reported “incidental covid” – people with chronic ailments, organ failureor endstagediseases diagnosed with the viral infection. Saturday’s list includes two 56-year-olds, one a heart patient with diabetes and hypertension and another who had liver disease, diabetes and hypertension, a 35-year-old renal disease patient on dialysis, along with diabetes and hypertension. A 72-year-old male from Ranipet admitted to the government headquarters hospital there, who died a week after admission, was also added to the list of “incidental covid”. “We are including all of them in the Covid death registry. But we wanted to say the infection may haveexpediteddeathbutdid not directly cause it,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. Hotspot Chennai reported 1,179 fresh cases. For the second consecutivedaythecity is reporting cases in four digits after coming down to three digits for a week since August 7. The adjoining districts Tiruvallur (422), Chengalpet (376), Kancheepuram (184), together reported 982 cases and12deaths.Theother seven northern districts reported 1,088 cases and16 deaths. Cuddalore(340), Ranipet(260), Vellore (153) and Thiruvannamalai(100) reported a three digit increase, but the incidenc ein Villupuram(84), Kallakuruchi (81) and Thirupathur (70) were high. While Ranipet reported five deaths, Tiruvannamalai reported four, Vellore and Kallakuruchi reported three deaths each. The 10 southern districts clocked 1,211 cases and 35 deaths. While Theni (213) continued to remain on top, Kanyakumari reported 182 cases, Tirunelveli (169), Virudhunagar(167) and Dindigul(118). With six deaths each, Madurai and Virudhunagar recorded the highest number of deaths.The activecasesin the region were12,700. While the central districts added 670 cases and 21 deaths, the western districts added 712 cases and17 deaths. Coimbatore(290), Salem (200), Pudukkottai (170),Trichy (117) and Thanjavur (109) recorded high numbers of cases. While Coimbatore reported six deaths, Trichy clocked five deaths, and Namakkal and Tirupur three each. Health officials in Coimbatore said the number of patients with severe symptoms have increased considerably,whichhasledtothe rise in thefatality rate. Attheendof theday,5,236 people were discharged taking the total number of people cured to 2,72,251.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-19-127-more-deaths-no-dip-in-active-cases-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/77568924.cms||Pushpa Narayan
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Rains continue across Telangana, emergency operations in full swing||HYDERABAD: A massive rescue operation was launched by the Indian Air Force at Kundanpally village in Telangana's Jayashankar Bhupalpally district, on Saturday, after 10 farmers were left stranded in the floodwaters. It took two IAF helicopters, pressed into action on orders from minister K T Rama Rao, close to four hours to bring the farmers to safety. The incident took place when the farmers went to retrieve the motors from their agricultural wells around 10am. Before they realised, the stream connecting their farmland started overflowing due to heavy rains forcing them to climb onto a tree to take shelter. From there, the farmers made multiple calls to the police and relatives. Pushed into action, villagers alerted the local MLA Gandra Venkata Ramana Reddy and panchayat raj minister, Errabelli Dayakar Rao, who in turn got in touch with KT Rama Rao. On KTR's orders, chief secretary Somesh Kumar coordinated the rescue. Two IAF helicopters arrived around 2pm and later dropped them at an agriculture field nearby. In another incident near Baswapur bridge in Siddipet's Koheda mandal, a lorry driver, M Shankar, went missing after his vehicle was washed away by the flood water early on Saturday morning. While the IAF was called in here too, the chopper could not take off from Hakimpet on time owing to bad weather. When the team finally arrived at the site 11.45am, the driver was 'missing', said local authorities. The mishap occured when Shanker (45) and a cleaner were heading from Siddipet to Husnabad. S Mahender, ACP Husnabad, said, "The driver was travelling in a sand lorry when a stream nearby was in spate at 5.30am. Caught in it, he held onto a tree waving to villagers to rescue him." As news reached finance minister Harish Rao, he ordered the police commissioner and NDRF to launch a rescue operation to save the man. "But in the meantime, the man tried to crossover the floodwaters and villagers lost sight of him," the ACP added. In a third incident in Karimnagar, a woman police officer led a team to rescue a biker stranded on a flyover in Huzurabad police stations limits, late on Friday. Mahender, who works in a wine shop, was stuck on a causeway while returning home after his stock arrived late. Stranded with water from a stream gushing, Mahender was holding on to his bike and a pillar for support for nearly an hour. Alerted about the incident, inspector Madhavi led a six-member team that reached the spot around an hour later. "The team members used a stick to check the depth of the floodwaters. Each member using a rope to lead one another on. When we reached near Mahender, we threw the rope at him and he was rescued," confirmed one police official involved in the operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rains-continue-across-telangana-emergency-ops-in-full-swing/articleshow/77568928.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Inter-district ST buses, SOPs for tuition classes likely in one week||MUMBAI: A day after relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said the state government would likely allow indoor gyms to reopen in a couple of days, he said the state was considering allowing inter-district ST (state transport) bus services and SoPs (standard operating procedures) were being drawn to start coaching classes in some parts of the state. “A decision will be taken in the next one week. A discussion was held on this issue, and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is very positive about it,” Wadettiwar said in Chandrapur. Unclear if private cars could now skip e-passesInter-district travel is currently restricted in the state and one requires an e-pass for it. The only exception the Thackeray government made was to allow ST buses to the Konkan and unregulated movement between the different districts in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. ST bus services within a district have been permitted since June. Wadettiwar said ST buses will run with only 20 passengers so that there is no crowding and social distancing can be maintained, and guidelines to this effect were being readied. He, however, was not clear about whether private vehicles too would be allowed to travel between districts without an epass. He said many students from cities have the means to start digital education, but there are many from rural areas for whom this is not possible. “We are working on framing guidelines so that coaching classes can be started in some districts. There are many places where students cannot attend online classes,” Wadettiwar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-inter-district-st-buses-sops-for-tuition-classes-likely-in-one-week/articleshow/77568919.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Chetan Chauhan put on life support||NEW DELHI: Former India opener Chetan Chauhan’s fight against Covid-19 has become grim. He was put on life support on Saturday afternoon in a Gurugram hospital on Saturday as his health deteriorated. The 73-year-old, a serving Cabinet minister in the Yogi government in Uttar Pradesh, was diagnosed with the virus on July 12 in Lucknow. His brother Pushpender Chauhan told TOI he was brought to the Medanta Hospital in Gurugram as his organs started to get affected. “He had recovered from the virus but his kidneys got affected. He tested positive again last night. His health started deteriorating in the morning and we were told that he was suffered from multiple-organ failure. Thus, he was put on life support at around 1 pm. He has responding to the treatment and has not shown any sign of further deterioration,” Pushpender said on Saturday evening. According to sources at the hospital, Chauhan is suffering from candida fungal infection and pancreatitis. “He is on a ventilator. He is critical as he is not maintaining blood pressure. There is inflammation of pancreas and candida fungal infection on his entire body,” said a source from the hospital. Chauhan was very active in community service during the pandemic. “He has been a very fit man even at this age. He was in the middle of social service during the pandemic when he contracted the disease. Hopefully, he will pull through this,” Pushpender added. Chauhan represented India in 40 Test matches and scored 2084 runs before becoming a two-time member of parliament.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chetan-chauhan-put-on-life-support/articleshow/77568956.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Grocer a director in Chinese company running gambling racket||HYDERABAD: How did smalltime grocer from Delhi become a director in a Chinese company that allegedly ran an illegal online gambling racket in India worth more than Rs 1,000 crore? Police officers in Hyderabad are trying to answer this question after Neeraj Tuli, one of the three Indian directors held along with a Chinese national, told investigators that he was just an ordinary grocer who ran a small neighbourhood shop as an extension of his home in Delhi’s Karol Bagh area. He claimed he had no clue that his name was being used to run the company and found out about it only when cops reached his doorstep. Tuli accused his chartered accountant neighbor, P Hemant, of tricking him into signing some documents which made him part of the business without his knowledge. Officials are on the lookout for Hemant who is missing. “Tuli claimed that Hemant, under the pretext of helping him audit his accounts, got many documents signed by him. He said he did not know that Hemant would use them to make him a dummy director in Chinese firms. It is true that Tuli is a grocer, but we are not taking his claims at face value. He will be grilled further,’’ said a senior officer. 8 firms registered in India between ‘19 & ‘20Investigators are believed to have produced various documents in Tuli’s name, which declared him a director of various firms operating under Beijing T Power based out of China. The eight firms – Growing Info Tech Pvt Ltd, Sily Consulting Services Pvt Ltd, Pan Yun Technology Services, Linkyun Technology Pvt Ltd, Dokypay Technology Pvt Ltd, SpotPay Technology India Pvt Ltd, Daisylink Financial Pvt Ltd and Huahuo Financial Pvt Ltd — were registered in India either in 2019 or 2020. All the firms belong to Beijing T Power, which was establishing new companies and running online gambling by admitting members only through references. Payment was accepted through different e-payment gateways. The two other directors —Dheeraj Sarkar and Ankit Kapoor — were aware of the cheating, police said. “The key accused, Chinese national Yah Hao and Hemant officially have not been directors in any of these firms in India. But, they ran India operations and ensured transfer of hundreds of crores rupees to China,’’ an official added. English-speaking Yah Hao is generally tasked with studying the market potential in various countries. Watch Hyderabad: Grocer a director in Chinese company running gambling racket||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-grocer-a-director-in-chinese-co-running-gambling-racket/articleshow/77568960.cms||Srinath Vudali
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Treatment protocol working, last one lakh patients in Maharashtra recover in 9 days||MUMBAI: While Maharashtra crossed the 4-lakh mark for recoveries on Friday, data shows the time taken for the latest 1 lakh cases to be discharged has come down to just 9 days. Also, in the last 21 days, the state has discharged nearly 2 lakh people, taking the rate of recovery from 56.5% on July 25 to 70% as on August 14. Senior officials said the increase in recovery rate was an indicator that the treatment and drug protocol had been streamlined and was working. “Over five months into the pandemic, treatment protocols are stable. This has increased recoveries and cut patients’ hospital time,” an official said. With recovies being swifter in Maharashtra of late, state officials said oxygen is given early on now to patients, and fewer critical patients are coming in. Maharashtra had a slow start in recoveries. It took 116 days since the first case was reported in the state on March 9 to cross the first 1 lakh discharges, while the journey from 1 lakh to 2 lakh took 23 days and as on July 25, the state had 2.07 lakh recoveries in all. On August 5, in just 11 days, the state reported 3.05 lakh discharges and in just nine days, the 4 lakh mark was breached on August 14. According to data, August has been a good month for recoveries, and there have been days when the number of discharges have been higher than the additions. Also, in the first 14 days of the month, over 1.5 lakh new Covid-19 cases were added and 1.45 lakh people were sent home, while in all of July, 2.5 lakh new cases were added and 1.65 lakh people discharged. Officials said apart from treatment and protocol, another thing that helped increase discharges was a revision in the discharge policy in May which did away with the need to do a repeat test before sending a person home. Mumbai also reported a total of 1 lakh discharges on August 12, and as on August 14, its recovery rate was over 79%, with 1.01 lakh recoveries. There are fewer than 20,000 active cases in Mumbai. AMC Suresh Kakani said in five months, public hospitals have learnt the drill well. “We have protocols, oxygen beds and medicines needed to treat patients,” he noted. In Mumbai, the task force on mortality had advised that providing oxygen to patients early (or immediately on admission to hospital) could cut down severity. This led to an effort to add oxygen support to beds. “In many cases, providing oxygen early on cut down the need for transfer to ICU,” said a civic doctor. A doctor from Sion Hospital said not only are daily admissions down, the number of patients coming with serious symptoms too has also come down. “It is no longer like it was in May-June when most patients came to hospitals with elevated blood sugars or low oxygen count,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/treatment-protocol-working-last-one-lakh-patients-in-maharashtra-recover-in-9-days/articleshow/77568964.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 16, 2020||Business||Singapore central bank buys 11% in ICICI Bank's QIP for 1,662cr||Mumbai: Singapore's central bank, the Monetary Authority of Singapore has emerged the largest investors in ICICI Bank's qualified institutional placement of shares picking up 4.6 crore shares for Rs 1,662 crore, which is over 11% of the issue size. The second-largest investor is Morgan Stanley Investment Management with a Rs 1,086 crore investment followed by French bank Societe Generale which has purchased 2.3 crore shares for Rs 832 crore. On Saturday, ICICI Bank announced that it has successfully raised Rs 15,000 crore by issuing equity at the rate of Rs 358 per share under a qualified institutional placement. The issue price was fixed at Rs 358 per equity share, which is at a premium of Rs 356 per unit. The bank's board, which met on Saturday, approved the allotment of shares. The Issue opened on August 10, 2020, and closed on August 14, 2020. "The proceeds of the issue will be used towards strengthening the capital adequacy ratio of the bank and improve its competitive positioning and/ or general corporate requirements or any other purposes as may be permissible," the bank said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/singapore-central-bank-buys-11-in-icici-banks-qip-for-1662cr/articleshow/77568976.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fatality rate for July fell to 4.8%, says BMC, but overall rate 5.5%||MUMBAI: While the death rate of 5.47% in Mumbai seems worrisome, BMC officials said July had shown an impressive drop compared to the previous months. “While the death rate or case fatality rate was 5.8% at the end of June, our efforts to ensure speedy detection and treatment resulted in case fatality rate for July falling to 4.8%,” said BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani. The number of cases up between March and June stood at 77,658, including 4,556 deaths. In July, BMC registered 35,139 cases including 1,722 deaths, working out to a case fatality rate of 4.8%. In June, the BMC added over 800 deaths on a single day in a data reconciliation exercise. On Saturday, Mumbai’s overall CFR was 5.47% -- much higher than the national 1.94%. The CFR for Maharashtra is 3.38%. “In August, we realized that the deaths in the public sector hospitals are going down while deaths in private hospitals are climbing,” said Kakani. The BMC has hence decided to hold a review meeting on Monday of deaths in private sector hospitals between August 1 and 15. Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state task force on Covid-19, said that the target should be to reduce the deaths to 1% of the total cases. “The CFR should be below 1% across India if Covid-19 has to be converted into a manageable disease. We are making all-out efforts that include prompt diagnosis and treatment, including teh aggressive control of comorbidity among patients,” said Dr Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fatality-rate-for-july-fell-to-4-8-says-bmc-but-overall-rate-5-5/articleshow/77568992.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 16, 2020||India||Frame law, keep criminals out of polls: HC to govt||Chennai: The Centre should legislate a law prohibiting candidates with criminal backgrounds from participating in polls, the Madras HC has observed, reports Suresh Kumar. Citing a 2019 report of Association for Democratic Reforms, the HC said, "The report reveals that 43% (233 out of 539) of elected MPs are facing criminal cases. Of which 29% (159 MPs) have serious criminal cases pending against them." Therefore, the central government has to come out with a comprehensive legislation to prohibit persons with criminal background from contesting elections, the court added. The judges made the observations while hearing a habeas corpus petition challenging detention of Janarthanan under the Puducherry Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act. According to the detention order, the accused faces 19 criminal cases for alleged offences including murder and attempt to murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/frame-law-keep-criminals-out-of-polls-hc-to-govt/articleshow/77569003.cms||Suresh Kumar
August 16, 2020||Business||Hospitals inflating Covid bills: Insurers' body||BENGALURU: The General Insurance Council — an association of non-life insurance companies — has accused hospitals where cashless insurance is available, of inflating bills for Covid-19 treatment . The council has called for regulation of healthcare fees and is seeking to become a party to a Supreme Court petition on cashless servicing of Covid treatment claims. Speaking to TOI, GI Council head M N Sharma said, “We see medical inflation where hospitals artificially jack up rates. Now, insurance companies can’t follow suit because we are regulated. Every policy we issue, the rates are approved by IRDAI. So we cannot unfairly price our products, even if hospitals are doing so.” The council is demanding the government set caps on Covid-19 treatment costs. Stating that private hospitals are arbitrarily charging patients, the GI Council is likely to implead itself in a petition filed in the Supreme Court as it has noticed differential charges for patients with insurance cover and those without insurance cover. The SC PIL (public interest litigation) was originally filed by a hospital victim Avishek Goenka, a resident of Kolkata, stating the problems faced by the common man. GI Council is likely to implead itself in Goenka’s petition. The PIL also mentions discrepancy in hospital charges between patients with insurance and those without. “It has come to our attention — from hospital bills that some hospitals decide the treatment procedure based on the sum insured of the policy. Say for example, the sum insured is up to Rs 5 lakh; you will find the hospital charging a sum of Rs 4.9 lakh. Whereas for patients without insurance, the bill might be half or a quarter of that.”CHENNAI: The Centre should legislate a law prohibiting candidates with criminal backgrounds from participating in polls, the Madras HC has observed, reports Suresh Kumar. Citing a 2019 report of Association for Democratic Reforms, the HC said, “The report reveals that 43% (233 out of 539) of elected MPs are facing criminal cases. Of which 29% (159 MPs) have serious criminal cases against them.” Therefore, the central government has to come out with a law to prohibit persons with criminal background from contesting polls, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hospitals-inflating-covid-bills-insurers-body/articleshow/77569006.cms||Rachel Chitra
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rs 22 lakh bill Covid patient remembers little of her 54-day ordeal||MUMBAI: Eleven kilos, 54 days and Rs 22 lakh. This was the total cost involved in getting 50-year-old Kalyan resident Minaz Baig back on her feet after fighting Covid-19 and its several complications. While Juhu’s Nanavati Hospital completely waived off Baig’s bill, there was one price not factored here: Memories. Baig, who weighed 84kg earlier and is now 73kg, remembers being rushed to the hospital on June 11. Her next memory is that of a nurse telling her it is July 8. “I thought I was in slumber for 24 hours and was shocked to hear so many days had passed,” said Baig, wife of a fast food vendor from Kalyan. The average hospital stays for patients with Covid-19—the viral outbreak that has over the past five months changed the way Mumbaikars live and work —ranges from 15 to 21 days, depending on the severity of their symptoms. But as Baig’s experience shows the ordeal can stretch much longer in some of the 1.3 lakh Covid patients in the city so far. Consider Vasai-based grandmother Raji Nair (not her real name) who spent 46 days in the BMC-run Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri. She lost a son to Covid before being diagnosed with the condition herself and getting admitted with four of her family members. Seven Hills dean Dr B Adsul remembers a patient who stayed for three months as the relatives he was visiting in Mumbai abandoned him. “We had to get social workers to help him travel back to Uttar Pradesh,” said Dr Adsul. The problem with longer stays, as Nair’s grandson Ramith, who was admitted alongside her for 15 days, said is that the stress and uncertainly get multiplied too. “Apart from her health, we were also concerned as my 83-year-old grandmother only speaks Malayalam and doesn’t know how to use a mobile phone,” he said. On one occasion, her family said the nurses forgot to lock her IV drip and she bled profusely all over the bedsheet. Also, she was shifted to three different wards and developed urinary tract infection as no one remembered to change her catheter in over 40 days. Clearly, the biggest problem with longer hospital stays is the threat of secondary bacterial or fungal infections. Dr Abdul Ansari, who heads the intensive care at Nanavati Hospital, said Baig was brought to the hospital in a critical state. “She had acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) when she was brought here from a local Kalyan hospital,” he said. Baig, who tested positive for the virus six times, needed all the medicines used for Covid ICU patients: Tocilizumab, Favipiravir and Remdesivir. “We would get calls from Nanavati Hospital three times a day, sometimes to ask if she could be started on a new medicine,” said her nephew Tariq Don. It is the nature of this viral infection, Dr Ansari said, to lead to complications. “If a patient gets admitted late, they have a high risk of developing cytokine storm (a complicated immune response from the body) and ARDS,” he said. If appropriate medicines are delayed, the patient’s condition could worsen and lead to organ failure as well. “In some patients, bleeding complications occur,’’ said the doctor. On the 11th day of her hospitalization, Baig needed a tracheostomy, a medical procedure to create an opening in the neck for the windpipe to allow air to enter the lungs. Her creatinine shot up, indicating kidney problems. This was when the course of the then newly available drug, Remdesivir, was started. As she slowly recovered enough to be weaned off the ventilator, she was diagnosed with a fungal infection that required her to be given some of the most powerful antibiotics. “She even developed a drug-resistant urinary tract infection a few days before discharge,” said Dr Ansari. Baig, though, remembers her hospital stay fondly. “I couldn’t see the faces of the doctors or the nurses as they wore masks but I could recognize their voices. And they were very considerate to me,” she said. Ramith, too, said barring the two incidents, the Seven Hills stay was fruitful. “The doctors would get irritated with our calls, but they healed my grandmother and she is able to walk again,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-rs-22-lakh-bill-covid-patient-remembers-little-of-her-54-day-ordeal/articleshow/77569005.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 16, 2020||Thane||Mumbai: Rs 22 lakh bill Covid patient remembers little of her 54-day ordeal||MUMBAI: Eleven kilos, 54 days and Rs 22 lakh. This was the total cost involved in getting 50-year-old Kalyan resident Minaz Baig back on her feet after fighting Covid-19 and its several complications. While Juhu’s Nanavati Hospital completely waived off Baig’s bill, there was one price not factored here: Memories. Baig, who weighed 84kg earlier and is now 73kg, remembers being rushed to the hospital on June 11. Her next memory is that of a nurse telling her it is July 8. “I thought I was in slumber for 24 hours and was shocked to hear so many days had passed,” said Baig, wife of a fast food vendor from Kalyan. The average hospital stays for patients with Covid-19—the viral outbreak that has over the past five months changed the way Mumbaikars live and work —ranges from 15 to 21 days, depending on the severity of their symptoms. But as Baig’s experience shows the ordeal can stretch much longer in some of the 1.3 lakh Covid patients in the city so far. Consider Vasai-based grandmother Raji Nair (not her real name) who spent 46 days in the BMC-run Seven Hills Hospital in Andheri. She lost a son to Covid before being diagnosed with the condition herself and getting admitted with four of her family members. Seven Hills dean Dr B Adsul remembers a patient who stayed for three months as the relatives he was visiting in Mumbai abandoned him. “We had to get social workers to help him travel back to Uttar Pradesh,” said Dr Adsul. The problem with longer stays, as Nair’s grandson Ramith, who was admitted alongside her for 15 days, said is that the stress and uncertainly get multiplied too. “Apart from her health, we were also concerned as my 83-year-old grandmother only speaks Malayalam and doesn’t know how to use a mobile phone,” he said. On one occasion, her family said the nurses forgot to lock her IV drip and she bled profusely all over the bedsheet. Also, she was shifted to three different wards and developed urinary tract infection as no one remembered to change her catheter in over 40 days. Clearly, the biggest problem with longer hospital stays is the threat of secondary bacterial or fungal infections. Dr Abdul Ansari, who heads the intensive care at Nanavati Hospital, said Baig was brought to the hospital in a critical state. “She had acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) when she was brought here from a local Kalyan hospital,” he said. Baig, who tested positive for the virus six times, needed all the medicines used for Covid ICU patients: Tocilizumab, Favipiravir and Remdesivir. “We would get calls from Nanavati Hospital three times a day, sometimes to ask if she could be started on a new medicine,” said her nephew Tariq Don. It is the nature of this viral infection, Dr Ansari said, to lead to complications. “If a patient gets admitted late, they have a high risk of developing cytokine storm (a complicated immune response from the body) and ARDS,” he said. If appropriate medicines are delayed, the patient’s condition could worsen and lead to organ failure as well. “In some patients, bleeding complications occur,’’ said the doctor. On the 11th day of her hospitalization, Baig needed a tracheostomy, a medical procedure to create an opening in the neck for the windpipe to allow air to enter the lungs. Her creatinine shot up, indicating kidney problems. This was when the course of the then newly available drug, Remdesivir, was started. As she slowly recovered enough to be weaned off the ventilator, she was diagnosed with a fungal infection that required her to be given some of the most powerful antibiotics. “She even developed a drug-resistant urinary tract infection a few days before discharge,” said Dr Ansari. Baig, though, remembers her hospital stay fondly. “I couldn’t see the faces of the doctors or the nurses as they wore masks but I could recognize their voices. And they were very considerate to me,” she said. Ramith, too, said barring the two incidents, the Seven Hills stay was fruitful. “The doctors would get irritated with our calls, but they healed my grandmother and she is able to walk again,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbai-rs-22-lakh-bill-covid-patient-remembers-little-of-her-54-day-ordeal/articleshow/77569011.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 16, 2020||India||'5 doctor', who served people for 45 yrs, dead||Chennai: Dr V Thiruvengadam, famous as the 'Rs 5 doctor' in Chennai's Vyasarpadi, died of cardiac arrest at the Southern Railway Hospital on Saturday. He was 70 and is survived by his wife T Saraswathi, daughter T Preethi and son T Dipak, reports A Selvaraj. Confirming that he didn't have Covid-19, Preethi, a doctor herself, said he had been admitted to the hospital on August 13 after complaining of chest pain. "We were arranging for his discharge today when he suffered a massive cardiac arrest and breathed his last at 12.05pm."  S Boobalan, the doctor's assistant for 25 years, said he joined as a juvenile and started distributing tokens to patients at the clinic. Boobalan said, "He charged Rs 5 per patient when I joined. It was Rs 2 per patient when he started the clinic 45 years ago." Every day, more than 150 people came to consult Dr Thiruvengadam who often gave out free medicines and even gave some of them money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5-doctor-who-served-people-for-45-yrs-dead/articleshow/77569017.cms||A Selvaraj
August 16, 2020||Noida||Noida: Four kids injured as wall & awning collapse||NOIDA: Four children were injured after a portion of the terrace wall and an awning next to it came crashing down a three-storey house at Harola on Saturday evening. The debri fell on a parked autorickshaw and injured two children who were sitting inside it. Three injured children were taken to the district hospital and doctors said one of them has serious injuries. Police said that the incident took place around 5 pm when five-year-old Manav and a few other children were flying kites on the terrace of the three-storey house. The building is owned by Jagdish alias Jaggi and the children are from the tenant families. While Manav was standing next to the terrace wall when it collapsed, along with the awning, Aman (14) and Utkarsh (3) were seated inside an auto rickshaw that was parked in front of the house. They were playing games on mobile phones when the debri fell on them. Another child, Vikas (14), who was nearby was also injured. A local resident said that the structure had cracks. The auto rickshaw on which it fell and a bike parked next to it were damaged. “Aman and Utkarsh were inside the auto playing games on phone when the structure came crashing,” he said. Sector 20 SHO Rakesh Kumar Singh said that the owner of the building stays in Noida Sector 19. Several rooms on the three floors of the building have been rented out. Most of the tenants are daily wage labourers. “Manav escaped major injuries,” the officer said. While Manav and Aman are brothers, Utkarsh is the son of one of the tenants named Pintu. Manav has suffered injuries on the limbs and Utkarsh has got multiple fractures in the legs. Doctors said his condition is serious. Manav and Aman have been discharged from the hospital and Vikas was taken to a private clinic where he got a few stitches. Police said that they have not received any complaints from the families yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/4-kids-injured-as-wall-awning-collapse/articleshow/77567921.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||US dream shattered, Indians find greener pastures in Canada||HYDERABAD: After waiting in vain for decades to obtain permanent residency (green card) and realise their ‘Great American Dream’, many Indian families are relocating to Canada. Reasons: Ease of entry, better career opportunities and convenience of settling down. Rough estimates suggest at least 20,000 Indians make this migration — from the US to Canada — every year. “I went through at least six H-1B visa extensions since I joined work. I was living in constant stress,” said Dinesh Dasari, a native of Hyderabad, who moved from Maryland to Toronto this July. This, after a 14-year-long stint in the US. The solutions architect said his career had stagnated because of the delay in getting a green card. “A person’s green card petition is stuck to the employer. This makes it difficult for you to switch jobs,” said Dasari. “Even moving to a managerial position is difficult because employers are sceptical about grooming and investing in a person who they are not sure will be able to stay in the country,” he added. Read AlsoBiden promises to reform H-1B visa system, eliminate country quota for Green CardsWASHINGTON: If voted to power in the November general elections, a Biden administration will reform the H-1B visa system and work towards eliminating the country-quota for Green Cards, his campaign said on Saturday, in a move to woo the influential Indian-American community. The H-1B visa is aThe immigration of thousands of Indians comes at a time when the community has been lobbying for the passage of the Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act of 2019, better known as S386, in the Senate. The bill seeks to end the cap for job-based green cards in the US. Currently, there is a 7% cap on Indians for issuing a green card every year, creating a huge backlog. Canadian application process much easier: NRIsThere are approximately 9,00,000 Indians (holding H-1B, L1 and H4 EAD) in the US. When people ask me if they should stay or move, I always suggest the latter,” said immigration attorney Rahul Reddy of Reddy & Neumann, PC, adding the express entry to Canada has made it possible for people to get PR in less than a year. “People can simply apply online without even consulting an immigration attorney,” he said. Among those who made use of this opportunity is Girish Chavan. He bid Pittsburgh — his home of 18 years — goodbye and shifted to Toronto in July. The IT professional’s first green card application was rejected in 2010 over a small technicality. “Once the next application was in place, I always thought the green card would be right around the corner, but it never was,” said the native of Mumbai. Visa restrictions meant a series of setbacks for Chavan and his wife, including not being able to work for the company they planned to start and not being able to shift to another job when Chavan wanted to move to New York. The final straw was when Chavan’s wife -- who was representing the US at a high profile summit abroad – returned to find a letter suggesting the renewal for her H4 EAD (dependent visa which allows you to work) needed additional information, a constant irritant for most immigrants who have to keep proving how skilled they are. Canadian application process was a stark contrast in terms of ease. “There was an open line of communication with authorities, something that was missing in the US,” said Chavan. Since their move to Canada, the duo could not be more happier, having received a welcome and the freedom to choose their work. Watch Indians find greener pastures in Canada, after US dream of permanent residency shattered||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-us-dream-shattered-indians-find-greener-pastures-in-canada/articleshow/77568990.cms||Uttara Varma
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Mob was ready for arson, finds probe||BENGALURU: Preliminary forensic findings from tests on burnt vehicles show that the mob had carried inflammable liquids, indicating that Tuesday night’s violence in the eastern part of the city, which initially appeared to be spontaneous may have actually been planned. The Forensic Science Laboratory team found traces of petrol, diesel, kerosene and paint thinner in samples they collected on Wednesday. “Prima facie, these liquids were used to set vehicles on fire. This shows the mob had come prepared to torch vehicles,” an investigating officer told STOI. The final report is expected soon. The findings came on a day a fourth person connected to the violence died in hospital. Sayyad Nadeem, 24, a resident of KG Halli, was injured in the chest and neck by a tear gas shell, police said. Violence over FB postRioters forced open fuel tanks of 13 bikes and vansThe injuries were deep and Nadeem was unconscious when we traced him. He had lost a lot of blood,” a source said, adding that autopsy confirmed he had no bullet injuries. Police said Nadeem was spotted in the frontline of rioters, torching vehicles parked outside the police station. The forensic findings said of the 35 police vehicles torched, traces of kerosene and thinner were found in more than 20. The investigation also showed that in 13 vehicles, including bikes and vans, the rioters had forced open fuel tanks. Burning of KSRP vanWhile reconstructing events that night, investigators found that the mob had strategically blocked off a KSRP van before burning it down. “There was one fire tender standing by at DJ Halli police station while another one near KJ Halli station. There was only one way in and out of the place, a small lane that deviates from Tannery Road leading to DJ Halli police station,” an officer said. The mob walked along with the KSRP vehicle until it entered this narrow lane and blocked it just about 500m from the police station. They then manhandled personnel in the van, the officer added. The fourth victim, Nadeem, worked as an air-conditioner mechanic and lived with his parents, wife and three children near Anwar Layout. Police said he was part of the mob that picketed KG Halli police station and was spotted torching vehicles. Watch Bengaluru violence: Mob was ready for arson, reveals probe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-violence-mob-was-ready-for-arson-finds-probe/articleshow/77569023.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 16, 2020||India||'NEP will make students global citizens & keep them rooted'||NEW DELHI: PM Modi in his address said that education has a special place in building a self-reliant, modern, ‘New India’ which will be prosperous and happy. “With this thought, we have become successful today in providing the country with a new National Education Policy after three decades.” Highlighting the wide acceptance of the policy, he said the reform will ensure students will integrate globally, while remaining connected to their Indian values. “Every nook and corner of India is welcoming it with renewed enthusiasm and a new vigour. And this is the NEP, which will connect our students with the roots. Alongside, it will help them become global citizens. The students will be well-rooted and still touching new heights.” The PM also empahasised the importance of the proposed National Research Foundation and the key role it is expected to play in research and innovation. “You must have noticed that a special stress has been laid in NEP on National Research Foundation because in order to progress, the nation needs to innovate. Higher the stress that will be laid on innovation and research, greater would be the strength to take India forward in this competitive world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nep-will-make-students-global-citizens-keep-them-rooted/articleshow/77569045.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP officials worried as many defy home-quarantine rule in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Monitoring people in home quarantine continues to be a tough task for BBMP and its staff. On August 3, a Hoodi man who had recovered from Covid-19 and was under home quarantine, set out to meet his friends and argued with a quarantine monitoring volunteer who tried to stop him. He not only hung out with his friends but also tried to shoo away the coordinator of Citizen Quarantine Squad. According to senior officials in-charge of home quarantine, people need to be responsible and follow protocol. “We have created many monitoring squads and each of them is doing its best to manage the situation, but people need to have a sense of responsibility towards their neighbours, which is lacking,” a senior BBMP official told STOI. Nearly 45% of youngsters breach quarantine rules for fun, while 30% do so for essential purchases. The rest have a poor understanding of rules, added the official. At a recent meeting of BBMP officials and resident welfare associations, many RWAs expressed concern over home quarantine and the related rules. “There is a lot of confusion. People want to know if they can go back to their hometowns for home quarantine. Many people step out to purchase essentials since everything isn’t accessible via home delivery,” said Manjunath J, special commissioner, estates and in-charge of home quarantine, BBMP. Another official blamed poor arrangements by BBMP and the government for the confusion. “...There are many things one needs other than groceries. Due to the stigma, lying comes naturally to those in home quarantine,” he explained “We have noticed people leaving their mobiles at home or giving wrong numbers to avoid being tracked,” added Manjunath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-officials-worried-as-many-defy-home-quarantine-rule-in-bengaluru/articleshow/77569046.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 16, 2020||India||After tiger, lion & dolphin to get projects for conservation||NEW DELHI: On the lines of the successful conservation programmes Project Tiger and Project Elephant, India will now have two more similar missions, Project Dolphin and Project Lion, to protect these species in their natural habitat in a holistic manner. “We have successfully carried forward Project Tiger and Project Elephant. The tiger population has increased in India,” said Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day speech while announcing how similar projects for Asiatic lions and dolphins, living in the rivers and in the seas, would give a boost to biodiversity and create employment opportunities. Underlining that the country is committed towards promotion and conservation of its biodiversity, Modi said, “India has shown that the march towards development is possible by balancing the environment". Gangetic river dolphin, declared as a National Aquatic species in 2010, act as ideal ecological indicators of a healthy riverine ecosystems. It’s a species of freshwater dolphins primarily found in the Ganges and Brahmaputra rivers and their tributaries in India, Bangladesh and Nepal. At present, there are about 3,700 Gangetic river dolphins in the Indian river systems. These dolphins are sighted along deep river reaches in Assam, Bihar, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The Project Dolphin, announced by the PM, will, however, cover both freshwater (river) and marine (oceanic) dolphins. Besides helping in mitigation of pollution in rivers and oceans, the conservation of dolphins under Project mode will have potential to promote tourism. Though India had last year launched Asiatic lion conservation project with a budgetary contribution of nearly Rs 98 crore, the Project Lion would be a holistic one with many additional components including creation of new required infrastructure, use of technology, involvement of experts for conservation, providing world standard care and health management. The project will also address human-wildlife conflict and will be inclusive, involving local communities living in the vicinity of the lion landscape and creating livelihood opportunities for them. Asiatic lions are found in protected areas and agro-pastoral landscape of Saurashtra, covering nine districts in Gujarat. Its current estimated population is 674. India has recorded a 29% increase in its population in the past five years — from 523 in 2015 to 674 in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-tiger-lion-dolphin-to-get-projects-for-conservation/articleshow/77569054.cms||Vishwa Mohan
August 16, 2020||India||1L households getting fresh water taps/day||New Delhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day speech on Saturday underlined the fast progress of the ongoing Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), noting how the country is now connecting one lakh rural households every day with fresh water taps. Under the mission, launched in August last year, India has provided two crore new tap connections, especially to tribal households in far-flung areas, in the last one year. "I am very proud to tell you that our dream of making available pure drinking water to all the people is getting realised. The solution to several health problems is directly linked to pure drinking water. It also contributes to the nation's economy. That's why we have started the JJM," said Modi. The Jal Shakti (water resources) ministry has been recording daily minimum one lakh new tap connections since the beginning of unlock period on June 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/1l-households-getting-fresh-water-taps/day/articleshow/77569058.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Desi anti-drone shield for Red Fort||NEW DELHI: The Tejas fighter jet and the recently-announced negative arms imports list came in for special mention by Prime Minister Modi as part of the “Atmanirbhar Bharat” initiative, even as an indigenous anti-drone system was deployed to guard against small aerial threats during the Independence Day function at Red Fort in the capital. The PM also announced one lakh new NCC cadets — one-third of them girls — from the 173 districts on the land borders as well as the coastline will be trained by the armed forces in the coming days. This will make trained manpower available in these areas for disaster management, while the youth will also get skill training for making a career in the armed forces. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) said the new anti-drone system that was deployed near the Red Fort can bring down “micro drones” by either jamming their command and control links or damaging their electronics through laser-based directed energy weapons. “The system can detect and jam micro drones up to 3 km and lase a target up to 1-2.5 km depending on the wattage of the laser weapon. It can be an effective counter to increased drone activity in the western and northern border sectors,” said an official. The PM, on his part, said “mammoth steps” are being taken in the defence production field. “Recently, we have put a stop on the import of more than 100 military equipment. From missiles to light military helicopters, from assault rifles to transport aircraft — all will be made in India,” said Modi. “Our Tejas is getting ready to equip itself as per the modern requirements, for putting up a show of its majesty, speed and strength,” the PM added. The IAF has already raised two squadrons at the Sulur airbase in Tamil Nadu for the initial 40 Tejas Mark-1 fighters, only half of which have been delivered till now. The contract for the next 83 Tejas Mark-1A fighters, which are slated to have 43 “improvements” over the first 40 jets, is set to be inked later this year, with deliveries beginning three years after that. The 123 jets will cost over around Rs 85,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/desi-anti-drone-shield-for-red-fort/articleshow/77569076.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Sonia focuses on 'occupation' of land by PLA||NEW DELHI: Congress president Sonia Gandhi said reversing the Chinese intrusion and defending national territory would be the biggest tribute to the martyrs of Galwan Valley, as she focused her Independence Day message on the PLA’s occupation of Indian land in Ladakh. “Today, 60 days have passed since the martyrdom of Colonel Santosh Babu and our 20 soldiers in Galwan Valley. I urge the government to honour their bravery,” she said. The Congress chief said the government today appears to be crossing swords with constitutional values and established traditions. On the 74th Independence Day, Congress released a web series “dharohar” to highlight the party’s role in freedom struggle and India’s evolution as a “super power”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sonia-focuses-on-occupation-of-land-by-pla/articleshow/77569085.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Basavaraj Bommai blaming Congress to cover up his failure, says DK Shivakumar||BENGALURU/HAVERI: The Congress in Karnataka on Saturday slammed home minister Basavaraj Bommai for saying internal party rift was a reason for the violence in East Bengaluru. “How can Bommai come to such a conclusion? Is he an investigating officer? Is this the outcome of an inquiry? He’s doing it to cover up his failure?” said a furious KPCC president DK Shivakumar. On Friday, Bommai alleged that internal squabbling in the Congress and SDPI’s larger conspiracy to disturb law & order resulted in the Pulakeshinagar constituency violence. “The government failed to handle the situation. BJP workers are responsible for the violence. They had the opportunity to control the situation, but allowed it to flare up. Now, they are pointing fingers at us to hide their failure,” Shivakumar said. He alleged that the government is trying to threaten Congress corporators by issuing notices to them and pressurising MLA Akhanda Srinivasmurthy to issue certain statements. Bommai, who was in Haveri, said the allegations are baseless and they will extend police security to Srinivasamurthy and other MLAs facing threats. BJP targets MLA ZameerIn Chikkamagaluru, tourism minister CT Ravi alleged that Chamarajpet MLA BZ Zameer Ahmed Khan orchestrated the violence with the support of some Congress leaders. “He is the director and producer of the violence,” he alleged. Congress leaders Tanveer Sait and Roshan Baig have lost their hold on the community and Zameer is looking to emerge as a leader, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-basavaraj-bommai-blaming-congress-to-cover-up-his-failure-says-dk-shivakumar/articleshow/77569086.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Asean nations, West Asia now our 'neighbours'||NEW DELHI: PM Modi redefined the meaning of neighbours on Saturday, saying one didn’t have to share boundaries to be so, describing such ties as encompassing an extended neighbourhood. The defining features of such ties could be “deep relations based on security, development and trust with our neighbouring countries, whether connected by sea or land.” Making the point, Prime Minister Modi said, “neighbours are not the only ones with whom we share geographical boundaries, but also those with whom we have close and harmonious relations.” Translated in the present Indian context, India could see Japan or UAE as a neighbour, even while ties with Pakistan and China remain unsettled. In recent policy decisions, the government has imposed investment restrictions on certain countries with which India shares land borders, without actually describing them as “neighbours.” The target has been China principally. “India has strengthened its relationship with all the countries in its extended neighbourhood in the last few years. The political, economic and human relations with the countries in West Asia have progressed manifold. Trust has increased manifold. The economic ties, particularly in the field of energy sector, are very important with these countries.” PM’s singling out the Gulf and West Asian countries is also interesting in the context of India’s growing ties with the Gulf countries, particularly UAE and Saudi Arabia. The Prime Minister also took the opportunity to emphasise India’s ties with Asean countries, also regarded as India’s extended neighbourhood. “Similarly, our Asean countries in the east, who are our maritime neighbours, also hold special importance. India has thousands of years old religious and cultural ties with these countries. The traditions of Buddhism connect us with them. Today, India is strengthening its cooperation not only in the field of security but also in the areas of marine wealth with these countries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/asean-nations-west-asia-now-our-neighbours/articleshow/77569090.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||Wish for closer ties with India: Chinese envoy's I-Day greeting||NEW DELHI: Chinese ambassador to India Sun Weidong on Saturday congratulated the Indian government and people on the country’s Independence Day. “Wish #China & #India, two great nations with ancient civilisation prosper together in peace and develop with closer partnership,” Sun tweeted. Sun’s greetings came in the middle of the border stand-off in eastern Ladakh. The two countries have had several rounds of military and diplomatic dialogue but they are still nowhere close to resolving the issue. China has blamed India for the stalemate, saying the onus was on India to carry forward the disengagement process. India had on Friday said that it expected the Chinese side to sincerely work with India towards the objective of complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas as agreed by the special representatives. Meanwhile, Indian ambassador to China, Vikram Misri, on Saturday said that 2020 has been a very unusual year for India as it had to face the “twin challenges” of Covid-19 as well as aggression on the country’s borders. Addressing a gathering of Indian community at the India House in Beijing, Misri talked about the problems faced by the Indian expatriates in China. “I find that the situation today that faces us, all of us Indians, is not dissimilar to the one that we faced during our struggle for independence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/wish-for-closer-ties-with-india-chinese-envoys-i-day-greeting/articleshow/77569102.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Wish for closer ties with India: Chinese envoy's I-Day greeting||NEW DELHI: Chinese ambassador to India Sun Weidong on Saturday congratulated the Indian government and people on the country’s Independence Day. “Wish #China & #India, two great nations with ancient civilisation prosper together in peace and develop with closer partnership,” Sun tweeted. Sun’s greetings came in the middle of the border stand-off in eastern Ladakh. The two countries have had several rounds of military and diplomatic dialogue but they are still nowhere close to resolving the issue. China has blamed India for the stalemate, saying the onus was on India to carry forward the disengagement process. India had on Friday said that it expected the Chinese side to sincerely work with India towards the objective of complete disengagement and de-escalation and full restoration of peace and tranquility in the border areas as agreed by the special representatives. Meanwhile, Indian ambassador to China, Vikram Misri, on Saturday said that 2020 has been a very unusual year for India as it had to face the “twin challenges” of Covid-19 as well as aggression on the country’s borders. Addressing a gathering of Indian community at the India House in Beijing, Misri talked about the problems faced by the Indian expatriates in China. “I find that the situation today that faces us, all of us Indians, is not dissimilar to the one that we faced during our struggle for independence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wish-for-closer-ties-with-india-chinese-envoys-i-day-greeting/articleshow/77569100.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Bordering China & Nepal, Uttarakhand boosts defence infra||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand, which has a strategic location among the northern Himalayan states, shares a 350-km-long border with China and an almost 275-km-long border with Nepal. With both these border areas currently on high alert, the state government has taken a number of steps to ensure that these areas are safeguarded. These include ramping up the number of helipads and setting up airstrips near border areas to facilitate ease of movement, besides earmarking funds for development. The state government has also drawn up plans to encourage reverse migration to villages in border areas that had in the past few years become empty. Talking to TOI, chief minister T S Rawat said, “In the last few years, the perception of the government and people alike has changed towards the border areas. They have now become priority sectors.” He added that the number of helipads in the state have gone up from 20 to 50 and the Army has set up a walnut nursery in Chamoli district with the intent to check migration. “The state has now three active airstrips and has got in-principle approval for another airstrip in Almora,” he said. Colonel (retired) Pradeep Goyal said that in the long run Uttarakhand’s efforts to build more helipads and airstrips will help the armed forces in emergency and crisis situations. In addition to air connectivity, Uttarakhand has also been working on ramping up road connectivity to border areas. The CM said that the BRO has either completed or is on track to complete most of its projects in the state. “Due to the road made by BRO, it now takes less than three hours to reach Rimkhim from Joshimath, which earlier used to take almost 10 hours,” he added. Rimkhim incidentally is a strategic location close to the Barahoti area which had seen repeated incursions by China. Meanwhile, defence analysts said that the state’s efforts to safeguard border areas are ‘in the right direction’, and it was important that “people-to-people relations in border areas especially those with Nepal are retained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bordering-china-nepal-uttarakhand-boosts-defence-infra/articleshow/77569112.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 16, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Car crashes into canter, driver injured||GURUGRAM: A canter allegedly hit a car near Rampura Chowk on Friday. According to police, on Friday evening Rahul Kumar, a resident of DLF Express Greens Society in Manesar, was driving home from office in Sector 48 when the accident took place. “When Kumar was approaching Rampura Chowk, a canter which was moving ahead of him took a U-turn without turning on the indicator,” a police officer said. Kumar in his statement said that the canter hit his car damaging it badly and injuring him in the process. After the accident, the canter driver sped away. A case has been registered at Kherki Dhaula police station. The FIR was registered under sections 279 (rash driving ), 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), 336 (negligent or rash act to endanger human life or the personal safety) and 427 (whoever commits mischief and thereby causes loss or damage to the amount of fifty rupees or upwards) of IPC. Another accident took place on Wednesday in Palam Vihar where a man, identified as Robin Kumar, was returning home from his office in Sector 61 when a speeding car hit his motorcycle near Rezang La Chowk. Police said that Robin fell off the bike and received multiple injuries. “I was taken to Columbia Asia Hospital nearby for treatment and, therefore, I could not submit my complaint earlier. Even now, I am receiving a treatment at Medanta Hospital,” the victim said in his statement to the police. A case has been registered under sections 279 and 336 of IPC at Palam Vihar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/car-crashes-into-canter-driver-injured/articleshow/77567756.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Mob came prepared for arson: Cops||BENGALURU: The rioting in east Bengaluru on Tuesday night may have been a planned act of violence rather than a spontaneous response to a provocative Facebook post, investigators have deduced on the basis of preliminary findings that suggest the mob came armed with inflammable substances to indulge in arson. The Forensic Science Laboratory has found traces of petrol, diesel, kerosene and paint thinner in samples collected from 20 of the 35 police vehicles set ablaze by the rioters, more than 200 of whom have been arrested. “Prima facie, these substances were used to set fire to vehicles. This shows the mob had come prepared,” an investigating officer said. While reconstructing the events, investigators found that the mob had “strategically blocked” a Karnataka State Reserve Police van before setting it ablaze. The KSRP team opened fire when things got out of hand, an officer said. Meanwhile, a fourth person connected to the violence died in a hospital on Saturday. Sayyad Nadeem, 24, a resident of KG Halli, was injured by a tear gas shell, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mob-came-prepared-for-arson-cops/articleshow/77569119.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 16, 2020||Gurgaon||Medical staff among 42 Covid warriors honoured on Independence Day||GURUGRAM: On Independence Day, the district administration honoured 42 persons for their exemplary work to alleviate the Covid crisis. Among these ‘Covid warriors’ were doctors, ASHA and ANM workers, police officers, lab technicians, and two villages — Palra and Shikohpur. These villages had donated Rs 21 crore each for the state’s Covis relief fund. Munesh Devi, 45, sarpanch of Palra village, which has a population of around 2,200, said, “It was the panchayat members who suggested that we should donate this amount to the state’s Covid fund. At a time of crisis, when not only the entire country but the entire world is suffering, we thought we should contribute to fight against this virus.” Around 800 villagers signed the resolution to make this generous donation. The village has reported only one Covid-19 case so far. The villager who got infected has a shop in Badshahpur and has now recovered. Among the doctors from the health department who were honoured for their tireless work during the ongoing pandemic was Dr MP Singh, urban nodal officer of the district’s health department and nodal officer of the containment zones. Working round the clock for three months, Dr Singh has been leading the health department teams to identify the areas where maximum cases of Covid-19 have been reported. He has also been chalking out a schedule to conduct the rapid antigen testing camps. He is also heads the team that strategises and tries to improve the transportation facilities of the Covid-19 patients from home to hospitals. “As a frontline worker, I have never felt afraid of doing my duty during this pandemic. Also, I think all frontline workers feel the same way. There is no need to panic. Do your duty,” was Dr Singh’s message. His wife, who is also a doctor, lives in Mathura with their three-year-old daughter. When she had to go on Covid duty for 14 days, their daughter stayed with Dr Singh. “I used to sanitise my hands, wear masks all the time and take all neceesary precautions. However, I was extra careful during those 14 days,” added Singh. Besides doctors, lab technicians from the health department were also awarded as part of the of I-Day celebrations on Saturday. Five MCG officials were also honoured. The list included two firemen — Manoj Kumar and Rakesh Kumar, senior medical officer Dr Ashish Singla, and other officials. The other awardees were officials and employees of labour department, police force, district ayurveda office, local chapter of the Red Cross Society, district education office, market committee, among others. “Our officers who have done exemplary work even during the pandemic were honoured today. These officers have worked in different crime investigations,” said Subhash Boken, spokesperson of Gurugram police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/med-staff-among-42-covid-warriors-honoured-on-i-day/articleshow/77567767.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Gurgaon||Transport minister urges unions to call off strike||GURUGRAM: Facing stiff protest and continuous strikes from the roadways employees over the government’s plan to introduce private buses in its fleet, state transport minister Mool Chand Sharma has reached out to the workers and unions, urging them to quit their protest as the government is ready for “discussions”. Earlier this week, the transport minister decided to discuss the issues of roadways employees. The minister appealed to the employees that they should not protest as a solution can be reached only through discussions. “A meeting of all employees’ unions related to roadways will be held on September 2. During this meeting, the issues of the employees will be discussed and all their legitimate demands will be considered sympathetically. In the meantime, I appeal to all the employees and unions to call off their protest and prepare for the discussion instead,” said Sharma.The move comes at a time when the state roadways is grappling with acute revenue losses and repeated strikes of the employees against the privatisation drive of the government. While the protesting employees have welcomed the initiative, they are yet to decide whether or not the protests will be called off. “We had planned to present a memorandum to the minister on September 5. It’s good that the minister himself has decided to call us and discuss the matter on the table. We are open to dialogue but the decision of calling of the protest is yet to be taken. We’ll call a meeting of our employees and discuss our line of action. We had planned a massive protest on August 18 and 25,” said Haryana Roadways Employees Union president Dalbir Kirmara. The roadways employees, however, have expressed their reservations about the outcome of the discussion. “Previous discussions have not yielded any result. What happens is that selected people are called for the meeting but nothing concrete comes out of it,” argued Sudhir Ahlawat, district head of Haryana Roadways Sanyukt Karamchari Sangh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/transport-minister-urges-unions-to-call-off-strike/articleshow/77567693.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
August 16, 2020||Gurgaon||Minister says green cover target 20% in Haryana||GURUGRAM: Forest minister Kanwar Pal announced an ambitious plan on Saturday to increase the green cover of the state from 7% to 20% in five years. Environmentalists, however, have called the target ‘unrealistic’. “We will adopt 50 villages in each district every year and will conduct plantation drives in association with the respective village panchayats. We have a target of 1.25 crore plants for plantation during the year of 2020-21,” said Pal. He also said that the drones will be used to ensure that no illegal activities are taking place in Aravalis. The department has selected 1,126 villages in the state for the drive. At present, the state has the state has 3.6% forest cover and 3. 7% tree cover, which makes up for all its greenery. Pal also pointed out that for the eco-restoration project of Badkhal lake, the forest department will plant 1.2 lakh saplings in 2020-21, and another lakh plants the following year. The forest department also plans to conduct cluster plantation drives across districts to ensure that no patch is left without green cover. Environmental experts and conservationists, however, are not convinced. “The government is not sure what the definition of forest in Haryana is. How can it increase forest cover then? It is just a publicity stunt. If Haryana decides on the definition of forest, it will be easier to protect gair mumkin pahar, foothills, and more areas can also be included in the Aravali forest,” said Vivek Kamboj, an environmentalist. Another environmental activist, Vaishali Rana Chandra, said, “The state was supposed to submit a list of areas which are part of the natural conservation zone (NCZ) to the ministry of environment last year. It is still pending. Large scale mining activities and illegal construction work are happening in Aravalis and amid all this chaos how can they aim to increase forest cover to 20%?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/minister-says-green-cover-target-20-in-state/articleshow/77567699.cms||Ipsita Pati
August 16, 2020||World||UNSC rejects US proposal to extend Iran arms embargo||The US suffered an embarrassing diplomatic defeat on Friday when the UN security council rejected a proposal to indefinitely extend an arms embargo on Iran, with the Trump administration getting support from only the Dominican Republic. The defeat underscored America’s deepening global isolation on the issue of Iran. Russia and China voted against the proposal in the 15-member council, while 11 members abstained, including France, Germany and UK. But for the Trump administration, the vote could open a separate path to try to inflict maximum damage on Iran ahead of US polls. Secretary of state Mike Pompeo suggested the US would invoke the “snap back” mechanism in the 2015 nuclear deal that would restore all UN sanctions on Iran. He said the rejection of the bid was a “serious mistake”. Iran hailed the vote, saying US has “never been so isolated”. President Rouhani said the US had failed to kill off the 2015 deal “with humiliation”. US inks deal for troop move from Germany to Poland Poland and the US signed a defence deal that will result in 1,000 additional US troops being sent to the country on a rotational basis. The deal follows the US’s decision to withdraw 12,000 troops from Germany.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/unsc-rejects-us-proposal-to-extend-iran-arms-embargo/articleshow/77569189.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||US formally inks deal to sell 66 F-16 jets to Taiwan||Taiwan formally signed an agreement to buy 66 of the latest model F-16 jets built by Lockheed Martin Corp, a move likely to further inflame tensions between the US and China. Taiwan’s purchase of the F-16s marks the first sale of advanced fighter jets to the island since President George HW Bush announced approval for 150 F-16s in 1992. A $62 billion figure announced by the Pentagon on Friday is the upper limit of numerous contracts if all potential foreign customers placed their maximum desired number over the decade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-formally-inks-deal-to-sell-66-f-16-jets-to-taiwan/articleshow/77569192.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai doctors, BMC hospitals faced with severe Tocilizumab shortage||MUMBAI: There is once again a severe shortage of Tocilizumab, an anti-arthritis drug used to treat Covid-19, in the city. A doctor from a south Mumbai hospital said it is “nearly impossible” to get the drug. “We have heard Roche pharma hasn’t been supplying the drug to Cipla, the Indian company distributing it here,” said a senior BMC official. Both companies denied the charge. In an email reply, a spokesperson for Cipla said, “The demand is unprecedented and we are working closely with our global partners to ensure supplies of the drug.” A spokesperson for Roche Products (India) said, “Currently, supplies are ensured for all approved indications of Tocilizumab. In India, Tocilizumab is approved for the treatment of various rheumatological disorders like rheumatoid arthritis, systemic and polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis, etc. Tocilizumab is currently not approved for treatment of Covid-19 in India or anywhere else in the world. There has been an unprecedented demand for Tocilizumab globally due to the pandemic.” The BMC, too, has a limited supply of Tocilizumab, said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. “We hope to get some more on Monday and we are using the existing supply judiciously,” he said. On July 29, Roche said its trial on the use of Tocilizumab for Covid-19 did not meet its “primary endpoint of improved clinical status in patients with Covid-19 associated pneumonia, or the key secondary endpoint of reduced patient mortality”. A Chembur doctor said, “The supply problem began thereafter.” Incidentally, on Saturday, a study from Boston published in The Lancet medical journal said the drug reduced mortality in Covid patients in ICUs. “We have used Tocilizumab on many patients and have had quick recovery. It is an important drug in the fight against Covid,” said Dr Prince Surana whose hospital treats the patients. MP Rahul Shewale wrote to the union health ministry on Saturday, requesting export of Tocilizumab be banned so that Indian patients are not deprived of the medicine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-doctors-bmc-hospitals-faced-with-severe-tocilizumab-shortage/articleshow/77569171.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Not custodial death, 26-year-old had heart attack in police station||MUMBAI: A special investigation team (SIT) probing a 26-year-old Sion resident’s demise in the Wadala Truck Terminal police station in October 2019 has ruled out custodial death and confirmed he died of a heart attack. Meanwhile, the case will be heard by Bombay high court as well as the state human rights commission on Monday. Relying on medical reports, the SIT, in its report to the state home department, has said Vijay Singh, the deceased, had a heart ailment. “SIT will continue to probe if there was any dereliction of duty or negligence in taking him to the hospital immediately after he fell ill,” said a police source. Singh was detained with his cousin and a friend after a tiff with a couple who accused him of harassing the woman. His family alleged police torture led to his death while in custody. Subsequently, the state formed a four-member SIT to investigate the incident. Five policemen, including sub-inspectors Sandeep Kadam and Salim Khan, were suspended. They were reinstated in May. Meanwhile, in the matter which is also before the state human rights commission, Singh’s family lawyer, Vinay Nair, will submit a rejoinder iterating he was beaten up by the police before his death and an FIR should be registered against them. A copy of the rejoinder has already been served to the crime branch. Nair said he will cite the discrepancies between the autopsy reports of J J and KEM hospitals. He said the latter’s postmortem report had stated a contusion was observed on the inside of Singh’s chest wall. He said medical experts have said this indicates a blunt force trauma. The lawyer said there was also a difference of around 100 gram in the weight of the heart examined by J J and KEM. He alleged it was not 100% certain that the heart JJ sent to KEM was Singh’s. Nair said he will urge the commission to issue summons and examine the statements of Ankit Mishra, eyewitness and Singh’s friend, who was detained with him and his cousin Nirmal Singh, the couple, SIT, five reinstated cops, and doctors who did the post-mortem. In January, Singh’s family had moved Bombay high court seeking an FIR against the cops for murder, compensation and a CBI investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-not-custodial-death-26-year-old-had-heart-attack-in-police-station/articleshow/77569220.cms||Rebecca Samervel
August 16, 2020||Chennai||International flights resume from Chennai airport after 4-month hiatus||CHENNAI: After a gap of four months, international flights have resumed in a small way from Chennai airport with airlines slotting services to Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah. The state government has also waived seven days institutional quarantine for those who arrive with Covid-19 negative certificate. Indigo and GoAir have released schedules from Chennai and SpiceJet from Madurai for flights to the UAE till the end of the month. This will make it easier for people to reach UAE as getting seat in Vande Bharat flights being operated by Air India was not easy. The move comes after the ministry of civil aviation approved flights between airports under the ‘air bubble’ scheme. The number of flights will be limited, as it's not daily service, because the state government continues to be concerned about the spread of Covid-19. Nevertheless, the state government has relaxed institutional quarantine rules for international travellers. As per the new rule, passengers who arrive from abroad with an Covid-19 test certificate will have to undergo another test here and can go on home quarantine if the result is negative. This means those who do not have Covid-19 infection may have to be in a hotel or a government facility for one or two days only. There will be around seven flights by Indian carriers till August 30. UAE-based airlines too will be adding flights. With IPL to be held in Dubai, flight schedules for next month are expected to be released soon. Sriharan Balan from Madura Travels said, “This is a good beginning. UAE has also started issuing tourist visas to Indians. A passenger flew the day before on a tourist visa to Dubai. He will be staying for a month with his friends.” However, it would take longer for leisure travellers to visit UAE because they continue to insist on quarantine. “With IPL going to be held in UAE next month, this rule too may be relaxed and airlines are likely to schedule more flights,” he added Lufthansa too have scheduled flights to Bengaluru. However, only those who wish to fly to Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah can travel and people who want to fly beyond UAE cannot board these flights. Basheer Ahmed of Metro Travels said, “The flights to the UAE will be of help to people who were struggling to get tickets on Vande Bharat flights. However, they should allow passengers who prefer to travel beyond Dubai or Abu Dhabi. This will offer more choice for people who want to fly to Europe from Chennai."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/international-flights-resume-from-chennai-airport-after-4-month-hiatus/articleshow/77569248.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Faridabad||Faridabad: Hospital to study 15 patients who tested -ve and then +ve||GURUGRAM: Dr Aparna Pandey, a microbiologist at ESIC Medical College and Hospital in Faridabad, had tested negative for Covid-19 after 21 days of home isolation. She joined work as usual, but a few weeks later, she had irritation in her throat and mild fever. A test revealed she had Covid. The Faridabad hospital, where Dr Aparna works, will now study 15 patients who tested positive for Covid within weeks of being discharged from hospitals after testing negative. All of them had tested negative with the RT-PCR method, considered the gold standard of testing. Doctors at ESIC, who will study how the 15 patients got "reinfected", said most of them hadn't developed antibodies. The study will also find out if the 15 persons had contracted the infection from a Covid patient or traces of the virus remained in their bodies after they were discharged. Seven of these patients are the hospital's own staffers, including doctors and lab technicians. "We have to analyse why antibodies are not developing in some cases. There is a fair chance of reinfection in patients who are not developing antibodies. This is similar for all the 15 patients who got reinfected," said Dr Anil Pandey, chief coordinator of the ESIC lab and registrar-academic of the medical college. Dr Aparna, who, too, is planning to study further about reinfection, feels her immunity could have been compromised because of asthma and other health conditions. "On June 1, I first tested positive for Covid. I was in home isolation for 21 days. I had mild symptoms, which included a low-grade fever. The second week was more stressful because I had anxiety issues," she said. The doctor got an RT-PCR test done after completing 21 days in home isolation and tested negative. "I joined work at the hospital as usual. Three weeks later, I developed some symptoms and got tested again. This time, I had tested positive," she added. Another lab technician at ESIC was found Covid positive within weeks of being discharged. The man, who was asymptomatic, got himself tested the first time after his colleague was found positive. On June 6, he was admitted to a hospital after the test report revealed he had Covid. The technician was discharged on June 11 after testing negative a day earlier. "I got another RT-PCR test done on June 18 and tested negative then too. However, I developed symptoms like fever and body ache and decided to go for a test again. I got the report on August 11, and I had tested positive," the 28-year-old man said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/faridabad-hospital-to-study-15-patients-who-tested-ve-and-then-ve/articleshow/77569276.cms||Vishakha Chaman
August 16, 2020||Amaravati||Godavari in spate, first flood warning sounded in Andhra Pradesh||RAJAHMUNDRY: With water level rising steadily in river Godavari thanks to incessant rains in the catchment areas, irrigation officials on Saturday sounded the first flood warning signal at Dowleswaram and Bhadrachalam, even as revenue authorities evacuated people in low-lying areas to safety. With the Indian Meteorological Department forecasting moderate to heavy rainfall till Monday, inflows into Godavari are expected to rise further. About 80 villages have been cut off from the mainland with flood water overflowing over link roads in East and West Godavari districts. The flood discharge from Dowleswaram barrage crossed the 10 lakh cusecs mark, necessitating issuance of flood warning signal. The second flood warning signal is expected to be issued on Sunday. The Krishna river, on the other hand, is also in spate with flood discharge from the Prakasam barrage crossing 50,000 cusecs. As flood level in Godavari is rising with copious inflows from its catchment in Chhattisgarh, Odisha and Telangana, people living in the twin Godavari districts are in the grip of fear. As many as 66 villages have been cut off and 10 villages submerged in East Godavari, whereas 19 tribal villages are cut off from the mainland in West Godavari district. The situation is likely to worsen as heavy inflows are coming from the catchment areas of the river. People from the tribal belt in the twin Godavari districts are shifting to hillocks to avoid flood waters. Flood water has also entered the spillway of Polavaram project. Necklace bund, being constructed to protect Polavaram main village from the floods, has witnessed overflowing and project authorities are making efforts to strengthen the bund. More than 11.42 lakh cusecs is being discharged into the sea from Dowleswaram barrage as heavy inflows are coming from the tributaries of Godavari including Sileru, Sabari and Indravathi. About 27,000 cusecs is discharged from the Donkarayi project into Sabari. The situation in four mandals under Chinturu ITDA limits is grim with flood water level rising by the hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/godavari-in-spate-first-flood-warning-sounded-in-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/77569288.cms||Samson Raj
August 16, 2020||World||Covid-19: Volunteers flock to vaccine trials in virus hotspot Florida||MIAMI:Heather Lieberman is betting that she will gain immunity from the coronavirus. Sandra Rodriguez wants to work with scientists for the good of the community. Both have signed up for clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccines in Florida, the new US epicenter of the global health crisis. "I want to be part of history. I want to help," said Rodriguez, a 63-year-old teacher sitting in the offices of a clinical investigation center north of Miami, as nurses prepare to inject her. "I want to do a good thing and I know this is a good thing. So I'm all for it." So-called phase three vaccine clinical trials -- in which thousands of people take part in the final stages -- are gaining traction in the Sunshine State. With more than half a million cases and over 9,000 deaths, Florida ranks second in the United States in total cases behind California -- making it an ideal place to carry out the trials. That has led to a flurry of activity at the Research Centers of America (RCA), a private center carrying out clinical trials in Hollywood, 25 miles (40 kilometers) north of Miami, RCA is working with six potential vaccines against Covid-19. Two of them, made by Moderna and Pfizer, are in phase three trials. Volunteers come in one after the other, by appointment. They are examined by a doctor, sign a document and receive their injection. They could be getting an experimental vaccine or just a placebo, because a control group is needed to establish a baseline for comparisons. They are then asked to wait a couple of hours before being sent home once the experts have determined there is no adverse reaction. "Our experience have been good. We haven't had any issues in all the patients that we have vaccinated so far," said Nelia Sanchez-Crespo, a doctor and researcher at RCA. Volunteers have "been pouring in," she told AFP. "They're really eager. I've seen much more desire to participate in these particular trials because people really want something to be available sooner." That wish to see results, as well as the chance that they could gain immunity from the deadly disease, is what motivated the 28-year-old Lieberman. "It's worth trying," she said as she waited at RCA. "You can't just live in a box," she added, crossing her fingers that she does not end up in the control group. Each day, RCA tests out a vaccine from a different lab. On the day Lieberman and Rodriguez visited the clinic, they were testing mRNA-1273, developed by Moderna and the US National Institute of Allergies and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), which is led by high-profile government expert Anthony Fauci. Moderna, a biotech firm set up less than a decade ago that has never brought a vaccine or drug to market, started its nationwide phase three trials on July 27. That same day, US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech also announced that its vaccine BNT162b2 was advancing to phase two and three trials. Each vaccine will be administered to 30,000 people in tests carried out in dozens of clinical research centers across the country. Most of the tests will focus on California, Florida and Texas, the US states with the most cases. Volunteers sign up on a web page and await a call from the clinic. Anyone is welcome. "Each trial is looking for different things. We definitely want different groups," said Sanchez-Crespo, who is hoping to receive hundreds of volunteers each week. RCA is looking for "healthy individuals, patients that are first responders -- doctors, nurses, firefighters -- people who work in airports, restaurants. That's very important. They have contact with a lot of people," she said. But she said that also needed are subjects in "high-risk groups because of their medical issues like diabetes, COPD, asthma." As well as the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines, a third contender, developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, has started phase three trials in the West. Two more are at the same stage in China. Russia surprised the world this past week when its leader Vladimir Putin announced that his country's vaccine, named "Sputnik" after the pioneering 1950s Soviet satellite, offers "sustainable immunity" from the coronavirus. Putin said that 20 countries had put in orders for a billion doses, but admitted clinical trials were not yet complete. The news was met with skepticism by many Western scientists, who fear Russian researchers are cutting corners. So far, the United States has poured more than $10 billion into six vaccine development projects and signed contracts to guarantee delivery of hundreds of millions of doses. "We have seen a lot of excitement with this trial," said RCA nurse practitioner Barbara Corral, who added that volunteers "really want to be part of something great."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/covid-19-volunteers-flock-to-vaccine-trials-in-virus-hotspot-florida/articleshow/77569309.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC lets CMRL encash Rs 142 crore worth guarantees of Russian company||CHENNAI: In a major relief to CMRL, the Madras high court has permitted the agency to encash more than Rs 142 crore worth bank guarantees issued by Transtonnelstory-Afcons JV, a Russia based-company which was awarded contracts worth more than Rs 2,500 crore for construction of underground Metro stations in Chennai. CMRL initiated encashment due to delay and quality issues in completion of the projects by the company. Justice N Sathish Kumar granted the relief to Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) while dismissing the plea moved by the Russian company. However, since the counsel for the company sought a week’s time to prefer an appeal against the order before a division bench, Justice Kumar instructed the CMRL to maintain status quo till August 21. CMRL was also granted liberty to encash the guarantees if appeal is not filed within that time. The issue pertains to a resolution passed by CMRL to encash two bank guarantees issued by the company for Rs 25.77 crore dated October 16, 2018, and Rs 117.51 crore dated December 29, 2010, for the alleged delay caused by the company in completing the underground station construction and quality issues in the project. Aggrieved, Transtonnelstory-Afcons JV, a joint venture of Transtonnelstroy Limited, Moscow and Afcons Infrastructure Limited, Mumbai, moved the high court seeking to restrain CMRL from encashing the guarantees. The company bagged a contract to design and construct underground metro stations at Shenoy Nagar, Anna Nagar East, Anna Nagar Tower, Thirumangalam and associated tunnels for a price of Rs 1,030.99 crore. It inked a second contract worth Rs 1,566.81 crore to design and construct underground stations at Washermenpet, Mannadi, High Court, Chennai Central, Egmore and associated tunnels. According to the company, despite mobilisation of necessary resources, there was a delay in commencement of work and attributed the delay to CMRL. The petitoner said they requested CMRL to revise the key dates, but it declined the same and this issue became a dispute between the parties. Hence, the matter was referred to an arbitral tribunal for extension of time as well as for costs of the claim, the petitioner said. Opposing the pleas, CMRL contended that despite numerous requests and reminders, the company failed to complete the outstanding works and fix snags to the satisfaction of CRML compelling it to encash the guarantee. Recording the submission, the judge held that the company has not made out any case for granting injunction against CMRL and dismissed the pleas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-hc-lets-cmrl-encash-rs-142-crore-worth-guarantees-of-russian-company/articleshow/77569312.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||No bridge to village: Andhra man walks with daughter’s body for 3km in Agency||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a shocking incident which, ironically, came to light when the country was celebrating its 74th Independence Day, a tribal man was forced to carry the body of his seven-year-old daughter for about three kilometres to reach his home in the Agency area of Visakhapatnam. After the ambulance stopped some three kilometres from his village due to a dilapidated bridge, the inconsolable father walked home carrying his dead daughter in his arms, with his sobbing wife and two other relatives in tow. The incident, which happened on Friday, came to light on Saturday after the poignant photographs went viral on social media. The bridge across a stream at Pariseela village near Kinchumanda Santabayalu junction in Dumbriguda mandal was damaged during cyclone Hudhud in 2014. It has not been repaired till date despite locals bringing it to the notice of revenue officials several times. As the bridge is not fit for motor vehicles, tribals walk to their villages from there, the distance often ranging between two to 25 kilometres. Locals said Gollori Babu Rao of Vayya village, in Kitalangi panchayat of Dumbriguda mandal, had admitted his seven-year-old daughter Elicha in Araku valley hospital where the girl died on Friday. Vayya village is around 22 kilometres from Araku valley. The family was provided an ambulance to take the body home, which stopped at the bridge, from where Babu Rao had to carry his daughter’s body home in his arms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-bridge-to-village-andhra-man-walks-with-daughters-body-for-3km-in-agency/articleshow/77569317.cms||Siva G
August 16, 2020||World||Amid Covid-19 crisis, flu shot makers see record US production||WASHINGTON: Global influenza vaccine makers have produced a record number of doses for the coming flu season, as authorities try to ease the burden on hospitals ahead of an expected Covid-19 resurgence. In the US, pharmaceutical companies plan to make around 196 million doses to serve the population of 330 million, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). That is up from 175 million last year, an 11 percent increase. Major pharmacy chain CVS, which administers flu vaccines without prescription, is ordering 18 million doses, double the amount in 2019. Vaccine maker Seqirus plans to increase production by roughly 15 percent in the US -- from 52 million to 60 million doses, as does Sanofi -- from 70 to 80 million. "There's been a huge demand from our customers from the healthcare system," Sanofi's Michael Greenberg, regional medical head for vaccines in North America, told AFP. Sanofi, Seqirus and GSK are the three biggest companies in the market. GSK did not respond to a request for its vaccine production plans. Sanofi shipped its first batches on July 22, three weeks earlier than in 2019. The CDC estimates flu killed between 24,000 and 62,000 last year. Widespread flu vaccination could thus help free up hospital beds, a vital public health measure to cushion the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. "I'm really worried about the autumn," Lawrence Gostin, a professor at Georgetown University, told AFP. Gostin recently wrote an article in the Journal of the American Medical Association calling for a flu vaccine offensive, including potentially mandatory vaccines at schools. "People aren't thinking about flu, they're thinking about Covid," he said. Americans are already among the most vaccinated peoples against the flu in the world: vaccination is recommended from the age of six months. Other countries, such as France, recommend it to people at risk of complications, including those 65 and older. As a result, 63 percent of children and 45 percent of adults were vaccinated in 2018-2019. In the over-65 age bracket, the figure was 68 percent. But this year, Americans might have to look at new places to receive their shots. "It's going to be hard for people to get their flu vaccinations because they usually get it at work or at school, but many workplaces and many schools are closed," said Gostin. Every year the World Health Organization and national health authorities select in February and March the four strains of influenza virus most likely to be in circulation the following winter in the northern hemisphere. Hundreds of millions of eggs -- the traditional medium for incubating viruses before inactivating them and making them into vaccines -- are delivered to laboratories, with production continuing through the spring, until syringes are filled in summer. In the United States, Sanofi carries out these processes in two factories in the states of Pennsylvania and New York. The same factories could produce a future vaccine against the coronavirus -- but for now there is no competition between the two, said Greenberg. At any rate, Washington has also given the company $2 billion to expand its production capacity. "There are no concerns for supply now," said Dave Ross, vice president of commercial operations in North America for Seqirus, adding that the firm was working with partners to ensure adequate vial and syringe production for future COVID-19 vaccines. There are some causes for optimism. Public health practices like social distancing and mask wearing put in place to stem the coronavirus should also reduce the spread of other respiratory illnesses including the flu. "All of those things hopefully will pay dividends and there'll be less flu around," said Henry Bernstein, a pediatrics professor at the Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine who is on a committee advising the CDC on immunization practices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/amid-covid-19-crisis-flu-shot-makers-see-record-us-production/articleshow/77569349.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||Trump to 'take a look' at pardoning Snowden||BEDMINSTER, United States: President Donald Trump said Saturday he will "take a look" at pardoning Edward Snowden, the former US intelligence contractor who revealed in 2013 that the US government was spying on its citizens. Snowden, who has been living in exile in Russia since the revelations, has said he would like to return to the United States -- but only on the condition that he receive a fair trial. Trump was asked during a press conference at his Bedminster, New Jersey golf club if he was considering pardoning the former contractor. He replied that he was "not that aware" of Snowden's situation -- but that he plans to look into it, calling the controversy a "split decision." "Many people think that he should be somehow treated differently and other people think he did very bad things," the president said, adding: "I'm going to take a look at that very strongly." It was a shift from the 2016 presidential campaign, when Trump said of Snowden, "I think he's a total traitor and I would deal with him harshly." Snowden was praised as a whistleblower and privacy advocate by his defenders after he leaked information showing that agents from the National Security Agency (NSA) were carrying out widespread surveillance on citizens. But the United States accuses him of endangering national security. A conviction on espionage charges could send him to prison for decades. A push to have him pardoned by Trump's predecessor, Barack Obama, ultimately failed. Watch Trump to consider pardon for Edward Snowden||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-to-take-a-look-at-pardoning-snowden/articleshow/77569368.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Independence Day freedom from water tankers for dry villages across Maharashtra||MUMBAI: For the first time in the recent past, the state achieved the target of ‘zero tanker’ on Saturday, when no tanker was pressed into service to supply water to villages. On August 10, eight tankers had been pressed into service to provide water to six villages and 10 hamlets. Information on the water supply and sanitation department’s website says that on August 15 last year, 2,391 tankers were used to supply water to 1,878 villages and 6,211 hamlets. The largest number of tankers (1,090) was deployed in Aurangabad division. In 2001, NCP leader R R Patil, the then rural development minister had alleged that the powerful tanker lobby was creating artificial water shortage, then more than 10,000 tankers, mostly belonging to private contractors were used to provide water to villages, mostly in drought-hit Vidarbha and Marathwada regions. Then Patil had drafted an ambitious plan to achieve the target of ‘zero tanker’. Subsequently, successive rural development ministers drafted plans for zero tanker, but there was no success. When Devendra Fadnavis prepared a plan for zero tanker, he drafted Jalyukta Shivar scheme to enhance underground water level, it did help to some extent, but it too did not work due to unprecedented drought in many districts. “It was a good plan to enhance underground water level, but due to drought, there was no desired success,” a senior bureaucrat told TOI. The bureaucrat said that now, with a normal monsoon, most dams have adequate water stocks, even large number of ponds created during Fadnavis’s tenure are full. “We have achieved the ‘zero tanker’ target, it remains to be seen as to how long it continues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/independence-day-freedom-from-water-tankers-for-dry-villages-across-maharashtra/articleshow/77569375.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
August 16, 2020||Chennai||‘A promise may stop kids from cheating’||CHENNAI: At online school these days, cheating is the ‘new normal’. But new research from the University of Plymouth has found that adolescents (640 of them from India) who made a promise to be truthful were less likely to ‘cheat’ than those who did not, even when they could not be found out. “Cheating in academic settings is a common problem world over,” says Pune-based psychologist Jahnavi Sunderarajan, who worked on the study with Patricia Kanngiesser, associate professor of psychology at the University of Plymouth. The study was prompted by a 2015 article on 750 students in Bihar being expelled for blatant cheating in an exam. “We wanted to examine the prevalence of dishonest behaviour among school children and develop methods to promote honesty,” says Jahnavi. Patricia explains that promises are ‘speech acts’ and create commitments by merely saying specific words. For the study, published in the Journal of Behavioral Decision Making, researchers used the method of voluntary promises to create an honour code using a dice game where students’ points and thereby rewards were directly proportional to the number of dots on the dice. Before the task, half the students were given a choice to promise to be truthful. Students in the promise group were told they would receive a higher pay-off — double the points per dot on the dice — if they promised to report honestly the number of dots they could see. Students in the control group had to do nothing regardless of whether they chose the lower or higher pay-off. “We found that statistically, over-reporting the number of dots on the dice was lower in the group that had made the promise,” says Sunderarajan. “The study suggests a verbal promise puts moral pressure on the child to be honest. Alternately, it could make them realize that by promising, they are winning the trust of the other person and breaking the promise could result in betrayal of that trust.” The findings suggest that if students are asked to sign an honour code at the beginning of the exam saying they would answer honestly it may reduce the prevalence of cheating, she says, adding, “However, as dishonesty is visible in children as young as those in preschool, this needs to be promoted from a young age.” Chennai-based psychiatrist Dr Kannan Gireesh also believes that children will reduce the amount they lie if they know they are “trusted and loved even if they fail”. “Empathy makes children want to connect,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-promise-may-stop-kids-from-cheating/articleshow/77569385.cms||Kamini Mathai
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Curbs made us realise value of freedom, says Karnataka HC chief justice||BENGALURU: Referring to curbs on the right to travel and assemble, Karnataka high court chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka on Saturday said these self-imposed restrictions in the wake of Covid-19 have made everyone realise how precious freedoms conferred by the Constitution are. In his Independence Day address, Oka said the pandemic had adversely affected every institution, and the judiciary was no exception. “Fifty-nine staff members of the principal seat of high court in Bengaluru have tested positive. Many judicial officers are compelled to undergo home quarantine and the same is the case with staff members of the HC, district and trial courts,” he said. “...But we have taken a pledge not to panic and to put up a fight, and we request litigants to bear with this for some more time.” The chief justice noted that the pandemic has given us a great opportunity to use modern technology and the same is being implemented by way of e-filing, online facility to pay court fees, setting up of e-seva Kendras in two districts and e-Lok Adalats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/curbs-made-us-realise-value-of-freedom-says-karnataka-hc-chief-justice/articleshow/77569398.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||The US presidential election: All you want to know||WASHINGTON : The American presidential election takes places every four years on the Tuesday following the first Monday in November, as spelled out in the US Constitution. This year it will fall on November 3. Here is a primer on the US election system: The vote, by universal suffrage, is conducted in a single round in all 50 states and the District of Columbia (the city of Washington, which is not part of any state). Residents of the five US territories including Puerto Rico are eligible to vote in congressional elections and presidential primaries, but not in the presidential election. Voters choose among the candidates for president and vice president. The popular vote in each state determines the selection of a set of members of the Electoral College, who pledge to support a given candidate. The US presidential race is not determined directly by the popular vote, but by a majority of the Electoral College, a group of officials with the task of choosing the president. There are 538 members of the Electoral College, with the number from each state determined by its population size. A state has one elector for each of its members of the House of Representatives, and one for each of the state's two senators. The District of Columbia has three electors. California, the most populous state, thus has the largest number of electors (55), while Texas has 38, and New York and Florida have 29 each. At the other end of the spectrum, lightly populated Alaska, Delaware, Vermont and Wyoming have the minimum of three electors each. Members of the Electoral College officially elect the president and vice president in December, the month after the election, in what is a mere formality. The successful candidate must amass 270 electoral votes, an absolute majority of the 538 electors. In all but two states, the candidate who carries the majority of the popular vote wins the support of all the state's electors. Nebraska and Maine use a split system, in which two electors are chosen by popular state-wide vote and the remainder are chosen according to the popular vote in each congressional district. The winner-take-all system in the states makes it extremely hard for third-party candidates to prevail, although they can still have critical impacts on certain states -- and therefore on the national result. Some states historically support the Democratic candidate election after election, while others are just as resolutely Republican. Candidates thus concentrate their efforts on about a dozen states prone to shift back and forth between the parties, often determining the final result. The most important of these are the "battleground" or "swing" states with the largest number of electors, like Florida (29), Pennsylvania (20) and Ohio (18). Americans are also voting for every one of the 435 members of the House of Representatives (who serve two-year terms) and, this year, for 35 of the 100 senators (who serve for six years). They are choosing governors in 11 states and two territories, and casting votes in a multitude of referenda and local elections for positions including judges, sheriffs, state treasurers and county executives. This year's election is being contested under extraordinary circumstances, namely a coronavirus pandemic that has essentially shut down in-person campaigning and prompted states to implement social distancing guidelines at polling stations. Fears of spreading and contracting the virus have sparked tremendous interest in mail-in voting as a way to avoid the risks associated with large crowds at polling places. Rules vary by state, but absentee or vote-by-mail ballots must be postmarked or received by Election Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/the-us-presidential-election-all-you-want-to-know/articleshow/77569402.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Five arrested for peddling ganja in Chennai||CHENNAI: Police on Friday and Saturday arrested five, including college students, for possession of and peddling ganja. Officers said three men picked up from MGR Nagar on Friday were involved in a racket operating in Virugambakkam and Neelankarai and seized about 5kg of the contraband and two bikes. Police identified the accused as Bhaskar of Maduravoyal, C Sathish, 20, of Nesapakkam, a college student, and K Muthupandi, 23, of Nesapakkam, a food delivery boy. The team first caught Muthupandi and on investigation found that Bhaskar had smuggled liquor and ganja from Vellore and gave them to Muthupandi and Sathish to sell. Police seized at least 380g of ganja and 10 liquor bottles from them. An investigating officer said the men packed the liquor and ganja like it was takeaway food and delivered the contraband to those who would place orders over phone. Late on Saturday night, the Neelankarai police secured two men who were heading for a friend’s birthday party on a two-wheeler. A search of the vehicle led to the seizure of 36 sachets of ganja each weighing about 10g. The men were identified as V Hemanth, 26, of Vettuvankani, an LLB student, and C Sathish, 28, an employee at a private bank in T Nagar. The bike and ?8,000 were also seized. A prohibition enforcement team from T Nagar nabbed a man in Virugambakkam and seized 1.1kg ganja. The accused C Sakthivel, 20, of Ambattur was secured near Chinmaya Nagar bridge on Friday evening based on a tip and handed over to the Virugambakkam police. A court sent all five arrested to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/five-arrested-for-peddling-ganja-in-chennai/articleshow/77569410.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Banks to work with 50% staff from Monday||CHENNAI: All banks in the state will work normal hours with 50% staff on rotation basis from Monday, August 17. Usual banking services will also be provided. The state-level bankers committee decided to reduce staff strength and deploy them in rotation following representations from employees who found it difficult to report to work as there was no public transport due to the lockdown. A public sector bank official said, “We also wanted clarity on the state government’s SOP as its order said all private offices and establishments have been allowed to function with 75% workforce. However, no specific guideline was sent to us (banks).” The Tamil Nadu government, which has extended the lockdown till August 31, in its last order said the ban on public and private bus transport services, malls, gymnasiums and cinema halls will continue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-banks-to-work-with-50-staff-from-monday/articleshow/77569432.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||Robert Trump, the president's younger brother, dead at 71||NEW YORK: President Donald Trump's younger brother, Robert Trump, a businessman known for an even keel that seemed almost incompatible with the family name, died Saturday night after being hospitalized in New York, the president said in a statement. He was 71. The president visited his brother at a New York City hospital on Friday after White House officials said he had become seriously ill. It is with heavy heart I share that my wonderful brother, Robert, peacefully passed away tonight,`` Donald Trump said in a statement. ``He was not just my brother, he was my best friend. He will be greatly missed, but we will meet again. His memory will live on in my heart forever. Robert, I love you. Rest in peace.'' The youngest of the Trump siblings remained close to the 74-year-old president and, as recently as June, filed a lawsuit on behalf of the Trump family that unsuccessfully sought to stop publication of a tell-all book by the president's niece, Mary. Robert Trump had reportedly been hospitalized in the intensive care unit for several days that same month . Both longtime businessmen, Robert and Donald had strikingly different personalities. Donald Trump once described his younger brother as ``much quieter and easygoing than I am,'' and ``the only guy in my life whom I ever call `honey.''' Robert Trump began his career on Wall Street working in corporate finance but later joined the family business, managing real estate holdings as a top executive in the Trump Organization. ``When he worked in the Trump Organization, he was known as the nice Trump,`` Gwenda Blair, a Trump family biographer, told The Associated Press. ``Robert was the one people would try to get to intervene if there was a problem.'' Robert Stewart Trump was born in 1948, the youngest of New York City real estate developer Fred Trump's five children. The president, two years older than Robert, admittedly bullied his brother in their younger years, even as he praised his loyalty and laid-back demeanor. ``I think it must be hard to have me for a brother but he's never said anything about it and we're very close,`` Donald Trump wrote in his 1987 bestseller ``The Art of the Deal.'' ``Robert gets along with almost everyone,`` he added, ``which is great for me since I sometimes have to be the bad guy.'' In the 1980s, Donald Trump tapped Robert Trump to oversee an Atlantic City casino project, calling him the perfect fit for the job. When it cannibalized his other casinos, though, ``he pointed the finger of blame at Robert,'' said Blair, author of ``The Trumps: Three Generations that Built an Empire.`` ``When the slot machines jammed the opening weekend at the Taj Mahal, he very specifically and furiously denounced Robert, and Robert walked out and never worked for his brother again,'' Blair said. A Boston University graduate, Robert Trump later managed the Brooklyn portion of father Fred Trump's real estate empire, which was eventually sold. Once a regular boldface name in Manhattan's social pages, Robert Trump had kept a lower profile in recent years. ``He was not a newsmaker,'' Blair said. Before divorcing his first wife, Blaine Trump, more than a decade ago, Robert Trump had been active on Manhattan's Upper East Side charity circuit. He avoided the limelight during his elder brother's presidency, having retired to the Hudson Valley. But he described himself as a big supporter of the White House run in a 2016 interview with the New York Post. ``I support Donald one thousand percent,'' Robert Trump said. In early March of 2020, he married his longtime girlfriend, Ann Marie Pallan. The eldest Trump sibling and Mary's father, Fred Trump Jr., struggled with alcoholism and died in 1981 at the age of 43. The president's surviving siblings include Elizabeth Trump Grau and Maryanne Trump Barry, a retired federal appeals judge. Authors Michael Kranish and Marc Fisher described Robert Trump as soft spoken but cerebral in ``Trump Revealed: The Definitive Biography of the 45th President'': ``He lacked Donald's charismatic showmanship, and he was happy to leave the bravado to his brother, but he could show flashes of Trump temper.``||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/robert-trump-the-presidents-younger-brother-dead-at-71/articleshow/77569447.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||President, PM Modi pay respects to Vajpayee on his death anniversary||NEW DELHI: President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among several dignitaries who paid tributes to former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his second death anniversary on Sunday. They were joined by several Union ministers and other leaders at 'Sadaiv Atal', the memorial to Vajpayee in the national capital, in paying respects to him. Modi said India will always remember his outstanding service and efforts towards the nation's progress. "Tributes to beloved Atal Ji on his Punya Tithi. India will always remember his outstanding service and efforts towards our nation's progress," Modi tweeted. Tributes to beloved Atal Ji on his Punya Tithi. India will always remember his outstanding service and efforts towa… https://t.co/sBaMOYH8xY— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1597540861000Delhi: President Ram Nath Kovind & Prime Minister Narendra Modi pay tribute to former PM #AtalBihariVajpayee , on h… https://t.co/F9eYRRWETw— ANI (@ANI) 1597543661000Vajpayee, the first BJP prime minister, had passed away on this day in 2018. A statesman and saffron stalwart, he was fondly remembered by other senior BJP leaders. Home Minister Amit Shah said the country for the first time saw "good governance" being implemented across the nation under Vajpayee. The Modi government is striving for the welfare of the poor and good governance by keeping his ideas at the centre of its work, Shah added. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said Vajpayee's tremendous contribution towards pubic life and India's development will always be cherished, and his vision for the country will continue to inspire coming generations. Watch PM Narendra Modi pays respect to Vajpayee on his death anniversary||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-former-pm-vajpayee-on-second-death-anniversary/articleshow/77569502.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Amaravati||AP minister Botsa Satyanarayana's mother passes away in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state municipal administration and urban development minister Botsa Satyanarayana's mother Eswaramma (84) passed away on Sunday early morning while undergoing treatment at a corporate hospital in Vizag. Eswaramma is survived by 11 children, including four daughters. Minister Satyanarayna is the elder son and MLA Appala Narasaiah of Gajapatinagaram assembly constituency in Vizianagaram is the second son. According to sources, Eswaramma was admitted to a hospital in Vizag a month ago with several health ailments. Final rites of Botsa’s mother would take place at Swarga Dhamam in Vizianagaram town on Sunday afternoon. Botsa’s colleagues in the state cabinet, MPs and MLAs, besides party cadres expressed their deep condolence on the demise of his mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-minister-botsa-satyanarayanas-mother-passes-away-in-vizag/articleshow/77569511.cms||G Sambasiva Rao
August 16, 2020||Vijayawada||AP minister Botsa Satyanarayana's mother passes away in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state municipal administration and urban development minister Botsa Satyanarayana's mother Eswaramma (84) passed away on Sunday early morning while undergoing treatment at a corporate hospital in Vizag. Eswaramma is survived by 11 children, including four daughters. Minister Satyanarayna is the elder son and MLA Appala Narasaiah of Gajapatinagaram assembly constituency in Vizianagaram is the second son. According to sources, Eswaramma was admitted to a hospital in Vizag a month ago with several health ailments. Final rites of Botsa’s mother would take place at Swarga Dhamam in Vizianagaram town on Sunday afternoon. Botsa’s colleagues in the state cabinet, MPs and MLAs, besides party cadres expressed their deep condolence on the demise of his mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-minister-botsa-satyanarayanas-mother-passes-away-in-vizag/articleshow/77569512.cms||G Sambasiva Rao
August 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP minister Botsa Satyanarayana's mother passes away in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state municipal administration and urban development minister Botsa Satyanarayana's mother Eswaramma (84) passed away on Sunday early morning while undergoing treatment at a corporate hospital in Vizag. Eswaramma is survived by 11 children, including four daughters. Minister Satyanarayna is the elder son and MLA Appala Narasaiah of Gajapatinagaram assembly constituency in Vizianagaram is the second son. According to sources, Eswaramma was admitted to a hospital in Vizag a month ago with several health ailments. Final rites of Botsa’s mother would take place at Swarga Dhamam in Vizianagaram town on Sunday afternoon. Botsa’s colleagues in the state cabinet, MPs and MLAs, besides party cadres expressed their deep condolence on the demise of his mother.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-minister-botsa-satyanarayanas-mother-passes-away-in-vizag/articleshow/77569508.cms||G Sambasiva Rao
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Jamia Millia Islamia sets up endowment in ex-VC's name||NEW DELHI: Jamia Millia Islamia (JMI) on Saturday created Mushirul Hasan Endowment (MHE) as a mark of respect to its former vice-chancellor, the late Mushirul Hasan, on his birth anniversary. Hasan's wife, professor Zoya Hasan, proposed to donate Rs 1.5 crore to the university for its creation. Mushirul Hasan taught history at Jamia before eventually becoming its VC. The endowment will be used for annual Mushirul Hasan post-doctoral fellowship - which will be for two semesters or nine months and open to candidates below 45 years, who have completed their PhDs from any Indian university, in all fields of humanities and social science. Candidates will have to submit their project proposals to Jamia, which will make the final choice. To start with, the fellowship will carry a stipend of Rs 50, 000 per month. For administering the endowment, a nine-member committee headed by vice-chancellor of Jamia Najma Akhtar has also been constituted by the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/jamia-millia-islamia-sets-up-endowment-in-ex-vcs-name/articleshow/77569531.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||PM Modi wishes Arvind Kejriwal on his birthday||NEW DELH: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday extended his wishes to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on his birthday. "Birthday wishes to Delhi CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal Ji. Praying for his long and healthy life," Modi tweeted. Birthday wishes to Delhi CM Shri @ArvindKejriwal Ji. Praying for his long and healthy life.— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1597541144000Thank you sir for your warm wishes. https://t.co/DuAWGwspXy— Arvind Kejriwal (@ArvindKejriwal) 1597542796000The Aam Aadmi Party's national convenor turned 52 on Sunday. He thanked the prime minister for his warm wishes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-wishes-arvind-kejriwal-on-his-birthday/articleshow/77569536.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Coimbatore||CB-CID in search of Sri Lankan don’s associate who has Angoda Lokka’s pistol||COIMBATORE: The CB-CID has formed a team to nab a Sri Lankan national, who is in possession of a pistol which belonged to deceased Sri Lankan underworld don Maddumage Lasantha Chandana Perera alias Angoda Lokka. Lokka had the pistol with him when he was hiding in Coimbatore, police sources said. Following his death on July 3, Amani Dhanji of Colombo and Maduraibased lawyer Sivakami Sundari, who took the body to Madurai for cremation, had handed over the weapon to his accomplice, a Sri Lankan national staying there. Lokka was hiding in a rented house at Green Garden at Cheran Maa Nagar here with Dhanji. He had obtained an Aadhaar card in the name of Pradeep Singh, with the help of Sundari and her friend Dhyaneswaran. The CB-CID, who produced the trio before the CJM court on Saturday, sought 10 days custody. They have also booked them under the Arms Act, 1959 and the Foreigners Act, 1946. Meanwhile, Sundari has filed a petition before the CJM court, seeking conditional bail. It will come up for hearing on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cb-cid-in-search-of-sri-lankan-dons-associate-who-has-angoda-lokkas-pistol/articleshow/77569524.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Lawyers turn vegetable vendors, delivery boys to make up for lost income||MUMBAI: As Aditya Kashyap sits by his vegetable cart in a bylane of Vasai, he tries not to think about five months ago when he was busy filing bail pleas and snapping up clients in magistrate courts. The Advocates Act does not permit lawyers to take up any other occupation. But with courts functioning partially and no income during the lockdown, Kashyap has been forced to start selling vegetables to feed his family of six. Like Kashyap, many independent lawyers have taken up other jobs to stave off starvation. Some are driving autos while others have turned into delivery boys. Individual lawyers practising in mofussil courts or district courts constitute more than 95% per cent of the total lawyer population (about 12 lakh) in the country," said Lalit Bhasin, president of the Bar Association of India. After the lockdown was announced, the judiciary decided they would only attend to urgent matters and through video conferencing. Unlike senior counsels who charge large sums for hearings, a majority of lawyers in the country, especially in lower courts, function on a case-to-case basis for income. Kashyap, for instance, did miscellaneous work in magistrate courts-- filing applications for return of property, bail pleas or cancellation of warrants. "Saara cash par kaam hota tha, (it used to be cash based work)," said Kashyap, adding that sometimes he made Rs 1,000 in just half an hour. But the police haven't been making too many arrests in the lockdown which has translated into lesser remand applications in court. "For the first two months, my family and I survived on savings. Then, we began to borrow from friends and eventually, I sold off my wife's ornaments. There's still the house rent to pay, school fees for my children besides household expenses. The vegetable cart doesn't bring in much money but helps put food on the table," he said. A junior lawyer, who handled drafting work for a senior, said he couldn't travel to courts after local trains stopped operations. He now works as a deliveryman with an ecommerce company. "Banks are not keen on offering loans to lawyers. The Bar Council of Gujarat has allowed lawyers to take up jobs or conduct business other than their legal practice to augment their income during the lockdown. But the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa (BCMG) requires us to surrender our sanad (licence to practice) if we wish to take up another occupation," he said. TOI contacted the BCMG to inquire whether any lawyers had surrendered sanad to pursue other occupations and found that none had. One of the reasons could be that re-enrolment for sanad is a time-consuming process. A female lawyer, who used to handle cheque bouncing cases and mutual consent divorce cases, is now a customer care rep with a private company. "Most cases were simply being adjourned, leaving no scope for any real chargeable work. Anxiety started setting in with no work and so, I decided to take up a job. It pays me around Rs 25,000, nowhere close to the Rs 1 lakh per month I used to make but it keeps me engaged,” she told TOI. Those who were doing relatively well before the lockdown are also considering looking for other jobs now. A lawyer from Dadar who had been getting steady independent work said he has only got two new matters during the lockdown. "My parents too are lawyers but they are elderly and homebound. Currently, we are dipping into our savings but if courts don't function fully, I will have to find a full time job in any sector where there are vacancies," he said. On two occasions during lockdown, the BCMG gave out ration kits to lawyers that had fallen on bad times. In April and in May, lawyers who were doing slightly better were tasked with the job of reaching out to their colleagues in distress with the ration kits. "Each kit lasted us a fortnight," said Kashyap. Resuming full day courts is perhaps a solution, some lawyers believe. Others say that prevailing circumstances have highlighted the need for courts and lawyers to be technologically equipped and move online. “Some have taken up the challenge head-on and utilised their time and resources to cater to what the situation demands. But many continue to struggle due to lack of access,” said a lawyer. Lower courts need to upgrade and also ensure optimum utilisation of existing equipment. "We need better internet connectivity and jails too need to be equipped with additional infrastructure to enable more proceedings to be conducted virtually,” another lawyer added. (Kashyap's name has been changed to protect identity)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lawyers-turn-vegetable-vendors-delivery-boys-to-make-up-for-lost-income/articleshow/77569538.cms||Nitasha Natu
August 16, 2020||World||South Korea reports largest coronavirus jump since March||SEOUL: South Korea has reported 279 newly confirmed cases of the coronavirus, it's highest daily jump since early March, as fears grow about a massive outbreak in the greater capital region. The figures released by the Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Sunday brought the national caseload to 15,318, including 305 deaths. The number of new cases was the highest since 367 were reported on March 8, when the country was concentrating public health tools and personnel from nationwide to combat an outbreak in the less populated southern region. The KCDC said 253 of the new cases came from the Seoul metropolitan area, home to 26 million people, where health authorities have been struggling to stem transmissions linked to various places and groups, including churches, nursery homes, schools, restaurants and door-to-door salespeople. Infections were also reported in other major cities, such as Busan and Daegu, a southeastern city that was the epicenter of the country's previous virus crisis in late February and March, when hundreds of new cases were reported each day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/south-korea-reports-largest-coronavirus-jump-since-march/articleshow/77569571.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP, NGOs join hands to streamline pandemic management||BENGALURU: BL-CARES, a new joint initiative between BBMP and a group of NGOs, was launched on Friday to streamline Covid-19 management at the booth level and bring about a cohesion in efforts of the agency and community to contain the pandemic. LK Atheeq, special officer in charge of covid care management, said the government is working towards bringing together all independent teams involved in pandemic management under one umbrella and integrate them into a single team, BL-CARES. Under BL-CARES, which stands for Booth Level Covid Awareness, Response and Emergency Sahaya, over a dozen NGOs will support the Palike on citizen-volunteer mobilisation and training. Naavu Bharateeyaru, Sensing Local Foundation, Citizens for Bengaluru, Hasiru Dala, Reap Benefit, Slum Mahila Sanghatane and Janaagraha are among the NGOs. “There are at least five teams monitoring the Covid situation. Each is handling one segment of management, which makes it complicated,” said Atheeq. “One team wants to work towards contact tracing and another towards corona watch, leading to confusion,” he added. According to a senior BBMP official, duplication of work is only causing inconvenience. The BL-CARES team will monitor development of the wards post-Covid as well. Booth-level volunteers will be monitored by a civic body official or a senior government officer. People can register as volunteers on blcares.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-ngos-join-hands-to-streamline-pandemic-management/articleshow/77569594.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||BMRCL to set up tree park at Bellahalli dumping site||BENGALURU: Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation plans to build a 25-acre tree park at Bellahalli dumping site. As part of its afforestation drive, it wants to plant 3,000-4,000 saplings on the landfill. “The restoration work involves providing a tree park in the BBMP-identified area of about 25 acres,” said BL Yashwanth Chavan, chief public relations officer, BMRCL. “About 25 species have been recommended by Institute of Wood Science and Technology and Environmental Management & Policy Research Institute,” added Chavan. “Since it’s a quarry, BBMP plans to begin leachate treatment and gas extraction in the identified area and also study their impact on the proposed plantation. We are waiting for the civic body’s reply for final planning,” he said. He said BBMP has stopped dumping in the area identified for the tree park. “We will also do earth filling (for four feet) before the restoration work,” said Chavan. Veerasandra Lake to be ready by March 2021BMRCL had earlier planned to develop Kengeri and Veerasandra lakes. While in February 2018 it signed an MoU with Titan Company Limited to develop 17 acres of Veerasandra Lake in Electronics City, there are no takers for Kengeri Lake. Titan has its corporate office in Veerasandra and is taking up the lake rejuvenation through its CSR funds. The restoration work, at an estimated cost of Rs 8 crore, was supposed to be completed by February 2020. “All works inside the lake area have been completed. Miscellaneous works such as gardening, lighting, paver blocks for jogging track are on. The delay was due to land issues in the lake area,” said Chavan. BMRCL selected these lakes due to their proximity to proposed Metro stations. While Kengeri Lake is located near the proposed Mailasandra station on Mysuru Road, Veerasandra Lake is in the vicinity of Huskur Road station in Electronics City. BMRCL has also taken up mass plantation drives at lakes at Rachenahalli, Horamavu Agara, Avalahalli and Jakkur in coordination with BBMP. “We are planting around 10,000 saplings,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bmrcl-to-set-up-tree-park-at-bellahalli-dumping-site/articleshow/77566991.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
August 16, 2020||India||Kamala Harris recounts childhood India visits, good idli, long walks with grandfather||WASHINGTON: Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris on Saturday took a trip down memory lane, recalling her mother's attempts to "instil a love of good idli" in her and sister Maya and "long walks" with her grandfather in Chennai. Speaking during an event by 'South Asians of Biden', Harris extended wishes on India's Independence Day and said Indian and US communities are bound together by so much more than their shared history and culture. "When my mother Shyamala [Gopalan] stepped off a plane in California as a 19-year-old, she didn't have much in way of belongings but she carried with her lessons from home, including ones she'd learned from her parents," she said. Harris said that her mother, a Tamil Indian-American who became a leading cancer researcher and activist, would take her and sister Maya to India because she wanted her daughters to understand where she had come from. The California Senator remembered how she and her grandfather would go on long walks in what was then called Madaras where the latter would tell Harris about "heroes" who were involved in the freedom struggle in India. She said that the lessons from her grandfather P V Gopalan, a career civil servant, are a big reason "why I am where I am today". "Growing up, my mother would take my sister Maya and me back to what was then called Madras because she wanted us to understand where she had come from and where we had ancestry. And, of course, she always wanted to instil in us, a love of good Idli," she said "In Madras, I would go on long walks with my grandfather, who at that point was retired, and we take morning walks where I pulled his hand and he would tell me about the heroes who are responsible for the birth of the world's biggest democracy, and he would explain that 'tt's on us to pick up where they left off'. Those lessons are a big reason why I am where I am today," she added. Harris, who recently was picked by Joe Biden as his running mate, will become not only the first Black woman with the ticket but she's also the first Indian-American.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kamala-harris-recounts-childhood-india-visits-good-idli-long-walks-with-grandfather/articleshow/77569653.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||Kamala Harris recounts childhood India visits, good idli, long walks with grandfather||WASHINGTON: Democratic vice presidential nominee Kamala Harris on Saturday took a trip down memory lane, recalling her mother's attempts to "instil a love of good idli" in her and sister Maya and "long walks" with her grandfather in Chennai. Speaking during an event by 'South Asians of Biden', Harris extended wishes on India's Independence Day and said Indian and US communities are bound together by so much more than their shared history and culture. "When my mother Shyamala [Gopalan] stepped off a plane in California as a 19-year-old, she didn't have much in way of belongings but she carried with her lessons from home, including ones she'd learned from her parents," she said. Harris said that her mother, a Tamil Indian-American who became a leading cancer researcher and activist, would take her and sister Maya to India because she wanted her daughters to understand where she had come from. The California Senator remembered how she and her grandfather would go on long walks in what was then called Madaras where the latter would tell Harris about "heroes" who were involved in the freedom struggle in India. She said that the lessons from her grandfather P V Gopalan, a career civil servant, are a big reason "why I am where I am today". "Growing up, my mother would take my sister Maya and me back to what was then called Madras because she wanted us to understand where she had come from and where we had ancestry. And, of course, she always wanted to instil in us, a love of good Idli," she said "In Madras, I would go on long walks with my grandfather, who at that point was retired, and we take morning walks where I pulled his hand and he would tell me about the heroes who are responsible for the birth of the world's biggest democracy, and he would explain that 'tt's on us to pick up where they left off'. Those lessons are a big reason why I am where I am today," she added. Harris, who recently was picked by Joe Biden as his running mate, will become not only the first Black woman with the ticket but she's also the first Indian-American.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/kamala-harris-recounts-childhood-india-visits-good-idli-long-walks-with-grandfather/articleshow/77569654.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: 70-year-old woman killed, Rs 45 lakh stolen||BENGALURU: A 70-year-old homemaker was strangled to death on Saturday and Rs 45 lakh kept in the wardrobe of her Kadugodi home stolen. Her husband G Appayanna said he recently sold a land parcel for Rs 45.5 lakh and kept the money at home. Police suspect a relative killed the woman as there were no signs of break-in. “Appayanna had gone out at 9.30am to pay the electricity bill. He met a few friends on the way and was back home at 11.30am to find her dead,” a police officer said. The house was not ransacked and all other valuables and mobiles were found intact.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-70-year-old-woman-killed-rs-45-lakh-stolen/articleshow/77566995.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra must revoke confusing property registration circular||MUMBAI: The state revenue department has issued a circular to all registrars that they “may not insist” on a no objection certificate from Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRERA) to register property documents. Experts said the circular issued on Friday is so poorly drafted that it will not resolve a problem created by the revenue department in November last year and will continue to cost the state government precious revenue. Nitin Kareer, additional chief secretary, revenue, said in November last a circular was issued by the inspector general of registration that no property documents are to be registered unless the project is registered with MahaRERA. “Subsequently, MahaRERA issued a clarification that not all projects need to be registered with the authority. Building projects, which are on plots less than 500 square metres with only eight apartments, are exempted under MahaRERA and do not need to be registered with it. Hence, we have now issued a fresh circular that registrars may not insist on a MahaRERA registration for documents,” he said. In Mumbai, 90% of the plots are less than 500 sq m in size and so would be exempt from MahaRERA registration, said experts. Advocate Godfrey Pimenta said the circular that the revenue department has issued states all those projects granted exemption by MahaRERA also get it under Rule 44 of the Maharashtra Registration Rules, 1961. “Rule 44 merely prescribes the requirements to be verified before accepting the document for registration. It is improper on the part of the state government to exempt documents from being registered, since the Registration Act, 1908, mandates that documents pertaining to property whose value is above Rs 100 are to be compulsorily registered. The registration fee is currently 1% of the property value with a ceiling of Rs 30,000. The circular is very badly worded and must be withdrawn.” Satyan Prasad, techno-legal consultant to the real estate industry, said it is a registrar’s duty to accept any document brought for registration. “The circular states the registrar may not insist on an NOC but what if the registrar does insist on proof to show the project is exempted from registration with MahaRERA. It only causes harassment to the developer and buyer,” he said. Prasad further said the government can ask MahaRERA to issue an exemption certificate just like it does a registration certificate. “This will help the developer who can put it up at his project site to show the project is not dubious. It will help the buyer make an informed decision and not be harassed by the registrar’s office and ensure the government earns revenue,” he said, adding the Bombay high court has, in a judgement, stated Rule 44 can be invoked only if a sale transaction is prohibited by law. “Both circulars must be withdrawn immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-must-revoke-confusing-property-registration-circular/articleshow/77569616.cms||Clara Lewis
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||NEP has good ideas; we need to have faith in knowledge: Abhijit||BENGALURU: The New Education Policy has good ideas. “The goal of NEP is to ‘make India a vibrant knowledge hub,’ I quote, and it has good ideas like attracting world-class universities and adopting their model of education,” Nobel laureate Prof Abhijit Banerjee said on Saturday, adding that the country must also have faith in its knowledge and intellectual base. Banerjee made the remarks during the opening session of The/Nudge Forum (global edition) on “India’s fight against poverty: Seminal moments in our development journey, current challenges and opportunities to effect inclusive and sustainable growth”. The/Nudge Forum, in partnership with Rockefeller Foundation and Skoll Foundation, has organised the 24-hour global virtual event which began at 12am. Speaking on the education policy in a panel discussion later, K Kasturirangan, chairperson of the committee on NEP, said it had taken into consideration India’s multi-lingual, multi-cultural and plural structure. “We can’t cut short the process of thinking,” Kasturirangan said in his conversation with TV Mohandas Pai, chairman, Manipal Global Education & 3one4 Capital. As part of their panel’s theme — “New Education Policy and the vision of no child left behind” — Pai lauded the policy for being a result of a large democratic process. “How does the policy ensure no child will be left behind and can have equal access to education?” Pai asked. Kasturirangan explained: “The policy envisions a child to play a meaningful role in society. They should be employable, have basic ideas of issues, subscribe to the basic ethos of our country, should be able to understand things, have sound judgement, be creative and understand the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nep-has-good-ideas-we-need-to-have-faith-in-knowledge-abhijit/articleshow/77566993.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||I stand before you as first candidate for US vice-president of South Asian descent: Kamala Harris||WASHINGTON: Democratic vice-presidential nominee Senator Kamala Harris, during her maiden address to the Indian-American community, reflected on her proud Indian heritage and recalled how her mother always wanted to instill in her a "love for good idli". Harris, 55, who is the first black to be selected as a vice-presidential candidate of a major party, took a trip down the memory lane, mentioning her "long walks" in Madras (now Chennai) with her grandfather who would tell her about the "heroes" responsible for the birth of the world's largest democracy. Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden, 77, scripted history by selecting Harris, an Indian-American and an African-American, as his running mate in the presidential election on November 3. Born to a Jamaican father and an Indian mother, California senator Harris, if elected, would be second in line of succession after Biden. "Today on August 15, 2020. I stand before you as the first candidate for vice president of the United States of South Asian descent," Harris said in her address organised by Indians for Biden National Council. Joined by Biden, she greeted Indian Americans on the occasion of India's Independence Day. "To the people of India and to Indian Americans all across the US, I want to wish you a happy Indian Independence Day. On August 15, 1947, men and women all over India rejoiced in the declaration of the independence of the country of India," Harris said during the virtual inaugural meet of the council. Harris was born on October 20 in 1964, at Oakland in California. Her mother Shyamala Gopalan migrated to the US from Tamil Nadu in India, while her father, Donald J Harris, moved to the US from Jamaica. "When my mother, Shyamala stepped off the plane in California as 19 years old, she didn't have much in the way of belongings. But she carried with her lessons from back home, including ones she learned from her parents, my grandmother Rajan, and her father, my grandfather P V Gopalan. They taught her that when you see injustice in the world, you have an obligation to do something about it," Harris said. "Which is what inspired my mother to march and shout on the streets of Oakland, at the height of the civil rights movement, a movement where leaders including Dr Martin Luther King Jr, were themselves inspired by the non-violent activism of Mahatma Gandhi," she said. Harris said it was during those protests that her mother met her father. The rest, as they say, is history, she said. "Growing up, my mother would take my sister Maya and me back to what was then called Madras because she wanted us to understand where she had come from and where we had ancestry. And of course, she always wanted to instill in us, a love of good idli," Harris said. "In Madras I would go on long walks with my grandfather, who at that point was retired. We would take morning walks where I'd hold his hand and he would tell me about the heroes who are responsible for the birth of the world's biggest democracy. He would explain that it's on us to pick up where they left off. Those lessons are a big reason why I am who I am today,” Harris said explaining the deep influence of the Indian heritage on her. "Our community is bound together by so much more than our shared history and culture," she said. The reason there is a kinship between everyone who are a product of the South Asian diaspora, no matter how diverse our backgrounds may be, "is because we also share a set of values: values forged by overcoming colonial past, not only in one nation but in two”, Harris said. "Values like tolerance pluralism, and diversity and reflecting on the past 73 years it's remarkable how much progress, people have made in the fight for justice. And should be proud. But we wouldn't be if we didn't commit ourselves to building an even better future. So, I hope you celebrate today, and then tomorrow, I hope you join me in getting to work,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/i-stand-before-you-as-first-candidate-for-us-vice-president-of-south-asian-descent-kamala-harris/articleshow/77569698.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sales at Crawford Market crash to 20% of pre-Covid days||MUMBAI: Two months after the iconic Crawford Market reopened, the once-ubiquitous coolies and hand-cart pullers who used to rush along its narrow lanes laden with wares, are down to a fraction of their strength. The few who are there are struggling to get by. “I used to make Rs 500-700 a day. Now with barely any goods or customers, I made Rs 100 today,” says Suresh Ram who carries a cane basket on his head. The goods carriers are a barometer of the market’s trade, which is still just around 20% of pre-Covid days. This cuts across the wholesale bazaars for steel, cloth, toys, crockery, paper and luggage. “We are still selling old stock we had before lockdown. Sales are just 15-20% of what we managed earlier,” says Hamza Taiban of HNS Plastics in Lohar Chawl. TimesViewIt is imperative that the state government and BMC consciously work to restore the confidence of traders in the commercial capital, and especially of very small traders at markets such as Crawford Market which are beneficial to both buyer and seller in terms of affordability. One way to do that would be increase accessibility and approach, particularly by facilitating inter-district travel since markets like these have wholesalers who also supply stuff beyond Mumbai.Sales improved from this month since shops can now open daily instead of alternate days. But lack of transport links is the spoke in the wheel. “Without local trains, only customers we get are those who live close by and can either walk or travel by road. Crawford Market is a major supplier of wholesale goods to different states. Those sales are also at a standstill,” says Taiban. With incomes dipping through the lockdown, purchasing power is also low. “People have lost jobs or had pay cuts. They will only buy food and highly necessary items. Curtains and bedsheets are not a priority,” says Sunil Pawar, manager of A to Z Furnishings which had a daily turnover of Rs 1.5 lakh is now making just about Rs 25,000. Shopkeepers say they have already missed out on big festival seasons of Eid and Rakshabandhan when sales peak. “Diwali is the next big hope. I hope things improve by then. Ganeshotsav purchases are limited to decorative items,” says Arif Shaikh of National Toys. What’s worrying many are the astronomical rents which touch Rs 1 lakh a month even for relatively small shops. The East Coast Stationery shop, which supplies school equipment, is managing just about 10% sales with schools shut. Yet, proprietor Dhiren Shah says he is facing a rent of Rs 3 lakh a month. “Who is buying school bags and lunch boxes nowadays? We have no idea when schools will open. It is a difficult situation,” says Shah. The continuing slump has had a cascading effect on jobs at Crawford Market which employs hundreds of locals and migrants. Most shop owners admit they could not afford to pay staff during lockdown. And they also say they cannot employ the numbers they once did. “We had a staff of 60 people. Now we have only six. In any case, we cannot keep more than 10% staff in the shop,” says Pawar of A to Z furnishings. Mushtaq Ahmed from N H Traders says he sent four of his six workers to their home in Bihar at the start of the lockdown. “I could not afford to keep them or pay them as the shop was shut. Now they keep calling, asking me to take them back. But if sales don’t pick up, I do not need them, nor can I pay them,” says Ahmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sales-at-crawford-market-crash-to-20-of-pre-covid-days/articleshow/77569707.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Cops rule out hack; Naveen blames pals||BENGALURU: The derogatory Facebook post that sparked tensions in DJ Halli on Tuesday was sent from the mobile phone of P Naveen, the nephew of Pulakeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy, and no one had hacked his account, police ascertained on Saturday. But Naveen claims that a friend or an acquaintance who visited his house that day might have accessed his phone and account, said an investigating officer. Naveen, who is in police custody, had earlier alleged that his Facebook account was hacked. Cyber forensic inquiries have ruled it out, confirming that the post was fired from his phone around 5pm Tuesday. “After this came to light, Naveen said he had several visitors that day and he left the phone unattended somewhere in the house. It was not password protected apparently,” the officer said. “He maintains he did not share the objectionable post, and has provided a list of visitors.” After recording a statement (not the final account of events), police took Naveen to his home to recreate the scene on Saturday. “Right now, we only have a statement. His claim needs to be probed,” said an officer. Naveen spoke to his uncle’s staff on Tuesday evening. “We have found that people in the MLA’s team made multiple calls to Naveen when the MLA’s house was being attacked,” the officer said. Seventy-five more people have been detained for questioning. They are suspected to have mobilised a crowd and shared false or misleading messages. “Some messages made false claims of police brutality,” the officer said. Since Tuesday, over 200 people have been arrested over the riots. The 75 people being quizzed are not among them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-violence-cops-rule-out-hack-naveen-blames-pals/articleshow/77569760.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 16, 2020||India||Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine reopens today||KATRA: Pilgrimage to Mata Vaishno Devi Temple resumed on Sunday, nearly 5 months after it was suspended due to Covid-19. Only 2,000 people will be allowed to visit the shrine per day. Expressing excitement, Prashant Sharma, one of the first pilgrims to visit the shrine said, "I'm happy that people can visit the temple once again." Sharma informed that the shrine management has made adequate arrangements for the pilgrims keeping Covid-19 pandemic in mind. Jammu & Kashmir: Mata Vaishno Devi Temple will reopen for public today, nearly 5 months after it was suspended due… https://t.co/34FKWygu70— ANI (@ANI) 1597539892000"The shrine management has laid out the rules clearly, and pilgrims are also following them properly. It is important to follow rules during the Covid-19 pandemic. If rules are not followed then the darshans will be closed soon," added Sharma. Another pilgrim Raman Khajuria said that management is testing people for Covid-19 virus to keep a check if any infected person visited the premises. "There are sanitiser dispensers at places, thermal screening is done. we'll also be tested for Covid-19 so that the management gets to know if some infected person came on the premises," said Khajuria. The yatra to the shrine, which was suspended from March 18, is resuming from August 16. Ramesh Kumar, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board said on Saturday, that during the first week of the resumption of pilgrimage, there shall be a ceiling of 2,000 pilgrims per day, including 1,900 from within Jammu and Kashmir and the remaining 100 from outside the Union Territory. "The situation will be reviewed thereafter and the decision will be taken accordingly. Pilgrims will be allowed to undertake the pilgrimage after registration through online mode only in order to avoid any assembly of persons at the Yatra Registration Counters," said Kumar. The shrine board will be abiding to health norms induced by the Centre to contain the spread of coronavirus. The Chief Executive Officer further said that the yatra will move in a uni-directional manner. The traditional route from Katra to Bhawan via Banganga, Adhkuwari and Sanjichhat will be used for going up and Himkoti route-Tarakote Marg will be used for coming back from the Bhawan. Meanwhile, a massive sanitisation campaign has been launched by the Shrine Board right from Katra en route to Bhawan and in the Bhawan area for ensuring utmost sanitisation and cleanliness before the resumption of the yatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mata-vaishno-devi-shrine-reopens-today/articleshow/77569761.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Why SDPI is a worry for Congress in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Every time there’s communal trouble in Karnataka, BJP and Congress clamour for a ban on Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political wing of controversial organisation Popular Front of India. While BJP is more vocal about it, Congress perhaps attaches greater importance to the demand. This is because a more popular SDPI threatens to erode Congress’s reach among Muslims, who form 13 per cent of the state’s population and are a key support base of the party. There are concerns among some Congress members that the party might stop being Muslims’ sole political voice. Read AlsoBengaluru violence: 24-year-old accused succumbs to injuries, toll now fourA 34-year-old man, who was shifted to Bowring Hospital with serious injuries on the night of August 11, breathed his last on Saturday evening.In the 2013 assembly polls, SDPI contested 23 seats, but lost badly in 22, managing a cumulative vote share of 3.2 per cent. The seats were primarily in areas with a sizeable Muslim population. In the 2018 assembly elections, SDPI fielded candidates in 25 constituencies, out of which it finally contested in only three — Narasimharaja in Mysuru, Chickpet in Bengaluru and Kalaburagi North. It withdrew from the 22 segments because of reported pressure from community leaders and Congress members. In the past two years, SDPI, formed in 2009, has gained more supporters by contesting rural and urban local bodies’ polls. According to its Karnataka media incharge, Abrar Ahmed, it has 65 elected representatives in gram panchayats and 24 in urban local bodies, mainly in Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Chamarajnagar, Kolar, Yadgir and Bengaluru Urban and Rural districts. SDPI’’s Mujahid Pasha was elected from Siddapura ward in Chickpet in the last BBMP polls. The group plans to strengthen its political activities. Read AlsoBengaluru violence: Police arrests 35 more accusedThe imposition of Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in areas under DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits has also been extended till 6 am on August 18.The situation in the area remains tense.“Congress is not doing enough for the community’s cause. It doesn’t give the community adequate representation in the assembly or Lok Sabha elections. Therefore, we have taken on the mantle,” said an SDPI functionary. Risk of vote split?Senior Congress politicians dismiss the talk of SDPI hurting the party. But some others say SDPI’s popularity will split the Muslim vote, which will benefit BJP. Political analyst Sandeep Shashtri said parties’ failure to reassure minorities that their voice would be heard and increasing polarisation had contributed to SDPI’s growth. “It seems to be gaining from this unease among minorities, though there is a gulf between its stated goals and questionable methods,” he added. Former minister Roshan Baig claimed Congress had been patronising SDPI for the past 10 years. “Poor sections of minority communities should not be exploited by SDPI or Congress,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/why-sdpi-is-a-worry-for-congress-in-karnataka/articleshow/77569779.cms||Manu Aiyappa
August 16, 2020||Bareilly||UP: 13-year-old girl raped, brutally murdered in Lakhimpur Kheri||BAREILLY: A 13-year-old Dalit girl was raped and murdered for defecating in a farmland in Pakaria village of Isanagar area in Uttar Pradesh's Lakhimpur Kheri district late on Friday. The girl was missing after she had gone to relieve herself in the field. She was found dead in the cane field later. Police dismissed reports that the girl had sustained grievous injuries on her tongue and eyes in the incident, and said the postmortem stated that the death was due to strangulation after rape. The incident drew strong opposition condemnation, with Congress and SP leaders attacking the Adityanath government over the law and order situation in the state. Police said the girl had gone to her fields on Friday afternoon. When she did not return home, her family started looking for her and found her body in a sugarcane field. Two men were arrested on Friday night. Police have registered an FIR against Sanjay Kumar and Santosh under IPC section 302 (murder) and SC/ST Act at Isanagar police station and both the accused were detained on Saturday. Later, section 376d (gang-rape) and POCSO were added to the FIR after autopsy confirmed the sexual assault.  SHO Isanagar told TOI, “The accused Sanjay had a tiff with the girl's family over defecating in his farmland in the past. The girl was found in his cane field and family had named him in their complaint. During interrogation, Sanjay has accepted to have killed the girl along with Santosh, who is also a Dalit. The eyes of the girl were not gouged out but there were visible injuries on her eyes caused by sharp sugarcane leaves". Lashing out at the state government over the law and order situation, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said the incident has shaken humanity. "The rape and murder of a teenage girl in Lakhimpur Kheri in UP is an incident, which has shaken humanity. In the BJP rule, atrocities on children and women are at an all-time high," he charged in a tweet in Hindi. "Why is the BJP government shielding those who are involved in rape, kidnapping, murder and other crime," the former state chief minister asked. Senior Congress leader Jitin Prasada on Sunday said, "The inhuman act with a girl has put humanity to shame. This is an extremely saddening incident. In this episode, the police must initiate such a strong action that it becomes a deterrent for criminals." (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch UP: 13-year-old girl raped, brutally murdered in Lakhimpur Kheri||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-13-year-old-girl-raped-murdered-for-defecating-in-farmland-in-lakhimpur-kheri/articleshow/77569792.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 16, 2020||India||On India's 74th Independence Day, Empire State Building in New York illuminated in tricolour||NEW DELHI: The Empire State Building in New York was lit up in the colours of the Indian national flag on the occasion of India's 74th Independence Day. Under the concept of a drive-thru festival, more than 800 cars drove into a first-of-its-kind Independence Day celebration in the suburbs of Washington DC to commemorate the occasion. People and their wheels lined up bumper to bumper to see a display of floats that gave the Indian diaspora the true essence of India packed with a punch of nostalgia. The drive-thru festival was organised by husband-wife duo Manish Sood and Deepa Shahani. Many in the crowd held India's tricolour, dawned traditional ensemble and danced to the tunes of patriotic numbers. Meanwhile in New York, for the first time, the Tricolour was unfurled with pride and patriotism alongside the US flag at Times Square. The flag was hoisted at the iconic venue by Consul General of India in New York, Randhir Jaiswal, who was the guest of honour at the event. Over 200 Indian-Americans participated in the event to witness the tricolour soaring high and wide in the skies of New York. They chanted patriotic slogans and raised Indian flags.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/on-indias-74th-independence-day-empire-state-building-in-new-york-illuminated-in-tricolour/articleshow/77569673.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||On India's 74th Independence Day, Empire State Building in New York illuminated in tricolour||NEW DELHI: The Empire State Building in New York was lit up in the colours of the Indian national flag on the occasion of India's 74th Independence Day. Under the concept of a drive-thru festival, more than 800 cars drove into a first-of-its-kind Independence Day celebration in the suburbs of Washington DC to commemorate the occasion. People and their wheels lined up bumper to bumper to see a display of floats that gave the Indian diaspora the true essence of India packed with a punch of nostalgia. The drive-thru festival was organised by husband-wife duo Manish Sood and Deepa Shahani. Many in the crowd held India's tricolour, dawned traditional ensemble and danced to the tunes of patriotic numbers. Meanwhile in New York, for the first time, the Tricolour was unfurled with pride and patriotism alongside the US flag at Times Square. The flag was hoisted at the iconic venue by Consul General of India in New York, Randhir Jaiswal, who was the guest of honour at the event. Over 200 Indian-Americans participated in the event to witness the tricolour soaring high and wide in the skies of New York. They chanted patriotic slogans and raised Indian flags.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/on-indias-74th-independence-day-empire-state-building-in-new-york-illuminated-in-tricolour/articleshow/77569825.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra toll nears 20,000 but Mumbai’s active Covid-19 cases lower than 18,000||MUMBAI: For the second day in a row, Maharashtra has added over 12,000 Covid-19 cases (12,614, the third highest in a day so far) and over 300 deaths (322). The total cases now are 5,84,754 and the death count in the state is 19,749, close to the 20,000 mark. Deaths in Mumbai continued to drop with the BMC update reporting 48, taking the overall toll to 7,086. With 1,254 new cases diagnosed in the city, second highest so far in August, the tally in Mumbai is now 1.28 lakh. While Mumbai continued to boast of a recovery rate of 79% (with 888 patients getting discharged on Saturday) and an overall growth rate of 0.84% between August 8 and 14, the case doubling rate has dropped from 86 days to 83 in a three-day period. The case fatality rate continued to be high at 5.5%. Active cases in Mumbai dipped further to 17,581, lowest in the last few weeks. Dr Om Shrivastava, infectious diseases specialist who is a member of the state task force, said, “Unless we are able to enforce social distancing and ensure that gains of the lockdown are not squandered away, we should be prepared to re-learn a hard lesson.” According to the BMC update, 26 of the 48 victims on Saturday had comorbidities and 30 were over 60 years of age. Meanwhile, the BMC update said, “Reconciliation exercise of Covid-19 patients until 31st July 2020 is completed with state & districts today. Hence all the duplicates & out of Mumbai (as per original patients addresses) entries of 2,088 patients have been removed & reflected in progressive (sic).” Of 322 deaths in the state, 226 are from the last 48 hours, 43 from last week and 43 are from the period before that, officials said. Public health minister Rajesh Tope, who was in his hometown Jalna for the flag-hoisting ceremony, said cases were spreading in rural parts and that was a concern. He also said most of these cases can be traced to people who have travelled to cities like Mumbai and Pune. Pune division added the highest number of cases, though MMR, excluding Mumbai, reported the highest number of deaths on Saturday. Pune division added 3,332 and 80 deaths, while MMR added 2,258 cases and 87 deaths The Kalyan-Dombivli belt on Saturday crossed 24,000 cases, reporting 288 fresh cases and 7 deaths, taking the tally to 24,109, with 489 deaths. In Thane city, 172 new cases were reported along with nine deaths and 336 discharges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maharashtra-toll-nears-20000-but-mumbais-active-cases-lower-than-18000/articleshow/77569853.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra toll nears 20,000 but Mumbai’s active Covid-19 cases lower than 18,000||MUMBAI: For the second day in a row, Maharashtra has added over 12,000 Covid-19 cases (12,614, the third highest in a day so far) and over 300 deaths (322). The total cases now are 5,84,754 and the death count in the state is 19,749, close to the 20,000 mark. Deaths in Mumbai continued to drop with the BMC update reporting 48, taking the overall toll to 7,086. With 1,254 new cases diagnosed in the city, second highest so far in August, the tally in Mumbai is now 1.28 lakh. While Mumbai continued to boast of a recovery rate of 79% (with 888 patients getting discharged on Saturday) and an overall growth rate of 0.84% between August 8 and 14, the case doubling rate has dropped from 86 days to 83 in a three-day period. The case fatality rate continued to be high at 5.5%. Active cases in Mumbai dipped further to 17,581, lowest in the last few weeks. Dr Om Shrivastava, infectious diseases specialist who is a member of the state task force, said, “Unless we are able to enforce social distancing and ensure that gains of the lockdown are not squandered away, we should be prepared to re-learn a hard lesson.” According to the BMC update, 26 of the 48 victims on Saturday had comorbidities and 30 were over 60 years of age. Meanwhile, the BMC update said, “Reconciliation exercise of Covid-19 patients until 31st July 2020 is completed with state & districts today. Hence all the duplicates & out of Mumbai (as per original patients addresses) entries of 2,088 patients have been removed & reflected in progressive (sic).” Of 322 deaths in the state, 226 are from the last 48 hours, 43 from last week and 43 are from the period before that, officials said. Public health minister Rajesh Tope, who was in his hometown Jalna for the flag-hoisting ceremony, said cases were spreading in rural parts and that was a concern. He also said most of these cases can be traced to people who have travelled to cities like Mumbai and Pune. Pune division added the highest number of cases, though MMR, excluding Mumbai, reported the highest number of deaths on Saturday. Pune division added 3,332 and 80 deaths, while MMR added 2,258 cases and 87 deaths The Kalyan-Dombivli belt on Saturday crossed 24,000 cases, reporting 288 fresh cases and 7 deaths, taking the tally to 24,109, with 489 deaths. In Thane city, 172 new cases were reported along with nine deaths and 336 discharges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-toll-nears-20000-but-mumbais-active-cases-lower-than-18000/articleshow/77569805.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 16, 2020||India||PM Modi conveys greetings on Parsi new year||NEW DELHI: Conveying his wishes on the Parsi new year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday hailed the "outstanding" contribution of the community to the country. "Navroz Mubarak! Greetings on Parsi New Year. India cherishes the outstanding contribution of the Parsi community, which has made a mark in a wide range of fields. May the coming year bring peace and prosperity in everyone's lives," Modi tweeted. Navroz Mubarak!Greetings on Parsi New Year. India cherishes the outstanding contribution of the Parsi community,… https://t.co/SzP4LEo1eI— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1597541028000Parsis are a small minority in India but have produced eminent personalities in various fields over the decades.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-conveys-greetings-on-parsi-new-year/articleshow/77569852.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Between detention & release, man loses father||BENGALURU: A 20-year-old man, Farhan Khan, was wrongly picked up on the suspicion of being involved in the DJ Halli riots. In more trauma for the youngster, by the time he was released by police, his 55-year-old father had a cardiac arrest and died. Farhan lives in Kavalbyrasandra and works in Russel market. He was detained early on Wednesday. After concluding he was not involved in the violence in any manner, police freed him on Friday evening. Muneer Ahmed, a close relative, recounted the events before and after the detainment. Farhan went to work on Tuesday morning and was expected to return home at 10pm. “But roads in the area were blocked and he got stuck. He phoned his father, Iqbal Ahmed, apprising him of the situation. Farhan finally made it home at midnight,” Muneer said. Two and a half hours later, police showed up and took Farhan away for questioning. He pleaded with them that he was not a troublemaker, but in vain. Iqbal made urgent calls to relatives, seeking help to secure Farhan’s release. “On Wednesday itself, Iqbal suffered a cardiac arrest and breathed his last at a hospital,” Muneer said. The body was handed over to the family on Friday after completion of Covid-19 protocol. “We urged cops to let Farhan see his father for the last time. By Friday evening, police gave him a clean chit,” Muneer said. Over 200 people have been detained over the violence. “Many parents are calling me to say their sons are innocent. Investigations are under way, but it’s a matter of concern if police are picking up the wrong people, instead of nabbing the culprits, just to show numbers,” said Shivajinagar MLA Rizwan Arshad. Kuldeep Kumar Jain, DCP (crime-1), said many people had been quizzed. “This was done based on suspicion stemming from prima facie evidence that puts them at the crime scene. Every arrest has been made after discovery of credible evidence and verification of the individual’s involvement in the case,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-violence-between-detention-release-man-loses-father/articleshow/77569878.cms||Kiran Parashar
August 16, 2020||India||PM's cowardice allowed China to take our land, his lies will ensure they keep it: Rahul Gandhi||NEW DELHI: Alleging that Prime Minister Narendra Modi lied about the Eastern Ladakh stand-off, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said that Prime Minister allowed China to take Indian land. Taking to Twitter, the Congress leader wrote, "Everybody believes in the capability and valour of the Indian army. Except the PM: Whose cowardice allowed China to take our land. Whose lies will ensure they keep it." Everybody believes in the capability and valour of the Indian army.Except the PM:Whose cowardice allowed China… https://t.co/eu1JQFNVBr— Rahul Gandhi (@RahulGandhi) 1597545665000The Congress leader has been repeatedly levelling allegations against the Prime Minister on the India-China standoff. Earlier on July 27, the former Congress President had claimed that China has occupied Indian land, and hinted that the government is hiding the truth. On Saturday, Congress leader Ahmed Patel had also criticised the Centre over the eastern Ladakh stand-off and said that the Defence Minister contradicted Prime Minister on the matter. "Merely saying it is not enough. If they gave a response we are happy. We must believe what PM says but he and his government know the reality. The reality is not good. If they (Chinese soldiers) entered into our territory -Defence Minister said something and PM said something else," he said while speaking to ANI. "They should at least take Opposition into confidence. If something has happened then what is there to be ashamed of? It happened earlier too. The action should be taken diplomatically, economically and they should be pushed back if they entered into this side," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pms-cowardice-allowed-china-to-take-our-land-his-lies-will-ensure-they-keep-it-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/77569875.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||New Zealand's Covid-19 outbreak grows, as Australian cases ease||MELBOURNE: A new coronavirus outbreak in New Zealand is still growing, health officials said on Sunday, with the country that had an early triumph over the pandemic recording 13 new cases and putting the September general election in question. After stifling the virus earlier this year before it became a public health crisis and after 102 days without new infections, an abrupt resurgence last week in Auckland prompted an immediate lockdown of the country's largest city. Sunday's numbers bring New Zealand's total active cases to 69, providing more ammunition to a conservative opposition that wants to delay a Sept. 19 general election, which opinion polls show Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern's Labour Party winning. Ardern is expected to resist a delay but has said she will decide by Monday.. Health Minister John Hipkins told a media briefing on Sunday that the government was working to ensure adequate supplies of masks, which are currently recommended but not mandatory. "We could make it compulsory and spend a lot of time on enforcement, what we need here is a cultural acceptance amongst all New Zealanders," Hipkins said. In neighbouring Australia, which has also been struggling with a resurgence of the coronavirus in two of its largest states, New South Wales and Victoria, there were signs of a further downward trend. New South Wales reported just five new cases, while Victoria, where masks became compulsory in July after the state became the centre of the country's largest outbreak, reported 279 new cases on Sunday, along with 16 more deaths. The daily number of new cases this week has been well below the peak of 725 on Aug. 5. Melbourne, the state's capital, remains under a strict lockdown. Speaking before Victoria announced its daily tally, Australia's Health Minister Greg Hunt said the state still has a long way to go. "But the signs now are that the trend is of progressive reduction," Hunt told Sky News television. He also said the federal government is close to striking a deal that would permit the production of a vaccine in Australia, likely in 2021. "I am now, on the basis of our best advice, genuinely more optimistic," Hunt said, without giving more details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/new-zealands-covid-19-outbreak-grows-as-australian-cases-ease/articleshow/77569932.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Met shows yellow card till Tuesday: Heavy rain expected in parts of Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The Met department, IMD, has issued a yellow alert for the city till Tuesday. A yellow alert warns of ‘heavy rain at isolated places’. Neighbouring Thane, Raigad and Palghar have an orange alert, meaning ‘heavy to very heavy rain at isolated places’ issued for Monday. A yellow alert is in place for the three districts for Sunday and Tuesday. The IMD’s Santacruz observatory recorded 9.5 mm rain between 8.30 am and 5.30 pm. Colaba received 15.2 mm rain in the same period. Areas in and around the Western Ghats in Pune and surrounding districts received heavy rainfall once again on Saturday, with places like Lonavala receiving more than 100 mm till Saturday morning, over 24 hours. Other areas in the Western Ghats, like hill station Mahabaleshwar in the Satara district, received 84 mm of rain till 5.30 pm on Saturday. The IMD reported 109 mm of rainfall at the station at the Tata dam, with its other station in Lonavla recording 97 mm of rainfall, till 8.30 am on Saturday. Areas in the ghats, such as Tamhini, received 228 mm of rain till Saturday morning. The IMD maintained an orange alert for the ghats, implying ‘largely heavy rainfall, with some parts expected to receive very heavy rainfall’. It also warned of potential landslides, impaired visibility, and inundation of low-lying areas, with release of water from dams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/met-shows-yellow-card-till-tuesday-heavy-rain-expected-in-parts-of-maharashtra/articleshow/77569898.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||Belarus leader says Putin offers help as pressure builds||MINSK: Vladimir Putin has offered to help ensure Belarus's security, according to its president Alexander Lukashenko, as pressure builds on the strongman leader and opposition protesters prepare for a show of force Sunday. Thousands demonstrated in the capital Minsk Saturday after main election challenger Svetlana Tikhanovskaya asked supporters to rally over the weekend and keep alive a movement that poses the biggest challenge to Lukashenko's hold over the ex-Soviet country. Many gathered at the spot where Alexander Taraikovsky, 34, died on Monday during protests against an election the opposition says was rigged to give Lukashenko another term in office. Demonstrators heaped flowers at the spot and the crowd chanted "Thank you!" and raised victory signs. Police kept a low profile. Many held up photographs of protesters beaten during the crackdown, while one man stood in his underwear revealing the purple bruises on his thighs, buttocks and back. Later thousands protested outside the Belarusian state television centre, complaining that their broadcasts backed Lukashenko and gave a skewed picture of the protests. Around 100 staff came out of the building to join the crowd, and said they planned a strike on Monday. "Like everyone we are demanding free elections and the release of those detained at mass protests," said one employee, Andrei Yaroshevich. Riot police later arrived at the centre and blocked off the entrance to the building. The opposition is planning a major show of force on Sunday with a "March for Freedom" through the streets of central Minsk. Facing the biggest challenge to his rule since taking power in 1994, Lukashenko called in Moscow's help and spoke on the phone with Putin Saturday, after warning there was "a threat not only to Belarus". He later told military chiefs that Putin had offered "comprehensive help" to "ensure the security of Belarus". The Kremlin said the leaders agreed the "problems" in Belarus would be "resolved soon" and the countries' ties strengthened. While Lukashenko periodically plays Moscow off against the neighbouring EU, Russia is Belarus's closest ally and the countries have formed a "union state" linking their economies and militaries. Lukashenko criticised Russia during his election campaign and Belarus detained 33 Russians on suspicion of planning riots ahead of polls. Opposition protesters slammed Lukashenko for now seeking Moscow's aid and said they fear Russian intervention. "It's obvious that our president can't deal with his own people any more, he's seeking help in the east," said Alexei Linich, a 27-year-old programmer. "If Russia intervenes, that would be the worst. I'm really afraid of this," said Olga Nesteruk, a landscape designer. US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Saturday urged Lukashenko to "engage with civil society", during a trip to Poland, which has offered to act as a mediator. Tikhanovskaya, a 37-year-old political novice who ran after other opposition candidates including her husband were jailed, accuses Lukashenko of rigging the vote and has demanded he step down so new elections can be held. The 65-year-old has ruled Belarus with an iron grip and claims to have won the election with 80 percent of the vote. Tikhanovskaya left the country on Tuesday for neighbouring Lithuania, with her allies saying she came under official pressure. She is also demanding authorities be held to account for the crackdown, which saw police use rubber bullets, stun grenades and, in at least one case, live rounds to disperse protesters, with at least 6,700 people detained and hundreds injured. Officials have confirmed two deaths in the unrest, including Taraikovsky -- who they say died when an explosive device went off in his hand during a protest -- and another man who died in custody in the southeastern city of Gomel. On Friday authorities began releasing hundreds of those arrested and many gave horrific accounts of beatings and torture. European Union ministers have agreed to draw up a list of targets in Belarus for a new round of sanctions in response to the post-election crackdown. The leaders of the three ex-Soviet Baltic states -- Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia -- on Saturday condemned the crackdown and called for a new vote. Lukashenko has dismissed the demonstrators as foreign-controlled "sheep" and "people with a criminal past who are now unemployed", repeatedly accusing foreign governments of plotting his downfall. Tikhanovskaya on Friday announced the creation of a Coordination Council to ensure a transfer of power, asking foreign governments to "help us in organising a dialogue with Belarusian authorities". She demanded the authorities release all detainees, remove security forces from the streets and open criminal cases against those who ordered the crackdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/belarus-leader-says-putin-offers-help-as-pressure-builds/articleshow/77569952.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid survivors & warriors attend I-Day parade in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Seventy-five corona warriors and 25 Covid-19 survivors were invited to Independence Day celebrations at Manekshaw Parade Ground on Saturday. T Tulasi, a pourakarmika, said: “We’ve not taken a single holiday since the virus outbreak. There is so much negativity and bad news around us; it will annoy people further if streets are not clean.” Corona warriors were given bouquets for their hard work. “We’ve been working 24x7 to help those affected by the virus. People should learn more about BBMP health facilities and appreciate them better,” R Gayatri, a nurse with the Palike, said. Syed Akmal Pasha, who recovered from Covid-19, was among those present at the parade ground. “I’m feeling so proud for being invited here. I tested positive on July 13 and would like to tell everyone not to be afraid.” G Ambika, an Asha worker, said they’ve been visiting houses for testing and taking care of people. Dr Anitha K, a gynaecologist working at Covid care centres, said: “It’s such an honour to be able to help those people in times of crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-survivors-warriors-attend-i-day-parade/articleshow/77567115.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Hand fans by tribal artisans give relief to dignitaries||NEW DELHI: In an overcast Delhi, colourful hand fans crafted by tribal artisans offered relief from high humidity levels to the dignitaries of the Independence Day function at the historic Red Fort. An overcast sky with high relative humidity was a perfect recipe for a typical sultry morning in the capital. Around 8.30am, the humidity level was 95%, according to the weather department. The hand fans were procured by the Union defence ministry from the Tribal Affairs Ministry's agency TRIFED, as part of the government's efforts to popularise local products. Sourced from artisans of states such as Rajasthan, Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar, Gujarat and Jharkhand, these fans are made of natural, organic materials, TRIFED said. "As a memorabilia, these fans help revive memories of the past when these were an integral part of Indian households and offered comfort in the scorching heat," the Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India Ltd (TRIFED) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-hand-fans-by-tribal-artisans-give-relief-to-dignitaries/articleshow/77569988.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Vyasarpadi’s Rs 5 doctor no more||CHENNAI: Dr V Thiruvengadam, famous as Vyasarpadi’s ‘5 rupee doctor’, died of cardiac arrest at the Southern Railway Hospital on Saturday. He was 70 and his survived by his wife T Saraswathi, daughter T Preethi and son T Dipak. Confirming that he didn’t have Covid-19, Preethi, a doctor herself, said he had been admitted to the hospital on August 13 after he complained of chest pain. “We were arranging for his discharge today when he suffered a massive cardiac arrest and breathed his last at 12.05pm.” Pointing out that she was yet to decide on how to continue her father’s clinic at V Kalyanapuram, she said he had remained at home since March, giving advice over phone to some of his regulars. An alumnus of Government Stanley Medical College, Dr Thiruvengadam shot to fame after the release in 2017 of Tamil movie ‘Mersal’ in which hero Vijay plays a ‘5 rupee doctor’. S Boobalan, the doctor’s assistant for the past 25 years, said he joined as a juvenile and started distributing tokens to patients at the clinic that was opened from 7.30pm to midnight. Boobalan, who dropped out of school after Class X, said, “He charged ?5 per patient when I joined. It was ?2 per patient when he started the clinic 45 years ago.” Every day, more than 150 people came to consult Dr Thiruvengadam who often gave out free medicines and even gave some of them money, he said. “It’s a great loss to residents of the area.” M Nathamuni, a retired LIC staffer and a relative, said, “Thiruvengadam, the only son among five children, was inspired to become a doctor by his uncles A Murugesan and A Kanniappan, both siddha practitioners. His wife Saraswathi is a former railway employee, while his son Dipak is a final year medical student in Mauritius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-vyasarpadis-rs-5-doctor-no-more/articleshow/77569986.cms||A Selvaraj
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru schools and colleges opt for virtual flag hoisting, live streaming||BENGALURU: This year’s I-Day celebrations were live-streamed for students of various schools and colleges in the city. The celebrations were unique in many aspects — there was a virtual flag hoisting where children stood in attention at their homes while students of Delhi Public School (Bengaluru North) presented a well-coordinated cultural programme from their houses. Schools like DPS live-streamed the celebrations on YouTube, while Venkat Group of Institutions and 18 other schools reached out to their students through Microsoft Teams. Ali Sait, CEO, Tech Avant-Garde, a city-based technology services organisation helped 80 schools across the country and 30 in the city to go virtual with the celebrations through Teams. He said: “Almost 2,000 parents and students took part in most of the schools. Some had 8,000-9,000 people in attendance.” This, he said, will help in paving way for PTA meetings and other engagements for schools to go virtual in the coming days. Some institutions played pre-recorded dance programmes by their students for thousands of viewers. T Balakrishna, chairman, Venkat International Public School, Rajajinagar, said: “We utilised technology to celebrate this day with our students, parents, and patrons; 2,000 people from across the globe could join us. The live-streaming also allowed us to invite the governor, chief minister, education minister and BBMP commissioner.” Several colleges used virtual platforms to celebrate the day. Fr. Abraham V, vice-chancellor, Christ deemed-to-be University, took to YouTube to address students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-schools-and-colleges-opt-for-virtual-flag-hoisting-live-streaming/articleshow/77567110.cms||Farheen Hussain
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: It’s pouring, water level in lakes now rises to 74%||MUMBAI: Lakes supplying drinking water to Mumbai have shown a steady rise in water level as catchment areas received significant heavy rainfall in recent days. The useful content recorded on Saturday was 10 million litres. It is 14 million at full supply level. The BMC had announced a 20% water cut on August 5 as lake levels had dipped dangerously and useful content had touched 34%. With heavy rainfall in the last 12 days this has now risen to 71%. Upper Vaitarna water level is still of concern as useful content is about 55% while Bhatsa is 71. It is 86% in Modak Sagar, 75% in Tansa and 78% in Middle Vaitarna. With heavy rain forecast for a few days now, civic officials said they hope lakes will reach the full supply level. Asked if BMC will now consider a rollback in water cut, hydraulic engineer Ajay Rathore said, “The rainfall trend is very positive but we have to be cautious as we need to ensure adequate supply till June 2021." With the Ganesh festival set to begin on August 22, there may be a demand to either reduce or roll back the water cut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/its-pouring-water-level-in-lakes-now-rises-to-74/articleshow/77569982.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Owner booked for running illegal call centre in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has registered an FIR against the owner of a financial services agency where an alleged robbery had taken place on August 8. Earlier, three Delhi Police personnel, one of them from the Special Cell, and five of their aides had been arrested for allegedly trying to carry out a gunpoint robbery at the office of the agency in south Delhi's Mahipalpur. Police said that during investigation it was found that the owner of the financial services was running a call centre without any permission. Three people, including the owner Naveen Sehrawat and two of his associates were arrested on Saturday. DCP(southwest) Devender Arya said officials from the Department of Telecom were called for inspection and to lift forensic trail of the calls that were being made from the call centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/owner-booked-for-running-illegal-call-centre-in-delhi/articleshow/77570066.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka prof cultivates cucumbers, turns agripreneur during lockdown||MANGALURU: Sathyanarayana Bhat, associate professor, electrical engineering, SDM Institute of Technology (SDMIT), Ujire has made the best of the lockdown period by shifting his focus to cucumber cultivation. Two years ago, root grubs destroyed his two-acre areca farm and since then the land was left barren. Once the lockdown was announced, he decided to convert his areca farm into a vegetable garden in Guripalla, Belthangady taluk of Dakshina Kannada district, with more time in hand after classes were restricted to online sessions. Generally, the local variety of cucumber is grown in Dakshina Kannada and most of the produce comes from Hassan and Chikkamgaluru, he said. He learnt about cucumber cultivation from Shyam Prasad, a farmer from Kasargod. With the help and support of his father, Subrahmanya Bhat, a retired headmaster and agriculturist, his wife Shaileshwari Bhat, assistant professor, SDMIT, his brother and sister-in-law, he planted about 800 seedlings of cucumber along with snake gourd, bitter gourd, ridge gourd, ash gourd, bottle gourd, okra, and pumpkin. “We tried our best to make the garden pesticide-free. Cucumber grown at our farm is sold under the brand name Nandana, “he said. Ashok Kumar, principal, SDMIT, said, “Our students take up several agriculture-related projects and when a teacher himself is an agriculturist, the students will have a better understanding of the actual field requirement.” QR code stickersSathyanarayana is currently working on launching his produce in the market with QR code stickers. “Currently, cucumber from our farm has an ordinary sticker on it. We hope to release stickers with QR codes where buyers can get details about the farmer and the farm,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-prof-cultivates-cucumbers-turns-agripreneur-during-lockdown/articleshow/77570164.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 16, 2020||Ghaziabad||RT-PCR lab opens in Ghaziabad, to screen 96 samples daily||GHAZIABAD: Minister of state for health Atul Garg on Saturday inaugurated the much-awaited RT-PCR lab in Ghaziabad. Constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 76 lakh, it will be able to screen 96 samples at a time, the results of which will be available in three hours. The ealth department has plans to screen 300 samples daily. While inaugurating the facility, Garg said, "The laboratory will not only boost testing in the district but people from neighbouring districts can also avail the facilities. It has all modern equipment and will increase the number of testing." The laboratory has been set up near Ghaziabad Women's hospital and a team of nine will take care of the daily functionning. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, "Two microbiologists, five technicians, one data operator and a doctor have been appointed. However, the lab will be fully functional by this month end, as all tests would be validated for a few days now." He added that currently 96 samples would be screened in a day but they plan to increase it to 300. To step up testing in the district, UP principal secretary (health) Amit Mohan Prasad had visited Ghaziabad on July 22 and instructed to start a RT-PCR laboratory. The state government had instructed to carry out 1,000 antigen tests and 350 RT-PCR tests daily but in the absence of laboratories, reaching the target was not possible. Pandey added that earlier, samples were sent to Noida and Meerut for testing and hence, results were delayed by at least three days. "Now, we will get the results in hours," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/rt-pcr-lab-opens-in-ghaziabad-to-screen-96-samples-daily/articleshow/77570202.cms||Abhijay Jha
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Unnoticed by CISF, man enters Chennai airport||CHENNAI: In a security breach, a man entered the Chennai airport on Friday without being noticed by Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel deployed there. Police said Muralirajan, 28, of Zamin Pallavaram parked his car near the departure terminal at 3pm. He walked into the corridor through gate number 1. There were no CISF personnel to stop him. Later, a CISFofficialsawhim in the corridor. When the official approached him, Muralirajan asked him where he could buy an air ticket to Bengaluru. The CISFofficialwasshocked asMuralirajan didn’t have a valid government ID proof. The man was detained and the Chennai airport police informed. Police questioned Muralirajan and a team held inquiries with his family. They informed police that Muralirajan was a landbroker.Earlier in theday,he fought with his family over money and had left home. Based on the complaint of the CISF personnel, police case in the community service register against Muralirajan. Later, he was let off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/unnoticed-by-cisf-man-enters-chennai-airport/articleshow/77570143.cms||A Selvaraj
August 16, 2020||Noida||GBU hikes house rent by 5 times for cops on campus||GREATER NOIDA: A section of officers in the Noida police commissionerate has voiced discontent after the management of Gautam Buddha University (GBU), which has been housing the policemen on its campus, increased the house rent by more than five times. In January this year, 38 new posts were created in the Noida police commissionerate and 26 senior-level and 1,400 junior-level officers inducted into the force. The police had then asked the Noida and Greater Noida authorities to ensure housing for these personnel. Since a permanent housing complex was yet to be finalised, a section of the new officers was lodged on the GBU campus. So far, GBU had been deducting Rs 2,400 as house rent allowance every month. However, in June, the university raised the monthly charge to Rs 15,000. The officers were told they would be required to pay the revised rent from September. With at least five DCP and ACP-level officers staying in these type IV houses with two bedrooms, a drawing room and a kitchen, the cops have asked for the decision to be reversed. "We have to pay Rs 6,000-7,000 a month as electricity bill. Now, if the house rent is increased to Rs 15,000, we would have to shell out Rs 21,000-22,000 every month. This is one-third of our entire salary," an officer said. An officer is entitled to a house rent allowance of Rs 4,000 in rural areas and Rs 10,000 for urban. GBU falls in a rural area. A group of police officers had met GBU vice-chancellor BP Sharma in July and demanded that the decision be withdrawn. "We were assured of action. But nothing has been done so far," an officer said. Sharma said, "I have directed the registrar to work on this." Registrar SN Tewari said the rent had been raised for all "outsiders".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/gbu-hikes-house-rent-by-5-times-for-cops-on-campus/articleshow/77570252.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 16, 2020||Chennai||On Independence Day, Chennai corporation honours officials who fought Covid-19 and returned to work||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation staff will remember this Independence Day as a special occasion as, in a departure from convention, the civic body honoured the officials who tested positive for Covid-19, showed severe symptoms and recovered to return to duty. They were felicitated by corporation commissioner G Prakash. On Saturday, many such officials such as chief engineer L Nandakumar, city health officer Jagadeesan, law officer Jacob Rajan, revenue officer Chitti Babu, public relations officer Umapathi and chief vector control officer Selvakumar were presented with certificates. Medical officers, assistant engineers, sanitary inspectors and workers from each zones were also honoured. According to multiple officials, many of the employees who contracted Covid-19 were above 55 years and despite that worked fearlessly in containment zones. “During April-June, top officials visited containment zones and Covid care centres repeatedly and even interacted with suspected coronavirus patients on a daily basis. They did this without worrying about their own health,” an official said. This not only put them at risk but also their family members. Official sources said that spouses, children, parents and in-laws of senior officials were also infected with Covid and had to be hospitalised. Around 200 civic body officials of various categories have been infected and at least of them have 10 died but the fight against the deadly virus has not stopped, another official said. In one case, a senior civic body employee was admitted to a private hospital and had severe symptoms including inability to consume food. During the first few days of hospitalisation, he attended meetings through video conferencing, as his role was necessary. “However, the official returned to work immediately after turning negative, despite severe body pain,” sources said. One official in the southern region also suffered a mild stroke two days after recovering from Covid-19, the sources said. A senior staffer said at zonal level and headquarters, elderly employees had returned to work despite lingering post-recovery symptoms like fatigue and loss of body-weight. “This shows their dedication to work and complete the job at hand,” he said. A worker said how he had to face anxious moments as his antibody test result came positive and he was quarantined for four days till the RT-PCR tests came negative. Prakash applauded the efforts and said it was a collective endeavour by the entire team right from the joint commissioner (health) to the conservancy workers on the field. “Everyone worked as a team. The war is yet to be won and we need to end this menace by our continued work,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/on-independence-day-chennai-corporation-honours-officials-who-fought-covid-19-and-returned-to-work/articleshow/77570249.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||As land prices spike in Telangana, so do bribe amounts||HYDERABAD: Keesara tehsildar EB Nagaraju on Friday night was caught by ACB sleuths taking a bribe of Rs 1.10 crore. The bribe was offered in connection with a land in Rampally Dayara in Keesara mandal in favour of some persons and a real estate agency. ACB officials said two businessmen offered the bribe to the tehsildar to issue the proceedings of the land and start developing it. Medchal-Malkajgiri district officials said an acre of land now costs Rs 20 crore and this could be the reason the businessmen offered him Rs 1.10 crore to settle the row over 28 acres. This was only the tip of the iceberg of land litigations. Sources said skyrocketing land prices in Hyderabad and surrounding areas have become a major source of cash flow to some of the revenue employees. At least half a dozen major cases reported in the city and surrounding areas in the last one year have revenue officials caught in the web of bribery and land litigations. A senior revenue official pointed out more complaints had started coming after the government initiated the land records updation programme (LRUP) in 2016 and Rythu Bandhu scheme. Due to high land rates, there is competition among the officers to bag plum postings like tehsildar in Rangareddy and Medchal districts. A majority of them get postings with the purported blessings of politicians, sources said. A case in point: Nagaraju, who began his career as a junior assistant in the revenue department, continued to function in RR district despite rising through the ranks and expanded his network of operations. “The entire department (revenue) is getting a bad name following the actions of a handful of officers, especially those working in Hyderabad and erstwhile RR districts. We have represented to the state several times to transfer field-level officers in the erstwhile RR district. But, our pleas have fallen on deaf ears,” Vanga Ravinder Reddy, president of Telangana Revenue Employees’ Services Association (TRESA), told STOI. Interestingly, there was no let-up in the bribery cases involving revenue officers even after CM K Chandrasekhar Rao made no bones about the growing corruption in the department. “The fact that the department is being revamped, including a merger with the panchayat raj department shows the government’s seriousness in putting an end to corruption,” an official said. Last year, ACB had come out with a list of ‘most corrupt’ departments based on the number of cases registered. The revenue department had the dubious distinction of topping the charts, followed by the municipal administration and home (police) department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/as-land-prices-spike-in-telangana-so-do-bribe-amounts/articleshow/77570276.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 16, 2020||India||63,489 more Covid-19 cases in India, death toll nears 50,000-mark||NEW DELHI: India registered 63,489 new coronavirus cases and 944 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. With 944 new deaths, the cumulative death toll in the country is nearing 50,000-mark. The country's coronavirus count touched 25,89,682 including 6,77,444 active cases, 18,62,258 discharged and 49,980 deaths on Sunday. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 7,46,608 samples were tested on August 15 and nearly 3 crore samples have been tested so far. 2,93,09,703 samples have been tested up to August 15. Taking to Twitter on Sunday, the Union Health Ministry informed that India has one of the lowest Covid-19 mortality globally as the case fatality rate (CFR) in the country is below 2 per cent. The Ministry said aggressive testing and early detection coupled with quick isolation and effective treatment protocol is the reason behind low mortality rates are low in India. "With sharply falling Case Fatality Rate below 2%, India has one of the lowest #Covid19 mortality globally," MOHFW tweeted. "USA crossed 50,000 deaths in 23 days, Brazil in 95 days and Mexico in 141 days. India took 156 days," the ministry tweeted. "Mortality rates are low in India because of aggressive testing and early detection coupled with quick isolation and effective treatment protocol," it said in another tweet. Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh are two states where active coronavirus cases are more than any other part of the country. Maharashtra has 1,56,719 active cases whereas Andhra Pradesh reported 88,138 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/63489-more-covid-19-cases-in-india-death-toll-nears-50000-mark/articleshow/77570273.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Amit Shah pays tribute to Atal Bihari Vajpayee on second death anniversary||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah paid tribute to former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee on his second death anniversary on Sunday.  Shah posted the tribute on Twitter in Hindi which roughly translates to, "Bharat Ratna Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji was the voice of patriotism and Indian culture. He was a dedicated politician as well as a skilled organiser who played an important role in the foundation and growth of the BJP and inspired millions of workers to serve the country." भारत रत्न श्रद्धेय श्री अटल बिहारी वाजपेयी जी देशभक्ति व भारतीय संस्कृति की प्रखर आवाज थे। वह एक राष्ट्र समर्पित रा… https://t.co/TJMmlWYO3C— Amit Shah (@AmitShah) 1597539657000 Born on December 25, 1924 in Madhya Pradesh's Gwalior, Vajpayee was the first-ever person from the BJP to become the Prime Minister. He served as Prime Minister thrice -- briefly in 1996, from 1998 to 1999 and then for a full five-year term between 1999 and 2004.  Apart from politics, Vajpayee was a prominent writer and penned a number of poems. After 2004, the BJP stalwart retired from active politics owing to his feeble health.  The veteran BJP leader passed away on August 16, 2018, at the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in Delhi after a prolonged illness.  December 25 is celebrated as 'Good Governance Day' in Vajpayee's honour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amit-shah-pays-tribute-to-atal-bihari-vajpayee-on-second-death-anniversary/articleshow/77570295.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Civic body’s fever clinics initiative wins CM’s award||CHENNAI: The city corporation’s fever clinics have bagged the CM’s award for the second best initiative this year. The civic body had started the camps in May when the daily Covid-19 case numbers in each zone were in double digits. It was also to avoid the emergence of a new cluster since the Koyambedu fiasco. Chief minister Edapadi K Palaniswami on Saturday said fever clinics had helped break the transmission chain. Since May 8, 33,186 fever clinics have been held, with at least 500 being set up daily. On Saturday, 18,563 people visited 457 camps in 15 zones, with samples from 1,128 people being collected. So far, about 18 lakh people have visited these camps where more than one lakh influenzalike flu (ILI) cases have been detected, with nearly 18,000 people testing positive. The positivity rate at fever camps is about 17%. Before starting camps, corporation officials had to assure doctors on safety. “Camps are held for any communicable disease. But for Covid-19, it took some motivation to get doctors on board. Initially, only 20-50 camps were held. Our target was 100. We reached it within a week. Then it became 200 and now it is almost 500 every day. Also, getting people to the camp took a lot of coordination and effort,” said joint commissioner (health) P Madhusudhan Reddy. The solid waste department ensures cleanliness and sanitation, while the engineering wing helps with logistics and creates awareness. With new challenges every day, solutions such as auto ambulances, cabs to ferry patients to and from camps have come up. All drugs and safety equipment are given in bulk to doctors at camps where portable tents are used. The award, commissioner G Prakash said, was a great recognition of the civic body’s efforts. “It was a collective effort.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-civic-bodys-fever-clinics-initiative-wins-cms-award/articleshow/77570282.cms||Komal Gautham
August 16, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Two use fake Aadhaar for e-passes, held||NAVI MUMBAI: Two men, Navnath Dabade and Ishwar Singh from Navi Mumbai, have been arrested for uploading forged Aadhaar cards on the police website to procure e-passes and sell them to inter-district and inter-state commuters. The constable who was on duty of issuing e-passes noticed that the card number on the front was different from that on the back and informed his seniors. After inquiry, it was found that the duo is uploading fake Aadhaar cards with Navi Mumbai addresses to procure e-passes for travel purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/navi-mumbai-two-use-fake-aadhaar-for-e-passes-held/articleshow/77570278.cms||George Mendonca
August 16, 2020||Noida||Noida braces for 'second Covid wave', DM to come up with new guidelines||NOIDA: The Noida health department, which has managed to flatten the Covid curve in the past month and a half, is gearing up to deal with a "second wave" of infection. The speculation about another surge in Covid cases has been reinforced by the return of migrant workers from various districts of Bihar and eastern UP that have a high caseload. A series of meetings between administrative and health officials has been lined up from Monday to discuss the strategy that has to be implemented in the days to come. Over the past few weeks, the positivity rate across Delhi-NCR has come down with increased testing and tracing. But as economic activity is resuming and industries are reaching out to labourers who have left for their hometowns, officials fear that a "reverse migration" of migrants would lead to a spike in Covid cases. Narendra Bhooshan, the nodal officer for Covid response in the district, said, "There is no restriction now on movement of people or transport. So, tracing those who are coming back to the district from Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh would be difficult in the absence of any cooperation from the stakeholders. We are going to deliberate upon a strategy that needs to be put in place to control the spread of the infection." What has been a cause for concern is that most of these workers are expected to return from districts that have a high caseload. While Lucknow has more than 7,000 active cases, the number in Varanasi, Prayagraj (Allahabad) and Gorakhpur has crossed 2,000 this week. Even the interior districts of UP, such as Balia, Deoria, Basti and Kushinagar, have 900-1,000 cases on an average. The situation is similar in Bihar, where Patna, Begusarai, Nalanda, Saharsa, Araria, Buxar, Katihar and East Champaran are reporting a number of fresh cases. According to a rough estimate, around 80,000 workers had gone back home from Noida in May alone. Officials are currently devising a strategy to track the number of those returning. Noida district magistrate Suhas LY is expected to soon frame guidelines for industries, manufacturing units, construction firms and commercial establishments. Their owners would be asked to inform the integrated Covid control room about the workers who come back from their native places. The DM said he had asked the health department to come up with suggestions on checking the spread of the infection. "Since economic activity has resumed, a reverse migration has started. Many people from places that have a high case incidence will come back to the city. We have managed to flatten the curve and we will have to be careful to keep the positivity rate in check," he added. Watch Noida: As migrant workers return, administration braces for second Covid wave||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-braces-for-second-covid-wave-dm-to-come-up-with-new-guidelines/articleshow/77570329.cms||Shalabh
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: DMK MLA files complaint against party workers||CHENNAI: Thousand Lights MLA K K Selvam, who was dismissed from the primary membership of the DMK on Thursday last, has approached the Vadapalani police station with a complaint alleging that DMK members are preventing him from carrying out his responsibilities as secretary of a trust involved in welfare work. Selvam fell out with the party high command after he met BJP national president J P Nadda in New Delhi on August 4. In his complaint to the Vadapalani police, the legislator has alleged that party workers were trying to take over the trust through which he was helping poor students and added that the trust work was bereft of ant party affiliation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-dmk-mla-files-complaint-against-party-workers/articleshow/77570328.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Covid-19: 63,490 fresh cases, recovery rate 71.91%||NEW DELHI: India's Covid-19 tally increased to 25,89,682 with a single-day spike of 63,490 cases, while the total number of recoveries rose to 18,62,258 pushing the recovery rate to 71.91 per cent on Sunday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The death toll due to coronavirus infection climbed to 49,980 with 944 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. India has been reporting over 60,000 cases daily since August 7, barring August 11 when the country registered 53,601 new instances of the infection. The case fatality rate has declined to 1.93 per cent. There are 6,77,444 active cases of coronavirus infection in the country presently which comprise 26.16 per cent of the total caseload in the country. India had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 2,93,09,703 samples have been tested up to August 15 with 7,46,608 samples being tested on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-19-63490-fresh-cases-recovery-rate-71-91/articleshow/77570319.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Did several projects in shutdown: Southern Railway||CHENNAI: Southern Railway aims to complete 148km of doubling, 90km of gauge conversion and 270km of electrification work this financial year. Hoisting the national flag to mark 74th Independence Day on Saturday, Southern Railway general manager John Thomas said a slew of projects were carried out while trains have been suspended amid shutdown. These projects include “replacement of seven steel girders in a bridge in Chennai–Gudur section in five days, renovation of a century-old arch bridge near Erode in 36 hours,” he said. In addition to this, subway work was completed on Villupuram-Trichy section by putting in place a 10-hour line block, doubling of Kadambur-Vanchi Maniyachchi-Tattaparai; Vanchi Maniyachchi-Gangaikondan sections (45km) with electrification was commissioned on July 15. Chennai division of Southern Railway also made the most of the shutdown time and completed work that would have otherwise disrupted schedules due to suspension of trains, said divisional railway manager P Mahesh after hoisting the national flag. “Demolition of Elephant gate bridge, remodelling of Jolarpet yard to improve the speed of trains from 15kmph to 110kmph, lifts at Arakkonam railway station, escalators at Katpadi, Mambalam and Chennai Egmore, installing WiFi at all stations, double discharge platforms at Chennai Egmore and Guindy stations, a new foot-overbridge commissioned at Ambattur railway station and introduction of contactless ticket checking at Central and Egmore were some of the works that were completed in the last four months,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/did-several-projects-in-shutdown-southern-railway/articleshow/77570359.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: 24-year-old accused succumbs to injuries, toll now four||BENGALURU: A 24-year-old youth, who was allegedly involved in the violence in the city on the night of August 11, breathed his last on Saturday evening. With his death, the death toll in the violence has risen to four. "He (accused Syed Nadeem) was in jail since August 12. Last night (he) came to Bowring Hospital with chest pain. Probably some hard object hit on his abdomen," Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said. The deceased was present in the mob that had picketed KG Halli police station. "Working as a mechanic, Nadeem was seen in the frontline when the mob torched vehicles parked outside the police station," a police official said. Earlier, three men had died during the violence. One had died on the spot while two others succumbed en route to hospital. (With inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/youth-arrested-in-bengaluru-violence-succumbs-to-injuries/articleshow/77570371.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 16, 2020||World||Sindhi community holds protest in US against enforced disappearances in Pakistan||WASHINGTON: Members of the Sindhi community organised a protest outside Pakistani ambassador's house here in solidarity with families of the victims of enforced disappearances in Pakistan.  The protesters on Friday chanted slogans for the freedom of victims of enforced disappearances in Sindh. They held placards with pictures of victims of enforced disappearances, according to a statement issued by Sindhi Foundation which organised the protest.  Present in the protest were Sindhi, Baloch and Pakhtoon leaders, besides people from Gilgit Baltistan.  The protesters demanded the release of all victims of enforced disappearances, especially teacher and scholar Sarang Joyo who was abducted from his house in Karachi on Tuesday.  "I want to appreciate efforts of my sisters Aqsa Dayo, Shazia Chandio, Shabana Junejo, Sohni Joyo, Sindhu Joyo, Sorath Lohar and Sasui Lohar who have inspired all of us by leading the protests against victims of enforced disappearances for past many months," said Sufi Laghari, executive director of Sindhi Foundation.  He also appreciated the initiative taken by Sindhi Inam and said it is his struggle that has inspired "all of us to come out and protest against the enforced disappearances".  Laghari also mentioned that Taj Joyo, a Sindhi poet and writer who is father of Sarang Joyo has rejected to receive Presidential Performance Award from Pakistan.  The protesters demanded an end to all enforced disappearances in Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/sindhi-community-holds-protest-in-us-against-enforced-disappearances-in-pakistan/articleshow/77570448.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||South Africa 'regrets' United Arab Emirates-Israel peace agreement||JOHANNESBURG: South Africa has voiced its concern over the normalisation of relations between Israel and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), saying it is "regrettable" that it had been done without engaging the people of Palestine. "Peace and stability in the Middle East, and particularly a sustainable solution regarding the plight of the Palestinian people, is of critical importance to South Africa," the country's Department of International Relations and Cooperation (DIRCO) said in a statement on Friday. Acknowledging that the UAE had the sovereign right to set its diplomatic relations with the government of Israel, the statement said it was “regrettable” that it had done so based on an agreement related to the fate of the Palestinian people without engaging the people of Palestine. Central to the UAE-Israel agreement was an undertaking by the latter to suspend plans to annex the West Bank, although Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a TV broadcast afterwards that he had only agreed to defer plans for the annexation. "Most of the world's countries have called for a stop to the threats of annexation of the West Bank, as it would have been an act in contravention of international law. The agreement by three countries, the USA, the UAE and Israel instead posits that a temporary suspension of the annexation should be celebrated as a diplomatic break-through," DIRCO said in a statement. The agreement, however, does not commit Israel to halting of plans to further extend Israeli sovereignty over Palestinian territories and its people, it said. "The agreement also, does not commit the government of Israel to negotiations guided by the internationally agreed parameters," the statement said. "South Africa notes the concerns expressed by the Palestinian leadership and wishes to express its conviction that any initiative aimed at a solution to the conflict, must take into account the needs and aspirations of the Palestinian people," DIRCO said. "In this regard, South Africa remains committed to the independence of Palestine under the two-state solution, based on the international recognition and independence of the viable State of Palestine, based on the June 4, 1967, borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital, existing peacefully side by side with its neighbours,” it said. South Africa's view on Palestine is that the outstanding final status issues must be resolved through negotiations between the parties, with support from the international community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/south-africa-regrets-united-arab-emirates-israel-peace-agreement/articleshow/77570440.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Grocer a director in Chinese co running gambling racket||HYDERABAD: How did small time grocer from Delhi become a director in a Chinese company that allegedly ran an illegal online gambling racket in India worth more than Rs 1,000 crore? Police officers in Hyderabad are trying to answer this question after Neeraj Tuli, one of the three Indian directors held along with a Chinese national, told investigators that he was just an ordinary grocer who ran a small neighbourhood shop as an extension of his home in Delhi’s Karol Bagh area. He claimed he had no clue that his name was being used to run the company and found out about it only when cops reached his doorstep. Tuli accused his chartered accountant neighbor, P Hemant, of tricking him into signing some documents which made him part of the business without his knowledge. Officials are on the lookout for Hemant who is missing. “Tuli claimed that Hemant, under the pretext of helping him audit his accounts, got many documents signed by him. He said he did not know that Hemant would use them to make him a dummy director in Chinese firms. It is true that Tuli is a grocer, but we are not taking his claims at face value. He will be grilled further," said a senior officer. Investigators are believed to have produced various documents in Tuli’s name, which declared him a director of various firms operating under Beijing T Power based out of China. The eight firms – Growing Info Tech Pvt Ltd, Sily Consulting Services Pvt Ltd, Pan Yun Technology Services, Linkyun Technology Pvt Ltd, Dokypay Technology Pvt Ltd, SpotPay Technology India Pvt Ltd, Daisylink Financial Pvt Ltd and Huahuo Financial Pvt Ltd — were registered in India either in 2019 or 2020. All the firms belong to Beijing T Power, which was establishing new companies and running online gambling by admitting members only through references. Payment was accepted through different e-payment gateways. The two other directors —Dheeraj Sarkar and Ankit Kapoor — were aware of the cheating, police said. “The key accused, Chinese national Yah Hao and Hemant officially have not been directors in any of these firms in India. But, they ran India operations and ensured transfer of hundreds of crores rupees to China,’’ an official added. English-speaking Yah Hao is generally tasked with studying the market potential in various countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/grocer-a-director-in-chinese-co-running-gambling-racket/articleshow/77570491.cms||Srinath Vudali
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Woman sneaks liquor into hospital for Covid positive hubby||CUDDALORE: The Cuddalore district police have registered a case against a woman for supplying liquor hidden in a tiffin bag to her husband, a Covid-19 positive patient undergoing treatment at Rajah Muthaih Medical College Hospital (RMMCH) in Chidambaram. A case was registered against the husband as well. Police said T Muthukumaran, 43, tested positive for the infection a week ago and was admitted to RMMCH for treatment. His wife M Kalaimangai, 38, gave him a bag with his tiffin on August 12. A little later, Muthukumaran created a ruckus in the Covid-19 ward, when the patients around alerted the hospital administration. The hospital staff and a village administrative officer who reached the spot found Muthukumaran was drunk and learned that his wife had sneaked in a liquor bottle inside the tiffin bag. The VAO lodged a complaint with the Chidambaram Annamalai Nagar police, who booked the couple under sections 294 B (obscene acts and songs), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271(disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code and began probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-woman-sneaks-liquor-into-hospital-for-covid-positive-hubby/articleshow/77570473.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Mumbai’s share in Covid cover claims in Maharashtra falls to 33%||BENGALURU: Insurers say there are “early indications” that Mumbai may have reached its Covid-19 saturation point as more insurance claims are now coming in from Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities of Maharashtra. In the first week of May, Mumbai accounted for 72% or 559 of the total 778 claims made in Maharashtra. Now, in August, the city’s share has dropped to 33% of the over 43,000 claims. Fresh “claim hotspots” include cities such as Nashik, Solapur and Aurangabad, though their numbers do not seem alarming in comparison to Mumbai, Pune or Thane, say insurers. “In the months of March, April and May, we were seeing claims in metros and large cities. By mid-June, the trend shifted to smaller towns. There is also a difference in the intensity now among metros and non-metros. In Mumbai, mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic patients are sent back for home quarantine. City hospitals are only admitting patients with comorbidities requiring intensive care; so in Tier-2 cities, we are seeing cases of lower intensity,” said Bhaskar Nerukar, head of health and travel, Bajaj Allianz Insurance Co. Another trend is as hospital rates are higher in metros and admitted cases often more serious, insurance claim size is higher. “In Mumbai, the average claim size is Rs 1.3 lakh whereas in Nashik it is Rs 61,000 and Aurangabad Rs 65,000. We’re also surprisingly seeing maximum cases in the 30-45 age group. This could also be as this age group is most likely to be insured (being professionals),” said Nerukar. Insurers, though, warn claim numbers may not reflect the incidence of Covid-19 in rural areas. “The actual number of Covid-19 case could be higher. But insurance penetration is lower in rural areas; agriculture gives people bursts of income, not a steady flow. And it is those who have a steady income and monthly salaries that mostly take insurance,” said M N Sharma, head, General Insurance Council. Another surprising data point is 72% of the claims filed are from male patients and 28% female, which could again point to insurance gap rather than a reflection of ground realities. National Health Authority said earlier, it did not see many claims under Ayushman Bharat, the government scheme with up to Rs 5 lakh sum insured. Now, with Tier-3 cities and rural areas too reporting cases, as many as 30,925 claims are filed under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/mumbais-share-in-covid-cover-claims-in-maharashtra-falls-to-33/articleshow/77570555.cms||Rachel Chitra
August 16, 2020||Thane||Mumbai’s share in Covid cover claims in Maharashtra falls to 33%||BENGALURU: Insurers say there are “early indications” that Mumbai may have reached its Covid-19 saturation point as more insurance claims are now coming in from Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities of Maharashtra. In the first week of May, Mumbai accounted for 72% or 559 of the total 778 claims made in Maharashtra. Now, in August, the city’s share has dropped to 33% of the over 43,000 claims. Fresh “claim hotspots” include cities such as Nashik, Solapur and Aurangabad, though their numbers do not seem alarming in comparison to Mumbai, Pune or Thane, say insurers. “In the months of March, April and May, we were seeing claims in metros and large cities. By mid-June, the trend shifted to smaller towns. There is also a difference in the intensity now among metros and non-metros. In Mumbai, mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic patients are sent back for home quarantine. City hospitals are only admitting patients with comorbidities requiring intensive care; so in Tier-2 cities, we are seeing cases of lower intensity,” said Bhaskar Nerukar, head of health and travel, Bajaj Allianz Insurance Co. Another trend is as hospital rates are higher in metros and admitted cases often more serious, insurance claim size is higher. “In Mumbai, the average claim size is Rs 1.3 lakh whereas in Nashik it is Rs 61,000 and Aurangabad Rs 65,000. We’re also surprisingly seeing maximum cases in the 30-45 age group. This could also be as this age group is most likely to be insured (being professionals),” said Nerukar. Insurers, though, warn claim numbers may not reflect the incidence of Covid-19 in rural areas. “The actual number of Covid-19 case could be higher. But insurance penetration is lower in rural areas; agriculture gives people bursts of income, not a steady flow. And it is those who have a steady income and monthly salaries that mostly take insurance,” said M N Sharma, head, General Insurance Council. Another surprising data point is 72% of the claims filed are from male patients and 28% female, which could again point to insurance gap rather than a reflection of ground realities. National Health Authority said earlier, it did not see many claims under Ayushman Bharat, the government scheme with up to Rs 5 lakh sum insured. Now, with Tier-3 cities and rural areas too reporting cases, as many as 30,925 claims are filed under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mumbais-share-in-covid-cover-claims-in-maharashtra-falls-to-33/articleshow/77570554.cms||Rachel Chitra
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s share in Covid cover claims in Maharashtra falls to 33%||BENGALURU: Insurers say there are “early indications” that Mumbai may have reached its Covid-19 saturation point as more insurance claims are now coming in from Tier-2 and Tier-3 cities of Maharashtra. In the first week of May, Mumbai accounted for 72% or 559 of the total 778 claims made in Maharashtra. Now, in August, the city’s share has dropped to 33% of the over 43,000 claims. Fresh “claim hotspots” include cities such as Nashik, Solapur and Aurangabad, though their numbers do not seem alarming in comparison to Mumbai, Pune or Thane, say insurers. “In the months of March, April and May, we were seeing claims in metros and large cities. By mid-June, the trend shifted to smaller towns. There is also a difference in the intensity now among metros and non-metros. In Mumbai, mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic patients are sent back for home quarantine. City hospitals are only admitting patients with comorbidities requiring intensive care; so in Tier-2 cities, we are seeing cases of lower intensity,” said Bhaskar Nerukar, head of health and travel, Bajaj Allianz Insurance Co. Another trend is as hospital rates are higher in metros and admitted cases often more serious, insurance claim size is higher. “In Mumbai, the average claim size is Rs 1.3 lakh whereas in Nashik it is Rs 61,000 and Aurangabad Rs 65,000. We’re also surprisingly seeing maximum cases in the 30-45 age group. This could also be as this age group is most likely to be insured (being professionals),” said Nerukar. Insurers, though, warn claim numbers may not reflect the incidence of Covid-19 in rural areas. “The actual number of Covid-19 case could be higher. But insurance penetration is lower in rural areas; agriculture gives people bursts of income, not a steady flow. And it is those who have a steady income and monthly salaries that mostly take insurance,” said M N Sharma, head, General Insurance Council. Another surprising data point is 72% of the claims filed are from male patients and 28% female, which could again point to insurance gap rather than a reflection of ground realities. National Health Authority said earlier, it did not see many claims under Ayushman Bharat, the government scheme with up to Rs 5 lakh sum insured. Now, with Tier-3 cities and rural areas too reporting cases, as many as 30,925 claims are filed under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-share-in-covid-cover-claims-in-maharashtra-falls-to-33/articleshow/77570470.cms||Rachel Chitra
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Two acquitted of sexual abuse as testimony inconsistent||MUMBAI: A father and son, arrested in 2017 for sexually abusing a “minor” relative were acquitted after the court found that the girl had told different versions of the incident to the police, doctor, magistrate and trial court. The special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court said the girl changed “the sequence of crime”. The court said that according to the FIR and her testimony, first the father outraged her modesty and later his son assaulted her. In the history given to the doctor, she said it was the son who outraged her modesty. “Such version is totally unreliable and cannot be relied upon,” the court observed. The court further said that sufficient documents were not submitted to show that the girl was 17 years old when the incident occurred in March 2017. The FIR was lodged in June 2017, after the girl allegedly attempted suicide as she was unable to bear the ‘torture’. The girl had been living with her aunt, uncle and their son for two years when the incident allegedly occurred.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/two-acquitted-of-sexual-abuse-as-testimony-inconsistent/articleshow/77570354.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Mumbai||Parsis to mark Navroz today, subdued by lockdown rules in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The Parsi community will celebrate Navroz or new year 1390 on Sunday, minus the festive gatherings and customary play. The lockdown ensured that this year, Saal Mubarak greetings will be exchanged on social media and WhatsApp. Saturday was Pateti, the last day of the year, which is a time for atonement. Devout Parsis visit agiaries during the 10 days that precede Navroz. They offer flowers and incense as this is a time to pray for the wellbeing of departed souls. After Pateti, the feasting begins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/parsis-to-mark-navroz-today-subdued-by-lockdown-rules-in-mumbai/articleshow/77570218.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Goa||Goa police bust rave party; 23 arrested, drugs worth Rs 9 lakh seized||PANAJI: Crime branch of Goa police on Saturday late night busted a rave party at Vagator and arrested 23 persons. The police also recovered drugs worth Rs 9 lakh. Out of 23 arrested, three are women who are foreign nationals. Crime branch superintendent of police Shobhit Saxena said in the intervening night of August 15 and 16, reliable information was received that a rave party was being organised in villas at Vagator. Immediately, 3 teams of Crime Branch under leadership of police inspectors Rahul Parab, Narayan Chimulkar and Sudiksha Naik were constituted and they raided the premises and detained over 30 persons. Upon thorough search, narcotics drugs - cocaine, MDMA, ecstasy tables and charas were detected in sizable quantities and worth over Rs 9 lakh. Saxena said that crime branch has registered first information report against the accused for endangering public safety and under NDPS act narcotics. Further investigation is indeed progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-police-bust-rave-party-23-arrested-drugs-worth-rs-9-lakh-seized/articleshow/77570620.cms||Murari Shetye
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Edappadi K Palaniswami, O Panneerselvam power play out in open, fight may harm party in elections||CHENNAI: The political thriller that played out at Thenpennai, the official residence of deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam in Chennai on Saturday had shades of his 2017 “dharmayudh”. With the power play between OPS and chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami out in the open, the ruling AIADMK is faced with the tough question yet again – who will be the chief ministerial candidate for the 2021 assembly election?  OPS has sought to defer any discussion or decision on the matter until closer to elections and instead demanded that a “steering committee” be constituted immediately. A membership in such a committee was the carrot that was being dangled to appease the OPS loyalists after the merger of his faction in August 2017 with the EPS-led AIADMK. While Palaniswami insisted on a meeting to resolve the issue of CM candidate, OPS opted for a joint statement to partymen, urging them to stay united and work for an electoral victory. The high drama on Saturday morning was triggered by the sudden appearances of posters across Theni district, an OPS turf, backing his candidature for the CM post for the 2021 assembly election. In no time, a delegation of 14 ministers, led by P Thangamani and S P Velumani, arrived at OPS residence. Read AlsoAIADMK leadership debate: 'I have people's support,' says Palaniswami as posters appear pitching for 'OPS as CM'Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami on Saturday asserted that he has the love and support of the people and vowed to continue to work for them with their well being as his only goal.Panneerselvam had directed district functionaries to remove the posters, but the EPS camp went into a tizzy. The ministers assembled at senior minister D Jayakumar’s chamber and headed to OPS residence at 11.45am after the Independence Day event. Only a short while prior to that the CM had handed over the ‘best practice’ award to Panneerselvam (also the finance minister) for total computerisation of the department on the ramparts of Fort St George during the Independence Day celebrations. The talks lasted until 3pm when the ministerial team rushed from OPS’ house to EPS residence and returned to convey the CM’s message to his deputy. But all that came out of the exercise was a joint statement to partymen to remain united and work for the AIADMK’s victory. Read AlsoFormer AIADMK minister V S Vijay joins DMK, says ruling party leaders are puppets in the hand of BJPState joint secretary of medical wingCHENNAI: Former AIADMK minister V S Vijay, who joined the DMK on Saturday, said there is no proper leadership in the ruling party in Tamil Nadu after the demise of J Jayalalithaa. According to him, the present leaders are “puppets” in the hands of the rulingThe genesis for the Saturday turmoil has been the rash of statements issued by ministers in the past two days – one backing EPS for CM candidature and another OPS even while a couple took the middle-path in cautioning partymen to leave it to the high level bodies of the party to take a call. In the last three years after J Jayalalithaa’s death and her aide V K Sasikala’s incarceration, EPS has strengthened his position in the party and government while the OPS support base has steadily eroded. None of his erstwhile supporters are with him any longer, but OPS has been flaunting the goodwill he enjoys among party cadre and the people as a weapon to challenge EPS, said a senior minister. “OPS told the delegation that the chief ministerial candidate could be decided during elections and this was not an appropriate time. The ministers then briefed EPS, who insisted on a meeting to settle the issue. But OPS stood his ground insisting that a steering committee be set up first,” said the minister. The CM candidate issue could well prove the big challenge for the AIADMK that has sustained on a dual leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/edappadi-k-palaniswami-o-panneerselvam-power-play-out-in-open-fight-may-harm-party-in-elections/articleshow/77570617.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 16, 2020||Business||Natural gas prices may be cut to decade low of $1.9; dent ONGC revenues||NEW DELHI: Prices of natural gas in India are likely to be cut to $1.9-1.94 - the lowest in more than a decade - from October, denting revenues of producers such as ONGC who are already incurring huge losses on gas production. A gas price revision is due from October 1 and going by the changes in the benchmark rate in gas exporting nations, the price is likely to be anywhere between $1.90 to $1.94 per million British thermal unit (mmBtu), sources privy to the development said. This will be the third straight reduction in rates in one year. Prices were cut by a steep 26 per cent to $2.39 per mmBtu in April. Prices of natural gas, which is used to produce fertiliser and generate electricity and is also converted into CNG for use in automobiles as fuel and cooking gas for households, are set every six months -- on April 1 and October 1 each year. Sources said the cut in prices would mean a widening of losses for India's top oil and gas producer ONGC. Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC) had posted Rs 4,272 crore loss on gas business in 2017-18, which is likely to widen to over Rs 6,000 crore in the current fiscal (April 2020 to March 2021), they said. ONGC has seen incurring losses on the 65 million standard cubic meters per day of gas it produces from domestic fields shortly after the government in November 2014 introduced a new gas pricing formula that had "inherent limitations" as it was based on pricing hubs of gas surplus countries such as the US, Canada, and Russia. The current $ 2.39 per mmBtu rate is the lowest in more than a decade. Sources said ONGC in a recent communique to the government has stated that the break-even price to produce gas from new discoveries was in the range of $ 5-9 per mmBtu. In previous years, loss from the gas segment was getting offset from the gain from the oil business. But with oil business itself coming under severe strain due to a sharp slump in benchmark prices, it has become difficult for the company to meet even the operating expenses, they said. In May 2010, the government had raised the rate of gas sold to power and fertilizer firms from $ 1.79 per mmBtu to $ 4.20. ONGC and Oil India Ltd (OIL) got $ 3.818 per mmBtu price for the gas they produced from fields given to them on nomination basis and after adding 10 per cent royalty, the fuel cost $ 4.20 per mmBtu for consumers. The Congress-led UPA had approved a new pricing formula for implementation in 2014 that would have raised the rates but the BJP-led government scrapped it and brought a new formula. The new formula takes into account the volume-weighted annual average of the prices prevailing in Henry Hub (US), National Balancing Point (the UK), Alberta (Canada), and Russia with a lag of one-quarter. Prices are set every six months -- on April 1 and October 1 each year. The rates at the first revision, using the new formula, came to $ 5.05 but in the subsequent six-monthly reviews kept falling till they touched $ 2.48 for April 2017 to September 2017 period. Subsequently, they rose to $ 3.69 in April 2019 to September 2019 before being cut by 12.5 per cent in October 2019 to $ 3.23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/natural-gas-prices-may-be-cut-to-decade-low-of-1-9-dent-ongc-revenues/articleshow/77570585.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Former AIADMK minister joins DMK||CHENNAI: Former AIADMK health minister V S Vijay on Saturday joined the DMK in the presence of party president M K Stalin. He later unleashed a scathing attack on the present AIADMK leadership, calling it weak and subservient to the BJP government at the Centre. “After the demise of former chief minister Jayalalithaa, there is no strong leadership in the ruling party. The dual leadership, which has scant regard for the party’s ideology, is hurting the party’s interests,” he said. The present leaders of the AIADMK are “puppets” in the hands of the BJP, he said. “The Centre had usurped several of TN rights. Admissions in state-run medical colleges were usurped through NEET. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is not doing anything to protect the interests of the state. Leaders were keen on promoting their own political future,” said Vijay, who had joined the AIADMK in 1977. Vijay was health minister for 2.5 years in the 2011-16 AIADMK government. After Jayalalithaa’s death, he was in AMMK before returning to the AIADMK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/former-aiadmk-minister-joins-dmk/articleshow/77570638.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Police arrests 35 more accused||BENGALURU: 35 more accused have been arrested in connection with Bengaluru violence that broke out on August 11, taking the total number of arrests in the cases to 340, informed the police on Sunday.  The imposition of Section 144 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in areas under DJ Halli and KG Halli police station limits has also been extended till 6 am on August 18. The situation in the area remains tense. Section 144 has been extended twice in the area.  An FIR was registered on the complaint of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivas Murthy at DJ Halli police station 3 days after the violence broke out in parts of Bengaluru on August 11, over an alleged "derogatory" social media post by his nephew, the police said.  "An FIR is registered at DJ Halli police station on the complaint of MLA A Srinivas Murthy. As per the complaint, 2,000-3,000 people set his house and other properties including vehicles, on fire on August 11. Gold and silver items, vehicles and other things worth Rs 3 crore were robbed as per the complaint," said the police.  "Complaint was filed by MLA after three days of the incident. Complainant MLA said that he was unable to come out of trauma after his house was burnt," the police added.  11 other FIRs had been registered till August 14 in connection with Bengaluru violence cases, out of which seven have been registered at DJ Halli police station in the city, the police had said earlier on August 14.  Among the accused who are arrested are Naveen, the nephew of MLA Srinivas Murthy, and include Kaleem Pasha, the husband of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) corporator from Nagwara ward - Irshad Begum.  Violence broke out in parts of Bengaluru on August 11, over an alleged "derogatory" social media post. At least three people were killed and nearly 60 police personnel were injured in the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-violence-police-arrests-35-more-accused/articleshow/77570669.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||South Korea accuses religious sect leader as Covid-19 cases surge||SEOUL: South Korea accused the leader of a religious sect on Sunday of violating self-isolation rules and obstructing investigations into the country's biggest outbreak of new coronavirus in five months. South Korea on Sunday reported 279 new cases on Sunday, more than double the 103 reported on Friday, with most of the new infections found in and around Seoul. The capital posted a record 146 new cases, out of which 107 were linked to Sarang Jeil Church led by Rev. Jun Kwang-hoon, a controversial pastor and an outspoken government critic. The health ministry said it will file a complaint against Jun later on Sunday, accusing him of violating self-isolation rules by participating in a rally on Saturday and “obstructing” epidemiological investigation by failing to submit a full list of church members for testing and tracing. Thousands of demonstrators took to the street on the Aug. 15 liberation day on Tuesday, protesting against President Moon Jae-in’s policies and defying a ban on rallies in the capital. The surge in Covid-19 cases prompted authorities on Sunday to reimpose tighter social distancing curbs, and President Moon warned of “stern and strong measures” against "some churches", calling their behaviour an "unforgivable act that threatens public lives." Jun's church did not respond to telephone calls from Reuters seeking comment. Another Christian sect, Shincheonji Church of Jesus, was at the centre of the country’s largest outbreak of Covid-19 infections in February. The secretive group was linked to 36% of South Korea’s total cases, and on Aug.1, South Korean authorities arrested its founder, Lee Man-hee, for allegedly hiding crucial information from contact-tracers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/south-korea-accuses-religious-sect-leader-as-covid-19-cases-surge/articleshow/77570681.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Business||Peak power demand declines further to 5.65% in 1st fortnight of August||NEW DELHI: The slump in peak power demand has widened to 5.65 per cent in the first fortnight of August from 2.61 per cent drop recorded in July, according to the power ministry data. Peak power demand met, which is the highest energy supply during a day across the country, was at 167.49 GW in the first fortnight of August, down by 5.65 per cent from 177.52 GW recorded in August last year. Peak power demand met was recorded at 170.54 GW in July this year, down 2.61 per cent compared to 175.12 GW in the same month last year. Industry experts said that power demand has been stabilising since May this year following easing the lockdown by the government to boost commercial and industrial activities. The government had imposed the lockdown to contain COVID-19 on March 25, 2020, which resulted in lower commercial and industrial demand of power. The power demand declined by around 25 per cent in April. The electricity demand rose May onwards after easing of the lockdown for more commercial and industrial activities. The spurt in electricity demand from May onwards raised hopes that it will touch normal levels (recorded in same month last year) from August onwards in the country. Experts further said that the power consumption as well as demand expected to touch normal level (recorded in same month last year) this month onwards and the exact position would be known only after the end of August when complete monthly data would be available. In June this year, peak power demand met had dipped by 9.6 per cent to 164.98 GW, as compared to 182.45 GW in June 2019. In May this year, the peak power demand met stood at 166.22 GW, 8.9 per cent less than 182.53 GW in the year-ago period. While, in April it stood at 132.73 GW, around 25 per cent lower than 176.81 GW recorded in the corresponding month a year earlier mainly due to lower commercial and industrial demand due to lockdown. The data also showed the slump in power consumption has narrowed to just 3.6 per cent in July at 112.24 billion units (BU) as compared to 116.48 BU in same month last year. Power consumption in June had declined by 10.93 per cent to 105.08 BU, as compared to 117.98 BU in the same month last year. Similarly, power consumption in the country was down by 14.86 per cent in May and 23.21 per cent April this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/peak-power-demand-declines-further-to-5-65-in-1st-fortnight-of-august/articleshow/77570696.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana records 1,102 new Covid-19 cases, nine deaths||HYDERABAD: As many as 1,102 fresh Covid-19 cases and nine deaths were reported in Telangana, taking the tally to 91,361 and the toll to 693, the state government said on Sunday. Out of the freshcases, 234 were reported from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), followed by districts of Karimnagar (101), Ranga Reddy (81), Warangal Urban (70), Medchal (63), a state government bulletin said on Sunday, providing data as of 8pm on August 15. It said 1,930 people were discharged on Saturday, taking the cumulative recoveries to 68,126 so far, while 22,542 are under treatment. A total of 12,120 samples were tested on Saturday and cumulatively, 7,44,555 samples have been examined. A total of 16 government laboratories and 23 in the private sector were conducting the tests for Covid-19. There were a total of 1,076 government rapid antigen testing centres, the bulletin said The recovery rate was 74.56 per cent in Telangana, while it was 71.6 per cent in the country, the bulletin said. A total of 15,502 people are in home/institutional isolation The bulletin said the percentage of deaths due to comorbidities was 53.87 per cent, while that due to Covid-19 was 46.13 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-records-1102-new-covid-19-cases-nine-deaths/articleshow/77570722.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Ex-Congress corporator Deva Usre stabbed to death||NAGPUR: Former Congress corporator Deva Usre was stabbed to death by two unidentified assailants in front of Bharat Talkies in Nagpur on Sunday. Usre, also having criminal records, was elected as corporator in 2012. The latest murder is second in the last 24 hours after a man, Chetan Mandagale was stabbed to death near Udaynagar garden over parking on Saturday. An offence of the murder was registered at Hudkeshwar police station. It is learnt that two bike-borne youths had arrived with their faces covered and fled after stabbing Usre repeatedly. The injured was rushed to Mayo hospital with serious injuries where doctors had declared him dead. Sadar police have registered a case of murder against unidentified persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-ex-congress-corporator-deva-usre-stabbed-to-death/articleshow/77570765.cms||Soumittra S Bose
August 16, 2020||Nagpur||DCP Gajanan Rajmane honours sanitation staffers on Independence Day||NAGPUR: On the occasion of the Independence Day, DCP Gajanan Rajmane on Saturday felicitated a horde of sanitation workers as 'covid yoddha'. Rajmane, known as an upright officer, had invited the sanitation workers deputed in the commissionerate to the flag hoisting ceremony at the city police headquarters at Takli. Each worker were rewarded with a certificate of 'Covid yoddha' and some token gifts. Rajmane, known for his social approach, learnt to have decided to express gratitude and respect for the sanitation workers who dedicatedly contributed their efforts for cleanliness and hygiene which is crucial during the times of Pandemic. The workers, who had thanklessly toiled for the last four months since the Corona outbreak, were gladdened by the gesture of the senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dcp-gajanan-rajmane-honours-sanitation-staffers-on-independence-day/articleshow/77570791.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 16, 2020||India||No prelim investigation report for Air India Express crash crash?||MUMBAI: A week has passed following the Air India Express Calicut crash that killed 18 people. Since then, over a dozen airline flights have been landing in Calicut daily, flying in about 2000 passengers. But there has been no official word yet on initial findings from the investigators, neither for the benefit of pilots operating into these table top runways nor for the sake of families of the deceased, let alone to assuage the concerns of the flying public at large, said air safety experts. Going by a recent statement from the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB), the final report into the crash will be submitted by January next year. There was not word on the preliminary report, which under International Civil Aviation Organisation Annex 13 norms should preferably be released in a month’s time. Indonesia released a preliminary report after Lion Air October 2018 crash, so did Ethiopia after Ethiopian Airlines March 2019 crash and most recently, Pakistan after the Pakistan International Airlines May 22 crash. The report informs the pilot community at large about the factors surrounding the crash. Wing commander (Wg Cdr), K Dinesh, a former Indian Air Force (IAF) officer said: ``Waiting longer than required to learn lessons from a crash is akin to pushing aviation safety out of the window. It’s important to identify, without much delay, what happened and convey it to relevant stake holders, which is where the relevance of initial, preliminary reports come in. It is the most important aspect in the chain of accident prevention. Final report can come later.” He added that the much heard refrain in India; ``Let’s wait for the final report is a bureaucratic approach to accident prevention.” Wg Cdr Dinesh, an aviation safety consultant, has been part of IAF ``Go Team’’ , that rushes to the site to make a first assessment of what went wrong. Unlike accidents that occur in remote areas or over the sea, those that take place at airports leave several clues, he says. ``The Go Team can make an assessment, within a day or two, of what most likely went wrong. It’s based on evidences collected from the scene, wreckage, speaking to air traffic control, first responders etc. The assessment is usually 99 % correct. Based on the findings, immediate advisories are issued to avert any further similar accident. The findings are also made public to assuage fears. These are the important aspects, the final report can come later,” he added. Civil aviation accident investigations too look into that aspect. For instance: US National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) circular about its investigation process says: ``Atleast once daily during the on-scene phase of an investigation, one of the five members of the safety board itself, who accompanies the Go-Team, briefs the media on the latest factual information developed by the team…There is no speculation over cause. ’’ Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert said that the Indian Procedure Manual of Accident investigation, 2012 (6.1.1) says that a preliminary investigation report should be submitted preferably within ten days of the accident. ``It shall contain the requisite information including any safety hazard, either in human factor, aircraft factor or other relevant factor that is prima facie evident during the early stage of investigation such as lack of piloting proficiency, if any… to enable framing and implementation of immediate corrective safety measures,’’ he quoted. He added: ``What we have till now is random statements, by authorities, made to different media organisations that are not backed with facts or data.”  Under ICAO norms, an accident investigation should not be carried out to apportion blame. It should be carried out only to know the causes of the accident so as to prevent future occurrences. ``Waiting for months together to learn the lessons goes against the very purpose of carrying out an investigation,’’ says Wg Cdr Dinesh. ``There is a pressing need to form a robust ‘Go Team’ within the Accident Investigation Bureau which reports the preliminary understanding of cause of accident. The ‘Go team’ assessment can be make public by the competent authority, obviously with the needed caveats. It is the obligation of the airline, the regulator and the state to assure the citizens and families of victims with bulletins on findings that would be update regularly. It is scientifically proven that a true news is more palatable for families of victims than cover ups,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-prelim-investigation-report-for-air-india-express-crash-crash/articleshow/77570770.cms||Manju V
August 16, 2020||Lucknow||Law and order in UP worsening, Yogi Adityanath govt has failed to control crime: BSP||LUCKNOW: Reacting to the gangrape of a 13-year-old girl in Lakhimpur Kheri district of Uttar Pradesh, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) national spokesperson Sudhindra Bhadoria on Sunday said that the law and order situation in the state is worsening and claimed that state government has been unable to contain crime. Bhadoria added the public is upset and wants such incidents to stop. "See, from some time, the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh has been worsening. Rape incidents, murders of Dalits, law and order have become a question in the state. The public is upset and wants such incidents to stop," he said. "BSP chief Mayawati is repeatedly raising the issue of deteriorating law and order as it is felt that Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been unable to contain crime in the state," he added. Earlier, the police stated that the National Security Act (NSA) will be invoked against two men accused of the gangrape of the 13-year-old girl. The girl was allegedly raped and murdered in Isanagar in Lakhimpur Kheri on Friday. Later, the police recovered her body from a sugarcane field in Isanagar. Satyendra Kumar, superintendent of police (SP), Lakhimpur Kheri said two men have been booked under offences of murder and gangrape, adding that action will also be taken against them under the NSA. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/law-and-order-in-up-worsening-yogi-adityanath-govt-has-failed-to-control-crime-bsp/articleshow/77570813.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Business||Demand for tech-enabled healthcare solutions rising due to Covid-19 impact: Report||NEW DELHI: The outbreak of Covid-19 has led to a change in consumer preferences and priorities as the focus now shifts towards the use of technology and contact-less healthcare, a report by consultancy services firm Deloitte India said. Home healthcare has taken prominence as consumer receptiveness towards out-of-hospital, at-home services across the care continuum - consultation, diagnostics, and in-patient care - has shot up, it added. The report, 'Changing consumer preferences towards healthcare services: The impact of COVID-19', said social distancing and a fear-led mindset have resulted in consumers preferring online consultations over in-person interactions. "Consumers are increasingly preferring to have their healthcare needs met remotely or from the comfort and safety of their homes. They expect their healthcare service providers to prioritise adherence to safety protocols," the report noted. The demand for telemedicine services is expected to continue, driven by an increase in consumer preference for an efficient consultation setting that eliminates commute and waiting time, it added. Deloitte India Partner Anupama Joshi said the report lists the opportunities and challenges for the healthcare sector in managing the shift in consumer preferences. "We believe this will help organisations in the healthcare ecosystem to create better business strategies, collaborate with startups, and continue to thrive post COVID-19 by exploring new settings and delivery channels across the continuum of care," she added. Going forward, health management will become a lot more integrated, with players offering different services coming together and offering the consumers the care they need, the report said. Organisations that accept these changes and think of them as opportunities to evolve will benefit, while those that resist the change and simply wait for the pre-COVID world to return will find the going increasingly tough over time, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/demand-for-tech-enabled-healthcare-solutions-rising-due-to-covid-19-impact-report/articleshow/77570837.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Guwahati||Assam's Covid-19 tally tops 75,000 with 1,057 fresh cases, death toll climbs to 182||GUWAHATI: Assam's Covid-19 tally surpassed the 75,000-mark with 1,057 fresh cases, while the death toll mounted to 182 as eight more people succumbed to the virus, minister for health and family welfare Himanta Biswa Sarma said.  The state's coronavirus caseload stood at 75,558, while 53,286 people have so far recovered from the disease, he said. Assam now has 22,087 active Covid-19 cases, the minister said in a tweet late on Saturday. "Our positivity rate continues to be low at 5.08 per cent, which gives us confidence," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assams-covid-19-tally-tops-75000-with-1057-fresh-cases-death-toll-climbs-to-182/articleshow/77570883.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||India to be key American partner in Biden administration: Top campaign official||WASHINGTON: A Biden administration would be an advocate for India to play a leading role in international institutions, including helping it get a seat on a reformed UN Security Council, a top campaign official has said, asserting that New Delhi has to be a key American partner in engaging China from a position of strength. A Biden administration will also have no tolerance for terrorism in South Asia, according to former diplomat Tony Blinken, who is now a top foreign policy advisor to Joe Biden, the Democratic presidential candidate. Participating in a panel discussion on "US-India Relations and Indian Americans in Joe Biden Administration'", Blinken said on Saturday that the former vice president, if elected in the November elections, will help India get a seat at the UN Security Council and strengthen US' defence ties with India. "I think you'd see Joe Biden as president investing in ourselves, renewing our democracy, working with our close partners like India, asserting our values and engaging China from a position of strength. India has to be a key partner in that effort," Blinken said in response to a question from former US Ambassador to India Richard Verma. The top campaign official was asked that the world has witnessed increasing Chinese aggression in the Indo-Pacific, including along the Indian border and India faces real threats from cross border terrorism, and how would the US in a Biden administration support India in these challenges. "During the Obama administration, we worked very hard to establish India as a key contributing member of the Indo-Pacific strategy. That includes India's role in working with likeminded partners to strengthen and uphold a rules-based order in the Indo Pacific in which no country, including China can threaten its neighbours with impunity. "That role needs to extend even beyond the region, as vast as it is the world at large. In a Biden administration, we would be an advocate for India to play a leading role in international institutions. That includes helping India get a seat on a reformed United Nations Security Council," Blinken responded. "We would work together to strengthen India's defence and also I might add its capabilities as a counterterrorism partner. On the question of terrorism, specifically, we have no tolerance for terrorism, in South Asia or anywhere else: cross border or otherwise," he said. During the Obama Administration, he said, he was in various meetings of the National Security Council on this issue. "We used every tool at our disposal to make sure that our citizens and the citizens of our partners were safe and that's something we would build on in a Biden Administration," Blinken said. Former Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asia Nisha Desai Biswal said that the US-India partnership was vitally important as the defining partnership for 21st century as the Obama administration characterised it. "You cannot have a deep, trusted partnership between the United States and India, if you deeply disrespect the people of India and people of Indian origin. Peoples' ties are so fundamentally important in all of the different ways in which this relationship really is set apart. Without that, without those ties between our peoples, then it's really just a transactional relationship to achieve a means to an end, so to speak," Biswal said. She was responding to a question on the recent steps taken by the Trump administration with regard to H-1B visas that has an impact on a large number of Indian technology professionals. In June, President Donald Trump banned the entry into the US of workers in several key non-immigrant visa categories, including the H-1B until the end of the year, arguing that they eat into American jobs during the COVID-19 pandemic. Those affected include the family members of the H-1B, L-1, and certain categories of J1 visas. However this week, the Trump Administration announced certain exemptions in H-1B and L-1 travel ban for those continuing employment with the same employer, a move that could help Indian IT professionals and those working in the healthcare sector. The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. Companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China. "US India partnership is not just a means to an end. It is actually fundamentally a whole of society partnership between our people, our educational institutions, our academic universities, our businesses, and our cultural fabric of both countries. The successive waves of immigrants from India to the US shores have been an important aspect of America's economic, political, and social fabric," she said. Ajay Bhutoria, who is on the National Finance committee for Joe Biden, said that he is in this fight to restore the soul of "our nation for all of Americans and Indian Americans". "Over 20 years as an entrepreneur in the Bay area, I have reached that dream and work to make sure it's there for others in our community. That's what led me to help Vice President Biden and Dr. Biden on their Free Community College An initiative that has helped so many immigrants and young people get an education and a good job," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-and-world/india-to-be-key-american-partner-in-biden-administration-top-campaign-official/articleshow/77570886.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||If elected, will stand with India in confronting threats facing it: Biden||WASHINGTON: Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden has asserted that if elected, his administration will stand with India against the threats New Delhi faces from its own region and along its borders and vowed to continue to rely on the Indian-American diaspora, that keeps the two nations together. Last week, Biden scripted history by selecting Indian origin Senator Harris, 55, as his running mate in the US presidential election. Harris, whose father is an African from Jamaica and mother an Indian, is the first-ever Black vice-presidential nominee. Presidential elections in the US will be held on November 3 and the 77-year-old is challenging incumbent Republican President Donald Trump in the polls. "Fifteen years ago, I was leading the efforts to approve the historic civil nuclear deal with India. I said that if the US and India became closer friends and partners, then the world will be a safer place," Biden, who was vice-president in the Obama administration, said while addressing the Indian-American community on India's Independence Day. If elected president, Biden said, he will continue to believe this and also continue to stand with India against the threats it faces from its own region and along its borders. Biden said that he will work on expanding two-way trade between the US and India, and take on big global challenges like climate change and global health security. If elected, the Democratic candidate said, he will work to strengthen the democracies where diversity is the mutual strength. On this day, let us "continue to deepen the bond that endures between our nation's and our people,” Biden said. He said that "as President, I'll also continue to rely on the Indian-American diaspora, that keeps our two nations together, as I have throughout my career". "My constituents in Delaware, my staff in the Senate, the Obama administration that had more Indian-Americans than any other administration in the history of this country, and this campaign with Indian Americans at senior levels, which of course includes the top of the heap, our dear friend (Kamala Harris) who will be the first Indian American vice president in the history of the United States of America,” Biden said. "We all know she's smart, she's tested, she's prepared. But another thing that makes Kamala so inspiring is her mother's immigrant story to the US that started in India, with pure courage that brought her daughters to this moment. I know the pride you feel. It's your story too," Biden said. "For your sacrifices, and your family's courage, you became pillars of our community and our country. You're patriots and the frontlines of this pandemic. In this reckoning of systemic racism, you're making real real promise that America is a place where people of all races and religions can live together in peace," he said. "But I know it's hard. My heart goes out to all those of you who have been the targets in a rise in hate crimes, and the crackdown of legal immigration, including a sudden and harmful actions on H-1B visas. That for decades have made America stronger and brought our nation's closer," Biden said. The H1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. "While it's sometimes may not feel like the US of your dreams, we will overcome and build back better than ever. Like (former President) Barack Obama had asked to me, I'm asking Kamala Harris, to be the last person in the room to ask the tough questions of me, provide counsel, most of all to always represent the belief in possibilities," the former US vice president said. Around 1.3 million Indian-Americans are expected to vote in this year's election, with nearly 200,000 in battleground states like Pennsylvania and 125,000 in Michigan, according to the research firm CRW Strategy. In the 2016 presidential election, 77 per cent of Indian Americans voted for Democrat candidate Hillary Clinton. President Donald Trump has been seeking to win over Indian voters, praising Indian-Americans as business and technology leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/if-elected-will-stand-with-india-in-confronting-threats-facing-it-biden/articleshow/77570926.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||If elected, will stand with India in confronting threats facing it: Biden||WASHINGTON: Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden has asserted that if elected, his administration will stand with India against the threats New Delhi faces from its own region and along its borders and vowed to continue to rely on the Indian-American diaspora, that keeps the two nations together. Last week, Biden scripted history by selecting Indian origin Senator Harris, 55, as his running mate in the US presidential election. Harris, whose father is an African from Jamaica and mother an Indian, is the first-ever Black vice-presidential nominee. Presidential elections in the US will be held on November 3 and the 77-year-old is challenging incumbent Republican President Donald Trump in the polls. "Fifteen years ago, I was leading the efforts to approve the historic civil nuclear deal with India. I said that if the US and India became closer friends and partners, then the world will be a safer place," Biden, who was vice-president in the Obama administration, said while addressing the Indian-American community on India's Independence Day. If elected president, Biden said, he will continue to believe this and also continue to stand with India against the threats it faces from its own region and along its borders. Biden said that he will work on expanding two-way trade between the US and India, and take on big global challenges like climate change and global health security. If elected, the Democratic candidate said, he will work to strengthen the democracies where diversity is the mutual strength. On this day, let us "continue to deepen the bond that endures between our nation's and our people,” Biden said. He said that "as President, I'll also continue to rely on the Indian-American diaspora, that keeps our two nations together, as I have throughout my career". "My constituents in Delaware, my staff in the Senate, the Obama administration that had more Indian-Americans than any other administration in the history of this country, and this campaign with Indian Americans at senior levels, which of course includes the top of the heap, our dear friend (Kamala Harris) who will be the first Indian American vice president in the history of the United States of America,” Biden said. "We all know she's smart, she's tested, she's prepared. But another thing that makes Kamala so inspiring is her mother's immigrant story to the US that started in India, with pure courage that brought her daughters to this moment. I know the pride you feel. It's your story too," Biden said. "For your sacrifices, and your family's courage, you became pillars of our community and our country. You're patriots and the frontlines of this pandemic. In this reckoning of systemic racism, you're making real real promise that America is a place where people of all races and religions can live together in peace," he said. "But I know it's hard. My heart goes out to all those of you who have been the targets in a rise in hate crimes, and the crackdown of legal immigration, including a sudden and harmful actions on H-1B visas. That for decades have made America stronger and brought our nation's closer," Biden said. The H1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in speciality occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. "While it's sometimes may not feel like the US of your dreams, we will overcome and build back better than ever. Like (former President) Barack Obama had asked to me, I'm asking Kamala Harris, to be the last person in the room to ask the tough questions of me, provide counsel, most of all to always represent the belief in possibilities," the former US vice president said. Around 1.3 million Indian-Americans are expected to vote in this year's election, with nearly 200,000 in battleground states like Pennsylvania and 125,000 in Michigan, according to the research firm CRW Strategy. In the 2016 presidential election, 77 per cent of Indian Americans voted for Democrat candidate Hillary Clinton. President Donald Trump has been seeking to win over Indian voters, praising Indian-Americans as business and technology leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/if-elected-will-stand-with-india-in-confronting-threats-facing-it-biden/articleshow/77570931.cms||---
August 16, 2020||India||Pranab Mukherjee's condition much better, stable, says son Abhijit Mukherjee||NEW DELHI: The medical condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee is much better and stable, his son Abhijit Mukherjee informed on Sunday.  He said that the vital parameters of the former President, who underwent life-saving emergency surgery for the brain clot on August 10, following which his health status had worsened, are stable and he is responding to the treatment.  "Yesterday, I had visited my Father In Hospital. With God's grace & all your good wishes, he is much better & stable than D preceding days! All his vital parameters are stable & he is responding to treatment! We firmly believe that He will be back among us soon. Thank You," Abhijit tweeted. Yesterday , I had visited my Father In Hospital . With God's grace & all your good wishes , He is much better & sta… https://t.co/MW89prUygT— Abhijit Mukherjee (@ABHIJIT_LS) 1597551802000 On August 10, the former President had also informed that he had tested positive for the novel coronavirus.  "On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for COVID-19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for COVID-19," Mukherjee had tweeted. On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for COVID19 today. I request the peopl… https://t.co/hTU5DJH9vs— Pranab Mukherjee (@CitiznMukherjee) 1597045077000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pranab-mukherjees-condition-much-better-stable-says-son-abhijit-mukherjee/articleshow/77570975.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar tests positive for Covid-19||BATHINDA: Punjab revenue and rehabilitation minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday. He had unfurled Tricolour on Independence Day at Mansa in presence of scores of people. Kangar has been isolated at his native village Kangar in Bhinda district. His close relative Narinder Singh Bhaleria, residing at Bathinda, too tested positive. Apart from presiding over Independence Day programme, Kngar had inaugurated a couple of projects on Saturday. The MLA had come in close contact of Kangar at the Independence Day celebrations on Saturday and has gone into self-quarantine. Kangar told TOI, "After hoisting the national flag, I felt throat problem at around noon and my relative suggested to get tested. Mansa Civil Surgeon arranged for the test. I went for the test and the result in the morning came positive. I have isolated myself and request everyone who came in my contact to isolate themselves". The Mansa authorities have started tracing the people who were in close contact with the minister and asking them to get tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-revenue-minister-gurpreet-singh-kangar-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77570928.cms||Neel Kamal
August 16, 2020||Meerut||US scholar accident case: UP cops arrest two suspects, recover 'modified' motorcycle||MEERUT: The three-member special investigation team (SIT) probing the death of US scholar Sudeeksha Bhati in a road mishap arrested two persons on Sunday. They are believed to be the same persons who caused the accident that killed her. The arrest comes five days after the accident in Bulandshahr's Aurangabad area. The kin of the 19-year-old deceased Sudeeksha had alleged that their daughter was harassed by the men on a Bullet motorcycle. The arrested accused have been identified as Deepak Chaudhary and Raju Kumar who were traced after SIT probing the case scanned through ownership of at least 10,000 Bullet bikes in the district and multiple CCTV footages in and around the accident spot. (Deepak got new tyres, registration plate, silencer and covered the bullet with a camouflage sticker to give it a complete makeover)While Deepak, seen driving the bullet in CCTV footages, works with a local architect, 50-year-old Raju is a mason by profession and the duo were on their way to a construction site at the time of the accident, their interrogation revealed. As per Bulandshahr police, panicked over the media limelight in the case, Deepak not only got his motorcycle repaired but modified it in a bid to throw police off the scent once it began looking for the bullet. As per investigators, Deepak got new tyres, registration plate, silencer and covered the bullet with a camouflage sticker to give it a complete makeover. Based on the complaint of the family of deceased, Bulandshahar police has already registered a case under section 304-A (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 279 (rash driving) and relevant sections of motor vehicle act against unidentified suspects at Aurangabad police station in the district. A three-member SIT was formed under circle officer Diksha Singh over allegations of harassment and eve-teasing in what was initially claimed by the police as an accident. From family alleging harassment by men on a Bullet bike to police debunking it and family attacking police for not pressing harassment charges in the FIR- the case has undergone several twists in little less than a week's time. Sudeeksha, the daughter of a tea shop owner, had secured a full scholarship to an undergraduate business programme at the prestigious Babson College in Massachusetts two years ago. She had come to India in March after her college was shut because of the pandemic and her return was due on August 20. Watch Sudeeksha Bhati accident case: UP cops arrest two suspects||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/us-scholar-accident-case-police-arrest-two-suspects-recover-modified-bullet/articleshow/77570987.cms||Piyush Rai
August 16, 2020||Puducherry||384 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths reported in Puducherry||PUDUCHERRY: As many as 384 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths were reported in the Union Territory on Sunday, said the health department of Puducherry.  The total number of coronavirus cases have gone up to 7,732, including 3,179 active cases, 4,443 cured cases, and 110 deaths.  India registered 63,489 new coronavirus cases and 944 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. With 944 new deaths, the cumulative death toll in the country is nearing 50,000-mark.  The country's coronavirus count touched 25,89,682 including 6,77,444 active cases, 18,62,258 discharged and 49,980 deaths on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/384-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-reported-in-puducherry/articleshow/77570996.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Chennai||Anbumani Ramadoss wants eligibility mark for FMGE reduced||CHENNAI: Former health minister Anbumani Ramadoss on Saturday wrote to the union minister for health and family welfare, Harsh Vardhan, demanding that the eligibility mark for foreign medical graduates’ examination (FMGE) be reduced to 30%. At present, only 16% of the students appearing for the exam are clearing it. Around 50,000 medical graduates have completed their education in foreign countries and are awaiting registration in India. Various restrictions and the FMGE, which is deliberately made difficult and nearly impossible to pass, have made their services not available to the Indian public, he said in the letter to the minister to point out the decreasing pass percentage in FMGE. The exam would be conducted on August 31. “A large number of students from our country are studying undergraduate medical courses, which is equivalent to MBBS, in Russia, the US, Philippines, Kyrgyzstan, Ukraine, China, Germany and other countries. Every year, around 10,000 students go abroad to join medical education,” said the sitting Rajya Sabha MP and PMK’s youth wing president. After returning to India, all except those who studied in the US, UK, Canada, Australia and New Zealand have to clear the FMGE to be eligible to register with the Medical Council of India and its state units. “It has made the future of thousands of Indian students, who are studying medicine in foreign countries, a big question mark.” The backlog of failed students is increasing every year, he said. “The reason for the high failure rates are the very difficult question papers. These graduates who have studied in foreign medical colleges that have good infrastructure are not able to get 50% marks (150 marks out of 300 marks) because the question paper is set to such a high standard, much above the ones set for local graduates in their qualifying examinations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/anbumani-ramadoss-wants-eligibility-mark-for-fmge-reduced/articleshow/77570995.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Hubballi||IndiGo flight lands at Hubballi airport after hovering in air for an hour due to bad weather||HUBBALLI: An IndiGo flight landed at Hubballi airport after hovering in the air for over an hour due to poor visibility on Sunday morning. The ATR72 flight with around 40 passengers on board took off from Bengaluru at 7.50am and it was to scheduled to land at 8.55am and but it could land only at 10.24am because of bad weather, said sources at the airport. Hubballi airport director Pramod Kumar Thakre told TOI, "It was a normal phenomena. Due to bad weather, the visibility was low, the aircraft landed safely after hovering for around one hour." Sources said that the flight landed safely after waiting in the air for around an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/indigo-flight-lands-at-hubballi-airport-after-hovering-in-air-for-an-hour-due-to-bad-weather/articleshow/77571015.cms||Kishan Rajput
August 16, 2020||World||What's happening at the US Postal Service, and why?||NEW YORK: The US Postal Service is warning states it cannot guarantee that all ballots cast by mail for the Nov. 3 election will arrive in time to be counted, even if ballots are mailed by state deadlines. That's raising the possibility that millions of voters could be disenfranchised. It's the latest chaotic and confusing development involving the agency, which has found itself in the middle of a high-stakes election year debate over who gets to vote in America, and how. Those questions are particularly potent in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic, which has led many Americans to consider voting by mail instead of heading to in-person polling places. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends mail ballots as a way to vote without risking exposure to the virus at the polls. But President Donald Trump has baselessly excoriated mail ballots as fraudulent, worried that an increase could cost him the election. Democrats have been more likely than Republicans to vote by mail in primary contests held so far this year. Some questions and answers about what's going on with the post office and the upcoming election: WHAT'S WRONG WITH THE POST OFFICE?The Post Office has lost money for years, though advocates note it's a government service rather than a profit-maximizing business. In June, Louis DeJoy, a Republican donor and logistics company executive, took over as the new postmaster general and Trump tasked him with trying to make the Postal Service more profitable. Doing so would also squeeze businesses such as Amazon. Its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has come under criticism from Trump because of the coverage the president has received from The Washington Post, which Bezos owns. DeJoy cut overtime, late delivery trips and other expenses that ensure mail arrives at its destination on time. The result has been a national slowdown of mail. The Postal Service is hoping for a $10 billion infusion from Congress to continue operating, but talks between Democrats and Republicans over a broad pandemic relief package that could have included that money have broken down. On Thursday, Trump frankly acknowledged that he's starving the postal service of that money to make it harder to process an expected surge of mail-in ballots. Trump on Saturday attempted to re-calibrate his position. He said that he supports more funding for the postal service but refuses to capitulate to other parts of the Democrats' relief package -- including funding for cash-strapped states. WHY DOES THIS MATTER IN AN ELECTION YEAR?Mail-in ballots have exploded in popularity since the pandemic spread in mid-March, at the peak of primary season. Some states have seen the demand for mail voting increase fivefold or more during the primaries. Election officials are bracing for the possibility that half of all voters or even more will cast ballots by mail in November. Colorado, Hawaii, Oregon, Utah and Washington state have universal mail voting, and California, Nevada and Vermont are starting universal mail voting in November. But the rest have little experience with such a volume of ballots cast through the mail. Timely mail is key to voting by mail. In states without universal mail-in voting, applications for mail ballots are generally sent out to voters by mail. They're returned, again, by mail. Then the actual ballots are sent to voters by mail, and returned, again, by mail, usually by Election Day. Late last month, Thomas J. Marshall, the post office's general counsel and executive vice president, sent states a letter warning that many of them have deadlines too tight to meet in this new world of slower mail. Pennsylvania, for example, allows voters to request a mail ballot by Oct. 27. Marshall warned that voters there should put already completed ballots in the mail by that date to ensure they arrive by Nov. 3. This has been a potential problem since the Obama administration, when the post office relaxed standards for when mail had to arrive. But it's particularly acute when the volume of mail ballots is expected to explode in states such as Pennsylvania, which only approved an expansion of mail voting late last year. It's also acute when the president has said openly he wants to limit votes by his rivals by keeping them from voting by mail. WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?It's unclear. The first question is whether there will be a coronavirus relief bill that could help fund the post office. Republicans and Democrats are far apart on the measure and Congress has gone home for a few weeks. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other Democrats are considering calling the House back into session to address the Postal Service, according to aides familiar with a Saturday evening leadership call. One aide said the House could return next week or the following week. The aides were not authorized to discuss the call publicly and requested anonymity. If there's no resolution of the coronavirus aid, the matter is sure to come up during negotiations in September to continue to fund the federal government. The government will shut down if Trump doesn't sign a funding bill by Sept. 30. States can also act to change their mail balloting deadlines. That's what Pennsylvania did this past week, with the state asking a court to move the deadline for receiving mail ballots back to three days after the Nov. 3 vote, provided the ballots were placed in the mail before polls close on Election Day. Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren and some other Democratic lawmakers are also seeking a review of DeJoy's policy changes. In response to the letter, spokeswoman Agapi Doulaveris of the U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General said the office is ``conducting a body of work to address the concerns raised.'' She declined to elaborate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/whats-happening-at-the-us-postal-service-and-why/articleshow/77571042.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||What's happening at the US Postal Service, and why?||NEW YORK: The US Postal Service is warning states it cannot guarantee that all ballots cast by mail for the Nov. 3 election will arrive in time to be counted, even if ballots are mailed by state deadlines. That's raising the possibility that millions of voters could be disenfranchised. It's the latest chaotic and confusing development involving the agency, which has found itself in the middle of a high-stakes election year debate over who gets to vote in America, and how. Those questions are particularly potent in the middle of the coronavirus pandemic, which has led many Americans to consider voting by mail instead of heading to in-person polling places. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends mail ballots as a way to vote without risking exposure to the virus at the polls. But President Donald Trump has baselessly excoriated mail ballots as fraudulent, worried that an increase could cost him the election. Democrats have been more likely than Republicans to vote by mail in primary contests held so far this year. Some questions and answers about what's going on with the post office and the upcoming election: WHAT'S WRONG WITH THE POST OFFICE?The Post Office has lost money for years, though advocates note it's a government service rather than a profit-maximizing business. In June, Louis DeJoy, a Republican donor and logistics company executive, took over as the new postmaster general and Trump tasked him with trying to make the Postal Service more profitable. Doing so would also squeeze businesses such as Amazon. Its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has come under criticism from Trump because of the coverage the president has received from The Washington Post, which Bezos owns. DeJoy cut overtime, late delivery trips and other expenses that ensure mail arrives at its destination on time. The result has been a national slowdown of mail. The Postal Service is hoping for a $10 billion infusion from Congress to continue operating, but talks between Democrats and Republicans over a broad pandemic relief package that could have included that money have broken down. On Thursday, Trump frankly acknowledged that he's starving the postal service of that money to make it harder to process an expected surge of mail-in ballots. Trump on Saturday attempted to re-calibrate his position. He said that he supports more funding for the postal service but refuses to capitulate to other parts of the Democrats' relief package -- including funding for cash-strapped states. WHY DOES THIS MATTER IN AN ELECTION YEAR?Mail-in ballots have exploded in popularity since the pandemic spread in mid-March, at the peak of primary season. Some states have seen the demand for mail voting increase fivefold or more during the primaries. Election officials are bracing for the possibility that half of all voters or even more will cast ballots by mail in November. Colorado, Hawaii, Oregon, Utah and Washington state have universal mail voting, and California, Nevada and Vermont are starting universal mail voting in November. But the rest have little experience with such a volume of ballots cast through the mail. Timely mail is key to voting by mail. In states without universal mail-in voting, applications for mail ballots are generally sent out to voters by mail. They're returned, again, by mail. Then the actual ballots are sent to voters by mail, and returned, again, by mail, usually by Election Day. Late last month, Thomas J. Marshall, the post office's general counsel and executive vice president, sent states a letter warning that many of them have deadlines too tight to meet in this new world of slower mail. Pennsylvania, for example, allows voters to request a mail ballot by Oct. 27. Marshall warned that voters there should put already completed ballots in the mail by that date to ensure they arrive by Nov. 3. This has been a potential problem since the Obama administration, when the post office relaxed standards for when mail had to arrive. But it's particularly acute when the volume of mail ballots is expected to explode in states such as Pennsylvania, which only approved an expansion of mail voting late last year. It's also acute when the president has said openly he wants to limit votes by his rivals by keeping them from voting by mail. WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?It's unclear. The first question is whether there will be a coronavirus relief bill that could help fund the post office. Republicans and Democrats are far apart on the measure and Congress has gone home for a few weeks. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and other Democrats are considering calling the House back into session to address the Postal Service, according to aides familiar with a Saturday evening leadership call. One aide said the House could return next week or the following week. The aides were not authorized to discuss the call publicly and requested anonymity. If there's no resolution of the coronavirus aid, the matter is sure to come up during negotiations in September to continue to fund the federal government. The government will shut down if Trump doesn't sign a funding bill by Sept. 30. States can also act to change their mail balloting deadlines. That's what Pennsylvania did this past week, with the state asking a court to move the deadline for receiving mail ballots back to three days after the Nov. 3 vote, provided the ballots were placed in the mail before polls close on Election Day. Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren and some other Democratic lawmakers are also seeking a review of DeJoy's policy changes. In response to the letter, spokeswoman Agapi Doulaveris of the U.S. Postal Service Office of Inspector General said the office is ``conducting a body of work to address the concerns raised.'' She declined to elaborate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/whats-happening-at-the-us-postal-service-and-why/articleshow/77571032.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||'Do something:' Harris' rapid rise driven by call to action||SACRAMENTO: Hours before Kamala Harris took the stage for the first time as Joe Biden's vice presidential pick, she received a text message from a childhood classmate with photos from their school days. A pensive Harris sits on the floor, dutifully looking ahead, a child in the center of an experiment in racial integration. She was among students who took the bus from their neighborhoods to school in the more affluent hillsides of Berkeley, California. “That's how it started. There's no question!” Harris, 55, texted back to Aaron Peskin, the former classmate and now a San Francisco supervisor. Fifty years later, she's the first Black woman and first Asian American woman named to a major party presidential ticket, joining Biden in his fight to defeat Republican President Donald Trump. Harris's path toward the second-highest office in the United States has tracked the nation's ongoing struggle for racial equality. The start-and-stop progress and sometimes messy debate has shaped her life: an upbringing by immigrant parents, a childhood among civil rights activists, a career at the helm of a flawed criminal justice system and her rapid ascent in Democratic politics. Those experiences forged a politician who is unafraid to buck the political powers that be, but also charts a cautious course through policy debates. She's emerged as a leader who knows the power of tough questioning and a viral moment, and also the weight of her role as a voice for women of colour. “My mother Shyamala raised my sister Maya and me to believe that it was up to us and every generation of Americans to keep on marching,” Harris said Wednesday. “She'd tell us: Don't sit around and complain about things. Do something.” Her fast rise hasn't been without criticism, including on her shifting policy positions. She endured questions familiar to women in politics, particularly women of color, about her ambition. Trump labeled her “nasty” for her piercing interrogation of his nominees. Some progressive Democrats, meanwhile, view her work as a prosecutor skeptically. Her own presidential bid, announced before 20,000 people in her hometown of Oakland, ended before voting began as she struggled to raise money or find a clear message. She was a Howard University graduate with no high-powered ties when she returned to her native Bay Area for law school and took a job at the Alameda County District Attorney's office in 1990. In 2003, she decided to run for San Francisco district attorney, challenging her former boss, Terence Hallinan. He was progressive, and Harris tacked right on the issues to run against him, pledging to be tough on crime and repair relationships with police. She also took on the cause of Black mothers who lost their children to homicide and felt Hallinan was neglecting the cases. Harris, then 39, handily won the race. Just months into her tenure, Harris decided not to seek the death penalty against a man charged with killing a police officer. The move angered law enforcement officers and drew rebuke from US Sen. Dianne Feinstein, the city's former mayor and a force in California politics. But years later, when she ran for attorney general and needed statewide support, Harris tempered her stance on capital punishment, pledging to uphold it if elected and staying silent on ballot measures to repeal it. She appealed a 2014 decision by a federal judge calling it cruel and unusual punishment and won, keeping capital punishment on the books. Today, she wants a federal moratorium. Observers and critics point to these episodes as evidence of Harris's penchant for staking out cautious positions that uphold the status quo. Her allies say she worked within the confines of the system and the politics of the time. As district attorney, she launched a reentry program that connected nonviolent offenders to jobs and education that became a national model. “I remember the first time I visited the county jail. So many young men, and they were mostly Black or brown or poor,” she writes in her 2019 book, “The Truths We Hold,” recalling her time as a young prosecutor. “They represented a living monument to lost potential, and I wanted to tear it down.” At the same time, she took on truancy and supported a statewide law modeled off her city initiative that threatened parents with jail time, fines and lost public benefits if their kids missed school. Harris barely won her race for state attorney general in 2010. Soon the Black Lives Matter movement was taking hold, along with outrage over police brutality, particularly against Black youth. Harris declined to support state legislation that would have required her office to investigation fatal police shootings. Now Harris backs such investigations. As attorney general she met then-Vice President Joe Biden's son, Beau, her counterpart in Delaware. The two worked together on a settlement with the nation's five largest mortgage lenders following the foreclosure crisis. Joe Biden said this past week that relationship was key in his decision to tap Harris as his running mate. Beau Biden died of a brain tumor in 2015. In 2016, Trump won the presidency and Harris her US Senate seat. By the next year, Trump's brief tenure had convinced Harris that her perspective, particularly as a Black woman, should be represented in the Democratic primary field, said Nathan Barankin, Harris's former chief of staff. (AP)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/do-something-harris-rapid-rise-driven-by-call-to-action/articleshow/77571011.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Indore||Indore records 214 new Covid cases, tally rises to 9,804||INDORE: As many as 214 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally in Indore district to 9,804. "No death was reported during the day. So far, Covid-19 has claimed 342 lives in the district," a local health bulletin said. As many as 3,855 samples were tested for the infection on Thursday, of which results of 3,624 came negative. According to the bulletin, 6,278 patients have recovered from the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-records-214-new-covid-cases-tally-rises-to-9804/articleshow/77571112.cms||Salil Mekaad
August 16, 2020||India||Akhilesh Yadav attacks BJP govt for crimes against women in UP||NEW DELHI: Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav attacked the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the incident in which a 13-year-old girl was allegedly raped and murdered in Isanagar in Lakhimpur Kheri and said that the harassment of girls and women is at its peak during the Bharatiya Janata Party's rule. "The ruthless killing after raping a teenage girl in Lakhimpur Kheri, UP is a shocking incident to humanity. During the BJP's rule, harassment of girls and women of Uttar Pradesh is at its peak. Why is the BJP government offering protection to accused in cases of rape, kidnapping, crime and killings? #NoMoreBJP," Yadav tweeted on Sunday. उप्र के लखीमपुर खीरी में एक बेबस किशोरी से दुष्कर्म के बाद निर्मम हत्या इंसानियत को झकझोर देने वाली घटना है. भाजपा… https://t.co/1dSESkDtZx— Akhilesh Yadav (@yadavakhilesh) 1597554140000Earlier, the police stated that the National Security Act (NSA) will be invoked against two men accused of the gangrape of the 13-year-old girl. The girl was allegedly raped and murdered in Isanagar in Lakhimpur Kheri on Friday. Later, the police recovered her body from a sugarcane field in Isanagar. Satyendra Kumar, Superintendent of Police (SP), Lakhimpur Kheri said two men have been booked under offences of murder and gangrape, adding that action will also be taken against them under the NSA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/akhilesh-yadav-attacks-bjp-govt-for-crimes-against-women-in-up/articleshow/77571106.cms||---
August 16, 2020||World||Israel shuts Gaza fishing zone after overnight fighting||JERUSALEM: Israel closed the Gaza Strip's offshore fishing zone Sunday following a night of cross-border fighting with Palestinian militants, the most intense escalation of hostilities in recent months. Palestinian militants in Gaza fired two rockets into southern Israel after Israeli airstrikes targeted sites belonging to the territory's militant Hamas rulers. The military said the Iron Dome aerial defense system intercepted the two rockets that militants in Gaza launched at southern Israel. But police said rocket fallout caused damage to a house in the town of Sderot, and paramedics treated a 58-year-old man for minor wounds from exploding glass. The Israeli army said the strikes were a response to explosive balloons launched by Hamas-affiliated group over the border, and attempts by Palestinian protesters to throw explosives at the Israel-Gaza perimeters fence and soldiers stationed along it. Dozens of Palestinians took part in protests along the perimeter fence. The military said the protesters ``burned tires, hurled explosive devices and grenades towards the security fence and attempted to approach it.'' The Gaza health ministry said Israeli gunfire at protesters wounded two Palestinians. Israel holds Hamas, the Islamist militant group ruling the Gaza Strip, responsible for all attacks emanating from the Palestinian territory. Incendiary balloons from the Gaza Strip have caused extensive damage to Israeli fields in recent days. It comes as Hamas, like other Palestinian factions, denounced the United Arab Emirates for agreeing to formal ties with Israel. Israeli Defense Minister Benny Gantz ordered the fishing zone off the coast of Gaza closed until further notice in response to the rocket fire. Israel and Egypt have maintained a blockade of the Gaza Strip since Hamas took power in an armed coup in 2007. Israel has fought three wars with Hamas in the Gaza Strip in the years since. The two sides have largely upheld an informal truce, and fighting has ceased almost entirely since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/israel-shuts-gaza-fishing-zone-after-overnight-fighting/articleshow/77571184.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro to cross Yamuna river for fifth time, preliminary work begins||NEW DELHI: The Delhi Metro is all set to cross Yamuna river for the fifth time and for the first time, it is going to be a cantilever bridge similar to the capital's iconic Signature Bridge. "The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has commenced preliminary work on the fifth Metro bridge over Yamuna river, which is coming up on the Majlis Park – Maujpur Metro corridor of Delhi Metro's Phase IV," said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. At 560-metre-long, this will be DMRC's fourth longest bridge over the river. The other four Delhi Metro bridges are the Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida) bridge at Yamuna Bank (698.8 metres), Pink Line (Shiv Vihar-Majlis Park) bridge at Nizamuddin (602.8 metres), Magenta Line (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West) bridge at Kalindi Kunj (574 metres) and its oldest and shortest at Shastri Park (553 metres) on the Red Line (Rithala-Shaheed Sthal). The bridge will connect Soorghat and Sonia Vihar metro stations of the Majlis Park – Maujpur corridor. Dayal said, "After carrying out a geotechnical investigation at the location of proposed piers, the activity of casting of test piles is in progress". "To utilise available time during this monsoon season, a cofferdam away from active course of Yamuna has been constructed by raising the level of the ground by filling of earth by sand from a nearby area with protection of its slope through bamboo, jute netting and sandbags," he added. "The level of cofferdam has been kept same as the level of adjacent road to ensure supply of requisite construction material like steel reinforcement, metal liner, ready mix concrete, etc.," he added. This bridge will come up between two existing bridges on Yamuna-Wazirabad Bridge and the Signature Bridge. The executive director said, "This will be the first-ever metro bridge over the Yamuna to be built using the cantilever construction method. A cantilever is a rigid structural element which extends horizontally and is supported at only one end". "Typically it extends from a flat, vertical surface such as a wall or pier, to which it must be firmly attached. Cantilever construction allows overhanging structures without additional support. Employment of this technology will make the bridge look aesthetically better," he added. The bridge will have eight 'spans', which will rest on nine pillars on the riverbed. Dayal said the design of the bridge was finalised using the 'Building Information Modeling' (BIM) technology. With the help of this technology, a 3D model of the bridge was uploaded with intricate details of the proposed structure. "For the finalisation of the Phase IV designs, DMRC’s engineers are using the BIM platform, through which they have been able to finalise the designs even during the days of the pandemic when physical meetings weren’t possible. This bridge crosses the Yamuna at about 385 metres downward of old Wazirabad Bridge and 213 metres upstream of existing Signature Bridge," he further added. Dayal said, "All mandatory approvals from the concerned agencies have been obtained for the construction of the bridge. DMRC is committed to fulfil the conditions given by Principal Committee on the Yamuna for construction of the bridge". "The DMRC is taking various eco-friendly measures during construction to ensure all construction activities are being carried out with minimum effect on the floodplains and there will be a restoration of the floodplain that may be impacted by the construction of bridge alignment in the Yamuna flood plain/pillars, he said, adding, the muck and debris generated would be disposed of scientifically and no dumping shall be allowed on the floodplains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-metro-to-cross-yamuna-river-for-fifth-time-preliminary-work-begins/articleshow/77571285.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 16, 2020||India||Shiv Sena questions quarantine rules regarding PM Modi after Nritya Gopal Das tests Covid-19 positive||MUMBAI: After Ram Janmabhoomi trust head Nritya Gopal Das tested positive for novel coronavirus infection, Shiv Sena's mouthpiece Saamna on Sunday questioned if Prime Minister Narendra Modi will follow quarantine regulations as he shared the stage with him during the groundbreaking ceremony of Ram Temple in Ayodhya on August 5. "The 75-year-old Mahant Nritya was present on stage on August 5 at the Bhoomipujan ceremony of the Ram Temple. He had not covered his face with the mask. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat came in contact with the Mahant. PM Modi held the hand of Nritya Gopal Das with reverence. So will our PM will also be quarantined," the editorial in the Saamna questioned? "At present, Amit Shah is also in solitude after contracting the infection. Even former president Pranab Mukherjee has been tested positive for the virus and his health is also in a worrisome state. At present, all cabinet members, bureaucrats, parliament members are vulnerable to falling prey to the lethal infection. Even during riots and war, Delhi was not so frightened as it is today. The city seems to be a bit more scared now. Although the fear of PM Modi and Shah was already mongering, but the trepidation fear of coronavirus is more appalling." On August 5, Nritya Gopal Das was the part of the Ram Mandir bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya and shared the stage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and a few others. This landmark event was attended by 175 guests who were invited by the trust headed by Nritya Gopal Das. Apart from heavy security arrangements, COVID-19 protocols and social distancing norms were abided by the people present at the gala event. Due to the coronavirus outbreak, no chief ministers except Yogi Adityanath was invited for the groundbreaking ceremony. Notably, Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik had sought invitation for Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray stating that the late Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackery was at the forefront in insisting and wanted the Ram temple built. Sarnaik had also stated that Uddhav had repeatedly taken a lead in the demand for the Ram Mandir and hence should be invited for the 'bhoomi pujan.'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shiv-sena-questions-quarantine-rules-regarding-pm-modi-after-nritya-gopal-das-tests-covid-19-positive/articleshow/77571374.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan reports 13 fresh deaths, 687 new Covid cases||JAIPUR: Rajasthan on Sunday reported 687 new coronavirus cases and 13 deaths.  The total number of cases in the state now stands at 60,666, including 14,265 active cases, 44,048 recoveries and 875 deaths.  India registered 63,489 new coronavirus cases and 944 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.  With 944 new deaths, the cumulative death toll in the country is nearing 50,000-mark.  The country's coronavirus count touched 25,89,682, including 6,77,444 active cases, 18,62,258 discharged and 49,980 deaths on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-reports-13-deaths-687-new-covid-cases/articleshow/77571437.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Business||Gadkari expresses confidence about increasing MSME exports, creating more jobs||NEW DELHI: Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday expressed confidence that the government will increase Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) exports to 60 per cent from 48 per cent in the next 5 years and will create 5 crore jobs in the next 5 years. "Our MSME sector has a huge contribution to the development of our country. Currently, 30 per cent income of GDP growth rate comes from MSME. 48 per cent of our exports are from MSME and till date, we have created 11 crore jobs," Gadkari said while speaking at SWAVALAMBAN e-Summit 2020 organised by 'Lets Endorse Development' NGO. "I believe and think that in the coming 5 years, we should increase it to at least 30 per cent to 50 per cent, 48 per cent to 60 per cent of exports and create 5 crore new jobs," he said. The Minister said that unregistered enterprises need to register themselves under the Micro industry to get the benefit of MSMEs. "Unregistered enterprises need to register themselves under the Micro industry to get the benefit of MSMEs. We are also in the process to cover small traders. We need help from NGOs to encourage such people to register," he said. Gadkari said that we now have to think of the alternative to those things which we import from abroad. "Now we have to think of the alternative of those things which we import... We have to increase exports, bring foreign investment, and upgrade technology and make India super economic power," he said. The MSME Minister said that the government will work for the empowerment of people from villages and make them self-reliant. Watch Gadkari hopes to increase MSME exports, creating more jobs||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gadkari-expresses-confidence-about-increasing-msme-exports-creating-more-jobs/articleshow/77571431.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Prohibitory orders extended in riot-hit areas of Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Prohibitory orders clamped in parts of the city after the violence last week led to police firing, killing three people, have been extended from Sunday to Tuesday. The order would be in force from the morning of August 16 to the morning of August 18. Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant, in his order, said there is a ban on more than two persons gathering at any place, carrying of any kinds of weapons and convening any public meetings. Violators would be prosecuted, he said. Three people were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob that went on a rampage in D J Halli and adjoining areas on Tuesday night over an inflammatory social media post allegedly put out by P Naveen, a relative of Pulakeshi Nagar MLA R Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy. The MLAs residence and a police station at D J Halli were torched by the rioters who also set many police and private vehicles afire, and looted the belongings of the legislator and those of his sister. About 200 people have been arrested so far in connection with the incident and many others have been detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/prohibitory-orders-extended-in-riot-hit-areas-of-bengaluru/articleshow/77571481.cms||---
August 16, 2020||Delhi||Northeast Delhi violence: Bail denied to accused seen with 'foldable rod' in CCTV footage||NEW DELHI: A special court at Karkardooma court dismissed a bail plea of an accused as he was clearly visible in CCTV footages with a "foldable rod" in his hand during violence in northeast Delhi in February this year.  The court observed it is prima facie apparent that there is no justification of the accused to be at the spot in the wee hours of February 25, 2020, when Section 144 CrPC (which prohibits assembly of four or more people in an area) was in force.  "It is also apparent that there were two rival groups who were involved in communal rioting. The accused is clearly seen with a 'foldable rod' in his hand. Therefore, at this stage it cannot be said with certainty that the applicant did not have a common object with the other persons of unlawful assembly," it said.  While dismissing the bail application of one of the accused Surender Soni alias Shyam, additional session judge Vinod Yadav said, "Although the chargesheet in the matter has been filed but two main accused persons namely Shiva and Nitin have been absconding. In my considered opinion, in case the applicant is released on bail at this stage, then he can hamper the further investigation in the matter. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case in totality, I do not find it to be a fit case for grant of bail. The bail application is accordingly dismissed."  "....From the evidence of a number of witnesses recorded in the matter, it is prima facie apparent that the 'riotous mob' armed with "lethal weapons" had engaged in vandalism, looting, pelting stones, torching the houses/shops of people belonging to other community and firing at them from a pistol," the court noted. Advocate Ravi Drall, counsel for the applicant argued that the incident in this matter took place on February 25 at about 3am but the FIR was recorded on March 7, 2020, so there is a delay of about 12 days.  "The applicant was not carrying any weapon. The CCTV footage shows that the applicant was chased by the 'riotous mob' from other communities," Drall said.  "The investigation in the matter is complete. The applicant is no more required for custodial interrogation and no useful purpose is going to be served by keeping him in detention," he said.  Advocate Saleem Ahmed, special public prosecutor while opposing the bail plea, argued that 10 empty cartridges were recovered from the spot, the CCTV footage of was obtained and analysed during the course of the investigation.  "In the CCTV footage, the applicant was clearly seen with a foldable stick in his hand and he was also seen giving/handing over his face-mask to another co-accused person namely Shiva, who was captured firing bullets with his pistol. The applicant was inciting the mob for rioting," he said.  "The applicant was arrested. During interrogation, he revealed the names of two co-accused persons namely Shiva and Nitin, who were also part of the 'riotous mob' on the date of the incident," he added.  Earlier five bail applications were dismissed by the learned predecessor of this Court by reasoned orders, argued by advocate Ahmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/northeast-delhi-violence-bail-denied-to-accused-seen-with-foldable-rod-in-cctv-footage/articleshow/77571528.cms||---
