August 17, 2020||India||4G restored after a year in 2 J&K districts on ‘trial basis’||SRINAGAR: High-speed 4G internet connectivity was restored late Sunday in central Kashmir's Ganderbal district and Udhampur in Jammu on a "trial basis" till September 8, ending a year-long blackout since the nullification of Article 370. For now, 4G services will be limited to postpaid mobile subscribers. Users of prepaid connections would be able to access 4G on completion of a mandatory verification process, a PTI report said. The order will be reviewed on September 9, an official of the J&K home department told TOI. A senior police officer said 3G and 4G internet would be restored in phases across the Valley and "reviewed from time to time". The restoration of 4G on postpaid connections in two districts comes within days of the Centre informing the Supreme Court that a special committee was looking into the feasibility of lifting the ban on high-speed internet services on mobile devices. All telecom services in J&K had been suspended for over three months since August 5 last year before landline and 2G mobile connectivity was restored. Most parts of the erstwhile state, now split into two Union Territories, continue to make do with basic 2G mobile connectivity. On Saturday, BJP's J&K general secretary Ashok Koul had said that Kashmir might need to wait for the last terrorist gun to fall silent before its statehood and 4G internet are restored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/4g-restored-after-a-year-in-2-jk-districts-on-trial-basis/articleshow/77579717.cms||M Saleem Pandit
August 17, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra: Ulhasnagar's Covid recovery rate reaches above 93%||KALYAN: The Ulhasnagar city on Sunday reported highest 93.54% recovery rate of patients in entire Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). The city has total 7,371 Covid-19 patients out of which so far 6,895 patients have got cured, while remaining 296 active patients are undergoing treatment at hospital. The city is also now under control for Covid-19 cases as since last 15 days it has witnessed below 50 patients in a day. On Sunday, it reported fresh 42 Covid-19 patients. Dr Yuvraj Bhadane, public relation officer of Ulhasnagar Municipal Corporation said, "The city has only 296 active patients out of which 86 taking treatment in different Covid care centres, 36 in dedicated Covid hospital, 29 in home isolation and remaining 98 active patients are admitted outside city limits in different hospitals." After Ulhasnagar, neighbouring Ambernath city where Covid-19 cases are under control have also witness second highest 89% recovery rate in MMR region. The Ambernath has total 4481 patients out of which so far 3984 patients has got cured while remaining 325 active patients are only taking treatment. Kalyan-Dombivli, which has maximum numbers of Covid-19 patients in MMR region after Mumbai, has also improved its recovery rate up to 82%. On Sunday twin city reported 320 fresh Covid-19 patients and 8 death taking total numbers of patients 24,420 including so far total 497 death. The twin city on Sunday also discharged 320 patients who got cured from different Covid Care centres and Covid hospitals taking total number of recovered patients to 2,0153, while remaining 497 active patients are still taking treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/ulhasnagars-covid-recovery-rate-reaches-above-93/articleshow/77580111.cms||Pradeep Gupta
August 17, 2020||Chandigarh||BKU's Haryana unit holds bike rally against agriculture ordinances||AMBALA: On the occasion of Independence Day, the Haryan unit of Bharatiya Kisan Union's Haryana unit held a rally against three agriculture ordinances passed by the Union government in northern districts, including Ambala, Kurukshetra, and Yamunanagar on Saturday. In their protest, the farmers hoisted black-flag on their bikes and cars and conducted rallies on vehicles through the cities and rural areas. Later the farmers gathered at grain markets and also protested outside the districts’ headquarters while raising slogans against the government. The BKU Haryana also burnt the copies of three agriculture ordinances and demanded from the government to revoke the same and bring a law for guaranteeing purchase on the Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their crops and in case, if they get anything less than the MSP, a provision to prosecute. The farmers held a peaceful protest and later handed over memorandums of demand in the name of Prime Minister to the concerned district and block-level senior officers. BKU Haryana president Gurnam Singh Charuni said, “The recently passed three agriculture ordinances of the government of India are neither in the interest of farmers or the country. We will continue our protest against these laws and demand from the government to revoke the same. The government should bring a law to guarantee the purchase of all crops on the MSP and in case, the farmers get anything less than MSP, there should be a provision to prosecute the concerned person. The purchase below MSP should be declared a crime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bkus-haryana-unit-holds-bike-rally-against-agriculture-ordinances/articleshow/77580206.cms||Jaskaran Singh
August 17, 2020||Amritsar||Patiala reports 141 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||PATIALA: The district on Sunday reported 141 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally to 3,778 coronavirus patients so far of which 2,403 have been recovered. The district also recorded two coronavirus-related deaths during the day, taking the toll to 77. The district now has 1,298 active cases. Meanwhile, 25 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 infection in Ropar on Sunday, taking the district's tally 495 of which 349 patients have got recovered whereas 137 are active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/patiala-reports-141-new-covid-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/77580455.cms||Bharat Khanna
August 17, 2020||World||Top Democrats in US Congress call for hearings on mail delays ahead of election||WASHINGTON, Aug 16 (Reuters) - Top Democrats in the US Congress on Sunday called on President Donald Trump's appointed postmaster general to testify this month on changes that have stoked fears they are aimed at holding up mail-in ballots ahead of the November election. The Postal Service's internal watchdog has begun investigating a wave of cost-cutting kicked off by Postmaster General Louis DeJoy that has slowed mail delivery around the country, alarming lawmakers ahead of the Nov. 3 election when up to half of US voters could cast ballots by mail. Congressional Democrats called on DeJoy, a Trump donor, and US Postal Service Chairman Robert Duncan to testify in an Aug. 24 hearing of the House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform. "The President has explicitly stated his intention to manipulate the Postal Service to deny eligible voters access to the ballot in pursuit of his own re-election," Democrats including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Oversight Chairwoman Carolyn Maloney said in a joint statement. "The Postmaster General and top Postal Service leadership must answer to the Congress and the American people as to why they are pushing these dangerous new policies that threaten to silence the voices of millions, just months before the election." DeJoy did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Schumer in a statement called on the Postal Service's board of governors to remove DeJoy if he "refuses to come before Congress." Democrats have accused Trump, who is trailing presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden in polls, of trying to hamstring the cash-strapped Postal Service to suppress mail-in voting. Trump on Thursday said he had held up talks with Congress over a fresh round of coronavirus stimulus funding to block Democrats from providing more funds for mail-in voting and election infrastructure. Trump later walked back those comments, saying he would not veto a bill that included funds for the Postal Service. White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows told CNN on Sunday said he would agree to $10 billion to $25 billion in fresh Postal funding. The Democratic-controlled House approved $25 billion in a bill passed in May. Mark Dimondstein, the head of the 200,000-plus-member American Postal Workers Union, on Sunday said the Postal Service's Republican-dominated governing board sought more than $25 billion. 'TIME FOR CONGRESS TO ACT' Appearing on Fox News, he said the service required emergency funds due to the pandemic-driven economic slowdown, pointing out that it received no funds in a stimulus package passed in March. "The Congress and this administration took care of the private sector to the tune of over $500 billion," said Dimondstein. "The postal office did not get a dime. It's time for Congress to act." Pelosi may recall lawmakers from a summer recess to address changes at the Postal Service, a Democratic congressional aide said on Saturday. Separately, Meadows told CNN's State of the Union that the White House fears a surge in mail-in voting could delay election results and leave the naming of the new president to the speaker of the House. "A number of states are now trying to figure out how they are going to go to universal mail-in ballots," Meadows said. "That's a disaster where we won't know the election results on Nov. 3 and we might not know it for months and for me that's problematic because the Constitution says that then a Nancy Pelosi in the House would actually pick the president on Jan. 20." Trump has repeatedly and without evidence said that a surge in mail-in voting would lead to fraud. Voting by mail is nothing new in the United States, as one in four voters cast ballots that way in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/top-democrats-in-us-congress-call-for-hearings-on-mail-delays-ahead-of-election/articleshow/77580827.cms||---
August 17, 2020||World||Top Democrats in US Congress call for hearings on mail delays ahead of election||WASHINGTON, Aug 16 (Reuters) - Top Democrats in the US Congress on Sunday called on President Donald Trump's appointed postmaster general to testify this month on changes that have stoked fears they are aimed at holding up mail-in ballots ahead of the November election. The Postal Service's internal watchdog has begun investigating a wave of cost-cutting kicked off by Postmaster General Louis DeJoy that has slowed mail delivery around the country, alarming lawmakers ahead of the Nov. 3 election when up to half of US voters could cast ballots by mail. Congressional Democrats called on DeJoy, a Trump donor, and US Postal Service Chairman Robert Duncan to testify in an Aug. 24 hearing of the House of Representatives Committee on Oversight and Reform. "The President has explicitly stated his intention to manipulate the Postal Service to deny eligible voters access to the ballot in pursuit of his own re-election," Democrats including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Oversight Chairwoman Carolyn Maloney said in a joint statement. "The Postmaster General and top Postal Service leadership must answer to the Congress and the American people as to why they are pushing these dangerous new policies that threaten to silence the voices of millions, just months before the election." DeJoy did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Schumer in a statement called on the Postal Service's board of governors to remove DeJoy if he "refuses to come before Congress." Democrats have accused Trump, who is trailing presumptive Democratic nominee Joe Biden in polls, of trying to hamstring the cash-strapped Postal Service to suppress mail-in voting. Trump on Thursday said he had held up talks with Congress over a fresh round of coronavirus stimulus funding to block Democrats from providing more funds for mail-in voting and election infrastructure. Trump later walked back those comments, saying he would not veto a bill that included funds for the Postal Service. White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows told CNN on Sunday said he would agree to $10 billion to $25 billion in fresh Postal funding. The Democratic-controlled House approved $25 billion in a bill passed in May. Mark Dimondstein, the head of the 200,000-plus-member American Postal Workers Union, on Sunday said the Postal Service's Republican-dominated governing board sought more than $25 billion. 'TIME FOR CONGRESS TO ACT' Appearing on Fox News, he said the service required emergency funds due to the pandemic-driven economic slowdown, pointing out that it received no funds in a stimulus package passed in March. "The Congress and this administration took care of the private sector to the tune of over $500 billion," said Dimondstein. "The postal office did not get a dime. It's time for Congress to act." Pelosi may recall lawmakers from a summer recess to address changes at the Postal Service, a Democratic congressional aide said on Saturday. Separately, Meadows told CNN's State of the Union that the White House fears a surge in mail-in voting could delay election results and leave the naming of the new president to the speaker of the House. "A number of states are now trying to figure out how they are going to go to universal mail-in ballots," Meadows said. "That's a disaster where we won't know the election results on Nov. 3 and we might not know it for months and for me that's problematic because the Constitution says that then a Nancy Pelosi in the House would actually pick the president on Jan. 20." Trump has repeatedly and without evidence said that a surge in mail-in voting would lead to fraud. Voting by mail is nothing new in the United States, as one in four voters cast ballots that way in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/top-democrats-in-us-congress-call-for-hearings-on-mail-delays-ahead-of-election/articleshow/77580578.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s bicycle councillors debut on I-Day with an inaugural ride||Residents of Dadar were greeted by a rather unusual sight on Independence Day as a group of cyclists, wearing helmets and masks, took over their streets. They were Mumbai’s 24 ‘Bicycle Councillors’, representing each ward of the city. Coming from diverse backgrounds, they are on a mission to make the city a cycling destination. And they felt it fit to embark on an inaugural ride on August 15. BT hopped on to their trail and had a chat with them... 'Cycles are eco-friendly, personal & keep you fit'The new councillors will work to promote cycling in their ward With the new councillors, Mumbai joins the league of international cities that have cycling guardians to ensure that more people take up pedal pushing for health and leisure. Jyoti Kolhe, an advocate, is one of the councillors. Talking about her new role, she says, “I heard about the position of bicycle councillor opening up from a friend and thought, why not try for it. After all, it is a social responsibility and related to my favourite sport. I live in Prabhadevi, where you’ll spot a lot of youngsters cycling. But many still don’t realise its benefits, so I want to tackle that first. I also want to encourage homemakers to take up the sport.” She also feels that cycles are the best option to commute after lockdown. Adds bicycle councillor Kunal Sutar, a banker by profession, “I have been cycling for the last 10 years owing to the kind of transportation woes we see in the city. I took to cycling from my home in Andheri West to my office in Andheri East to beat the traffic and be on time for work. The office provides amenities where I can change and take a shower. I also managed to convince nine people in my office to do the same and now, I want more Mumbaikars to make cycling a part of their lives, too.” He also feels a cycle can be a comfort zone. “It’s eco-friendly, personal and keeps you fit, so you don’t need an additional gym membership,” he adds. Bhandup resident Hitesh Thakkar, a banker, is enthused about his new responsibility. He says, “The idea is to make a small change each day to make Mumbai the cycling capital of India. I plan to implement some concepts that are in my mind, such as a ‘Happy Sunday’ or a ‘No Car Day’ where people can ride around the block and enjoy safe cycling. It’s sure to bring back childhood memories for many.” This is our best chance at making a lasting change: Bicycle mayorSays Firoza Suresh, Bicycle Mayor of Mumbai, "This group of bicycle councillors come from diverse backgrounds — finance and IT to architecture and urban design. It also includes students and senior citizens to bring in fresh energy to the program. The aim is to bring together the citizens of this city, bonded by a love for cycling and a will to contribute to making Mumbai the finest bicycle city of India and a healthier space to live in. By approaching the challenge from the bottom up, at the ward level, and working together with a variety of stakeholders, this is our best chance at making lasting change”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-bicycle-councillors-debut-on-i-day-with-an-inaugural-ride/articleshow/77577498.cms||Ismat Tahseen
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Cricket will never be the same without Dhoni: Manoj Kumar Tiwary||Cricketer Manoj Kumar Tiwary says cricket will never be the same without Dhoni. “His statistics -- both as a batsman and as a captain -- are outstanding. His USP was that he understood the game very well. He gets the best out of his team members, and he always backs his instincts, which is a must for a captain,” said Manoj. For Manoj, Dhoni is a born leader. “Kudos to his nerves even in the toughest situations on the field. One can never fathom his emotions on field -- this is a trait that has been synonymous with Dhoni throughout his career. Cricket will miss him, but his innings will be etched in our mind forever. He has given his fans many reasons to rejoice. I want to wish him the best in life going forward,” he said. Manoj, who has played many matches under Dhoni’s captaincy, has been most impressed by the former Team India captain’s calmness in taking tough calls on the field. “Most of the time he gets it right. He always told me to think about the present and not worry about things that are not in my control. His batting advice to me was to always take the game to the end,” added Manoj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cricket-will-never-be-the-same-without-dhoni-manoj-kumar-tiwary/articleshow/77579505.cms||Ruman Ganguly
August 17, 2020||Ranchi||He helps people but never lets them know about it: Dhoni’s friend Chittu||Chittu aka Seemant Lohani — MS Dhoni’s childhood friend — went to the airport to see him off only a couple of days ago as the cricketer went to Chennai to attend the camps of this year’s T20 tournament. Little did he know that his friend, the former Indian skipper, would announce his retirement just a day after he met him. “Only he knows what he wants to do. He chose to announce his retirement on a day that is not just our Independence Day but also his mother’s birthday,” Chittu told us on the phone. Being his nursery friend and a long-term associate, who also looks after Dhoni’s endorsement deals and cricket academy along with others, Chittu describes the former Team India captain as ‘Koh-i-Noor’. “And I’m telling you this not just as his friend. He is a gem of a person in general. Yes, he is helpful, but what makes him special is he would never let anyone know that he has helped. He is humble and down to earth. He will always give you a reason to smile,” said the proud friend. Recalling their younger days, Chittu said, “We come from middleclass families and back in the day we did not have cars. I used to get on Dhoni’s bike and we would go for rides. I remember having chicken chilli and roti in roadside dhabas. This was the time after school.” Is he feeling a bit sad today that his friend has decided to retire? “Not at all,” Chittu said. “I’m not one bit emotional today. Whatever he has done is sufficient for us to be happy. He has entertained us with his sport since 2004. He has made India proud. What else can I ask from him as a friend?” he added. What’s next? “Dhoni is moody. Only he will decide what he wants to do now. It is wrong to speculate at this moment,” Chittu signed off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/he-helps-people-but-never-lets-them-know-about-it-dhonis-friend-chittu/articleshow/77581061.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Dhoni always had leadership qualities: Satya Prakash Krishna||Satya Prakash Krishna, MS Dhoni’s friend, co-player and former colleague in Kharagpur Railways, has been reminiscing about the good old days ever since he heard the news of Dhoni’s retirement. Talking to us, he said, “To the world, he is a hard-working guy from a small town who eventually became a legendary cricketer. But, to me he is someone I shared a room with in Kharagpur, someone I played a tournament with as a captain when he was part of the Ranchi team and someone who worked with me at Kharagpur Railways.” Recalling an old incident, Satya said, “I remember way back in 1995 it was coach Chanchal Bhattacharya (who was Dhoni’s coach too), who told me about him. He had predicted that Dhoni will be a promising player because he knew how to figure out the weak points of his opponents and cash in on it. Even at that time, he believed in his team members -- which is a sign of a leader. And he actually went on to become one of the most successful captains of the Indian cricket team.” Satya and Dhoni started to bond at the Jamshedpur camps and played many matches together, including the Ranji Trophy. “Not many know that in Kharagpur, four of us used to stay together in an eight by eight room. We used to cook a lot. Dhoni was never a foodie but he used to eat at regular intervals and his love for butter chicken was popular among our friends. On most Sundays, Dhoni used to tell me – ‘Sattu Bhai, aaj butter chicken banate hain!’” Talking about their stint at Kharagpur Railways, Satya recalled, “It was me who took Dhoni to AK Ganguly, the then Divisional Railway Manager at Kharagpur Railways, for his job. At office, he maintained a cordial relationship with everyone. Dhoni was always a quiet, introvert guy and it was difficult to read his mind. He would mostly answer with just a smile.” Praising the former skipper, Satya said Dhoni always deals with every situation calmly. “We all have seen how calm he is on the field. Having played with him, I know he is a good learner, a great observer, and his calculations are brilliant. These qualities of his are even more useful in times of pressure. Another great quality of Dhoni, which I noticed in our team meetings, is that he listens to understand and not to reply. That makes him stand out,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dhoni-always-had-leadership-qualities-satya-prakash-krishna/articleshow/77579633.cms||Ruman Ganguly
August 17, 2020||India||Rural families look to cut costs, force children into early marriages||When Mitali Sathe stepped out of her home in Latur decked in a yellow sari, the mehendiand green glass bangles gave her away. A member of an adolescent girls’ protection group spotted the 15-year-old before her marriage to a man four decades her senior. After her elder sister’s death, Mitali was the sacrificial bride on offer to the 50-year-old widower: he needed her to care for the children. With their earnings as seasonal labourers cut off and the daughter out of school due to the pandemic, Mitali’s parents saw this as a way out. However, timely intervention halted the wedding and led to the suitor’s arrest. At least 92,203 interventions were made by Childline—a nodal government agency for children in distress —between May and July. Of these, 5,584 were related to child marriage. In Mitali’s case, she was produced before the child welfare committee and counselled while her parents were made to sign a declaration that they would refrain from the illegal act of getting their underage daughter married. But Mitali’s escape from the scourge of “bal-vivaah” or child marriage was an exception. During the pandemic, a large number of underage girls have been coerced straight from childhood into marriage. Times ViewThe phenomenon of increased child marriages is a classic example of the many ways in which prolonged paralysis of all economic activity can have serious effects on society’s well-being. Devastation of lives is caused not only by death but by these ways too. In what is a saving grace, many of these cases have been blocked by alert activists, officials and state-backed advocacy groups, but while the government machinery continues its fight against the pandemic, it must also now get back to paying close attention to such aspects of community life which can take the state and, broadly, Indian society backward.With the protective shield of a school gone, job loss rampant among daily wagers and reduced surveillance of district machinery currently focused on Covid-19 management, many families in rural areas are stealthily marrying their minor daughters off as a survival strategy — to reduce the number of children to support and the chance to make the affair less expensive and concealed. “More than 200 cases of child marriage have been reported between March and June out of which 90 per cent were averted with help of authorities and vigilant locals,” says child rights activist Santosh Shinde, former member of Maharashtra’s State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. “Marathwada, Latur and Osmanabad continue to be the source for child brides while sugarcane-producing districts like Kolhapur, Solapur, Satara and Sangli are destinations.” “Many parents feel the lockdown is a good opportunity to get their daughters married at a lower cost. Instead of feeding over 200 guests and running up a debt of about Rs 2 lakh, they can get everything done for Rs 20,000,” says Sandhya Rani, 16, who heads the Savitribai Phule adolescent group in Latur where 16 child marriages have been reported between April and June compared to 19 cases over the previous nine months. A key driver has been the respite from heavy dowry. “Higher caste communities like Maratha, Yedam and Lingayat that would demand close to Rs 5 lakh from the bride’s family are ready to settle for Rs 1 lakh while dowry of Rs 1 lakh for daily wagers has come down to Rs 20,000. People need additional helping hands at home or to labour,” she says. “It feels like we’ve gone back ten years in terms of progress that we had made,” rues Jayvant Jangapalle, coordinator for Kala Pandhari Magaswargiya and Adivasi Gramin Vikas Sanstha, a project partner of Child Rights and You (CRY) in the Latur and Nanded districts of Maharashtra. “After the launch of Integrated Child Protection Scheme in 2010, adolescent girl groups were activated which helped us monitor and nip child marriages in the area, members of the Village Child Protection Committee upheld basic rights and we were able to keep girls in school or in seasonal hostels to stem the practice of migrant parents taking along their daughters and marrying them off,” says Jangapalle. In some cases, girls themselves have put a stop to their own marriage. In the Pangaon village of Latur, Muskaan Syed, 16 refused to marry when her parents received a proposal and promptly fixed a date. “They did not ask me nor tell me who I was marrying. Because I was part of an adolescent girls group, I knew the implications and argued with my parents until they agreed to call it off,” she says. Unfortunately the lockdown has upended girl group meetings or home visits that were therapeutic as much as empowering. “We learnt how to conduct ourselves confidently and discuss issues that we couldn’t with our parents. We have no opportunity to talk about our challenges or find solutions now,” says Meenal Rathod, 15 from Latur adding that almost every household in her village has been discussing marriage. The approaching sugarcane harvesting season starting September when the banjara community migrates to districts across western Maharashtra for six months, activists fear, will render girls more vulnerable to early marriage. “Due to koyta padhati (sickle system) of hiring couples; parents prefer to marry off boys so that he and his bride can rake in an income which they can’t as a single cane cutter,” says Raju Sathe, a community organiser for CRY in Marathwada’s Parbhani district that has reported 16 cases between March and June as opposed to their past average of seven cases in a year. With the criminality in child marriages yet to sink in, the pandemic has exposed the kind of work that still remains to be done. As a start, CRY along with NGO Vidhayak Bharti released a handbook last month on roles and responsibilities of Bal Sanrakshan Samitis and ways to tackle child protection at the community level. (Some of the girls' names have been changed for privacy)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rural-families-look-to-cut-costs-force-children-into-early-marriages/articleshow/77581569.cms||Mohua Das
August 17, 2020||India||Sachin Pilot has his way, Congress replaces Rajasthan in-charge||NEW DELHI: Congress on Sunday removed Avinash Pande as general secretary in charge of Rajasthan in a sign that the party high command had conceded Sachin Pilot’s demand for Pande’s removal. It also seemed to indicate that the party accepted the charge that Pande’s proximity to Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot had failed to make him take a neutral position in settling the dispute between the two warring sides. Ajay Maken who was deployed in Rajasthan to oversee and rein in the discontent was appointed as general secretary in charge in Pande’s place. Maken had accompanied senior leaders K C Venugopal and Randeep Surjewala to play the role of peacemaker, at the peak of the internal feud which had threatened to topple the Ashok Gehlot-led government. His appointment as general secretary Rajasthan is his first major assignment since being divested of the charge of Delhi Congress chief. Maken’s appointment as general secreretary in charge also sets the stage for the the new committee comprising veterans Ahmed Patel, K C Venugopal and Maken himself to look into Pilot’s concerns and to deliver the “smooth resolution of recent issues in Rajasthan.” Pande, whose proximity to CM Ashok Gehlot had come in for criticism by the Sachin Pilot faction, was, however, thanked profusely by Rajasthan party chief Govind Singh Dotasra. In a tweet on Sunday, Dotasra thanked Pande for his three-year-long tenure and credited him with guiding Congress to victory in Rajasthan, for keeping the Congress flock together and for maintaining an “excellent coordination” between the government and party organisation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pilot-has-his-way-cong-replaces-rajasthan-in-charge/articleshow/77581672.cms||---
August 17, 2020||World||Protesters pack Belarus capital, Russia says military help available||MINSK/MOSCOW: Belarusians chanting "Step down!" filled the centre of the capital Minsk on Sunday in the biggest protest so far against what they said was the fraudulent re-election a week ago of longtime president Alexander Lukashenko. Russia said it would offer Lukashenko military help if necessary, but there was no visible police presence at the protest, which attracted around 200,000 people, a Reuters reporter estimated. At least two protesters have died and thousands have been detained in a crackdown since the vote. The atmosphere at the rallies, which wrapped up late into the evening, was celebratory on the whole, with people carrying the red and white flags used in Belarus after the 1991 breakup of the Soviet Union before Lukashenko restored the Soviet version four years later. "We all want Lukashenko to step down," said a 31-year-old worker who gave his name as Alexei. "For now we are asking, but we will get sick of asking." Opponents of Lukashenko, in power for 26 years, say the vote was rigged to disguise the fact that he has lost public support. He denies losing, citing official results that gave him just over 80% of the vote. The Kremlin said Russian President Vladimir Putin had told Lukashenko Moscow was ready to assist Belarus in accordance with a collective military pact if necessary and that external pressure was being applied to the country. It did not say where from. Russia is watching closely as Belarus hosts pipelines that carry Russian energy exports to the West and is viewed by Moscow as a buffer zone against NATO. Lukashenko and Putin have spoken twice this weekend. Shortly before the opposition protest, there was tight security as Lukashenko's supporters gathered in central Minsk for the first time since the election to watch him give a fiery speech. Lukashenko, who has alleged a foreign-backed plot to topple him, said NATO tanks and planes had been deployed 15 minutes from the Belarusian border. NATO said it was closely monitoring the situation in Belarus, but that there was no military build-up at the country's western border. "NATO troops are at our gates. Lithuania, Latvia, Poland and our native Ukraine are ordering us to hold new elections," Lukashenko said, adding that Belarus would "die as a state" if new polls were held. "I have never betrayed you and will never do so." The Belarusian army will hold drills in the west of the country from Aug. 17-20, Russia's RIA news agency reported. 'JOIN US' Sviatlana Tsikhanouskaya, Lukashenko's opposition rival in the contested election, fled to neighbouring Lithuania on Tuesday. She had called for the "March of Freedom" through Minsk and in other towns and cities on Sunday in support of an election recount and is forming a national council to facilitate a power transfer. Maria Kolesnikova, an opposition politician who has allied with Tsikhanouskaya, referred to Lukashenko as "the former president", said he should quit, and appealed to state officials to abandon him. "This is your final chance to overcome your fear," she said. "We were all scared too. Join us and we will support you." Thousands of people took part in anti-Lukashenko protests in other towns and cities. Crowds also gathered in Prague and Warsaw. The Belarus Interior Ministry said there were no arrests at the rallies, although local media reported a few people had been detained. State employees, including some police officers and state TV staff, have come out in support of the protests and some of the country's biggest state-run plants, the backbone of Lukashenko's Soviet-style economic model, have been hit by protests and walkouts. Around 5,000 people attended an earlier pro-Lukashenko protest, a Reuters reporter estimated. The Belarusian Interior Ministry put the number at 65,000. 'MOTHERLAND IN DANGER' "The motherland is in danger!" one speaker told the crowd, who chanted: "We are united, indivisible!" "I'm for Lukashenko," said Alla Georgievna, 68. "I don't understand why everyone has risen up against him. We get our pensions and salaries on time thanks to him." The first leader of independent Belarus who helped oversee the Soviet breakup told Reuters Lukashenko, a one-time manager of a Soviet-era collective farm, had been badly shaken but could still hang onto power with Kremlin backing. Stanislav Shushkevich, 85, an old opponent of Lukashenko, dismissed the idea of Russia sending in troops to prop Lukashenko up, saying he had a large, obedient army and well paid loyalists around him. The Czech prime minister urged his EU counterparts to help, recalling the crushing of Czech protests by a military invasion led by Moscow in 1968 as well as the peaceful overthrow of communism in 1989. "Belarus must not experience what we had in 1968," Andrej Babis tweeted. "(The) EU must be active, support Belarusians (and) not to be afraid to stage a similar velvet revolution model (as in) 1989." The EU is gearing up to impose new sanctions on Belarus in response to the crackdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/protesters-pack-belarus-capital-russia-says-military-help-available/articleshow/77581695.cms||---
August 17, 2020||India||Advised after 2017 Doklam face-off, crucial Army post yet to be created||NEW DELHI: A crucial new Army post, the operational need for which came to the fore during the 73-day troop confrontation at Doklam with China in 2017, is still missing in action due to bureaucratic hurdles. Sources on Sunday said objections by the defence ministry’s finance wing have slowed down the approval process for the post of Deputy Chief of Army Staff (Strategy) or DCOAS (S), even as the ongoing military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh crossed the 100-day mark last week. The Army, in fact, has raised with defence minister Rajnath Singh the issue of the “operationally required and revenue-neutral” proposal being stymied despite it having no financial implications or additional manpower requirements. “The DCOAS (S) post was to be created in lieu of another Lt-General post, the director-general of Rashtriya Rifles, which the Army has already suppressed (done away with),” said a source. As per the plan, the DCOAS (S) was to have the directors-general of military operations (DGMO), military intelligence (DGMI), operational logistics (DGOL), perspective planning (DGPP) and information warfare (DGIW) under him at the Army headquarters. This would ensure institutionalized seamless coordination to handle the massive operations, plans and logistics required by the 13-lakh force during a major border crisis, instead of the existing system of “an ad hoc steering committee” swinging into action. The acute need for the post was felt during the Doklam confrontation near the Sikkim-Bhutan-Tibet tri-junction in June-August 2017, which had also seen the two armies move forward additional infantry battalions, tanks, artillery and missile units to the Line of Actual Control. In the ongoing eastern Ladakh confrontation, China has so far refused to complete the troop disengagement in Pangong Tso and Gogra as well as reduce the military build-up in Depsang Plains despite several rounds of diplomatic and military talks. India, consequently, has dug in its heels for the long haul, as was earlier reported by TOI. The DCOAS (S) post was part of the overall restructuring and flattening of the Army headquarters recommended by one of the four studies conducted in 2018. The overall aim of the studies was to transform the Army into a lean, mean, rapidly-deployable and operationally versatile force in the years ahead. The Army HQs restructuring also entailed shifting out of 206 officers – three major generals, eight brigadiers, 9 colonels and 186 lieutenant colonels and majors -- to operational field formations. The Army has already moved the directorate of Rashtriya Rifles, the specialized counter-insurgency force operating in J&K, to its Northern Command in Udhampur. At the HQs in Delhi, the existing post of DCOAS (planning and systems) was to be transformed into the DCOAS (capability development and sustenance), with all capital and revenue procurements under him. Similarly, the DCOAS (information systems and training) was to change to DCOAS (information systems and coordination). Watch Advised after 2017 Doklam face-off, crucial Army post remains in planning stages||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/advised-after-2017-doklam-face-off-crucial-army-post-yet-to-be-created/articleshow/77581704.cms||Rajat Pandit
August 17, 2020||India||Manipur CM gets 6 ex-Cong MLAs to Delhi||In a new political development, Manipur CM N Biren Singh along with six ex-Congress MLAs who recently resigned from the state assembly, and a current Congress MLA, RK Imo, flew to New Delhi in a chartered flight on Sunday. Though the reasons behind their sudden visit to Delhi could not be ascertained, sources said they are likely to meet BJP party president JP Nadda and other top party functionaries, reports K Sarojkumar Sharma. A source said that the six are also likely to formally join the saffron party in the presence of top party members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/manipur-cm-gets-6-ex-cong-mlas-to-delhi/articleshow/77581719.cms||K Sarojkumar Sharma
August 17, 2020||Business||Vaccine king forays into tech-enabled lending||MUMBAI: Vaccine king Adar Poonawalla of Serum Institute has made a major play into technology-based lending even as many corporate houses are scaling down their non-banking finance operations. The $10-billion cash-rich group has invested Rs 850 crore in Poonawalla Finance and aims to adopt a low-leverage, low-cost delivery model to high-quality individual borrowers. The one-year-old Poonawalla Finance has already disbursed Rs 1,500-crore personal loans in the range of Rs 2 lakh to Rs 30 lakh at rates that compete with banks — with no security, no guarantors and zero prepayment charges being its unique selling proposition. With targeted disbursements of over Rs 2,000 crore during the current fiscal, the non-banking finance company (NBFC) is the fastest growing personal loan provider during the pandemic. According to MD & CEO Abhay Bhutada, the company’s strategy is unique in many ways. While NBFCs typically go after customers who are usually higher risk than bank customers, Poonawalla is targeting high-quality bank customers offering 10-12% rates, which is extremely competitive in the unsecured segment. “Ethics and values are core to the group — there are no hidden costs or prepayment charges,” said Bhutada. Also, unlike other finance companies that are facing a problem of short-term borrowings, Poonawalla Finance is using longer-term funds to provide short-term loans. “We have come into the market after DHFL and IL&FS and what is a weakness for other NBFCs is a strength for us. For instance, our average tenure of borrowing is five years, but the average tenure of our loan is only two years.” Enabling scale during the lockdown is the appraisal process that is entirely automated with the underwriting software analysing the applicant’s bank statements, credit history, and GST data, wherever available. “This is the first time it is happening that a 30-lakh loan is being given in a 100% paperless and contactless manner. Even conservatively, we will grow 35% this fiscal,” said Bhutada.“For us, Covid lockdown is an opportunity similar to what demonetisation threw up for digital payment companies,” said Bhutada. Besides the strong parentage, the company is able to borrow funds at 7% because of its high capital adequacy ratio which, at 72%, is nearly five times the 15% statutory requirement. One reason why the company can grow even as others are shrinking is its ability to expand market share by drawing customers who are seeking to refinance higher-cost loans. “We are the first NBFC to offer loans at a lower rate than private banks. In terms of customer category, we are targeting the bank customer,” said Bhutada. The company has started out with unsecured business loans, personal loans for salaried individuals, and professional loans for doctors, chartered accountants, architects, and company secretaries. It now plans to source customers through co-lending, under which it will join hands with established NBFCs to lend and retain the majority of the loan. Very soon, it is planning to expand into new categories like co-branded credit cards and loans against property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/vaccine-king-forays-into-tech-enabled-lending/articleshow/77580834.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Don’t hide no. of docs dead in TN: Stalin||Chennai: DMK president M K Stalin on Sunday asked the state government not to conceal number of doctors who had died of Covid-19 in Tamil Nadu. “With the Indian Medical Council’s Tamil Nadu unit saying that 47 doctors died with symptoms of Covid-19, the state government, at least now, should act responsibly,” he said. “When the Indian Medical Council (IMC) earlier said 43 doctors had died after testing positive or with symptoms of Covid-19, the state health minister dismissed it. Now, the state unit of IMC has put that number at 47,” Stalin said in a statement. “At least now, the state government should act responsibly and should not indulge in concealing the numbers any further. The government should also sanction the Rs 50 lakh compensation announced to their families,” Stalin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dont-hide-no-of-docs-dead-in-tn-stalin/articleshow/77579746.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: BJP district secretaries to get cars if party leaders win||CHENNAI: BJP state president L Murugan on Sunday told party workers to get ready to welcome more leaders from other parties. Hinting at more action to follow in the coming months, Murugan also enticed BJP district secretaries with a chance of winning an ‘Innova’ car if the party candidate from their respective districts get elected to the assembly in the next elections, party insiders said. “Our state president asked us to gear for the assembly elections, which BJP will fight as part of the NDA in Tamil Nadu. He asked us to strengthen party units at booth level and form booth committees with an eye to take on the DMK,” a source in BJP said. “Stating that more and more people, especially leaders from other political parties in the state, will be joining our party in the coming months, he wanted us to work hard to send as many MLAs as possible to the assembly,” the source, who participated in a virtual meeting of district secretaries and state level office bearers, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-dist-secys-to-get-cars-if-party-leaders-win/articleshow/77579745.cms||D Govardan
August 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Bleak prospects prompt youngsters to cultivate new pastures||MANGALURU/ HUBBALLI: The horizon of normalcy, or a return to it in the least, getting no nearer with each passing day, many students on the cusp of professional careers are leaning towards ‘Atma Nirbhar’ initiatives, insofar as seeking out opportunities wherein they remain self-sufficient. Many final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students have taken to growing and selling vegetables, poultry farming among other things as probable avenues for financial independence. Sriganesha P, a final-year MSc student at Mangalore University, while waiting for the timetable of his final semester examinations, has taken to selling vegetables at retail and wholesale markets to support his family during these distressing times. “My father is a cook, and owing to the Covid-19 crisis, he has not had any work. So, I started the business of selling vegetables with my savings, and it is thriving. I will retain the shop I have even if I get a job,” said the young man, made entrepreneur by compulsion. Meanwhile, many of his classmates have taken to agriculture in their villages, he said. In Gadaikallu in Belthangady taluk, a trio of youngsters – Francis D’Souza, Jeevan D’Souza and Vinod Pinto, the former two of whom are students and the latter a graduate – cultivated 250 banana plants on half-an-acre of land, which had not been cultivated for years together. In addition to banana, the trio grew ladies finger and ridge gourd on 80 cents, and are now mulling setting up a poultry farm. Although it is an option they have been compelled to explore, these youngsters are still pleased to be discovering new vistas. Unemployed youngsters turn vegetable vendors It is almost five months since the central government enforced a nationwide lockdown, which dealt an unprecedented blow to the economy and rendered thousands jobless. Now, more than three months since the easing of the restrictions in Karnataka, many people who took to selling vegetables after who lost their jobs owing to the Covid-19 crisis, are still going strong in their newfound profession. At the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) yards in Hubballi-Dharwad, some of the older merchants were initially surprised by the influx of youngsters, who started setting up shop following the lockdown. That these youngsters are still going strong in their new trade has only left the older merchants flummoxed. Ashwath Kumar, resident of Old Hubballi, said that he took to selling vegetables after he lost his job as an electrician. “Since I am the sole breadwinner in my family, I started selling vegetables. I obtained a pass from Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation and started selling vegetables in my neighbourhood. My business has improved,” said Kumar. Samsher Sheikh was employed at a workshop in Gokul Industrial Estate in Hubballi before the lockdown rendered him unemployed, prompting him to start a new career as a fruit vendor. Starting in April, he’s been selling pomegranate, orange, banana on a pushcart to earn his livelihood, and has continued in his new job even after three months. Abdul Wahab Mulla, an onion and potato trader at the Hubballi APMC yard, admitted to the entry of many young faces in the vegetable retail market. “Many youngsters who’ve lost their jobs come here to purchase vegetables and fruits at wholesale prices, which they later sell at retail prices,” said Mulla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bleak-prospects-prompt-youngsters-to-cultivate-new-pastures/articleshow/77581066.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Service rules for contract and regular teachers should be same’||PATNA: The new service conditions and benefits of Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) for around 4 lakh ‘niyojit’ (hired on contract but regularized thereafter) teachers, announced by CM Nitish Kumar on Independence Day, has evoked mixed response from teacher associations. These ‘niyojit’ teachers were appointed by the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) and urban local bodies (ULBs). Education department sources said the draft of the service condition rules for contract teachers was in the final stage and it would be tabled before the state cabinet soon. Bihar Rajyapatrit Shikshak Mahasangh’s secretary Raj Kishore Sadhu said they would comment on the matter only after seeing the content of the service condition rules. Abhishek Kumar, spokesperson of Bihar State Secondary Teachers’ Association, said the announcement of service conditions for contract teachers was nothing new as a gazette notification in this regard was already published by the state government in 2015. “The government had then set up a committee and promised to frame service conditions for contract teachers, but nothing happened in five years,” he said. “Under the EPF Act, 1955, regular as well as the contractual employees in government and private sectors should be given benefits of EPF from the date of their joining till the date of remittance. Not following what is being mentioned in the Act is a punishable offence. In 2018, some teachers had moved the high court to get EPF benefits. The court then directed the EPF officers to include contract teachers under EPF within 90 days. Later, the teachers again moved court before outbreak of Covid pandemic this year, urging it to take action against the department concerned for contempt of court order,” Kumar added. Anand Mishra, state secretary of Parivartankari Prarambhik Shikshak Sangh, said despite working for over a decade, contract teachers are still not part of the education department. “The state government should provide general provident fund to the contract teachers mandatorily,” he said, adding there was no need to announce new service conditions. “The state government should have implemented the existing service conditions for the contract teachers,” he added. Manoj Kumar, spokesperson of Bihar State Primary Teachers’ Association, said the service conditions for contract as well as regular teachers should be same. “The CM has talked about new service conditions for contract teachers, which is not right,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/service-rules-for-contract-and-regular-teachers-should-be-same/articleshow/77578387.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||Covid tally crosses 12k mark, mismatch in death figures||Dehradun: On Sunday, with 560 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in the last 48 hours, the state's Covid-19 tally has reached 12,175. The Covid-19 death records meanwhile were said to be "misreported" in Uttarakhand for the past few days. This is mainly due to the alleged miscommunication between the health department and authorities of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh. While AIIMS reported eight new deaths in 48 hours, the health bulletin stated none. Not just the numbers, but even details and ages of the patients died at AIIMS and reported by the health department doesn’t tally in many cases. According to a Covid-19 press release issued by AIIMS Rishikesh, the hospital reported two deaths each on August 10 and 11, four deaths on August 12 and five on August 13. Furthermore, two deaths at AIIMS on August 14 and eight deaths collectively were reported on August 15 and 16,taking the death toll to 23. However, in the medical bulletin released by the health department, two deaths occurred at AIIMS on August 10 and one on August 11. On August 12, 13 and 14, the bulletin reported four, three and zero at AIIMS, respectively. On August 15, the bulletin stated three deaths at AIIMS while no death was reported on August 16. The toll here is 13 , at least 10 less than the figure in AIIMS press release. While the health department officials shrugged off their responsibility when asked about the misreporting of Covid deaths, PRO AIIMS Harish Thapliyal told TOI on Sunday that the institution is following all the protocols of reporting Covid-19 deaths. “We immediately inform the local administration and district surveillance team as there is a protocol regarding disposal of the body in Covid cases. There is no lapse in the reporting from our side,” Thapliyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-tally-crosses-12k-mark-mismatch-in-death-figures/articleshow/77578403.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 17, 2020||Trichy||Shut urinals make people relieve in open in Trichy||Trichy: A urinal complex established by Trichy City Corporation through a non-governmental organisation at Marakkadai has come as a cropper as it remains unused for months. The unavailability of the urinal, which is situated in one of the commercial streets, amid the lockdown has left many people urinate in the open. The paid urinal facility built spending Rs 40,000 two years ago was set up after a study as the daily wagers and other workers in the commercial streets near Gandhi market and Marakkadai were making use of the open stormwater drain for relieving themselves. However, local people said that the paid urinal is locked for months. “Commuters waiting for buses at the Marakkadai bus stop were making use of the urinal. But the facility remains locked most of the time in the past few months due to which people are urinating in the open. We need more properly maintained urinals in the city,” H Ubaidullah, a KK Nagar resident, said. Residents said that such projects resolving the real-time woes of workers in the market area are not serving their purpose. Corporation officials said that because of the Covid-19 pandemic, the caretaker of the urinal was not deployed to maintain the urinal. “We will reopen it as the public movement is gradually increasing,” a sanitary official with the corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shut-urinals-make-people-relieve-in-open-in-trichy/articleshow/77581262.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Patna||Flood scene still grim in north Bihar districts||PATNA/KHAGARIA: Over 81 lakh people in 130 blocks of 16 districts were reeling from floodwaters and 5,46,613 had been evacuated to safer places till Sunday. Darbhanga remained the worst hit with its 20,61,700 population under floodwaters, followed by 18,98,738 in Muzaffarpur and 10,19,009 in East Champaran districts. Altogether 81,44,356 people are affected, according to state disaster management department report. Though major rivers showed a declining trend at some flood gauges, Bagmati and Adhwara group of rivers maintained increasing trend at some places in Sitamarahi and Sheohar districts. The Kosi and Bhutahi Balan were also rising at most of the flood gauges in Supaul, Saharsa, Khagaria and Katihar. The Ganga also had a rising trend in Buxar, Patna, Munger and Bhagalpur. Light to moderate rainfall occurred at a few places over southern parts of Bihar and at one or two places over northwest parts, but north central parts of the state remained dry during the past 24 hours. Rainfall with thunderstorm is likely at a few places in East Champaran, Siwan, Saran, Gopalganj, Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Madhubani and some other districts of north Bihar on Monday. In Khagaria, flood situation continue to remain grim in a large number of riverine villages as major rivers were still flowing above the danger mark. The flood bulletin issued by the district administration on Sunday stated that Kosi, Bagmati and Burhi Gandak were flowing above the danger mark with rising trend while Ganga was flowing below the danger level. According to official sources, a population 1,38,970 was affected by the floods in 116 villages across 39 panchayats of the district. All the embankments under flood control divoisions under I and 2 are safe, DM Alok Ranjan Ghosh said, adding round the clock strict vigil is being kept by the district administration on all the vulnerable points of different embankments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/flood-scene-still-grim-in-n-bihar/articleshow/77578325.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Second sero survey in six districts from August 19||PATNA: Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (RMRI)-Patna will conduct the second serological (sero) survey of Covid-19 covering six districts in the state from August 19 to 25 to ascertain the proportion of population exposed to SARS-CoV-2 infection. Sero-prevalence survey involves testing the blood serum of individuals to check prevalence of antibodies against infection. For the survey, blood samples are collected from selected individuals after their written consent. The second round of the survey, to be conducted in 70 districts across the country, will cover six Covid hotspot districts of Bihar – Arwal, Begusarai, Buxar, Madhubani, Muzaffarpur and Purnia. The National Institute Research in Tuberculosis (NIRT)- Chennai has selected these districts on several parameters. Principal secretary of health department Pratyaya Amrit said sero survey will be conducted by the health team to find out the level of virus spread in the districts. “The survey will give a clear picture of the infection rate and antibody generation rate in hotspot districts5,” he added. The exercise will cover 2,400 people – 400 in each district – and take around a week to complete. RMRI- Patna director Dr Pradeep Das said the teams would collect blood samples of 2,400 people in the six selected districts. “We have 20 teams for this survey and each team will have two members, a field investigator and a lab technician. Each team will cover two clusters. The blood samples will be collected randomly and sent to NIRT-Chennai,” he added. The survey will also throw light on exposure levels in containment zones. High herd immunity levels in a particular area would mean reduced transmission of the virus. The first phase of sero survey was conducted in Bihar in May, said Dr Das, adding the study found that around 0.7% of the samples tested in the state had an exposure to the novel coronavirus. “Altogether 2,400 blood samples were collected randomly in first sero survey in May. Seventeen samples showed the presence of antibodies against the Covid-19,” the RMRI-Patna director added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/second-sero-survey-in-six-districts-from-aug-19/articleshow/77578757.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 17, 2020||Patna||Teachers salute flag in waist-deep water||PATNA: Five teachers of Upgraded Middle School at Ramai Rai Ka Tola under Kahla panchayat in Gopalganj district, led by headmaster Ghulam Usman Alam, braved floodwaters to hoist national flag at the school on Independence Day on Saturday, thereby winning hearts of many. The village falls under Barauli block in Gopalganj, one of the worst flood-hit districts in the state. A video of the school programme went viral on social media in which the teachers could be seen hoisting national flag, saluting it and singing national anthem under waist-deep water. Alam and four other schoolteachers – Rajkishore Mahto, Jainarayan Singh, Om Prakash Yadav and Sujeet Kumar Singh – as well as another man, Shailesh Kumar, were the only ones present at the school to celebrate the day. Alam said they waded in chest-deep water for more than 2km to reach the school. “We took stock of the situation on Friday from a road, but it seemed impossible to hoist national flag on the school campus. However, on Saturday, I decided to go to the school at any cost and encouraged other teachers to accompany me,” he said. Alam said another teacher, Kumkum Kumari, was also accompanying them, but they left her on road as it was impossible for her to negotiate floodwaters. “Her husband Shailesh accompanied us,” he said. “Several people had laid down their lives in the country’s freedom struggle. It is our duty now to keep the national flag flying under all circumstances,” he said. Alam said his school has 198 students studying from Class-I to Class-VIII and seven teachers, including a woman and a specially-abled man. “Due to Covid-19, no academic activity is taking place in the school. Even fresh admissions have come to a halt,” he added. District education officer (DEO) Sanghamitra Verma praised the teachers for their act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/teachers-salute-flag-in-waist-deep-water/articleshow/77578864.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 17, 2020||Patna||Cops foil woman’s self-immolation bid||PATNA: A woman attempted to immolate herself on the premises of Gopalganj collectorate during Independence Day celebrations on Saturday, alleging that no action was taken to recover her two minor girls – 17 and 12 years of age, respectively – who were kidnapped on August 4. SHO of Town police station Prashant Kumar said the woman’s bid to set herself on fire was foiled by cops and she was sent to Sripur police outpost to lodge her complaint. Sripur outpost incharge Sanjeet Kumar said the woman lodged an FIR on Saturday evening against four youths, accusing them of kidnapping her daughters. “We are trying to trace the woman’s daughters. She never complained to the police about it,” Kumar added. Kumar said the woman’s elder daughter had fled home in July too and she later came to the Town police station with one Monu Mahto of Kurhani in Muzaffarpur on August 3. “The woman’s elder daughter had told police that she fled home after being scolded by her mother who was pressuring her to get married to an old person. The girl was later handed over to her family,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-foil-womans-self-immolation-bid/articleshow/77578507.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 17, 2020||Patna||Man, abetted by mob, tonsures wife in Bihar's Bettiah||BETTIAH: In a sordid incident of misogynistic mob vigilantism perpetrated in West Champaran district on Independence Day, a husband — aided and abetted by a crowd — tonsured his wife after tying her to an electric pole. A video of the incident went viral. “We have registered a case against 11 people after identifying them from the video clip. Four people, including the victim’s husband, Ramayan Choudhary, have been arrested so far,” SP Nitasha Gudiya said on Sunday. The incident took place at the Mallah-dominated hamlet of Bharpatia village under Srinagar police station, 15km from Bettiah. In her statement recorded at the Mahila Police Station in Bettiah, the victim recounted her suffering tale of domestic violence that finally culminated in mob vigilantism on Saturday. The woman, aged about 30, told SHO Poonam Kumari that her husband would regularly assault her and falsely insinuate her of having an extramarital relationship with his nephew. On Saturday, when the victim’s father and sister had come to visit her, Ramayan flew into a rage. She said he dragged her out of the house and collected a mob. She was tied to an electric pole and her head was tonsured. The video clip shows a man putting a blade into a shaving razor before he begins tonsuring her to accompany comments by the mob. A pan of water was also poured and her clothes were dishevelled in the violent attack. On an alarm raised by the victim’s father and sister, some villagers later intervened to extricate the tormented victim. She was taken to the safe confines of the Srinagar police station. “She was escorted to the Government Medical College by the Mahila PS SHO,” the SP said. The victim, after recording her statement, wasn’t prepared to go to her paternal home in Motihari. “We consequently put her in the government temporary shelter of the Mahila helpline,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-abetted-by-mob-tonsures-wife-in-bettiah/articleshow/77578713.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||Man beats 22-year-old wife to death, held||KOTA: Irked over shortage of ration at home and wife’s insistence on going to parents’ home, a 25-year-old man beat his 22-year-old wife to death at his house in Dara Ka Nayagaun village under Dablana police station on Friday evening and fled from the spot. He was however arrested on Saturday. In the absence of enough food at home, a scuffle between a couple identified as Nandkishore Bheel (25) and Sharmabai (22) erupted at their home in Dara ka Nayagaun on Friday. The wife insisted on leaving husband’s house and going to her parents’ place in Talera area of the district, Dablana SHO Ramvilas said. The couple worked as daily wage labourers in a field Irked over her insistence, the husband in a rage picked up a stick lying nearby in house and hit on the woman’s head causing her to collapse, he said. The woman was rushed to hospital, but she succumbed to injuries on the way and the doctors declared her brought dead, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-beats-22-yr-old-wife-to-death-held/articleshow/77580929.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Patna||Restrictions on shop opening to continue in Gaya||GAYA: As the notification limiting the Unlock-3 conditions in the district is scheduled to expire Sunday mid-night, plying of buses, salons, gyms and places of worship will start functioning from Monday. But certain limitations will continue, said Gaya DM Abhishek Singh. The order regarding staggered opening of shops with business establishments located to the left side of roads opening on Monday, Wednesday and Friday and those located on the right side of the road opening on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday will remain in effect. “A fresh notification would be issued for the purpose,” said the DM. According to the DM, whereas individual prayers and darshans in places of worship will be allowed, collective prayers and other religious congregations will not be permitted. He also said that total lockdown will be observed on all Sundays. Only essential shops will be allowed to open on Sundays. Ban on plying of private vehicles including two wheelers will remain in force on Sunday. “While allowing gyms and salons to function, observation of all social distancing norms was mandatory and the violators will be punished,” the DM warned. Meanwhile, DK Jain, president, Grand Chord Passengers’ Association has demanded early resumption of domestic flights to and from the Gaya airport. Before the nationwide lock down, Air India (AI) operated a daily flight on the Gaya -Varanasi - Delhi route. Indigo too was operating regular flights for Varanasi and Kolkata. Air India also operated a weekly flight on the Delhi -Gaya-Yangon route and Gaya-bound air travellers availed that flight as well. As of now, only VBM and Repatriation special flights are operating from the Gaya airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/restrictions-on-shop-opening-to-continue-in-gaya/articleshow/77578801.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 17, 2020||Patna||Low number of RT-PCR tests clouds Covid numbers in Gaya||GAYA: The somewhat low number of RT-PCR tests, regarded as gold standard test for Covid-19 detection, clouds the number of Covid positivity incidence in Gaya. As per official statistics, altogether 7,6,432 tests have so far been conducted in Gaya. Out of these 3,613 tests have been conducted through the RT-PCR method. The remaining 72,000 plus tests have been done through Rapid Antigen and Truenat methods. About 1,227 of the 3,613 RT PCR tests produced positive result. In percentage terms, there was nearly 34% positivity rate in RT-PCR tests, while the overall positivity rate was only 4.61%. Overall, the number of Covid positive cases in Gaya stood at 3,435. Earlier, WHO recorded a 70% mismatch between Truenat and RT PCR tests. Interestingly, a former DM of Gaya twice tested negative in the rapid antigen test but was declared Covid-19 positive in the RT-PCR tests. AIIMS, Delhi, director Dr Randeep Guleria is on record having said that whereas positive reports of rapid antigen test are to be accepted at face value, the incidence of false negative is there as the method cannot record low and moderate viral load. According to Dr Arjun Lal, HoD microbiology department, ANMMCH, as per equipment and manpower availability, only about 180 to 200 RT PCR tests can be done in one day in the microbiology department of the medical college. The facility for RT-PCR test is available only in the medical college and no private lab in Gaya has got the permission to conduct the all important test. Explaining the mismatch between the outcome of rapid antigen and RT PCR tests, Dr Krishna Kumar, a practising pathologist of the city said that the RT PCR was a very sensitive test as it recorded even the minimum viral load, while the other tests do not record low viral load. Rapid antigen was suitable only for screening purposes, said the pathologist. Asked whether confirmatory tests are being conducted for the negative rapid antigen reports as chances of false negatives are regarded high, district magistrate Abhishek Singh said that ICMR protocol was being followed. As per the ICMR protocol, there is no need for confirmatory test if rapid antigen test produced positive result. In case the antigen test produced negative result but the patient shows Covid-19 symptoms, the sample of such patients has to be sent for RT-PCR test and in such cases the test report was considered as final. Very few symptomatic patients have tested negative in the rapid antigen test, said the DM. “In case of asymptomatic negatives, confirmatory RT-PCR test was not required,” said Singh. As per information available in public domain, rapid antigen test is a swabbed nasal sample test that detects antigens (foreign substances that induce an immune response in the body) that are found on or within the virus. It is a point of care test, performed outside the conventional laboratory setting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/low-number-of-rt-pcr-tests-clouds-covid-numbers-in-gaya/articleshow/77578777.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 17, 2020||Hubballi||FMCG Cluster planned near Hubballi-Dharwad||Hubballi: Industries minister Jagadish Shettar said the government is planning to set up a cluster for Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG), particularly consumer goods, at Mummigatti Industrial Estate. According to the minister, land for the cluster has been identified, and a vision group under the leadership of entrepreneur Ullas Kamat has been formed. Speaking to reporters after holding a meeting with industrialists here on Monday, Shettar said the government is creating an atmosphere to set up more industries in tier II and tier III cities. “We are focusing on making Karnatka an investor-friendly state. The new industrial policy will come in handy,” he said, adding that plans are also on to build industrial townships in 5-6 locations, including one in Hubballi. During Covid crisis, an investment proposal to the tune of Rs 30,000 crore has been given approval. Amendment to Land Reforms Act is also working as a catalyst for faster industrial growth, he claimed. The members of Greater Hubballi-Dharwad Industries’ Association requested the minister to develop amenities at Tarihal Industrial Estate, supply Malaprabha river water to the estate and also improve the UGD network there. Belur Industrialists’ Association highlighted the problems due to inadequate streetlights and drainage facilities in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/fmcg-cluster-planned-near-hubballi-dharwad/articleshow/77599741.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Father-son duo killed in clash over land dispute||PRAYAGRAJ: A man and his son were killed and five others were injured when a clash broke out between two rival groups during a panchayat meeting to resolve a decades-old property dispute in Sheikhupur village under Raniganj police station in Pratapgarh district on Sunday morning. The deceased Dayashankar Mishra (60) and his son Anand Mishra (24) were attending a panchayat in Sheikhupur village to resolve the property dispute on being attacked as a clash erupted between the two groups. SP Pratapgarh Abhishek Singh suspended three policemen — sub-inspector Rajesh Rai, head constable Buddhan Prasad and constable Rama Yadav — on charges of dereliction of duty. The SP told reporters, “The two rival camps led by Dayashankar Mishra and Chandramani Mishra had been at loggerheads since three decades over a land dispute.” On Sunday, the two were attending a panchayat to resolve the dispute. Things turned ugly when the supporters of both the camps clashed and attacked each other with sticks and rods. Local villagers alerted the police after seven men were injured in the violent clash and were rushed to the district hospital. Dayashankar Mishra and his son Anand succumbed to injuries during treatment, said Pratapgarh police. The condition of the five injured persons is stable, the SP added. “We constituted four police teams to arrest the accused. Police have arrested two persons, including one Rajesh Mishra, for their involvement in the attack,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/father-son-duo-killed-in-clash-over-land-dispute/articleshow/77578428.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal catch up on your zoo faves from comfort of home||KOLKATA: Missing your weekend walks at the Alipore Zoological Gardens? Amid the Covid-induced restrictions, the authorities have come up with a unique way to bring your favourite zoo animals to your living room — through live telecasts. So, be it the Bengal tiger, the Asiatic lion, the chimpanzee or grey kangaroo, get ready to meet them sitting at your home and beat the Covid blues. From Monday, the zoo authorities will start the live telecasts twice daily on Facebook. State forest minister Rajeev Banerjee inaugurated the initiative at the city zoo on Sunday afternoon. The same initiative will be replicated for Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park, Darjeeling. While the city zoo, during the inauguration, went live with footages of chimpanzee, Darjeeling zoo did live telecasts of red panda and Himalayan black bear. State zoo authority member secretary V K Yadav said the telecasts for both Alipore and Darjeeling zoos will be available between 9am and 10am and again from 3pm to 4pm. “While the link to go to Alipore zoo page is https://www.facebook.com/kolkatazoo.alipore5, for Darjeeling zoo it is https://www.facebook.com/Padmaja-Naidu-Himalayan-Zoological-Park,” he said, adding that, alternatively, one can also follow the live telecast on YouTube. The zoos were closed to visitors on March 17. In April, the authorities had launched an app to help people take a virtual tour of Alipore zoo. Yadav said as of now, they will conduct the live telecasts through CCTV cameras installed at animal enclosures. “The scientific officer or zoo biologist will also speak during live telecasts to help people know more about the animals. The entire Alipore zoo is now under CCTV coverage. So, everyday we will select two animals — say tiger and lion. If we do live telecast of tiger during the morning slot, the afternoon slot will have a telecast of real-time activities of the lion,” said Yadav. According to him, they also have plans to do live video recordings with voice-over. “We would have launched it earlier, but had to defer plans since some CCTV cameras were damaged after Cyclone Amphan,” added Yadav. According to him, they also have similar plans for Bengal Safari near Siliguri. “We are facing some network issues there. Once that is resolved, we will launch the project there too,” he said. These initiatives will be continued even after the situation normalizes. During lockdown, the Maharashtra forest department had taken up a similar initiative by introducing virtual safari tours from Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve. (With inputs from Deep Gazmer & Roshan Gupta )||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/catch-up-on-your-zoo-faves-from-comfort-of-home/articleshow/77580514.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Allahabad||Covid-19: Nearly 2,500 apply for home isolation in Prayagraj||PRAYAGRAJ: Nearly 2,500 asymptomatic Covid positive patients have gone under home isolation in Sangam city since the state notified the rule on July 20 and 1,067 of them have been completed their home isolation and and recovered till now. However, the officials of health department have also rejected the application of 368 patients after the rapid response team (RRT) disapproved the living condition at their homes during inspection. In past 48 hours, as many as 253 patients (111 and 142 patients on August 14 and August 15 respectively) have completed their home isolation. Nodal Officer and additional chief medical officer, Dr. Rishi Sahai told TOI, “With Sangam city crossing the 5000 mark of covid patients, nearly 2,500 asymptomatic patients have gone under home isolation till now”. He further added that the permission for home isolation was granted only after Rapid Response Teams (RRT) approved the patients’ living condition at their homes during an inspection. The health department has formed over 12 RRTs to check the conditions at a patient’s home before granting them permission for home isolation. Dr. Sahai clarified that only asymptomatic patients can opt for home isolation if they have the requisite self-isolation facility at home, while avoiding contact with other family members. If the patients are granted permission for home isolation, they must have a home quarantine kit comprising a pulse Oximeter, a digital thermometer, masks, sterile gloves, sodium hypochlorite and, tablets of awshwagandha, giloy tablet and vitamin C. Dr. Sahai also claimed, “On an average, around 50 patients with asymptomatic characters apply for home quarantine facility daily. Once a patient applies for home isolation, an RRT is assigned to visit the home for inspection. The team is asked to compile details like the patient’s name, age , sex, address, ward no (number of monitoring committee), mobile number, the date when they tested Covid-19 positive, and if he/she is experiencing cough, cold, breathlessness, blood pressure, blood sugar or oxygen saturation.” The RRT also collects details of a patient if they are suffering from any other ailment. “Patients suffering from any other ailments are not eligible for the facility.” The team also verify other prime details like the number of rooms and toilets and members in the patient’s family. As per the guidelines, a caregiver should be available to tend to a patient on a 24x7 basis and a communication link between the former and the hospital is a prerequisite for the period of isolation. The guidelines mandate that patient must download the Aarogya Setu app and it should remain active at all times. The officials said that patients should monitor their health and regularly inform the district surveillance officer about its status. The patient also has to give an undertaking stating that being confirmed/suspected case of Covid-19, he/she voluntarily undertakes to maintain strict self-isolation for prescribed period. Immediate medical attention must be sought if symptoms like difficulty in breathing, dip in oxygen saturation, persistent pain/pressure in chest and mental confusion persist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-nearly-2500-apply-for-home-isolation-in-city/articleshow/77578498.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vadodara||Youngsters develop indigenous alternates to banned Chinese apps||Vadodara: Gujarat’s youngsters are coming out with indigenous alternative apps to banned Chinese apps.Within a short span of 14 days, three youngsters have developed an artificial intelligence-based video conference application that helps professionals connect over the internet during the Covid-19 pandemic. Students of M S University’s Maharaja Ranjitsinh Gaekwad Institute of Design (MRID) on the other hand have developed a micro video app that will provide platform to creative artists, designers, musicians, dancers and actors. “We had developed Profism Call that has features like advanced screen sharing, low bandwidth mode, raise hand, in-call chat, live streaming, voice command based operations, presenter view among others. In short, it is a complete application which is free up to 15 participants per meeting with unlimited duration,” said Milan Savaliya, 23, a BSc (physics) from M S University. Savaliya, who along another Surat resident Siddhant Vekariya, 29, a MBA finance from Pune and Kumash Shah, a BE in computer engineering from Vadodara Institute of Engineering have already achieved 5,000 plus user base for the app. The youngsters have further collaborated with the Self-Financed School Association, Surat and are providing combo offers to schools through which the schools can conduct online classrooms, exams, collect fees, assignments and even manage video libraries. “We are providing this solution free for every first 100 educational institute in every city till the time of pandemic,” he said. Six students of MRID - Shubhra Saha, Shyam Sunder, Aayushi Saklani, Harshit Rajoria, Kriti Jain and Reet Singh Tomar – have developed DAB, a unique micro video platform for creative people. “When TikTok was launched, its aim was to tap into creativity of its users. But over the years, it stopped being a creative hub,” said Sunder, adding that DAB app has been developed to inspire and motivate budding creatives. “It gives a chance to meet millions of talented artists from around the world. Plus, you can make friends with young people from your city and nearby,” he said, adding that within 18 days of the launch, the app has received 2,000 downloads, all organic. MRID’s first such students startup is seeking funds and space. “Our mission is to provide platform to all the young artists who can share their creativity through 15 seconds video,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/youngsters-develop-indigenous-alternates-to-banned-chinese-apps/articleshow/77577613.cms||Prashant Rupera
August 17, 2020||Patna||RJD expels three MLAs for anti-party activities||PATNA: The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Sunday expelled three of its MLAs from primary membership of the party for six years for their alleged anti-party activities. RJD principal general secretary Alok Mehta said the three expelled MLAs – Maheshwar Prasad Yadav, Prema Choudhary and Faraz Fatmi – who were elected from Gaighat, Patepur and Keoti constituencies, respectively, were involved in anti-party activities. Mehta said disciplinary action was initiated against the three legislators on the directive of party supremo Lalu Prasad. “These MLAs were found working against the interests of the party,” Mehta said. Faraz, son of former Union minister Md Ali Asharaf Fatmi, was seen in the ‘dahi-chura’ feast organised by JD(U) state president Vashishtha Narayan Singh on January 14 this year. Faraz’s father Fatmi, the former Darbhanga MP, had earlier deserted the RJD and joined the JD(U) after his relations with Lalu’s younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav got strained. Fatmi was denied tickets by the RJD from two seats of his choice – Darbhanga and Madhubani – in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Prema Choudahry, the MLA from Patepur, was seen taking part in a human chain organised by the state government on January 19 this year to promote its Jal-Jivan-Hariyali campaign. “Maheshwar Yadav, the MLA from Gaighat, never missed the opportunity to praise Nitish,” said an RJD functionary on condition of anonymity. Sources in the RJD said all the three expelled MLAs would join the JD(U) sooner or later. “Have patience. I will let you know about my future plans soon,” said Maheshwar Yadav. What came as a surprise was the silence of the top leadership of RJD over the fate of Chandrika Rai, a rebel party MLA from Parsa in Saran district. Rai, father in-law of Lalu’s elder son Tej Pratap Yadav, had recently hinted at switching over to the JD(U).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-expels-three-mlas-for-anti-party-activities/articleshow/77578305.cms||Ramashankar
August 17, 2020||Patna||Subdued I-Day celebrations in educational institutions||PATNA: Universities, colleges, schools and other institutions in the city celebrated the Independence Day in a very subdued manner this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Most of the higher education institutions organised flag hoisting ceremonies at small scale and students were absent in these celebrations. “Patna University (PU) organised a centralised Independence Day celebration at Patna Science College, adhering strictly to the social distancing norm. The participants, mostly teachers and non-teaching staff, were all wearing face masks,” said PU geology department head and NSS programme coordinator Atul Aditya Pandey. PU vice-chancellor H N Prasad unfurled the national tricolour. Patna College principal Ashok Kumar hoisted the national flag on the college campus and all its hostels, but there was hardly any student anywhere. Patliputra University vice-chancellor Gulab Chand Ram Jayaswal hoisted the national flag at a very simple function on the varsity premises. No student could attend the flag-hoisting ceremony as all the colleges and PG departments are closed, said pro-VC Girish Kumar Chaudhary. Hoisting the national flag, Aryabhatta Knowledge University VC Dr A K Agrawal exhorted the teachers and employees to follow three basic norms—social distancing, mask wearing and frequent sanitization— to defeat Covid-19. At Chanakya National Law University (CNLU) VC Mridula Mishra hoisted the national flag in the presence of a limited number of teachers and employees. Director Arbind Kumar hoisted the tricolor at BIT, Patna, while director P K Jain unfurled the tricolour at NIT-Patna. But no student was present at these institutions during the flag-hoisting ceremony. Private, government and government-aided schools only conducted the flag hoisting ceremony in presence of school heads and some teachers. M K Das, principal of Dr G L Dutta DAV Public School-Kankarbagh, said after the flag hoisting ceremony, the school organised e-cultural event named ‘Jayatu Bharatam’. “The students sang patriotic songs, recited poems and danced with zeal,” he added. Farhat Hasan, directress of International School (CBSE and ICSE wing) said the event was different from previous years, but they tried to ensure that students join the celebrations via online mode. Shahina Khan, principal of Raza International Girl’s School, said, “This is the new normal and we have to accept this.” Students of The Tribhuvan School presented a tableau on the famous Sahid Smarak of Patna, which was followed by speech of toddlers, character dramatization of freedom fighters, instrumental presentation, songs and dance, school chairman N K Singh said. “The present times are undoubtedly unprecedented and challenging, but together we can overcome this crisis too,” Sharat Kumar Singh, principal of Litera Valley School, said in his message to students. Meanwhile, the East Central Railway (ECR) celebrated the Independence Day with all precautionary measures at its headquarters in Hajipur. ECR GM L C Trivedi hoisted the national flag. Railway officials, employees and all other participants were seen wearing masks. There was no cultural programme like the previous years and the RPF personnel took salute only. In his address, Trivedi said the railways had made 1.3 lakh face masks and prepared 28,000 PPE kits for the use of its doctors, paramedical staff and employees of the zone. In Chhapra, divisional commissioner Robert L Chongthu, who inspected combined parade and hoisted the national flag at the local Rajendra Stadium, said 1,895 beds have been arranged for Covid-19 patients in Saran district so far. This year’s function was marked by social distancing, less invitees and zero public appearance due to the Covid Pandemic. (With inputs from Kumod Verma in Patna and H K Verma in Saran)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/subdued-i-day-celebrations-in-educational-institutions/articleshow/77578854.cms||B K Mishra
August 17, 2020||Patna||Ram Madhav flays Rahul for assailing PM on Ladakh issue||PATNA: BJP national general secretary Ram Madhav on Sunday slammed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi (RaGa) for attacking PM Narendra Modi on Ladakh stand-off. “It’s time for the entire nation to ponder how many degrees of seriousness the Congress leader’s statement on Ladakh face-off has?” said Madhav, who was in Patna to attend the second death anniversary function of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee. He said the supreme sacrifices by Army personnel will always be a source of inspiration for the fellow countrymen. Madhav said attacking Army under the garb of PM Modi is not good. He rubbished Rahul’s charge that PM Modi allowed China to grab parts of the Indian territory. About the preparations for Bihar assembly polls due in October-November, he said the BJP workers were doing it on a war footing and state party president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal was monitoring the preparations. Later, in his keynote address at ‘Atal Lecture Series’, Madhav said the situation has undergone a sea change on the India-China border as compared to the period under Congress rule at the Centre. “The NDA government at the Centre is giving a befitting reply to the Chinese troopers and we are committed to protecting the country’s frontiers at all costs,” he said. Madhav said friendship and maintaining cordial relations with neighbours is in the DNA of India. “But it doesn’t mean to keep quiet when the neighbour turns into a foe,” Madhav said and added, “During Congress rule, everything remained confined to the agreement papers only.” He said there was peace on the borders, but the Army was not allowed earlier to counter the attack from outside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ram-madhav-flays-rahul-for-assailing-pm-on-ladakh-issue/articleshow/77578368.cms||Ramashankar
August 17, 2020||Patna||Man abets mob to tie, tonsure wife in Bettiah||BETTIAH: In a sordid incident of misogynistic mob vigilantism perpetrated in West Champaran district on Independence Day, a husband — aided and abetted by a crowd — tonsured his wife after tying her to an electric pole. A video of the incident went viral. “We have registered a case against 11 people after identifying them from the video clip. Four people, including the victim’s husband, Ramayan Choudhary, have been arrested so far,” SP Nitasha Gudiya said on Sunday. The incident took place at the Mallah-dominated hamlet of Bharpatia village under Srinagar police station, 15km from Bettiah. In her statement recorded at the Mahila Police Station in Bettiah, the victim recounted her suffering tale of domestic violence that finally culminated in mob vigilantism on Saturday. The woman, aged about 30, told SHO Poonam Kumari that her husband would regularly assault her and falsely insinuate her of having an extramarital relationship with his nephew. On Saturday, when the victim’s father and sister had come to visit her, Ramayan flew into a rage. She said he dragged her out of the house and collected a mob. She was tied to an electric pole and her head was tonsured. The video clip shows a man putting a blade into a shaving razor before he begins tonsuring her to accompany comments by the mob. A pan of water was also poured and her clothes were dishevelled in the violent attack. On an alarm raised by the victim’s father and sister, some villagers later intervened to extricate the tormented victim. She was taken to the safe confines of the Srinagar police station. “She was escorted to the Government Medical College by the Mahila PS SHO,” the SP said. The victim, after recording her statement, wasn’t prepared to go to her paternal home in Motihari. “We consequently put her in the government temporary shelter of the Mahila helpline,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-abets-mob-to-tie-tonsure-wife-in-bettiah/articleshow/77578425.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
August 17, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi slams Nitish over flood relief work||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who visited some flood-affected villages under Taraiya block in Saran district, on Sunday alleged ‘ghotala (scam)’ and ‘bhrashtachar (corruption)’ prevailed in the name of flood relief in some of the worst hit areas. “People are clamouring for drinking water and food. Nobody is there to take care of them,” he said, adding people were forced to live on embankments and national highways as their houses were either washed away by turbulent floodwaters or inundated. “Approach roads were washed away, affecting vehicular traffic at different places in Saran and Gopalganj districts. Around 81 lakh population is affected by floods in over 130 blocks of 16 districts, Tejashwi said. He said the plight of around 40 lakh migrant workers, who returned from different states due to Covid-19 pandemic and around 81 lakh flood victims, was unbearable. Tejashwi, who also visited some flood-hit areas in Gopalganj district, said, “The government is busy in making tall claims about flood relief. The situation is quite different on the ground.” Reacting to Tejashwi’s allegations, BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said, “He meets the poor only at the time of elections.” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “The entire government machinery is engaged in fighting floods in the state. The question of lapses on the part of the government doesn’t arise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-slams-nitish-over-flood-relief-work/articleshow/77578352.cms||Ramashankar
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||1.9kg opium seized in Baran, 6 held||Kota: Police busted an illegal opium drug unit in a house in Devrimund village under Harnawadashahaji police station of Baran district on Saturday and seized 1.9kg of opium, 11 litres of liquid containing opium and chemicals, equipment and machine and arrested six persons. The six persons were identified as Phoolchand Meena, owner of the house, Kalulal Meena, Hansraj Meena, Devlal Meena, Badrilal Meena and Raju Meena. The accused managed to destroy a large quantity of manufactured smack by dumping it into a drain on the arrival of police. The accused were booked under Sections 8/18, 8/21, 8/29 of NDPS Act and were produced before court on Sunday that ordered for a 5-day police custody, SHO Ramswroop Meena said. Baran district police has launched a Whatsapp helpline and mobile number of the in-charge of the district special team for the public to pass on information on illegal drugs, Baran ASP Vijay Swarnkar said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-9kg-opium-seized-in-baran-6-held/articleshow/77580926.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Trichy||Positivity rate dips at mass screenings in Trichy city||Trichy: The positivity rate at mass screenings conducted by Trichy corporation has dropped from 5.6% in July to 1.5% in August, but the civic body said it will continue with more such screenings focussing on the vulnerable population. After an initial hesitation in undertaking mass screening, the corporation has been engaging in the exercise periodically targeting the suspected hotspots. A total of 323 samples were collected in three separate mass screenings held in July at Madhuram ground vegetable market, Anna Nagar uzhavar sandhai and Gandhi market vicinity. The locations were identified either based on contact tracing of a few positive cases or due to suspicions based on public movement. A total of 18 cases were identified in the screenings, most of which came from the Gandhi market screening followed by that in uzhavar sandhai.The positivity rate of mass screenings was 5.6% in July and, as the bulk screenings helped in early intervention, the screenings were intensified in August. A total of 540 samples were collected covering G Corner wholesale vegetable market, West Boulevard road shops, old age homes and Eda street shops so far this month. But these four screenings identified only eight positive cases resulting in the positivity rate to plunge to 1.5%. It may be noted that symptomatic people, senior citizens and comorbid people were focussed at the screenings. Asymptomatic people were also invited for RT-PCR test at the West Boulevard Road screening, but the camp identified only three cases. Corporation officials said that besides identifying appropriate locations and testing the right population, suggestions from doctors were also taken into account. “The dip in positivity rate has surprised us. Perhaps, our stringent containment measures such as forming containment zones even for two positive cases have helped in bringing down the spread. Mass screenings will continue to keep the situation under control,” Trichy corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. The civic body is to expand the mass screening to Banana auction centre, Woraiyur and East Boulevard road locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/positivity-rate-dips-at-mass-screenings-in-trichy-city/articleshow/77581259.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Lion at last gets its share||AHMEDABAD: It was in 1972 that lions were dethroned as the national animal by Royal Bengal Tiger. Now 48 years later, the Union government has once again given the national importance to lion and declared Project Lion. While addressing the nation from the Red Fort on the Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the Union government would lay emphasis on the conservation of lion through Project Lion. This is for the first time that the Union government has announced that it will take up Project Lion for the conservation of Asiatic Lions found in Saurashtra region of Gujarat.  Prime Minister in his address said that the country had successfully implemented Project Tiger and Project Elephant. “The population of tiger has increased in the country and now we are taking up Project Lion in the coming days,” he said in his speech. The project will focus on creating health infrastructure which is suitable for the lion, the PM said. According to the latest count, the lion population has registered a 29% increase in the past five years, with their population going up from 523 in 2015 to 674 in 2020. The lions in Gujarat are found in an area of about 30,000sq km. A senior officer from from the Union ministry of forest and environment and climate change said that the project was expected as the Centre, after the CDV outbreak, had announced a Rs 98-crore Project Lion for creating hospital and disease surveillance. The officer said that the project would help the state to improve the habitat, engage modern technologies in lion management and surveillance and even rope in national institutes like Indian Veterinary Research Institute and National Institute for Virology for disease monitoring. The project will also address human-wildlife conflict and will be a comprehensive project involving local communities living in the vicinity of lion landscape, said a senior state forest officer. The officer said that the implementation of the project would mean more funds for the conservation of lions and for disease surveillance. At present the Asiatic lions get funds based on the project under various schemes. But Project Lion would mean a proper allocation of funds on the lines of Project Tiger. Moreover, Asiatic Lions, which are monitored only by the Gujarat Forest department, will have a body which will be taking decision for the conservation. Also the CCTV trap methods used for tiger surveillance and monitoring will also be implemented for the Asiatic Lions in the Saurashtra region. The officer said that even the Union forest ministry team, which had recently visited Gujarat forest after the death of lions in Dhari and nearby areas, had also advocated the need for Project Lion on the lines of Project Tiger. The officer said that even during the webinar on Project Lion, the Union ministry of forest and environment had asked Gujarat to rope in Indian Veterinary Research Institute and National Institute of Virology for disease surveillance. Gujarat may no longer have monopoly for lion sightings:The senior officials from the forest department in Gujarat are worried that with the implementation of Project Lion, the centre government can easily order the translocation of lions to Kuno Palpur, the issue which has been pending since April 2013. The apex court had in 2013 ordered the translocation. Once the lions are shifted to Kuno Palpur, Gujarat may no longer have the monopoly for lion sightings. 2017 committee recommended :In 2017, the 31-member Parliamentary committee visited Gir forest on January 17, 2017 and in its report stated that the central government must take up the conservation of endangered Asiatic lions on the lines of Project Tiger. The Parliamentary committee was headed by Congress MP Renuka Chowdhury, who had strongly pitched for a ‘statutory support’ to strengthen lion conservation efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lion-at-last-gets-its-share/articleshow/77580932.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Man, 40, alerts cops of illegal liquor business, killed in Chennai||CHENNAI: A gang of four chased and hacked a man to death in Tondiarpet on Saturday evening after he tipped police about the illegal sale of liquor in the locality. The suspects also vandalized vehicles at the crime scene before fleeing. Police identified the victim as Kesavan, 40, who lives on Veerakutti Street in Tondiarpet. Police believe the suspects were waiting for Kesavan since they surrounded him a few metres away from his house when he stepped out to go to a temple on Saturday. Kesavan took to his heels but they chased, hacked him to death and fled after damaging the vehicles in the area. Kesavan was rushed to Stanley Government Hospital where he died without responding to treatment, police sources said. On being alerted by residents, the Tondiarpet police reached the spot and conducted inquires. Police, quoting neighbours, said a person named Madhan was involved in selling liquor in the area. “Madhan’s place was raided last week. Following this, Madhan, his friends Naresh and Anand fought with Kesavan last week believing he tipped-off police about the illegal trade,” an investigating officer said. Police believe this could have been the motive behind the murder and have launched a search for the suspects. Kesavan also has a couple of cases pending against him and police are probing to see if he was murdered over previous enmity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-40-alerts-cops-of-illegal-liquor-biz-killed/articleshow/77579755.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||‘Even one disabled student needs a teacher’||Jaipur: A petition was filed at the Court of Disability Commission, Jaipur, regarding increasing number of dropouts among disabled students in the state. Replying to the petition, the directorate of secondary education, Bikaner, said it would provide a Grade-3 teacher at every gram panchayat level where there are five or more disabled students. But the directorate’s move has been criticised by the activist who filed the petition stating that even one disabled child in a village needs to be provided quality education. Social activist Dipendra Singh Chuahan who filed this petition said, “This is against the rules of the Right to Education Act, 2005 in which it has been clearly mentioned that disabled students must get education facilities. Even the New Education Policy, 2020, mentions that each school complex will appoint adequate special educators and therapists. It is their right and the state is obligated to make arrangements even for one child.” According to Chauhan, there are many such gram panchayats where there are two disabled children and with the condition put by the education department, the enrolment of disabled students will drop further. Chauhan recently filed an RTI in which it was revealed that there has been a 63% decline in disabled students studying in government and private schools in the state. In 2015-16 academic year, 1,16,683 disabled students were studying in schools which came down to 42,910 in 2019-20. One of the major reasons for the drop is the lack of special tutors and facilities in the schools. A senior education officer said, “It is not possible to provide government teachers for one student in every school. We agree that this is as per law, but we do not have required number of staff to be appointed in every school. So, it is a difficult to allot teachers everywhere.” Chauhan explained that disabled students in districts such as Udaipur, Pratapgarh, Karauli, Hanumangarh will be the most affected because recently here enrollment dropped to the maximum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/even-one-disabled-student-needs-a-teacher/articleshow/77580936.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Udaipur||Chittorgarh rolls out novel project for better policing||UDAIPUR: Chittorgarh police has rolled out a special project ‘Chittorgarh - Ek Pahal’ with an aim to connect with the villagers and solve problems related not only to law and order, but improve the overall situation of health, education and livelihood. There are eight police circles in the district and each circle officer (CO) has been assigned a village with the largest crime rate, especially community-based traditional crimes, to deter the younger generation from taking the wrong path. “Rather than hard policing, our focus is more on soft policing now. COs of all the eight circles have been directed to chalk out innovative ways by which they can build trust among the public. They would regularly meet the villagers, stay in touch with them and be a part of their lives,” Deepak Bhargava, Chittorgarh SP, told TOI. “Traditional crimes, loot, property related disputes, etc., are high in some communities like the kalbeliyas, kanjar, bavri, and we have chosen eight villages from each circle in the first phase, where such crimes are prevalent. Crimes related to opium smuggling, hooch manufacturing, too, are prevalent. The villages selected for special care are Surjana (Chittorgarh), Rajgarh (Begu), Pacholiya (Rawatbhata), Keljhar (Gangrar), Kannauj (Bhadesar), Mungana (Kapasan), Bansi (Badi Sadri) and Bhagwanpura in Nimbahera circle,” said the officer. Besides all schemes directed from the police headquarters like Gram Rakshak, Police Mitra, etc., some additional activities like forming youth clubs, afforestation works and repairing damaged roads will be done with the help of volunteers. “If needed, cops may conduct special classes in schools to spread awareness about girl and adult education, health, hygiene, sanitation and other issues. We are planning to collaborate with the road transport department to hold licence-making camps, with the medical department for health camps in these villages,” he said. “The project took off last month. On Independence Day, our COs and SHOs were asked to celebrate the event in their adopted villages where sweets were distributed, plantation work was taken up. The senior officers spoke to the community headmen to know about their problems. It is a beginning and it may take some months for the results to show,” additional SP Sarita Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/chittorgarh-rolls-out-novel-project-for-better-policing/articleshow/77588317.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||Chittorgarh rolls out novel project for better policing||UDAIPUR: Chittorgarh police has rolled out a special project ‘Chittorgarh - Ek Pahal’ with an aim to connect with the villagers and solve problems related not only to law and order, but improve the overall situation of health, education and livelihood. There are eight police circles in the district and each circle officer (CO) has been assigned a village with the largest crime rate, especially community-based traditional crimes, to deter the younger generation from taking the wrong path. “Rather than hard policing, our focus is more on soft policing now. COs of all the eight circles have been directed to chalk out innovative ways by which they can build trust among the public. They would regularly meet the villagers, stay in touch with them and be a part of their lives,” Deepak Bhargava, Chittorgarh SP, told TOI. “Traditional crimes, loot, property related disputes, etc., are high in some communities like the kalbeliyas, kanjar, bavri, and we have chosen eight villages from each circle in the first phase, where such crimes are prevalent. Crimes related to opium smuggling, hooch manufacturing, too, are prevalent. The villages selected for special care are Surjana (Chittorgarh), Rajgarh (Begu), Pacholiya (Rawatbhata), Keljhar (Gangrar), Kannauj (Bhadesar), Mungana (Kapasan), Bansi (Badi Sadri) and Bhagwanpura in Nimbahera circle,” said the officer. Besides all schemes directed from the police headquarters like Gram Rakshak, Police Mitra, etc., some additional activities like forming youth clubs, afforestation works and repairing damaged roads will be done with the help of volunteers. “If needed, cops may conduct special classes in schools to spread awareness about girl and adult education, health, hygiene, sanitation and other issues. We are planning to collaborate with the road transport department to hold licence-making camps, with the medical department for health camps in these villages,” he said. “The project took off last month. On Independence Day, our COs and SHOs were asked to celebrate the event in their adopted villages where sweets were distributed, plantation work was taken up. The senior officers spoke to the community headmen to know about their problems. It is a beginning and it may take some months for the results to show,” additional SP Sarita Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chittorgarh-rolls-out-novel-project-for-better-policing/articleshow/77580933.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Allahabad||Name of MP’s husband put in Covid patients’ list by error||PRAYAGRAJ: The officials of the health department faced a piquant situation after the name of husband of Prayagraj MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi, PC Joshi was wrongly figured in the list of Covid-19 positive patient uploaded on the portal of the health department on Saturday night. However, when the health officials came to know about the mistake, they immediately rectified it. The officials admitted it as clerical mistake. The case came to fore when the name of the husband of the Allahabad MP figured in the list of Covid positive patient despite the fact that he tested negative for the infection through Rapid antigen test kit on Saturday night. Nodal officer and Additional chief medical officer, Dr. Rishi Sahai told TOI that a team of health department had tested the sample of the husband of the Allahabad MP at his residence on Saturday and the sample tested negative. Meanwhile, when the health department issued the list of positive patients on Saturday night it wrongly included the name of PC Joshi. When the family members and others came to know about the development, they too verified the facts with the officials of the health department who later corrected it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/name-of-mps-husband-put-in-covid-patients-list-by-error/articleshow/77578511.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||NREGA: Around 40% migrants return to previous workplaces||Jaipur: Around 30-40% workers, mostly migrants who were engaged in MGNREGA work, have gone back to their previous workplaces, leading to a sharp dip in labour engagement under the scheme to 16.24 lakh (as on August 16) from 53.45 lakh in mid-June. Also, with the arrival of monsoon, many people have started working in agricultural lands. Meanwhile, the department has already generated 23.90 crore persondays of the approved labour budget of 30 crore (persondays) for the year 2020-21.  The labour engagement in the state dipped to 41.84 lakh on July 1; 28.40 lakh on July 23; 20.90 lakh on August 9 and 20.85 lakh on August 14. On August 16, 2019 (last year), the labour engagement in the state under the scheme was 8.29 lakh. On August 16, 2020, the labour engagement in Andhra Pradesh was 19.35 lakh followed by 18.93 in Tamil Nadu and 18.62 in Uttar Pradesh. “The feedback we have received from the ground is that around 30-40% migrant workers have returned to their previous workplaces (the states in which they were working earlier). Even many migrant workers have started working in the agricultural fields,” said state’s MGNREGA commissioner P C Kishan. “The numbers are going to further dip to 10 lakh or even less in September-October. With the arrival of monsoon, the workers will start engaging in agricultural work more. First, those who have completed 100 days of work will be leaving NREGA for other works. Second, those who have agricultural lands will go for farming during monsoon,” he added. “Also, in mining and industrial works, the labourers are offered wages ranging from Rs 400 to Rs 800 per day. Since they are offering more wages, a lot of migrant workers are taking up these jobs,” Kishan further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nrega-around-40-migrants-return-to-previous-workplaces/articleshow/77580938.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
August 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||In a first, Indian association hoists tricolour at Times Square||AHMEDABAD: The Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) of the tri-state area of New York, New Jersey and Connecticut (FIA Tristate), for the first time organized a flag hoisting of Indian tricolour at Times Square – fondly called the crossroads of the world – in New York City on August 15.  Consul General of India in New York, Randhir Kumar Jaiswal, unfurled the Indian flag. Senior officers of the consulate were also present at the occasion. Members from the Indian diaspora were present at the event as the square reverberated with chants of ‘Vande Mataram’ and ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai.’ Ankur Vaidya, chairman of FIA, told TOI that FIA is known for hosting the biggest Independence Day parade outside of India. “This year, due to pandemic the parade was out of question. It’s the 50th year of the organization and thus we wanted to celebrate it uniquely,” he said. “We had to obtain 11 permissions but eventually we could get it and we could hoist the Tricolour for the first time at Times Square.” The organizers said that it was an ode to the Covid-19 warriors in the US and India, saluting the health workers and first responders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-a-1st-indian-assn-hoists-tricolour-at-times-square/articleshow/77580941.cms||Parth Shastri
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||India-Nepal bridge opened briefly on I-Day||Pithoragarh: The bridge at the Indo-Nepal border in Dharchula was opened for a short period on Independence Day, as a gesture of goodwill between Indian and Nepalese police. Sources within India’s Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and Nepal’s border guards said on Saturday, Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF), who are now posted at the border on the Nepalese side) made a request to open the bridge for talks, after which, APF and SSB personnel received each other at the mid-point of the bridge. APF personnel from the Nepalese side arrived to wish the Indian personnel on Independence Day and presented a bouquet and a shawl to the officer from the Indian side, who presented them with sweets, the sources said. Pithoragarh has five bridges on the river Kali that people use to cross over from both sides, but since almost five months, all bridges have remained closed, except for brie f periods when both sides agree to open them for specific purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/india-nepal-bridge-opened-briefly-on-i-day/articleshow/77578430.cms||Prem Punetha
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Maanja thread leaves four injured in a day; police nab 55 people in Chennai||CHENNAI: The deadly maanja thread left four people injured on Saturday alone, prompting a series of arrests by the city police. The force has rounded up 55 people in North Chennai and has seized 164 kites, several spools of maanja thread from them. Police said one of the four injured was in a critical condition. In the first incident reported in Madhavaram on Saturday afternoon, victim Madhavan, 32, of Chintadripet, was returning from his workplace on his bike, when a stray maanja thread slit his throat on GNT Road, near the Madhavaram police station. He fell off his bike and was rushed to Government Stanley Hospital, where he received 13 stitches on the neck. Police said his condition was stable. In a case reported at the Tiruvottiyur police station, 35-year-old Ramani riding a scooter suffered a deep cut on the neck, and a fracture on her right hand when she fell off the vehicle subsequently. Ramani, of Ennore, worked at a textile shop in the locality and was returning home on Ennore Expressway with her friend Revathi on the pillion. Revathi, who also suffered a fall, found a (maanja) thread entangled on the bike. Ramani was admitted at Stanley Government Hospital, where her condition was said to be critical. In another case in Tiruvottiyur, Purushotaman was on his way to purchase fish on his bike on Saturday evening, when a maanja thread got looped around his neck leaving him with severe injuries. Another person named Pandiarajan was injured while riding on Ennore Expressway and has been admitted to a private hospital. Following the incidents, special teams headed by V Balakrishnan, joint commissioner, North, were formed. Raids at Madhavaram, Washermenpet and Flower Bazaar police limits on Saturday night yielded 164 kites and five spools of maanja. Nine people from Flower Bazaar were nabbed in six cases, 13 from in Washermenpet were arrested in as many cases and 23 people were nabbed in 26 cases in Madhavaram police limits. “We will be on the lookout for miscreants flying kites this way as it endangers the lives of innocent people,” said Balakrishnan. “Parents will also be held responsible if they don’t monitor and prevent their children from indulging in kite flying,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/maanja-thread-leaves-4-injured-in-a-day-police-nab-55-people/articleshow/77579768.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Varanasi||Lawyer shot dead by kin over land dispute in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: A 45-year-old lawyer was shot dead allegedly by his relatives over a land dispute in Shivpur village, Gagha area of Gorakhpur district on Sunday morning. The deceased lawyer was identified as Rajeshwar Pandey. Tewari used to practise at Gola Tehsil, said police. Police officials said Rajeshwar’s house is just opposite to the house of his relative Prem Kumar Pandey aka Chanki Pandey. Rajeshwar’s father and Chanki’s grandfather are real brothers. The two families had a dispute over a piece of land since a long time. According to reports, Rajeshwar had an altercation with Chanki’s grandfather, and later with Chanki over the land on Sunday morning. Soon after, someone fired at Rajeshwar from a close quarter. He was being rushed to the hospital but he succumbed to injuries on the way. “Rajeshwar’s family filed a written complaint with us after which we registered a case against five persons. Two of the accused have been arrested and search is on to nab the rest,” said SSP Sunil Kumar Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/lawyer-shot-dead-by-kin-over-land-dispute-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/77580690.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||Girl kills self after spat with sister||HARIDWAR: A 20-year-old girl, pursuing graduation from Delhi University, allegedly hanged herself in her Haridwar home on Saturday evening. Police did not find any suicide note from the room but parents told the police that she was upset after a verbal spat with her younger sister. The girl is a final-year student at Dayal Singh College of Delhi University. She had been living in Haridwar after the Covid-19 lockdown in March. Yogesh Dev, SHO Ranipur police station told TOI, “The victim girl has been identified as Ishika Goyal, a resident of Suman Nagar. She was playing with her younger sister and they both had a verbal spat, following which, the parents scolded Ishika. Later, she took the extreme step. The body was found in the room by her parents who informed the police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/girl-kills-self-after-spat-with-sister/articleshow/77578500.cms||MS Nawaz
August 17, 2020||Goa||GSL to start work on guided missile frigates in October-November||PANAJI: Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) expects to start construction on the two advanced guided missile frigates in October-November with the construction design almost being finalised, said chairman and managing director of GSL B B Nagpal. Nagpal said that Russian ship building firm, United Shipbuilding Corporation through its subsidiary Yantar Shipyard has already begun the technology transfer process with GSL. “The completion of design for construction of two advanced missile frigates is in advanced stage,” he said. “Two consignments of design documents for commencement of construction have already been received from Russian side.” Nagpal also announced that training of GSL personnel by Russian specialists has commenced through video conference. GSL has also started placing orders for all major equipment. “With the support of the ministry of defence and the Indian Navy, all supplementary contracts have been signed with the Russian side. Keel laying of the vessels is likely to take place in October or November 2020,” Nagpal added. In 2018, India and Russia signed a suite of shipbuilding contracts regarding four project 11356 frigates with two ships being built by Yantar Shipyard and two being built by Goa Shipyard based on technology shared by Russia. The Indian Navy and GSL inked the contract for the two ships in January 2019. The stealth frigates are weapon intensive and include air defense/missile systems, torpedoes and anti-submarine warfare systems, and the long-range cruise missiles BrahMos. These four warships will add to the six such Russian-built stealth frigates, three Talwar-class and three Teg-class warships, already inducted into the Indian Navy from 2003-2004 onwards. During the Atmanirbharta Week, GSL and IIT Goa inked an MoU to explore artificial intelligence, machine learning, Internet of Things (IoT), and other areas for cooperation towards indigenous technology and smart manufacturing development. GSL has also completed phase 3 of its modernisation with a specialised GRP complex being inaugurated. The facility will be used to produce fast interceptor boats for exports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsl-to-start-work-on-guided-missile-frigates-in-oct-nov/articleshow/77581294.cms||Newton Sequeira
August 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro set to cross Yamuna for fifth time, this time on cantilever bridge||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro is all set to cross the Yamuna for the fifth time. But this will be the first time that a cantilever structure similar to the iconic Signature Bridge will be built for the tracks. The cantilever will provide support to the longer spans of the bridge and fewer pillars will be needed on the Yamuna riverbed, thus causing minimal hindrance to the river’s flow. “Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has commenced preliminary work on the fifth bridge over the Yamuna coming up on the Majlis Park–Maujpur corridor of Phase-IV,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. At 560 metres, this will be the fourth longest bridge. The structure will come up between Wazirabad and Signature Bridge. Dayal added, “The bridge will connect Soorghat and Sonia Vihar stations. Casting of test piles has started after carrying out geotechnical investigation at the location of the proposed piers.” A cantilever is a rigid structural element that extends horizontally and is supported at only one end. This kind of construction allows overhanging structures without additional support. However, in this bridge there will be nine pillars supporting eight spans measuring 60 to 80 metres. In comparison, the 574m-long metro bridge near Kalindi Kunj is supported by 15 pillars. “The cantilever construction (CLC) method is generally employed where the span of a bridge is large and it is difficult to provide ground support. The spans of this bridge have been kept large to limit the number of pillars on the riverbed for minimum hindrance to the river’s flow. Concreting of the superstructure will be done from the top. In addition to this, the superstructure will take the shape of an arch, so it will be aesthetically appealing,” said Dayal. The 12.5km Majlis Park-Maujpur metro corridor will connect two ends of the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar). The section comprises eight elevated stations — Yamuna Vihar, Bhajanpura, Khajuri Khas, Sonia Vihar, Soorghat, Jagatpur Village, Jharoda Majraa and Burari. Apart from turning the Pink Line from an arc to a complete circle, this corridor will also serve as a vital link between north and northeast Delhi. This corridor will also have a 1.4km “double-decker” section with the viaduct on the upper deck at an elevation of 18.5 metres and the road flyover on the lower deck at a height of 9.5m. This portion will be on the central verge of the road between Yamuna Vihar and Bhajanpura. “All mandatory approvals from the agencies concerned have been obtained for construction of the bridge. DMRC is committed to fulfilling the conditions given by the principal committee on Yamuna. All construction activities are being carried out with minimum effect on the floodplain. Restoration of the floodplain that could be impacted by the construction work will be carried out, apart from scientific disposal of debris. No dumping of construction waste will be allowed on the floodplain,” Dayal said. Watch Delhi Metro set to cross Yamuna for fifth time, this time on cantilever bridge||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-set-to-cross-yamuna-for-fifth-time-this-time-on-cantilever-bridge/articleshow/77579821.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||‘MS Dhoni could have played for a few more years’||DEHRADUN: Cricket fans all across the globe termed it the “end of an era” after former Indian team captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni called it a day from international cricket via an Instagram post on August 15. The sentiment was no different in his ancestral village Lwali in Almora district. “I think he could have played for another couple of years for India,” said Hayat Singh Dhauni, cousin of MS Dhoni. According to locals, Dhoni’s father Pan Singh had left the village in the 1970s to find a job. He eventually settled in Ranchi with his family. Like Dhoni’s father, several other locals of Lwali had left their native homes in search of jobs and as a consequence, the population of the village has now reduced to just 25-30 families. “The last time Dhoni came to our village was in mid-2004 and since then, I haven’t been able to meet him. However, his parents and siblings still come to the village. He used to hit those helicopter shots in our village fields as well.” Dhoni’s uncle Ghanpat Singh Dhauni told TOI, “I met my elder brother (Dhoni’s father) and Mahendra in 2018 when I visited Ranchi. He is a very simple person with no airs of a celebrity.” He added that the officials must ensure basic infrastructure in Lwali as it is Dhoni's ancestral village. “Forget a small cricket ground, the village doesn’t even have proper roads yet,” he said. The World Cup winning captain frequently comes to Uttarakhand for vacation and had visited Mussoorie early this year. Dhoni’s wife Sakshi Rawat hails from Dehradun and reportedly, the couple is getting their cottage constructed somewhere near the Sahastradhara area in the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dhoni-could-have-played-for-a-few-more-years-say-locals-of-his-native-almora-village/articleshow/77578499.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: First of migratory birds begin arriving at Pallikaranai marsh||CHENNAI: The Pallikaranai marshland is teeming with the first set of migratory birds, mainly small waders such as common sandpiper, wood sandpiper and ruff. Naturalists say these visitors began arriving in the water body since the first week of August, having travelled thousands of kilometres. K V R K Thirunaranan, founder of The Nature Trust who has been monitoring the birds in the wetland over the last 20 years, said about 10 common sandpipers, close to 300 wood sandpipers and more than 200 Ruff were spotted. Common sandpiper at the Pallikaranai marshlandEach year, ornithologist V Santharam said the common sandpiper flew in from Ladakh in the western Himalayas, the wood sandpiper comes from Central Asia, and the Ruff travels from the Tundra region, close to the Arctic circle, members of the last two species covering more than 10,000km. These waders begin arriving in small numbers by mid-July, and stay through the bitter winter in the Tundra region and Central Asia when there is an acute shortage of feed. Most begin returning home with the onset of summer in the south, while some stay till the end of April, Santharam said. Among the migrants in the ecologically sensitive Pallikaranai marshland, the last remaining wetland in the city, the commonly sighted cattle egrets and pond herons have not been sighted. They are considered friends of farmers as they feed on insects harmful to crops and help avoid using of pesticides or insecticides, said Thirunaranan. Over the last 10 years, he said, his team had at any given time sighted only a maximum of 200 members of these species. They breed in the summer and very few are seen in the Pallikaranai marsh in July and August, he said. Chennai district forest officer V Subbiah said birders can watch the migrants from the side of the Thoriappakkam-Pallavaram Radial Road. The marshland, a major breeding spot for migratory birds in the city along with the Perumbakkam lake, once sprawled over close to 7,000 hectares. Now, thanks to unregulated development over the years, it has been reduced to a mere 700 hectares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/first-of-migratory-birds-begin-arriving-at-pallikaranai-marsh/articleshow/77579777.cms||P Oppili
August 17, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Teen girl gang-raped, tortured; two accused held||GORAKHPUR: A teenage girl was reportedly gang-raped and burnt with cigarettes by two men in Gola area of Gorakhpur district on Friday night. Police arrested both the accused on Sunday after launching a manhunt for them. A case was registered on Saturday on the written complaint of the survivor’s mother and a hunt was launched to arrest the two accused, said police officials. The girl, daughter of a brick kiln worker, was found lying unconscious behind bushes on Saturday, and is undergoing treatment at the district hospital. The teen survivor’s mother filed a complaint against a named and one unidentified person and a case has been registered against both, said police. Local police sources said, the girl who is daughter of a brick kiln labourer, had gone out to get water from a hand pump on Friday night, when two men on a motorcycle forcefully carried her inside a hut near a pond in the village and raped her. They also tortured her and burnt her with cigarettes. When the teen girl became unconscious, the two assailants escaped. The survivor identified one accused as Arjun. “A case was registered under Pocso Act and sections related to kidnapping and gangrape on the complaint of the survivor’s mother. Police teams started conducting raids and arrested accused Arjun of Debripar village and his friend Mahesh alias Chotu,” said SSP Sunil Kumar Gupta. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/teen-girl-gang-raped-tortured-two-accused-held/articleshow/77580713.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Disposable cutlery, tables wide apart, norm now||CHENNAI: Restaurateurs are looking at different ways to ensure that it is safe for customers as more and more people have begun to dine in. The steps include positioning tables farther from one another, installing screens between tables, offering small fans and using disposable cutlery. Ventilation is a big concern for many restaurant owners as most of the buildings are designed for air conditioning. Now, they keep the glass doors at the entrance to let fresh air in. With fewer people allowed, the numbers are just right for the staff to serve quickly because customers cannot spend too much time dining either with no air conditioning. Tarun Mahadeven, director of Advantage Foods, said, “Outdoor dining is the best option. The government can offer pavement space or portions of the road so that a few tables can be put out for dine-in like it’s done in cities like New York. This will allow restaurants to make the most of their outdoor space.” He said there are limitations due to weather but it can still be done because it is safe. “We are taking some precautions without compromising much on the experience people expect in a restaurant. Plexiglass screens, space between tables and other precautions are taken as people come to restaurants now because they miss the ambience and the experience of dining with friends and family,” he said. A few restaurant owners have also looked at offering private space for families so that they can dine-in without mingling with other customers. P Suresh, who founded Sangeetha Veg Restaurants, said, “Restaurants can start in a limited manner. The menu should be limited to fewer items and also plates and crockery should be disposable to make them safe for customers. Units like fast food where they serve food in disposable plates will work well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/disposable-cutlery-tables-wide-apart-norm-now/articleshow/77579800.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Trichy||Fever camps in Trichy extended till August 22||Trichy: As fever camps were found instrumental in the early intervention of Covid-19 positive cases in the city, Trichy Corporation has decided to extend the service till August 22. As many as 152 camps in all the four zones of the corporation will be continued. Evening fever camps will also be held in a few wards. Since July 16, Trichy city has conducted more than 700 fever camps, which have identified 609 positive cases until the first week of August. As the camps were helpful to track senior citizens, the corporation has extended the fever camps till August 22. All the 18 urban primary health centres (UPHCs) will conduct fever camps in the morning and evening hours. The officials said that revenue assistants and sanitary supervisors will reach out to the vulnerable people in their wards to make them attend the fever camps. “Officials were intimated to announce the schedule of fever camps and locations through public address system,” Trichy Corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. The civic body clarified that only symptomatic people will be screened at the camps. Residents can contact the helplines for more details. They are Srirangam zone - 76395 11000, Ariyamangalam zone - 76395 22000, Ponmalai zone - 76395 33000 and K Abishekapuram zone - 76395 44000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fever-camps-in-trichy-extended-till-august-22/articleshow/77581295.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Chennai||125 Covid deaths in TN, 5,950 cases||Chennai: Tamil Nadu’s Covid-19 toll on Sunday was just two short of Saturday’s record 127, and Chennai registered nearly 1,200 fresh cases for the third day in a row. A total of 5,950 cases were recorded across the state. At present, Chennai has 11,498 active cases, nearly one-fifth of the active cases in TN (54,019). There seems to be no improvement in the neighbouring districts of Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur as the infection rate remains high. On Sunday, they reported 1,231 new cases. Put together, the Chennai region had 36 deaths. Also for the second day, TN reported ‘incidental’ Covid deaths in its health bulletin. These are people with chronic illness, organ failure or end stage disease who were diagnosed with Covid. Sunday’s bulletin had put the death of two men from Tirupur and Kancheepuram in this category. The state has so far reported six ‘incidental’ deaths. In western Tamil Nadu, the daily number increased by 19%. With Coimbatore topping the chart (395 cases), the region registered 846 fresh cases on Sunday. On Sunday, the health department closed a multi-storied jewellery shop in Gandhipuram, Coimbatore, after 58 of its employees tested positive for the virus. The shop was fumigated. A senior official from the department said, “The shop management had recently brought a batch of employees from other districts like Chennai and Villupuram. One of them had reported symptoms like fever and when tested, he was positive for the infection. Immediately, we tested all the 90 employees of the shop and of which, 58 turned positive.” The southern districts had the least number of new cases this week and the number of active cases has come down to 11,845. It was around 14,500 last week. Theni reported the highest number of new cases in the region with 205 people testing positive. Official sources in Theni district administration said there was a drop in the number of samples tested and plans were made to increase it in the coming days. Only 987 samples were taken on Sunday -- lowest this week. There was not much of a difference in Central TN. But Pudukottai witnessed the highest single-day spike with 187 new cases. The state continued to test aggressively. More than 70,000 samples were tested by RT-PCR method at approved labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/125-covid-deaths-in-tn-5950-cases/articleshow/77579806.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||‘Ambulance’ train stopped, both MP patients & Nagpur hospitals in pain||NAGPUR: While the lockdown in Nagpur has taken a toll on heathcare in neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, hospitals in the city too have suffered loss of business. The Amravati-Jabalpur Express, also known as ambulance among the locals, was the only hope for thousands of patients from remotest villages of Madhya Pradesh to reach a doctor in Nagpur. Each day, almost a train-full of patients used to reach Nagpur and go back in the evening, till it stopped after the lockdown was imposed. As the lockdown has stopped all intercity trains and buses also not plying, this has left patients in Madhya Pradesh struggling, sources in the health care business say. Back in Jabalpur, demands are being raised to start the train service. In Nagpur, absence of patients from MP has led to a sharp decline in bed occupancy of hospitals. Mansi Agrawal of Alexis Hospital said as much as 60% of the patient influx was from Madhya Pradesh, which has dropped considerably. “We have begun tele-consultation but that does not give the same results. Physical examination is needed and tele-consultation can only be happening in old cases for review,” she said. A representative of the hospital at Jabalpur said he keeps getting inquiries from the patients who want to know when access to Nagpur will be opened. Some patients have no choice but to wait, he said. Dr Anoop Marar of Orange City Hospital said the fall in patients from Madhya Pradesh has led to a direct impact in the bed occupancy in hospitals across the city. He estimated that the occupancy may have easily gone down to less than half of the normal levels, and the patients have been left harried too. “If the number of patients going to Nagpur has gone down, the load has increased in hospitals in Madhya Pradesh,” said Dr Saurabh Choudhary, a private practitioner at Damoh town. “However, this has affected treatment also. There are patients who have come with blood pressure as high as 180 on account of lack of review. “Patients who were prescribed a month’s medicine have stopped taking the doses as they could not go to the doctor after that,” he said. Swati Godbole, former mayor of Jabalpur, said, “Local representatives and politicians are getting a number of requests to take up the cause of starting the Amravati-Jabalpur train. Even as people have started reaching Nagpur in private vehicles, not everyone especially those coming from interior villages have the means. Closure of the Nagpur-Jabalpur highway has added to the troubles as 80km detour has to be taken.” Politicians are not raising the issue considering that it may not be heeded due to the pandemic. However, measures like allotting only two berths in a seat can be taken for starting the train, she said. A representative of Care Hospitals said there are patients who had undergone surgeries before the lockdown, but they cannot come down for a review.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ambulance-train-stopped-both-mp-patients-city-hospitals-in-pain/articleshow/77580960.cms||Shishir Arya
August 17, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara’s south zone sees a spike, 73 cases in two days||Vadodara: The south zone of Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases. Within last 48 hours ending on Sunday evening, this zone witnessed an addition of 73 fresh cases after which the total number of cases here touched 1,241. It recorded 54 new cases within 24 hours ending Saturday evening. In absolute numbers, however, VMC’s north zone remained the worst hit. With 28 new cases in two days, the total number of cases here has reached 1,747. The number of cases in Vadodara district has reached 1,317 after rural areas added 60 fresh cases within 48 hours. The east and west zones recorded 7 and 45 fresh cases in the same period. The total number of Covid-19 cases during the pandemic has now touched 6,324 as the city and district added 213 fresh cases within 48 hours ending on Sunday evening. Of the 213, 107 were registered by Saturday evening while another 106 got added by Sunday evening. On both days, 1,119 samples each were tested. VMC also declared three deaths due to Covid-19 on Saturday and Sunday taking the official death toll in Vadodara city and district to 120.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodaras-south-zone-sees-a-spike-73-cases-in-two-days/articleshow/77577637.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||Harish Rawat, 200 others booked for violating Covid-19 norms during protest rally||ROORKEE: Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat, three Congress legislators, and around 200 others were booked for alleged violation of Covid-19 norms under section 188 (disobedience to order of lawful authority) of the Indian Penal Code and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act after they gathered in Roorkee on August 15 to take out a bullock cart rally from Dhandera to Landaura to protest against the dilapidated condition of roads in the area. During the rally, the former CM attacked the incumbent government alleging that the BJP has no interest in providing basic facilities to the people. “This road, falling under a BJP constituency, is filled with potholes and gets inundated after every rain spell. The saffron party has cheated people as their term in office has been a period of no development and only lip service,” he said. Rawat alleged that he had sanctioned Rs 37 crore as the CM of the state in 2017 to fix water-logging issues in Dhandera-Mohanpura area but nothing has been done in this connection by the present state government. Congress legislators Mamta Rakesh, Qazi Nizamuddin, and Furkan Ahmed also accompanied ex-CM Rawat during his protest rally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/harish-rawat-200-others-booked-for-violating-covid-19-norms-during-protest-rally/articleshow/77578547.cms||Tapan Susheel
August 17, 2020||Kanpur||Lord Ram & Krishna belong to all, not just BJP: Akhilesh Yadav||KANPUR: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav said on Sunday that Lord Ram belongs to all and not just to BJP and targeted the government over law and order and crime incidents in state. “Lord Ram belongs to all, Lord Krishna belongs to all. Lord Ram and Lord Krishna were incarnations of Lord Vishnu, who belongs to all,” Yadav said in Thatia area of Kannauj on Sunday while on way to Saifai, his native place in Etawah. “We all seek blessings of Goddesses during Navratri festival. Now tell me, do these Goddesses also belong to BJP only,” he asked. Yadav attacked BJP on the Lakhimpur Kheri incident, wherein a minor girl was raped and brutally murdered. He said BJP is only doing politics in the name of Lord Ram and is least bothered over the law and order situation in state. “Crime against women is at its peak in the state during BJP rule. The brutal killing of a teenage girl after rape in Lakhimpur Kheri is a shocking incident. Why is the BJP government protecting the accused in cases of rape, kidnapping and killings,” Yadav asked. Referring to the Aligarh incident where the SHO of Gonda police station allegedly assaulted BJP MLA Rajkumar Sahyogi, Yadav said, “Their (BJP) MLAs and police both believe in ‘thok do’ theory. But, they themselves seem to be confused now. They are not sure whom they have to ‘thoko’ (attack) and whom not. Now when their CM will say ‘thok do’ in assembly, such things will definitely happen.” The Samajwadi Party believes in development. But, they (BJP) fool people to get their vote. We bank on our development work for votes, he added. Akhilesh also rewarded a 14-year-old Kannauj boy Krishna, who had saved a seven-year-old girl from drowning. He gave the boy a cheque of Rs 21,000. His wife and former Kannauj MP Dimple Yadav was also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/lord-ram-krishna-belong-to-all-not-just-bjp-akhilesh/articleshow/77580814.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Residents let sewage out on to Puzhuthivakkam road||CHENNAI: A foul smell enveloped Church Street in Puzhuthivakkam last week after an apartment complex let out raw sewage into roadside drains and a nearby ground. When TOI visited the spot, it found that several residential complexes in the area flouted norms and disposed of sewage illegally although Metrowater had laid sewerage lines. “Residents continue to break rules and not seek a connection,” said R Thiyagarajan, area engineer of Metrowater who is in charge of this area. He was speaking about wards 168 and 169 where lines have been laid. Srinivasan, a resident, said many residents were apprehensive about getting sewerage connections. “In our own apartment, out of the eight flats, three owners are not willing to spend. The pandemic has worsened the situation. Despite pleas, many associations are not coming forward to get connections,” he said. Out of 10,500 complexes in wards 168 and 169, only 1,600 have sought connections in the past six months. Srinivasan said each apartment has a soak pit that overflows into roadside drains. Some directly let out waste water into drains and on grounds using pipes. Officials in Metrowater said Greater Chennai Corporation has the power to take action against such residents. “We are laying the pipelines and spreading awareness among residents to get new connections. Every household has to spend Rs 7,500. We have started Alaithal Inaippu scheme for individual households where they can get a connection first and pay later,” said R Narasimhan, chief engineer, operations and maintenance. But Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam, an anti-corruption NGO, said local engineers demand bribes from residents when they approach for connections. “Former councillors and local engineers form syndicates and ask residents to pay money for connections. Last week in Ambattur, senior officials from Metrowater held a camp to issue connections. However, residents complained that the agency quoted higher rates than that shown on the website,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/residents-let-sewage-out-on-to-puzhuthivakkam-road/articleshow/77579811.cms||Komal Gautham
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||Man arrested for threatening MLA Yamunotri||DEHRADUN: City police on Sunday arrested on charges of threatening and hurling abuses to MLA Yamunotri on phone. The complaint in this regard was registered on August 4, 2020. The accused, identified as Pramod Tyagi, resident of Nehru colony, was nabbed from near Ajabpur flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-arrested-for-threatening-mla-yamunotri/articleshow/77578544.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Goa||Breached bundh at Azossim poses threat to Mandur fields||PANAJI: A 25-odd metre breach to the Valado Divisorio bundh of Azossim, which had been repaired at an approximate cost of Rs 5 lakh recently has started weakening again as rampaging tidal action continues damaging the bundhs in the area. A fresh breach had developed in the repaired stretch of the bundh after it was strengthened about six months. The severe impact of the tidal action, which is accelerated by the influx of water from Cumbharjua canal is felt at other places, too. “This bund in Azossim is an internal one, but it has now become weak due to a large breach in the main Domzo bundh on Cumbharjua canal in Carambolim,” Menino Dias, chairman of St Matheus tenants association said. From Cumbharjua banks towards khazan lands, vast stretches of paddy fields have been submerged for many years in Mandur, Dongorim, Neura, Carambolim and other areas. The khazan land from Carambolim to Agasaim is one of the biggest in Goa and produced paddy, vegetables and fish, but now only aquaculture flourishes due to flooding of fields. Farmers in the area have been pleading with authorities to plug the breach to the main Domzo bundh. “This would easily curtail expenditure on internal bund maintenance. Any delay will result in massive wastage of public funds without any guarantee of repairs lasting even a few months,” a local farmer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/breached-bundh-at-azossim-poses-threat-to-mandur-fields/articleshow/77581370.cms||Paul Fernandes
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Wage row rages, food delivery to get hit in Chennai||CHENNAI: With differences over Swiggy’s new wage policy yet to be sorted, uncertainty looms over resumption of food delivery services in Chennai. A section of delivery executives, who are protesting against 50-60% incentive cut since Friday, are likely to boycott work on Monday affecting delivery services in the city for the third consecutive day. Swiggy delivery executives said the new policy was not economically feasible for them particularly with rising fuel prices. They said for every Rs 500 earned, almost half is spent on fuel and in case they spend Rs100 on food, they take back home only Rs100 to Rs 200. It used to be Rs 1,000/day a few years ago. “Some of us are degree holders and ended up taking up this job after being fired from our offices in the lockdown. We know that thousands are waiting in case we don’t agree to their terms. Besides the money, the manner in which some of the managers responded has hurt us,” said an executive from Royapettah. The company provided every worker with a couple of masks and a 50ml sanitiser and nothing else, he said. “It was okay even if they didn’t recognise the risks taken by executives. But it was very unfair to cut pay in this crisis,” he said. Swiggy said it has adopted “reasonable methods to determine payout” and incentive structures to ensure that their “delivery partners make adequate earnings”. With the food delivery segment continuing to register an upward trend in orders, the company is in constant touch with delivery executives and are working towards addressing the matter at the earliest, said a spokesperson from Swiggy. As the issue remains unresolved, other food aggregators are facing an increased demand resulting in more delay and higher charges for the customer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/wage-row-rages-food-delivery-to-get-hit-in-city/articleshow/77579828.cms||Ram Sundaram
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Qawwali’s voyage from royal courts to the silver screen||LUCKNOW: Have you ever wondered how qawwali transcended years of cultural appropriation and still finds relevance in mainstream art and cinema? The question was among the several answered about qawwali in an online session curated by Kathak doyen and Lucknow native Manjari Chaturrvedi on Saturday evening. During the event, faculty member of Jamia Millia Islamia Danish Iqbal talked about qawwali and its modern-commercial avatar. In another session, founder of South Asian Alliance for Literature, Art & Culture, Saif Mahmood talked about the romance between Urdu poetry and qawwali. “Qawwali as a tradition came to Delhi following its invasion by Mongol rulers, when several artists came to the walled city. Back then, poets were dependent on singers who in turn would fall back on musicians. Poetry recitation was uncommon,” said Iqbal. “At that time, qawwali as an art form was restricted to royal courts and involved playing of elaborate musical instruments. The other version — Khanqahi qawwali — didn’t have music, only claps. Now, we have around 30 varieties of qawwali like Marathi, Dalit qawwali and South Indian among others. The art evolved with commercialisation of the music inductry,” he added. Kathak dancer Manjari Chaturvedi said that a few years ago she had heard a qawwali written for politician Mulayam Singh Yadav, which was commissioned during polls. Mahmood said, “Qawwali took Urdu poetry out of the ghetto of university departments and poets. People could remember Urdu poetry and understand the language better because of qawwali.” “The first film to feature a qawwali was “Zeenat” in 1945. Sahir Ludhianvi and Shakeel Badayuni wrote one for “Mughal-e-Azam” in 1960 and Kaifi Azmi for “Garam Hawa” in 1973. These films took the art from royal courts to our homes while popularising ‘filmy’ qawwali,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/qawwalis-voyage-from-royal-courts-to-the-silver-screen/articleshow/77581305.cms||Yusra Husain
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||Central board of indirect taxes delays RTI reply by 2 years, gets CIC rap||NAGPUR: The Central Information Commission (CIC) has slammed the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) for a delay of almost two years in replying to queries by an activist from city under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005. On August 13, 2018, appellant Sanjay Thul had sought information from the CBIC about sanctioned, required and actual strength of SC/ST employees for the post of assistant commissioner. He had also demanded a copy of the post-wise reservation roster for direct and promotional postings. The board’s central public information officer (CPIO), however, replied to his queries almost two years later on August 3 this year, against the norm of 30 days. When CPIO failed to reply earlier, Thul had filed first appeal with appellate authority, but even that wasn’t disposed of forcing him to file second appeal with the CIC. He prayed to the CIC for appropriate legal action against CPIO under Section 20 of RTI Act and also directives to reply to his queries. The appellant further requested for suo motu disclosure of reservation roster on board’s website. “This commission observes that due information, as available in records, has been provided to the appellant on August 3 through a letter. However, there is inordinate delay in responding to RTI application. Therefore, the CPIO is hereby issued a warning to be careful in future and not to contravene Act’s provisions,” said commissioner Neeraj Kumar Gupta. He added the board is neither reviewing CPIO’s appointment nor ensuring sufficient emphasis to compliance of Act’s provisions. “The department of revenue’s additional secretary, being an appointing authority, couldn’t appoint a suitable officer to hold CPIO’s charge. Instead, the RTI portal continued in the name of JP Sharma, who has been working as a consultant after retirement,” Gupta pointed out. The commissioner advised the secretary to review the board’s working. “The authority should consider updating the reservation roster on its website as a part of voluntary disclosure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/central-board-of-indirect-taxes-delays-rti-reply-by-2-yrs-gets-cic-rap/articleshow/77580979.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 17, 2020||Bhopal||After beating coronavirus, Covid warriors back on the frontlines in Bhopal||BHOPAL: While most of the people enjoyed the Independence Day holiday, for over 3300 cops –- it was a hectic day on duty. They were deployed on the field to maintain law and order and monitor security arrangements. TOI spoke to a few cops including those who had tested Corona positive and have re-joined their duty after treatment. CSP (Jehangirabad) Abdul Aleem Khan, who had tested Corona positive and was admitted at a hospital for 20 days, said that he was deployed at Motilal Stadium (Lal Parade Ground) where the main I-Day programme was held. He said that only invited people turned up at the venue — an indication that Covid awareness has increased in Bhopal. CSP Khan said that senior cops had ensured that those who had recovered from the disease were not assigned tough field duties. “It was such a nice gesture,” he said. There were a few cops who had complained of breathlessness after recovery period, all police personnel were very cooperative and helped them take short breaks in between so as to not tax them, he added. SHO Misrod Niranjan Sharma said cops who recovered from Covid were deployed on the outer security duty at Lal Parade Ground. Glad to be back, he said that he had utilised the quarantine period to meditate. “It is now helping me in performing my duties more efficiently.” SI Girish Tripathi, who is presently posted as SHO of Parwalia police station, too had recovered from the coronavirus. He was deployed at State Hangar for VIP movement duty. He said that now the cops have learnt and adapted to work in the ‘new normal’ and we are back to continue with the Covid battle until it is won.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-beating-virus-covid-warriors-back-on-the-frontlines/articleshow/77581302.cms||Sudeept Mishra
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand govt to move SC, challenge HC’s verdict asking chief ministers to pay for facilities||Nainital: The Uttarakhand government plans to approach the Supreme Court (SC) to challenge the Nainital high court’s order directing the state to obtain the dues that former chief ministers owe the public exchequer for availing facilities like bungalows, chauffeur-driven cars and personal staff. A government official told TOI on the condition of anonymity that the state will file a special appeal before the SC against the HC’s order very soon. “We have read the HC’s judgements both from May 2019 and June this year. After taking proper legal advice, it has been decided that an appeal will be filed before the apex court,” he said. In May 2019, the division bench of the HC, after hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL), had directed the former chief ministers to pay the dues to the state government within six months. The PIL was filed by Doon-based NGO Rural Litigation and Entitlement Kendra (RLEK), which also filed the civil contempt petition on Friday. After the hearing, the HC had issued show cause notices to three former chief ministers – Ramesh Pokhariyal Nishak, Vijay Bahuguna and BC Khanduri – as well as chief secretary Om Prakash. In order to skirt the HC’s May ruling, the state in 2019 had first brought in an ordinance and then turned it into an Act, which exempted former chief ministers from paying up. In June this year, the high court declared the Act unconstitutional, saying it violates the separation of powers, since a provision in it says there cannot be a judicial review of it. State government spokesperson Madan Kaushik said that “the state will take a considered view on the issue” but refused to comment, saying “the matter is sub- judice”. Kartikey Hari Gupta, the counsel for RLEK, said that they will fight the case in SC as well. “We are positive that the SC will uphold the high court’s judgement. Politicians will have to pay the dues they owe the public exchequer,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-govt-to-move-sc-challenge-hcs-verdict-asking-chief-ministers-to-pay-for-facilities/articleshow/77577580.cms||Prashant Jha
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||Satpal Maharaj felicitates kar sevaks||Dehradun: In an event held at his Dehradun residence on Sunday, tourism minister Satpal Maharaj felicitated kar sevaks involved in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. “All of you have made history by contributing to the ‘Ram Janmabhoomi’ cause,” said the minister, while addressing the kar sevaks. “It is the result of your efforts and struggles that the construction of a grand Ram Temple has been made possible in Ayodhya. Everyone present here deserves congratulations for this,” added Maharaj, who is also the state minister for religion. Meanwhile, Banshidhar Bhagat, state president of Bharatiya Janata Party, alleged that the Ram Temple will “create history in the world as it is being built after supreme sacrifices of kar sevaks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/satpal-maharaj-felicitates-kar-sevaks/articleshow/77578564.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Turbulent times for pilots as pay slashed by 70%||CHENNAI: Air India Express and Air India pilots continue to get a raw deal though they remain at the forefront of the airlines’ efforts to rescue stranded Indians. Air India Express pilots have got their first salaries on Tuesday after heavy pay cuts were announced by the company. Co-pilots got Rs 37,000 to Rs 50,000 in hand while captains got Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1.5 lakh after deductions. Pilots feel that drastic pay cuts, which is to the tune of 70%, are unfair as it has wiped out most of their allowances which formed a huge part of income. Co-pilots used to earn up to Rs 2 lakh and captains used to earn up to Rs 4 lakh a month. A pilot said the cuts are not uniform across the board. “While pay cut was to the tune of five per cent to 10% for all employees, pilots lose more because allowances form more than 50% of their salary. The pilots have met the minister but to no effect,” he said. “Some pilots have monthly expenses which they have to meet through the allowances. In fact, some of the younger co-pilots are stuck that they had to borrow money from captains,” he said. Though Air India and Air India Express come under the same management and has a common chairman and managing director, the policies adopted to cut cost seems to be different. Sixty-one pilots, including some who flew to Wuhan at the height of Covid crisis-19 in China, have been retired after they completed 58 years. However, in Air India Express, pilots who are above 58 continue to work, often spoiling the chance of qualified co-pilots to become captains. Besides, in Air India there is no role called simulator flight instructor because it can be performed by regular pilots as part of their duties. However, Air India Express has many of them working as simulator instructors. “If cost-cutting was the aim, such disparities should not exist between the two airlines run by a single management,” said an official. Indian Commercial Pilots Association and Indian Pilots Guild have together sent a letter to the minister of civil aviation to discuss the issue of pay cuts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/turbulent-times-for-pilots-as-pay-slashed-by-70/articleshow/77579866.cms||V Ayyappan
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||Mobile OPD vans to get linked with free medicines and diagnostic schemes||JAIPUR: Adding a new dimension to healthcare facilities, the health department will link mobile OPD vans with free medicine and free diagnostic test schemes. In Covid times, when people hesitate to go to hospitals, the state government introduced mobile OPD vans across the state to bring healthcare services at the doorstep. Across the state, 550 mobile OPD vans are operating at block levels, which are providing healthcare services in remote areas. Now, the state government has decided to make the vans function as clinics where patients will not only be provided with consultation, but also with medicines and diagnostic test facilities. These vans were launched in April during lockdown when patients were finding it difficult to reach hospitals for treatment. With cases of dengue, chikungunya, malaria and scrub typhus resurfacing in the state, the health department has decided to provide free medicines through mobile OPD vans. “It has been decided that the mobile OPD vans will not only provide consultation but also it will distribute free medicines under free medicine scheme and also collect samples for diagnosis of diseases under free diagnostic scheme,” said health minister Raghu Sharma. The free medicine scheme was launched in 2011 and free diagnostic scheme was launched in 2013. In every district, health department organises camps under mobile OPD services. In Sikar, 15 such camps are organised daily in different parts providing services to around 500 patients daily. Chief medical health officer (Sikar) Dr Ajay Chaudhary said, “In rural areas and villages where the healthcare facilities are available at far off places, the mobile OPD vans have proved to be quite beneficial.”Pregnant women and those patients with lifestyle diseases and fever and seasonal diseases are taking the benefit from mobile OPD vans. Besides, the state government has decided to improve quarantine facilities in villages for which committees have already been constituted at village levels comprising medical officer, sarpanch, public representatives and other government department officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mobile-opd-vans-to-get-linked-with-free-medicines-and-diagnostic-schemes/articleshow/77580975.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||Recurring landslides lead to blocked roads across Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Several parts of Uttarakhand received ‘very heavy to extremely heavy’ rainfall on Saturday night resulting in recurring landslides and temporary closure of over 80 roads, including national highways. The Rishikesh-Badrinath national highway was blocked at Joshimath and near Baba Ashram. According to the state emergency operation centre (SEOC), 21 roads, mostly link roads, were blocked in Chamoli district. Kedarnath NH was also obstructed near Gaurikund, and efforts to open the highway were hindered by intermittent showers, the disaster management department said. In Pauri district, as many as 20 roads were blocked due to heavy rains. The Met department has predicted further rains especially in the Kumaon region. “Heavy rainfall could occur in the Kumaon region, especially in Nainital, Pithoragarh and Bageshwar districts, on August 17 and 18. Spell of sudden showers can also lash Dehradun, Pauri and Tehri districts during the similar period,” said Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre. The state government on Sunday issued an advisory to the concerned districts to take necessary steps for the safety of the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/recurring-landslides-lead-to-blocked-roads-across-state/articleshow/77578605.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||Mountaineer names Spanish peak after Uttarakhand IAS officer||UTTARKASHI: A Spanish mountaineer, Juan Antonio, who recently climbed a virgin peak in his country, has decided to name the peak and its route after the former district magistrate of Uttarkashi and present additional secretary (civil aviation) in the state government, Ashish Chauhan. The mountaineer said he was overwhelmed by Chauhan’s help during his 2018 expedition in the Gangotri Himalayas. Chauhan shared the post regarding Antonio’s gesture in his social media account saying he was touched by the honour the mountaineer bestowed upon him. He also shared screenshots of a message from the mountaineer, that said, “I and my friend David Resino have successfully scaled a virgin peak situated near Avila city of Spain. This 2,590 metre high peak is one of the toughest peaks of our country. We have decided to name the peak ‘Magistrate's Point’ and its route ‘Via Ashish', in your honour. Currently, we are preparing the details of our expedition and will soon submit it to the concerned agencies.” Antonio had come to Uttarkashi in 2018 to climb Mount Satopanth situated in Gangotri region at an altitude of nearly 7,075 metres above sea level. However, he fell sick during the expedition. Chauhan who was then the DM of Uttarkashi, came to know of his situation and helped him out. “I was greatly indebted by the help offered to me by Ashish Chauhan when I was not well. By interacting with him, I came to know about the hospitality and generosity of Indians. We continued to be in touch,” said Antonio, who added that he wished to come to India again to scale Mount Shivling which is situated in Uttarkashi. Meanwhile, Chauhan said that this was “a great honour and I am touched by Antonio’s gesture.” “Atithi Devo Bhava (Guest is God) is at the root of our Indian culture and being a government official, it is my duty to provide help to any needy person,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/spanish-mountaineer-to-name-virgin-peak-after-ias-officer-who-helped-him-during-expedition-in-uttarkashi/articleshow/77577597.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
August 17, 2020||India||BJP calls Rahul Gandhi ‘loser’, reminds him of CA||NEW DELHI: Union law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday dismissed Rahul Gandhi’s protest over allegations that BJP manipulated data with Facebook and WhatsApp as the gripe of a sore loser, while BJP’s IT cell chief Amit Malviya said the social media site had actually taken down 700 pro-right wing pages ahead of the 2019 polls. “Losers who cannot influence people even in their own party keep cribbing that the entire world is controlled by BJP and RSS,” Prasad said. “You were caught red-handed in alliance with Cambridge Analytica and Facebook to weaponise data before the elections and now have the gall to question us,” he added. Read AlsoRahul demands JPC probe on Facebook ‘bias’Congress' Rahul Gandhi slammed BJP and claimed the party had used Facebook and WhatsApp to “spread fake news and hatred” and “to influence the electorate”, while Congress said Facebook must institute an inquiry to protect its credibility and remove all its India staffers who had any connection withThe minister said access to information and freedom of expression had been democratised and the Left and Congress no longer monopolised the discourse. “It is no longer controlled by retainers of your family and that is why it hurts,” Prasad said. He questioned Rahul’s silence over the recent violence in Bengaluru and said, “Haven’t yet heard your condemnation of the Bengaluru riots. Where did your courage disappear?” The fact is that today access to information and freedom of expression has been democratized. It is no longer contr… https://t.co/fK2ij5M9op— Ravi Shankar Prasad (@rsprasad) 1597574056000The party pushed ‘#CongressFacebookAlliance” on Twitter urging “it needs to be exposed.” “Remember meeting Alexander Nix, then CEO of Cambridge Analytica, the disgraced firm, which was engaged by the Congress for manipulating Facebook’s data in order to help Congress sway voters in the run up to 2019?” Malviya tweeted and added, “You were dumped is a different matter!” Sources said government has recieved complaints that in April pages supporting Right-wing causes with over 150 million likes were deleted, while fake news busts done by fact-checking websites are often unreliable. Remember meeting Alexander Nix, then CEO of Cambridge Analytica, the disgraced firm, which was engaged by the Congr… https://t.co/DZZ1zYVVdu— Amit Malviya (@amitmalviya) 1597571877000Page owners have no say after posts are penalised and subjected to automated mails with no positive outcomes. Admins and editors get demoted to moderator and sometimes are removed altogether and even normal posts get breach of community guidelines warning. Malviya shared a video of Sonia Gandhi’s Ramlila ground speech live-stream on Facebook and claimed that it was incendiary. Watch Facebook misuse issue: BJP calls Rahul Gandhi ‘loser’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-calls-raga-loser-reminds-him-of-ca/articleshow/77581722.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Trichy||TNCSC suspends 3 staff for underweighing paddy||Trichy: Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation has suspended three employees of a direct procurement centre (DPC) in Thanjavur district after farmers caught them indulging in malpractices in weighing paddy. Farmers found that the staff at the DPC located in Eraharam village in Kumbakonam taluk had been manipulating the weighing scale used to measure paddy bags. Consequently, the machine would show the weight up to 2 kilograms less per bag, the farmers said. After selling his uncle’s 227 paddy bags at the centre, a resident called Karikalan developed suspicion. “We went to a hotel where I checked my weight where the machine read as 67 kg. However, when I went back to the centre and checked my weight on their scale, it showed 65 kg only. So, I raised doubts and insisted the staff weigh paddy bags again using a different scale”, he told TOI. When the bags were weighed with a borrowed scale, it showed about 1.6 kg more. The issue was brought to the notice of higher officials who went to the centre and promised to measure the grains properly, he stated. Swaminathan, a farmer and member of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association said that the staff had been underweighing each bag ranging from 1.5 kg to 2 kg per bag. Hence, TNCSC should provide Rs 19.1 per kg for 227 bags. The staff and workers might have misappropriated thousands of rupees from farmers, he alleged. TNCSC Thanjavur senior regional manager in-charge G Chitrasasu said, “A bill clerk, a helper and a watchman have been suspended. We have asked two temporary loadmen not to come for duty. We checked the paddy bags procured from farmers and the weights. Only a few bags showed variation in weight. We have assured farmers that this would not recur”, he added. “Though the officials promised transparent transaction at the centre, they are not ready to credit the excess money to the farmer’s account”, said Swaminathan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tncsc-suspends-3-staff-for-underweighing-paddy/articleshow/77581340.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||Will look into non-supply of food items: DC||Jaipur: During the district collector’s visit to some low-lying areas on Jaipur-Delhi road on Sunday, the locals stopped district collector Antar Singh Nehra’s vehicle and complained to him about the non-supply of food items and milk to those areas in the past two days. The district collector has assured them of addressing their issues at the earliest. “The locals had complained about the accumulation of debris of an anicut (small dam) which was breached due to the rain. The anicut belonged to the forest department. They complained that the debris had accumulated on top of the houses and on the roads. They said, their belongings got buried under the debris and they were facing problems with the supply of food,” said collector Nehra.“We have set up relief camps for the people who have suffered due to the rain. We have told them they can visit Adarsh Nagar school community centre, where food is being provided. The dumpers are being used to clear the debris. It will take some time to clear it fully,” he added.Nehra also asked the officials to find a permanent solution for the people living in the low-lying areas so that do not face problems in future. A plan of the state government to rehabilitate/shift those living in the low-lying areas of Jawahar Nagar slum area and other areas is overdue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/will-look-into-non-supply-of-food-items-dc/articleshow/77580984.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana has more Covid cases per lakh than Punjab, country||LUDHIANA: With Ludhiana witnessing continuous surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, a government data shows that the district has about double the number of cases per lakh people compared to that of the state as well as the national average. As per the state’s media bulletin released on Saturday evening, the number of cases per one lakh population in Ludhiana was 263.4, which places the district at number three position in terms of positive cases per lakh compared to other districts. Jalandhar topped the chart with 633.6 cases per lakh, whereas Amritsar had 444 cases. Moga district stood at the bottom with just 19.7 persons per lakh population. The government data suggested that with 263.4 cases per lakh, the number of cases per lakh in the district was more than double the cases per lakh in the state, as the value for Punjab was 108.28 cases. The national average stood at 160 cases around the same time. Besides, Ludhiana also added the highest number of positive cases to the state’s tally for the last seven days. While it saw 1,673 new cases last week, Patiala and Jalandhar were at second and third positions with 1,063 and 766 fresh cases, respectively, during the same period. The bulletin suggested that Ludhiana had maximum 2,028 active cases among all the districts of the state, with Patiala at second place with 1,699 cases. Ludhiana district also witnessed the highest number of deaths from the infection in the preceding seven days, contributing 64 casualties to the total 208 fatalities for Punjab. Patiala (23) and Jalandhar (19) were at number two and three positions in fatalities. With the Covid situation still being grim in Ludhiana, health officials said they are trying their best to check further rise in cases. A senior health department officer said they are trying to check the spread of coronavirus by educating and creating awareness among the people about the disease. He added that if people follow the safety norms, like wearing of masks, and maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene, both cases and fatalities would decline. Concerned about the situation, many residents have again requested the authorities to be stricter with the violators. “The precautions are for the benefit of people, but if someone is not ready to follow the guidelines, he should be brought to the book. It is shocking to see even educated people violating the norms. The authorities should be stricter with such violators, but we do not find such strictness on their part,” said Amandeep Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-has-more-covid-cases-per-lakh-than-state-country/articleshow/77578608.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 17, 2020||Goa||Ponda medical staff say lodging facility dirty||PONDA: The medical staff posted at the Covid care centres in Ponda are unhappy with the accommodation provided to them at the Old Goa Residency. The staffers claim the rooms have not been maintained properly and there’s filth and moisture all around, besides stagnation of water around the GTDC hotel. Around 40 staffers attached to four Covid care centres in Ponda taluka — at Shiroda primary health centre, and the hostels of Goa Engineering College, NIT and IIT in Farmagudi, have been moved to the Old Goa Residency from Saturday. A government official said the medical staff was earlier lodged at Menino Executive in Ponda town and the Old Goa Residency accommodation pales in comparison. A source revealed that the outstanding hotel bill at the three-star hotel in Ponda is almost Rs 25 lakh, and the hotel management has asked the government to either pay at least some part of the dues or to vacate the rooms. Since the last three months, a total of 30 rooms, for a concessional rate of Rs 1,500 per room, had been occupied for the accommodation of the medical staff. Minister for art and culture Govind Gaude who visited the residency on Sunday said he has asked the authorities concerned to do the needful.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-med-staff-say-lodging-facility-dirty/articleshow/77581001.cms||Suraj P Kaisuvker
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Chetan Chauhan scored many tons on political pitch||LUCKNOW: He may not have scored a century in his 40 Tests, but there was no dearth of tons for Chetan Chauhan in his political innings which started a few years after he played his last Ranji Trophy match in 1985. Chauhan, 73, who passed away in Gurgaon due to multi-organ failure after testing positive for coronavirus, was a two-time MP from Amroha and now a cabinet minister in the UP government. Born in Bareilly, Chauhan made neighbouring Amroha his political karma-bhoomi and remained a loyal BJP worker throughout his political career spanning over three decades. He won the Amroha Lok Sabha seat for the first time 1991, in the  which was heavily influenced by the implementation of Mandal Commission to give job quota to OBCs by the VP Singh-led Janata Dal government. He lost the seat in 1996, but won again in 1998. After a couple of losses from the same constituency, he concentrated on 'cricket politics' in Delhi and came back to contest from Naugawan Sadat assembly seat of Amroha in 2017 UP elections. After his victory in assembly elections, he was made cabinet minister in the Yogi government and was given the charge of sports and youth welfare. In several interactions with TOI, Chauhan showed his determination to consolidate sports infrastructure in the state to lift it to the international standards. In fact between 2017 and 2019 -- UP had two famous sportsmen -- Chauhan and hockey Oympian RP Singh as sports minister and director. They had elaborate plans for sprucing up sports facilities in the state, but before that Chauhan was shifted and was given the charge of homeguard, civil defence and political pension. “As my minister, Chetan Chauhan had great concepts, including setting up of five centres of excellence of sport including hockey and athletics," recalls RP Singh, adding "he had this sense that good number of players come from economically humble background, so he would take special care of them and would always call them up personally. It was in his regime that astro-turf at Jhansi state stadium was inaugurated." As sports minister, he toured the state extensively and had an elaborate plan to develop the infrastructure on public private partnership (PPP) model. He also waged a war against the monopoly of a few people in sports associations. During an interaction with TOI at the inauguration of a football tournament in 2018, Chauhan had said that if he had not been a cricketer, he would have opted for a career in football. But football lacked infrastructure in those days (60s). Despite spending three decades in politics, the sportsman in him was very much alive. After shifting base to Lucknow in 2017, he would always be spotted at Babu Stadium, practising on the nets with young cricketers without caring much for security paraphernalia. Chauhan would always talk about his friendship with Paksitani cricketer Imran Khan. So, when Khan became the Pakistan PM, he was hopeful of improved ties. But his friend 'Imi' didn't oblige.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chauhan-scored-many-tons-on-political-pitch/articleshow/77581363.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 17, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: 'Lioness sat on my chest, I shooed her away'||RAJKOT: A lion's roar is enough for anyone to skip a heart beat. But imagine a lioness sitting on the chest of someone in deep sleep? A youth in Amreli district of Gujarat claimed this was precisely what he experienced! "I was attacked by a hungry lioness while I was sleeping in my hut," he claimed. Describing the strange nocturnal adventure to TOI, Vipul Khelaiya, a resident of Abharampara village at Savarkundla taluka, said when a wild cat jumped straight on to his chest startling him, he didn’t lose his presence of mind. Even amid the initial panic, Khelaiya said he summoned all his strength — both mental and physical — and gave the lioness a mighty push. This unexpected retaliation, however, left the lion shocked. It immediately let go of “her intended prey” and ran back into the forest cover. “The lioness must have realized that I was not her natural prey and that she made a huge blunder by selecting me,” chuckled Khelaiya. “I was asleep in my hut when all of a sudden I was awoken by a growl, heavy weight on my chest and staring right into the eyes of death. Thankfully, I realized soon what was happening and instinctively kept a tight grip on my wits, gathered all my strength and with a Herculean force, pushed the lioness down from me,” recalled Khelaiya. “After I pushed her away, the lioness did not attack me again but disappeared into the dark forest,” he added. But Jabal village sarpanch, Bhupendra Khuman, expects more of such human-animal conflicts in the near future. “Such conflicts will only rise as several prides of lions have left the sanctuary and made the revenue areas of Jabal and Abhrampara their abode. Lions are frequently spotted in these areas,” said Khuman, adding that while it’s cattle they come after, this was the first instance of “human molestation”. (Byline: Dilip Jiruka)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/in-guj-village-braveheart-shoos-away-lioness-that-sat-on-his-chest/articleshow/77578623.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||2 swept away in Baran river, bodies recovered||Kota: Three persons, including a woman, were washed away in flooding Sairda River near Pathari village under Kasbathana police station in Baran district on Friday evening while they were returning home after work in agriculture field. One of them was rescued immediately, while bodies of other two, including the woman, were recovered respectively, on Saturday and Sunday morning.The persons, identified as Lucky Sahariya (35), Darku (40), his wife Phoolwati (36), residents of Pathari village, who were returning home after work in nearby agriculture field on Friday evening, were washed away into flooding Sairda river, while they were crossing the over bridge over the river, SHO at Kasbathana police station Maan Singh said. The bypassers on both ends of the overbridge, somehow, managed to rescue one of them (Darku), while the other two were swept away in the river, he said.Singh said, the rescue operation by SFRD and other local rescue teams was started immediately after the mishap, however, one of the two bodies, identified as Lucky was recovered on Saturday morning and was handed over to family members after post-mortem the same day. The other body, identified as Phoolwanti, was traced around 3 kilometer away on Sunday morning following which the police handed it over to family members after post-mortem at the spot as the body was decomposed and smelling, the SHO said.The police lodged a case in this connection under relevant sections and started further investigation into the matter, he added.Youth drowns in Alaniya damKota: A 19-year-old youth, who had gone for picnic with his friends at Alaniya dam under Anantpura police station of Kota city, slipped into deep water and drowned while he was taking bath at shore on Sunday late morning. The youth had died by the time he was rescued. The youth, identified as Jitendra Gurjar, a resident of Ganeshpura area of Kota city, had gone for picnic on Sunday morning at Alania dam along with his friends, circle inspector at Anantpura police station Devesh Bhardwaj said. While the friends were bathing at the shore, Jitendra Gurjar slipped into deep water and drowned, he added. The rescue operation was put in place immediately after the mishap but the time the youth could be rescued, he had succumbed to death, he said. The police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem and lodged a case under relevant section for further investigation into the matter, the CI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-swept-away-in-baran-river-bodies-recovered/articleshow/77580986.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ajmer||60,000 cases & counting, Covid isn’t slowing down in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state’s cumulative Covid tally breached the 60,000 mark on Sunday riding on the biggest single-day jump of 1,317 cases. The current infection count stands at 61,296. It took 27 days to double for the cases to rise from 30,000 to 60,000. For the past 23 days, the state has been reporting more than 1,000 cases daily. In the last three weeks, the state has set record of biggest single-day spike 14 times, indicating that the graph of new infections is going further up and showing no sign of stopping. However, there is something to cheer about as the recovery rate has again getting closer to 75%, while the growth rate has decreased to 2.4% from around 3% to 3.5% in last week of July and in the initial days of August. Even though the state reported the biggest single-day spike in new infections, it has reported 1,350 recoveries, which are more in numbers of new infections. Currently, the active cases in the state are 13,816. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died too taking the toll to 876. Udaipur reported two deaths taking its fatalities to 17, two persons died in Sikar taking its toll to 13, two died in Ajmer taking its toll to 59, two died in Bhilwara taking its toll to 10, three died in Bikaner taking its toll to 57 and three deaths were reported from Jaipur taking its fatalities to 232. In Jaipur, 42 different place reported 164 cases. Covid cases resurfaced at the Central Jail of Jaipur with 18 inmates testing positive. In May, the Central Jail and the district jail had witnessed outbreak of Covid in which more than 250 inmates tested positive. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (164), Jodhpur (135), Alwar (110), Kota (79), Ajmer (74), Bikaner (73), Bharatpur (66), Udaipur (66), Sikar (61), Barmer (61), Bhilwara (51), Chittorgarh (50), Pali (45), Baran (35), Tonk (34), Nagaur (33), Jhalawar (32), Jhunjhunu (26), Sawai Madhopur (25), Bundi (18), Pratapgarh (17), Karauli (12), Sriganganagar (10), Sirohi (10), Dungarpur (7), Rajsamand (7), Hanumangarh (5), Jaisalmer (4), Banswara (3), Churu (2) and Jalore (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/60k-cases-counting-covid-isnt-slowing-down/articleshow/77582962.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Another aide of slain Bikru gangster Vikas Dubey held||KANPUR: Rajendra Mishra, another aide of gangster Vikas Dubey and father of slain Prabhat Mishra, who was carrying a reward of Rs 50,000, was arrested from near a factory in Shivrajpur area of the district on Saturday. He was absconding since July 2 and 3 night, SP (Rural) Brajesh Srivastava said Mishra was wanted under sections 147, 148, 149, 302, 307, 394, 120 b, 7 Cla Act and 3/25 Arms Act in connection with Bikru shootout on July 2 & 3 night.” “Mishra was caught near a factory while he was going to the place of an acquaintance to seek help for his surrender before the court,” said Srivastava. “During questioning, Mishra broke down and confessed that he and his son had opened fire from a pistol on the police party on July 2 & 3 night. Mishra’s son Prabhat, alias Kartikey, who was named in the case, was arrested from Haryana’s Faridabad a week after the massacre and was gunned down by police after he snatched a pistol of a cop and opened fire,” Srivastava said. Srivastava further said, the accused, who had confessed to his crime, besides his son also gave names of his other co-accused, including gangster Vikas Dubey, Amar Dubey, Atul Dubey, Prem Kumar, Prabhat Mishra, Bauwan, Heeru, Shivam, Ziledar, Ram Singh, Ramesh Chandra, Gopal Saini, Akhilesh Mishra, Vipul, Shyamu Bajpayi, Rajendra Mishra, Bal Govind and Daya Shankar. A senior police official said that now police will try to find where the weapons used in the ambush were disposed of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/another-aide-of-slain-bikru-gangster-vikas-dubey-held/articleshow/77580780.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||60,000 cases & counting, Covid isn’t slowing down in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state’s cumulative Covid tally breached the 60,000 mark on Sunday riding on the biggest single-day jump of 1,317 cases. The current infection count stands at 61,296. It took 27 days to double for the cases to rise from 30,000 to 60,000. For the past 23 days, the state has been reporting more than 1,000 cases daily. In the last three weeks, the state has set record of biggest single-day spike 14 times, indicating that the graph of new infections is going further up and showing no sign of stopping. However, there is something to cheer about as the recovery rate has again getting closer to 75%, while the growth rate has decreased to 2.4% from around 3% to 3.5% in last week of July and in the initial days of August. Even though the state reported the biggest single-day spike in new infections, it has reported 1,350 recoveries, which are more in numbers of new infections. Currently, the active cases in the state are 13,816. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died too taking the toll to 876. Udaipur reported two deaths taking its fatalities to 17, two persons died in Sikar taking its toll to 13, two died in Ajmer taking its toll to 59, two died in Bhilwara taking its toll to 10, three died in Bikaner taking its toll to 57 and three deaths were reported from Jaipur taking its fatalities to 232. In Jaipur, 42 different place reported 164 cases. Covid cases resurfaced at the Central Jail of Jaipur with 18 inmates testing positive. In May, the Central Jail and the district jail had witnessed outbreak of Covid in which more than 250 inmates tested positive. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (164), Jodhpur (135), Alwar (110), Kota (79), Ajmer (74), Bikaner (73), Bharatpur (66), Udaipur (66), Sikar (61), Barmer (61), Bhilwara (51), Chittorgarh (50), Pali (45), Baran (35), Tonk (34), Nagaur (33), Jhalawar (32), Jhunjhunu (26), Sawai Madhopur (25), Bundi (18), Pratapgarh (17), Karauli (12), Sriganganagar (10), Sirohi (10), Dungarpur (7), Rajsamand (7), Hanumangarh (5), Jaisalmer (4), Banswara (3), Churu (2) and Jalore (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/60k-cases-counting-covid-isnt-slowing-down/articleshow/77580988.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Jodhpur||60,000 cases & counting, Covid isn’t slowing down in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state’s cumulative Covid tally breached the 60,000 mark on Sunday riding on the biggest single-day jump of 1,317 cases. The current infection count stands at 61,296. It took 27 days to double for the cases to rise from 30,000 to 60,000. For the past 23 days, the state has been reporting more than 1,000 cases daily. In the last three weeks, the state has set record of biggest single-day spike 14 times, indicating that the graph of new infections is going further up and showing no sign of stopping. However, there is something to cheer about as the recovery rate has again getting closer to 75%, while the growth rate has decreased to 2.4% from around 3% to 3.5% in last week of July and in the initial days of August. Even though the state reported the biggest single-day spike in new infections, it has reported 1,350 recoveries, which are more in numbers of new infections. Currently, the active cases in the state are 13,816. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died too taking the toll to 876. Udaipur reported two deaths taking its fatalities to 17, two persons died in Sikar taking its toll to 13, two died in Ajmer taking its toll to 59, two died in Bhilwara taking its toll to 10, three died in Bikaner taking its toll to 57 and three deaths were reported from Jaipur taking its fatalities to 232. In Jaipur, 42 different place reported 164 cases. Covid cases resurfaced at the Central Jail of Jaipur with 18 inmates testing positive. In May, the Central Jail and the district jail had witnessed outbreak of Covid in which more than 250 inmates tested positive. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (164), Jodhpur (135), Alwar (110), Kota (79), Ajmer (74), Bikaner (73), Bharatpur (66), Udaipur (66), Sikar (61), Barmer (61), Bhilwara (51), Chittorgarh (50), Pali (45), Baran (35), Tonk (34), Nagaur (33), Jhalawar (32), Jhunjhunu (26), Sawai Madhopur (25), Bundi (18), Pratapgarh (17), Karauli (12), Sriganganagar (10), Sirohi (10), Dungarpur (7), Rajsamand (7), Hanumangarh (5), Jaisalmer (4), Banswara (3), Churu (2) and Jalore (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/60k-cases-counting-covid-isnt-slowing-down/articleshow/77582960.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Bhopal||Jobless migrants head back to NCR||Bhopal: On August 15, when the country was celebrating Independence Day, as many as 100 labourers were about to start their long journey from Panna to Delhi in the hope of getting employment in the National Capital Region (NCR). These 100 passengers were stuffed inside a 50-seater bus. But, this over-crowded journey was not as difficult as the 685-km trek they had to take three months back when the country had witnessed an exodus of labourers amid the raging pandemic. The bus carrying them had hardly covered 40 km distance when it was intercepted by the police in Chattarpur. A traffic cop, Poornima Shukla, found that it was a 50-seater bus with almost 100 passengers sitting inside. All of them were labourers. When the driver was asked to produce documents, he was not able to show the bus permit. The bus was confiscated, the labourers’ money returned and they were sent back to their villages by another bus. Before all this, they were served food, said Poornima Shukla. A tribal labourer, Kishori, said, “I had returned from Delhi two months ago. But there was no employment here, so I was going back after I got a call from my contractor that the construction site had started.” Most of the labourers travelling by the bus were from Scheduled Caste or Schedule Tribe categories. After the massive reverse migration of April-May, a large number of labourers have started going back to Delhi and Gurugram. In a survey after the reverse migration earlier this year, the government had found that almost 37% of the labourers who had returned were either those working at construction sites or as agriculture labourers. A majority of the labourers who had returned home belonged to Balaghat and Bundelkhand — Panna, Chattarpur and Tikamgarh, Morena. Labourers had also returned to the tribal districts of Jhabua, Dhar, Khargone, Sheopur, Mandla and Dindori.  Despite government claims, it was difficult for the government to provide jobs to them, leading to another journey – back to the NCR. Almost every day, buses carry labourers from different districts of northern MP and Bundelkhand to NCR. An official, “The labourers are going back after calls from contractors from construction sites.” As in many industrial areas of Maharshtra or Gujarat, the industries are yet to start full-scale operations, skilled labourers are facing the biggest problem of employment. Admitting that all labourers are not interested in MGNREGA jobs, a government spokesperson said, “We have opened job works under MGNREGA. Skill-mapping of labourers is also being done to provide them jobs accordingly.” “It was easy to provide jobs to labourers, but not to the semi-skilled or skilled labourers,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jobless-migrants-head-back-to-ncr/articleshow/77581356.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Udaipur||60,000 cases & counting, Covid isn’t slowing down in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state’s cumulative Covid tally breached the 60,000 mark on Sunday riding on the biggest single-day jump of 1,317 cases. The current infection count stands at 61,296. It took 27 days to double for the cases to rise from 30,000 to 60,000. For the past 23 days, the state has been reporting more than 1,000 cases daily. In the last three weeks, the state has set record of biggest single-day spike 14 times, indicating that the graph of new infections is going further up and showing no sign of stopping. However, there is something to cheer about as the recovery rate has again getting closer to 75%, while the growth rate has decreased to 2.4% from around 3% to 3.5% in last week of July and in the initial days of August. Even though the state reported the biggest single-day spike in new infections, it has reported 1,350 recoveries, which are more in numbers of new infections. Currently, the active cases in the state are 13,816. In the last 24 hours, 14 persons died too taking the toll to 876. Udaipur reported two deaths taking its fatalities to 17, two persons died in Sikar taking its toll to 13, two died in Ajmer taking its toll to 59, two died in Bhilwara taking its toll to 10, three died in Bikaner taking its toll to 57 and three deaths were reported from Jaipur taking its fatalities to 232. In Jaipur, 42 different place reported 164 cases. Covid cases resurfaced at the Central Jail of Jaipur with 18 inmates testing positive. In May, the Central Jail and the district jail had witnessed outbreak of Covid in which more than 250 inmates tested positive. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (164), Jodhpur (135), Alwar (110), Kota (79), Ajmer (74), Bikaner (73), Bharatpur (66), Udaipur (66), Sikar (61), Barmer (61), Bhilwara (51), Chittorgarh (50), Pali (45), Baran (35), Tonk (34), Nagaur (33), Jhalawar (32), Jhunjhunu (26), Sawai Madhopur (25), Bundi (18), Pratapgarh (17), Karauli (12), Sriganganagar (10), Sirohi (10), Dungarpur (7), Rajsamand (7), Hanumangarh (5), Jaisalmer (4), Banswara (3), Churu (2) and Jalore (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/60k-cases-counting-covid-isnt-slowing-down/articleshow/77582961.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Highest single-day death toll of 15 in dist||TNNLudhiana: The highest number of Covid-19 deaths in a day was reported on Sunday, when 18 persons, including 15 from Ludhiana, died here. The day also saw 266 Ludhianvis and 16 outsiders testing positive here.The health department said besides 15 casualties from Ludhiana, two were from Jalandhar and one from Jammu and Kashmir.A Covid-19 positive 81-year-old man from Durgapuri died at a Jalandhar hospital. Those who died at various city hospitals included a 63-year-old man from Deep Nagar, Gill Chowk, a man of 58 years from SKS Nagar, who had diabetes, BP, coronary artery disease, a woman of 75 years from Islam Ganj, who had diabetes and BP, another woman of 60 years from Manakwal, who had diabetes and BP, a man of 75 years from Amarpura, a 72-year-old man from Manuke in Jagraon, who had diabetes and was obese, a 30-year-old man from Mundiyan Khurd, who had a brain disease, 68-year-old man from Sector 32, who had diabetes, a 65-year-old woman from Salem Tabri, who had diabetes and BP, a 65-year-old man from Ludhiana, who had diabetes, BP and respiratory disease, and a 65-year-old man from Guru Nanakpura in Payal, who had diabetes and BP. A Covid-19 positive 85-year-old man from Ludhiana, who had TB, died at the civil hospital, Ludhiana. A 76-year-old man from Nirankari Mohalla died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala, where a diabetic woman of 52 years from Salaudi also succumbed. The health department officials said with 15 deaths, district toll has risen to 241, while 54 outsiders have died here so far. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the pending reports, 192 were positive on Sunday, of which 187 belonged to Ludhiana district, whereas one case each was from Moga, Barnala, Nawanshahr, Jalandhar and UP.He added that of the 90 reports received from private hospitals and laboratory, 79 were from Ludhiana, one from Sangrur, two from Fatehgarh Sahib, three from Moga, one each from Hoshiarpur, Barnala, Jalandhar, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. Health department officials said of 266 Covid-19 positive patients from Ludhiana district, 57 were from flu corner, 94 were contacts of positive cases, 43 from OPD, three police officials, 21 healthcare workers, seven domestic and international travellers, nine pregnant women, 29 from tracing process and three SARI cases.With this, the district case count has increased to 6,593 and that of outsiders to 723.The civil surgeon said on Sunday, 2,340 samples were sent for testing. DC Varinder Sharma said there were 1,951 active patients in the district at present and on the day, 477 persons were sent for home quarantine. The number of recovered patients so far stands at 4,398. On Saturday, 12 persons from Ludhiana had died of Covid-19 and 151 had tested positive.Virus trackerAug 15:Casualties 12Positive cases 151Aug 16Casualties 15Positive cases 266||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/highest-single-day-death-toll-of-15-in-dist/articleshow/77578600.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vadodara||MSU final online exams from August 25||VADODARA: M S University on Sunday announced that it will conduct online final examination of students of nine faculties/ colleges. Students of these faculties/ colleges have already appeared for online mock test on August 13 and August 14. Now, the university has decided to conduct their final exams online from August 25. Students of two colleges - Baroda Sanskrit Mahavidyalaya and Polytechnic College apart from seven faculties - Faculty of Education and Psychology, Faculty of Journalism and Communication, Faculty of Performing Arts, Faculty of Social Work, Faculty of Family and Community Sciences, Faculty of Fine Arts and Faculty of Pharmacy will appear in the exams. “The online final examination of these faculties/ colleges will be arranged in three shifts,” MSU’s officiating registrar K M Chudasama said, adding that the detailed time-table will be displayed on university website from August 19. Students can appear for the examination using the same login credentials which they had received for the online mock test. “The online mock test of the remaining students of the remaining faculties/ colleges is expected to be scheduled in the first half of September. We will notify it in due course of time,” he said. The university’s first attempt of conducting online mock test for all the students had led to a disaster. Later, however, it decided to organise the online mock test phase-wise and in separate time slots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-final-online-exams-from-aug-25/articleshow/77577713.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ludhiana||In action against frauds, genuine exporters also go through the mill||IGST REFUNDS Ludhiana: The Centre’s action against fraudulent exporters, who were fleecing the government by claiming forged integrated goods and services tax (IGST) and duty drawbacks, has yielded results as these cases have come down. But innocent businessmen are facing the brunt of strictness in screening of exporters for processing of refunds, as their IGST paybacks are getting delayed by months. City businessmen said most of the cases in which refunds of genuine businessmen were being held back were related to customs formations outside Punjab. The amount of refund in these cases is so huge that they have to shut down their operations as they have no money left to do business. Tax experts, meanwhile, are demanding that the government and the departments concerned take urgent notice of the issue and fix it so that genuine businessmen do not suffer.This problem is being faced by those companies who have been tagged as ‘risky exporters’ after the customs department suspected that IGST or duty drawback were being claimed fraudulently. Or, if the Risk Management Centre for Customs (RMCC) has picked up the company’s name on the basis of data analysis regardless of the genuineness of the firm. Once a firm is in the list of risky exporters, its IGST and duty drawback are withheld till it is declared non-risky, which takes a lot of time, as both customs commissionerate and Central GST department have to complete their investigations. Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings, said, “We are fully supportive of the government action against fraudulent exporters, who are also defaming genuine exporters, who have invested their hard-earned money and sweat into the business. Recently, the Centre detected 1,474 risky exporters, who were untraceable and had claimed forged GST refunds worth Rs 2,029 crore. We demand strict action against such entities and names of all those responsible for running this nexus should be made public.”Ahuja added, “At the same time, the government needs to change the system of dealing with the risky exporters as some innocent firms end up facing problems. In case the port of export is outside Punjab, it becomes very tough for the exporter to argue his case and get it resolved. The government should ensure that genuine exporters are not penalised under this system and alert is sounded only for the exporter in whose case it is certain that he has committed a fraud. System needs to be simplified and at the time of exports, checks should be put in place so that no fraudulent activity takes place.”Sharing his ordeal, an exporter from the city said, “We have genuinely exported goods during the past almost two years and earned valuable foreign exchange for the country. But despite genuine transactions and submitting all relevant documents, my company’s name was added to the list of risky exporters and my IGST refund worth several crores has been withheld since several months. With the entire investment for running my business stuck in the form of tax refund, I have not been able to make even a single penny’s sale in the past six months.” Expert suggestionsA tax expert suggests several measures for resolution of this problem. These are as follows: 1. There is a time gap between imposing an alert and stopping refund process in the system and actual intimation to field formations for conducting the verification. There should be a system that on the same date of imposing the alert and stopping refund, intimation goes to the officer for conducting verification. 2. After issuance of the alert, the exporter has no knowledge which officer to approach. In some cases, verification is done by the range staff and in others by the preventive staff. There should be a mechanism that on issuing of an alert, an e-mail goes to the exporter on the same day, and name of the officers, who will conduct verification, should also be given so that they can supply records as per the standard procedure.3. At present, time given for verification to field formations is nearly 40 days, and this should be reduced to 15-20 days. 4. Even after verification report is fed into the system by field formation, there is no fixed time for the removal of the alert. There are cases where exporters have to approach the customs formations for removing alert after verification report is fed in system. So, here too maximum period of one week should be fixed for removing the alert after verification report is fed in the system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-action-against-frauds-genuine-exporters-also-go-through-the-mill/articleshow/77578620.cms||Mohit Behl
August 17, 2020||Trichy||Covid cases, deaths spike in a week in Pudukottai district||Pudukottai: With 25 Covid-19 deaths recorded in the last week including seven deaths on Saturday, Pudukottai district has been witnessing sharp increase in deaths along with record increase in positive cases. The district has so far recorded 4,177 cases and daily cases rising to 150. With 60 deaths so far, Pudukottai has the most number of deaths in central districts after Trichy and Thanjavur. Over one third of the total deaths were recorded in the last week in the district. Speaking to TOI, M Poovathi, dean of Pudukottai government medical college, said that 51 of the 60 patients who have died so far had comorbidities. “Diabetes and hypertension are the most common ailments among those who develop complications. Diabetes went uncontrolled in many cases, especially the aged, which eventually led to their death.,” she said. The virus is affecting vascular system and functioning of other organs and eight patients died without any comorbidities but died due to Covid Pneumonia, she added. Health minister C Vijaya Baskar who held a meeting with district authorities has asked to make the lockdown norms strict in places affected by Covid-19. District health officials said that stress will be given on isolating contacts as most of them turn out to be positive. The district administration is also contemplating on reducing the timing for commercial activities in the district as people are not following Covid norms which is the primary reason for increase in positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-cases-deaths-spike-in-a-week-in-pudukottai-district/articleshow/77581368.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 17, 2020||Bhopal||Cops attacked, road blocked to get custody of murdered youth’s body in Bhopal||BHOPAL: A day after a 24-year-old youth was murdered in Bajpai Nagar Shahjehanabad, over 500 people including the relatives of the deceased and residents of Bajpai Nagar reached Hamidia hospital on Saturday morning where they insisted police to allow them to take the body of deceased to their place for conducting his last rites. Heavy police force was deployed in the area to control the situation. Police counselled the people that samples were taken from the deceased for Coronavirus testing and his body will be sent directly to crematorium following the Covid-19 protocol. Hundreds of people including large number of women blocked the road in front of Hamidia hospital gate as police stopped them to enter the hospital. The arguments continued for more than two hours and when the cops were taking the body of the deceased to crematorium the mob pelted stones on policemen. Two policemen including an ASI deployed at Hamidia hospital police outpost and a head constable posted at Koh-e-Fiza police station were injured by the stones pelted on cops. Police said that ASI Ramnaresh Upadhyay’s jaw was severely injured while head constable Jagdish Parmar sustained injuries in head and limbs. Koh-e-Fiza police registered two FIRs against three identified and several other unidentified people of the mob for attacking police and obstructing the cops from discharging their duties. Around a dozen accused including Ajay alias Bhura, Anil Thu Thu,, Sandeep, Ravi, Arun Singh alias Khujal, Deepak, Rocky Nalwala, Chinna alias Kalu, Sagar and Yash allegedly waylaid their neighbour deceased Ajay Kanade, 24, a resident of Bajpai Nagar, near Shourya Parisar Gate near cancer hospital on Friday night around 10 pm and attacked him with swords and even fired shots on him. Ajay Kanade was returning home with his two friends and was severely injured in the attack. He was rushed to Hamidia hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. Enraged over the attack, the family members of the deceased and other locals torched vehicles of the accused parked in the area. Heavy police force was deployed in the area after the incident to control law and order. The reason behind the incident is said to be the rivalry between deceased Ajay Kanade and prime accused Ajay Bhura who was said to be operating 'Satta' in the area and suspected that Ajay Kanade was working as police informer. He suspected that Ajay Kanade tipped off about his accomplices after which they were arrested. Sources also said that a few months back when Ajay Bhura was lodged in Bhopal central jail after being caught on charges of bootlegging, a dispute took place between him and deceased Ajay Kanade in the jail. Ajay Kanade was lodged in jail for allegedly firing a shot with his pistol and injuring a eunuch in TT Nagar area. Sources said that after coming out Ajay Kanade was running a protest against Ajay Bhura's 'Satta' business being run in the area and opposed him due to which the accused planned and killed him. Sources said that the locals of Bajpai Nagar filed complaints with Shahjehanabad police against Ajay Bhura many times but no action was taken against him. CSP Nagendra Pateria said that after Ajay's murder Shahjehanabad police registered a murder case against a dozen accused on basis of complaint filed by his brother Amit Kanade and have detained six accused including the prime accused Ajay Bhura. Heavy police force has been deployed in the area to maintain law and order and the remaining accused will be nabbed soon. CSP said that a counter case has also been registered against people who torched vehicles after the murder in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cops-attacked-road-blocked-to-get-custody-of-murdered-youths-body/articleshow/77581369.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||14 from Shekhawati region donate plasma at SMS Hosp||JAIPUR: Twenty eight-year-old Saddam Hassain Gauri was among the 14 people from Shekhawati region (Jhunjhunu, Churu) who donated plasma at the Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital on Sunday. Gauri was infected with Covid-19 while delivering grocery items to needy people during lockdown in Churu district. Gauri said, “I tested positive for Covid-19 on May 12 and recovered on May 18. This is a noble cause to donate plasma which will be transfused to patients battling against Covid-19. During lockdown, I distributed food packets and other necessary items to needy people. While doing all this, I got infected with the virus. When I realized that our plasma will also help in recovery, I decided to go to Jaipur to donate it.” Thirty four-year-old Amit Goyal, a resident of Taranagar, has also decided to make it a mission to encourage others to donate plasma. “I attended a wedding ceremony on July 16 in which some guests from Delhi also participated. On July 21, I was tested positive for Covid-19. I donated my plasma at SMS Medical College today (Sunday). Along with me, at least 30 others had tested positive for Covid-19 after the wedding. I have decided to encourage all my relatives who got infected during wedding ceremony and recovered to donate their plasma,” said Goyal. Thirty-year-old Nabi Baksh, who is a resident of Churu, said, “I lost one of my close relatives battling against Covid-19 in Surat. We tried to arrange plasma for him, but all efforts went in vain. Realizing the importance of plasma, I donated it. This is the minimum we can do for serving the society as we have seen the pain of losing someone close to heart to Covid-19,” said Baksh. In Churu, the health department is taking it as a mission to encourage people to donate plasma. “We are encouraging all those who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma. A camp was organized in Jhunjhunu some five days ago by SMS Medical College in which they had collected samples and now those who were found eligible for it, donated it at the SMS Hospital,” said Dr Ahsaan Gauri, block chief medical health officer, Churu. The donors met health minister Raghu Sharma who has announced that the state government will take plasma therapy as a mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/14-from-shekhawati-region-donate-plasma-at-sms-hosp/articleshow/77580994.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Trichy||Govt college guest lecturers demand salary||Trichy: While guest lecturers at government arts and science colleges have started taking online classes, there is no communication on their salary that is pending from April this year. More than 4,000 guest lecturers were hired for a consolidated pay of Rs 15,000 against the vacancy of regular teaching staff, and are employed for 11 months in a year. It was in 1997 when ad hoc lecturers were hired for the first time on hourly-basis at the government arts colleges in place of vacant posts. Later they were paid a consolidated pay of Rs 2,500, which was gradually increased to Rs 15,000 per month after two decades. After March this year the guest teachers did not get their salary, says general secretary, Tamil Nadu Government Arts College Guest Lecturers Welfare Association V K Arunagiri. Since we are not paid for the month of May as it is vacation, we were not paid for the month of April, June and July and there is no communication from the office of the director of collegiate education in this regard, he said. The state government has asked the teachers to go ahead with the online classes for at least seven hours a day. Without salary, teachers are unable to make ends meet and internet charges have become an additional burden, he said. Speaking to TOI, T Arivudainambi, regional joint director of collegiate education, Trichy region, said there are more than 300 guest lecturers in 12 government arts colleges in the region comprising four districts. The guest lecturers are reappointed every year during the beginning of the academic year. They could have been paid if the colleges were reopened as usual in June this year. However, the reopening deferred due to the lockdown and these teachers are taking online classes from the beginning of this month. We expect that they will be paid their salary. We have communicated the matter to the director, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-college-guest-lecturers-demand-salary/articleshow/77581366.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Increase examination centres to ensure adherence to corona protocol: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday directed officials to increase the number of examination centres for various competitive and entrance tests to avoid crowding of candidates in view of coronavirus pandemic. The CM asked officials to ensure that candidates appearing for examinations follow Covid protocol laid down by the health department. The decision was taken at the high level meeting of the team of 11 officers at the chief minister’s official residence. Yogi underlined the need for extra vigilance in districts like Lucknow and Kanpur where Covid-19 cases are high. According to officials, 814 cases were reported from Lucknow and 397 from Kanpur on Sunday and the number was expected to escalate further. The CM directed chief secretary RK Tewari to ask nodal officers in different districts to conduct an audit of deaths caused by the pandemic. The directives come days after the CM asked officials to increase the number of beds in intensive care units of medical colleges and government hospitals. Additional chief secretary (home & information) Awanish Awasthi said the number of ICU beds would be doubled within a fortnight. The CM said more tests should be conducted to get the precise number of coronavirus cases in the state. UP has already surpassed Tamil Nadu to carry out maximum number of 35,98,210 tests. On Sunday, the medical and health department conducted more than 90,000 tests. Yogi also asked officials to establish a dialogue with those in home quarantine so that they could be properly monitored and their problems could be taken up. According to UP government records, more than 7,200 people are in home quarantine in the state. The CM also laid stress on the use of e-Sanjeevani, an integrated telemedicine solution, for providing treatment to people in their homes. “People should be made aware of the telemedicine solution. Until a vaccine is manufactured, we can combat the pandemic only by spreading awareness and following protocols,” he said. Yogi reiterated that the number of Covid beds should be increased in adequate numbers and requirement of oxygen should be fulfilled in Level-2 and Level-3 hospitals. Meanwhile, the CM also reviewed food relief measures in the state. Additional chief secretary, revenue, Renuka Kumar told the CM that relief material was being provided to people affected by floods. The CM conducted a video conference with people’s representatives and officials to ascertain the extent of problems caused by floods. Principal secretary (animal husbandry) Bhuvanesh Kumar informed the CM that the department would carry out a 45-day vaccination drive of animals from August 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-increase-examination-centres-to-ensure-adherence-to-corona-protocol/articleshow/77581375.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Help pours in to help 197 workers stranded in Kuwait||MANGALURU: Generous help has poured in from all quarters to repatriate 197 workers from Bidar district, who are stranded in Kuwait. The workers expressed their desire to return to India after Kuwait witnessed a surge in Covid-19 cases, but got stranded for more than four months due to non-availability of flights. Eshwara Khandre, working president, KPCC, former deputy chairperson, NRI Forum of Karnataka, Dr Arathi Krishna, Mohandas M Kamath, an expatriate working in Kuwait, Indian Embassy in Kuwait and Al Rashid Group Kuwait, have been making efforts to repatriate them. All these stranded workers were employed by Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Limited (MEIL), Hyderabad, who are subcontractors of Essar Projects Ltd, for the Al-Zour Refinery Project in Kuwait. Umesh Reddy, a resident of Basavakalyana taluk, who landed in Kuwait 10 months ago, told TOI over phone that their construction site has more than 14,000 labourers, and there was a fear that Covid-19 could spread at the site. As a result, 191 labourers unanimously decided to return to India. “We had expressed our desire to return back to our home country in February, but every time our tickets were cancelled due to unknown reasons. As a result, we are stuck without pay and work for over four months, and wish to be repatriated as soon as possible,” he said. Arathi Krishna said that after all the efforts of the expatriates failed to return home, they approached Ishwar Khandre, who hails from Bidar, who in turn asked for her help. Mohandas Kamath met the stranded expatriates to know about the ground reality. “We have spoken to the stranded employees and assured them of arranging a chartered flight at the earliest. Their employer is expected to provide tickets, and the rest of the amount will be sponsored by Khandre, other expatriates working in Kuwait and myself,” said Arathi Krishna. Currently, the company is providing food and accommodation. She added that they have spoken to a private travel agency, Al Rashid Group Kuwait, to arrange a chartered flight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/help-pours-in-to-help-197-workers-stranded-in-kuwait/articleshow/77578616.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
August 17, 2020||Jodhpur||Over 1,000 people rescued from rain-hit areas in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Six persons were killed in rain-related mishaps in Rajasthan on Sunday. Besides, over 1,000 people were rescued from different parts of the state. According to police two kids drowned in Alwar. Bodies of two people, who were swept away in Sairda River in Baran, recovered. Similarly, one person drowned in a rain-fed river in Karauli district. One body was also recovered from Jalore. The current fifth spell of southwest monsoon has slashed the rainfall deficit to 19% in the state. The shortfall was 34% till the fourth spell. Pratapgarh received 420.88mm rainfall which is highest in the state. Jamwaramgarh (Jaipur) received a rainfall of 250mm on Sunday. It was followed by Jaipur district where a rainfall of 180mm was recorded. Many places in the districts including Sikar, Ajmer, Tonk, Sawai Madhopur and Dholpur received a rainfall varying from 120mm to 10mm. “So far in Jaipur district as a whole a rainfall of 389.16mm was received. In 2019 (till August 16), a rainfall of 354.80mm was received. Also Jaipur has not witnessed major rainfall in its first four spells, however, the revival of the monsoon in its fifth spell has brought plenty of rainfall,” said an official of Jaipur Met office. There is a heavy rainfall forecast for districts like Udaipur, Jalore, Sirohi, Rajsamand, Dungarpur and Chittorgarh. Till August 29, many places in the state are likely to get good monsoon rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/over-1k-people-rescued-from-rain-hit-areas-in-raj/articleshow/77582895.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Bhopal||MP: For Nagaud cops, flag hoisting this year was in knee-deep water||BHOPAL: Cops in Satna district’s Nagaud police station celebrated Independence Day in knee-deep water. Due to the recent incessant rain, the police station premises is facing water-logging for past one week. Water-logging is a perennial problem at the Nagaud police station premises, say sources. Some measures were taken by the local police officials recently but to no avail. It only helped to an extent that water now does not enter the rooms of the police station. However, if one wants to reach to the rooms of the police station building in monsoon, one has to wade through the knee-deep water. Vehicles that are parked in the premises get immersed if there is any rainfall, said sources. “The police station is situated at a lower altitude. We took few measures but still there is water logging in the entire premises though now water does not enter the office and in rooms of the police station,” Nagaud police station incharge, RP Singh told TOI. Singh said that this year, the staff was left with no option but to celebrate the Independence Day in knee deep water. “We have discussed with local civic body officials and they have sent some proposals and a drain would be built to address the problems. Our police station is situated on one side of the road in the Nagaud town and on the other side of the road there is Indra Nagar locality. Though the civic body officials have assured to built a drain on our side of the road, but the problem will not end till a drain is built on other side too. But officials in the municipality say they have no budget for building drain,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/for-nagaud-cops-flag-hoisting-this-year-was-in-knee-deep-water/articleshow/77581380.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ajmer||Over 1,000 people rescued from rain-hit areas in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Six persons were killed in rain-related mishaps in Rajasthan on Sunday. Besides, over 1,000 people were rescued from different parts of the state. According to police two kids drowned in Alwar. Bodies of two people, who were swept away in Sairda River in Baran, recovered. Similarly, one person drowned in a rain-fed river in Karauli district. One body was also recovered from Jalore. The current fifth spell of southwest monsoon has slashed the rainfall deficit to 19% in the state. The shortfall was 34% till the fourth spell. Pratapgarh received 420.88mm rainfall which is highest in the state. Jamwaramgarh (Jaipur) received a rainfall of 250mm on Sunday. It was followed by Jaipur district where a rainfall of 180mm was recorded. Many places in the districts including Sikar, Ajmer, Tonk, Sawai Madhopur and Dholpur received a rainfall varying from 120mm to 10mm. “So far in Jaipur district as a whole a rainfall of 389.16mm was received. In 2019 (till August 16), a rainfall of 354.80mm was received. Also Jaipur has not witnessed major rainfall in its first four spells, however, the revival of the monsoon in its fifth spell has brought plenty of rainfall,” said an official of Jaipur Met office. There is a heavy rainfall forecast for districts like Udaipur, Jalore, Sirohi, Rajsamand, Dungarpur and Chittorgarh. Till August 29, many places in the state are likely to get good monsoon rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/over-1k-people-rescued-from-rain-hit-areas-in-raj/articleshow/77582897.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Udaipur||Over 1,000 people rescued from rain-hit areas in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Six persons were killed in rain-related mishaps in Rajasthan on Sunday. Besides, over 1,000 people were rescued from different parts of the state. According to police two kids drowned in Alwar. Bodies of two people, who were swept away in Sairda River in Baran, recovered. Similarly, one person drowned in a rain-fed river in Karauli district. One body was also recovered from Jalore. The current fifth spell of southwest monsoon has slashed the rainfall deficit to 19% in the state. The shortfall was 34% till the fourth spell. Pratapgarh received 420.88mm rainfall which is highest in the state. Jamwaramgarh (Jaipur) received a rainfall of 250mm on Sunday. It was followed by Jaipur district where a rainfall of 180mm was recorded. Many places in the districts including Sikar, Ajmer, Tonk, Sawai Madhopur and Dholpur received a rainfall varying from 120mm to 10mm. “So far in Jaipur district as a whole a rainfall of 389.16mm was received. In 2019 (till August 16), a rainfall of 354.80mm was received. Also Jaipur has not witnessed major rainfall in its first four spells, however, the revival of the monsoon in its fifth spell has brought plenty of rainfall,” said an official of Jaipur Met office. There is a heavy rainfall forecast for districts like Udaipur, Jalore, Sirohi, Rajsamand, Dungarpur and Chittorgarh. Till August 29, many places in the state are likely to get good monsoon rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/over-1k-people-rescued-from-rain-hit-areas-in-raj/articleshow/77582896.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||Body of Garhwal Rifles soldier found buried under snow on Independence Day||Dehradun: The body of Rajendra Negi, a soldier from 11 Garhwal Rifles who had been missing for eight months, was found on Saturday from near the Line of Control (LOC) in Kashmir. The soldier had been missing while patrolling near the LOC in Gulmarg area of Kashmir in January and was initially believed to have slipped in heavy snow and fallen into Pakistan’s territory. The Army though had subsequently denied that he could have slipped to the other side although his body was never found. He was presumed killed in action and declared a ‘battle casualty’ in May this year. However, on Saturday, Independence Day, the soldier’s body was finally found after it was spotted by an Army team buried under the snow. His family, which had petitioned the PM, CM and other officials to search for Negi, received the news on Saturday evening. Speaking to TOI, the soldier’s cousin, Dinesh Negi, said that the news was broken to Rajendra’s Negi’s wife Rajeshwari Devi by the officer of his battalion. “The official informed that with rising temperature, the snow had started melting and hence the top part of the body become visible which helped them to finally retrieve it,” he said, adding that the news “has completely shattered my cousin’s wife who has stopped eating since the news came.” The soldier, who originally hails from Chamoli, is survived by his parents who stay in Chamoli, and wife and three children who are living in Dehradun’s Ambiwala locality. Meanwhile, Colonel DPS Kathail (retired), president of Garhwal Rifles Ex-servicemen Association, told TOI that initially the body of the soldier was expected to arrive in Dehradun on Sunday but “because some formalities are pending, we are expecting it will be handed over to the family by August 18.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/body-of-garhwal-rifles-soldier-missing-since-eight-months-from-kashmir-found-buried-under-snow-on-independence-day/articleshow/77577627.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 17, 2020||Rajkot||14 swept away in flooded rivers of Saurashtra, Kutch||RAJKOT: At least 14 people were swept away flooded rivers across Saurashtra and Kutch which has been pounded by incessant rainfall for the past few days. The incidents were reported from Kalyanpur taluka of Devbhumi Dwarka district, Ranavav in Porbandar, Kalavad taluka of Jamnagar district and Mundra in Kutch on Saturday and Sunday. Of the victims, 10 are missing, one died and two were rescued. Three persons were swept away in the strong currents of Bhangada River at Hadmatiya village of Kalyanpur taluka on Saturday. While one of the victims swam to the safety of the river bank, another drowned, and the third one went missing. Police said the victims — Mashri Rawalia (45), Jaideep Joshi (32) and Ranmal Varu (35) — were going to a factory where they worked as security guards. “While Varu, who knew how to swim, swam to the safety of the river bank, Rawalia and Joshi drowned. Rawalia’s body was fished out, but Joshi is yet to be traced,” said KA Chawda, head constable with Kalyanpur police station. The incident occurred while the victims were crossing the bridge over Bhangada River which was overflowing with flood water. Meanwhile, the video of the incident has gone viral on WhatsApp and social media in which the villagers are heard telling the victims to desist from crossing the bridge. In Ranavav, three shepherds drowned in a river on Sunday while trying to save their buffalo from being swept away. Bawan Gorasia (20), Punja Kodiyatar (23) and Arjan Kodiyatar (25) plunged into the river in order to save their buffalo but the current was too strong. Efforts are being made to trace them. In another incident reported from Khakharia village of Kalawad taluka, Mahesh Shingala (35) drowned in the check dam constructed over the village river. In Jamnagar, Ravi Chauhan (27) drowned in Rangmati River while he had stepped for bathing. In Dhrab village near Mundra, five persons were swept away in Surai river. Local rescued two of them, but three are still missing, Kutch flood control room sources said. There were reports of three forest department staffers going missing near Barda in Porbandar. These include a woman too who all went missing from near Godhaniya village. Search operation is on to trace them. Mandvi and Mundra were pounded by 133mm and 132mm rainfall respectively between 6am and 8pm on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/14-swept-away-in-flooded-rivers-of-saurashtra-kutch/articleshow/77578659.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||Over 1,000 people rescued from rain-hit areas in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Six persons were killed in rain-related mishaps in Rajasthan on Sunday. Besides, over 1,000 people were rescued from different parts of the state. According to police two kids drowned in Alwar. Bodies of two people, who were swept away in Sairda River in Baran, recovered. Similarly, one person drowned in a rain-fed river in Karauli district. One body was also recovered from Jalore. The current fifth spell of southwest monsoon has slashed the rainfall deficit to 19% in the state. The shortfall was 34% till the fourth spell. Pratapgarh received 420.88mm rainfall which is highest in the state. Jamwaramgarh (Jaipur) received a rainfall of 250mm on Sunday. It was followed by Jaipur district where a rainfall of 180mm was recorded. Many places in the districts including Sikar, Ajmer, Tonk, Sawai Madhopur and Dholpur received a rainfall varying from 120mm to 10mm. “So far in Jaipur district as a whole a rainfall of 389.16mm was received. In 2019 (till August 16), a rainfall of 354.80mm was received. Also Jaipur has not witnessed major rainfall in its first four spells, however, the revival of the monsoon in its fifth spell has brought plenty of rainfall,” said an official of Jaipur Met office. There is a heavy rainfall forecast for districts like Udaipur, Jalore, Sirohi, Rajsamand, Dungarpur and Chittorgarh. Till August 29, many places in the state are likely to get good monsoon rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-1k-people-rescued-from-rain-hit-areas-in-raj/articleshow/77580998.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Four fishermen missing after boat crashes into breakwater||UDUPI: Four fishermen of a group of 11, are reported missing after their country boat Sagara Shri crashed into the breakwater at the mouth of Koderi fishing jetty in Byndoor taluk on Sunday. The remaining fishermen made it back to shore even as the coastal security police (CSP) mounted a search and rescue operation in the turbulent sea caused by rain lashing the region. The fishermen had sailed out from nearby Uppunda. R Chethan, superintendent of police, coastal security police (CSP), said that the fishermen were apparently not able to control the boat due to gales buffeting it, and it crashed into the breakwater throwing the fishermen into the sea. While locals tried to rescue the fishermen, CSP personnel from jurisdictional Gangolli CSP station headed by police inspector Sandeep G S rushed to the spot and coordinated rescue efforts with them. Sandeep said the four missing fishermen are Nagraj Kharvi, Manjunath Kharvi, Laxman Kharvi and Shekar Kharvi. Noting that the boat suffered extensive damage due to impact, Sandeep said there was no visible trace of these fishermen and that they are presumed missing. The fishermen headed towards the jetty as they were not able to come ashore due to the strong waves, Sandeep said, adding search operations will resume on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/four-fishermen-missing-after-boat-crashes-into-breakwater/articleshow/77578666.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Bhopal||Gwalior-Chambal e-way to be named after Atal Bihari Vajpayee, says MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday announced that the Gwalior-Chambal Expressway will be named former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, and that a statue grand of the saffron stalwart will be built in Bhopal. “Gwalior-Chambal Expressway will be named Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Chambal Progressway so that whenever the progress and development of that area is discussed, Atal ji becomes visible to us,” said Chouhan on the second death anniversary of the former PM. The 309km expressway will connect Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh through MP, and provide cross-connectivity with the Golden Quadrilateral. On Saturday, after hoisting the national flag at Lal Parade Ground, Chouhan had recalled Vajpayee and how he described India as a “land of tarpan and Arpan”. “We will live for it, we will die for it. When the ashes are immersed after death, the sound that will echo in the water would be ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’,” the CM had said. After paying floral tributes to the former PM at BJP state head office on Sunday, Chouhan said: “Atal ji continues to inspire.” The government will celebrate ‘Good Governance Day’ on Vajpayee’s birthday on December 25, he added. “Atal Bihari Vajpayee ji never compromised on his principles. He was one of the founding members of Jana Sangh, drawing inspiration from Indian life values, traditions, culture and ideas. Atal ji criticised government policies in Lok Sabha when the then Prime Minister Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru was a tall figure. Pt Nehru had said that this intelligent leader (Atal) would one day become the Prime Minister,” recalled Chouhan. Vajpayee had changed the political direction of India, said Chouhan. “Atal ji supported the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi during the 1971 war with Pakistan, giving more importance to the country than the party. In the United Nations, he gave speeches in Hindi and worked to solve global issues. Atal ji decided to make India a nuclear power and the whole world was stunned when the nuclear test took place at Pokhran in 1998,” said Chouhan. “Atal ji also connected village to village with the rural road scheme and connected the whole of India with the Golden Quadrilateral project. The development of the country started right after Atal ji became the Prime Minister,” said the chief minister. BJP state president VD Sharma, organising general secretary Suhas Bhagat and national vice-president Prabhat Jha accompanied the CM in paying tribute to Vajpayee. “We are fortunate that such a personality was born in MP. Atal ji was the pinnacle of India’s politics. On his death anniversary, BJP workers should pledge to imbibe the characteristics of his personality. This will be the true tribute,” Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gwalior-chambal-e-way-to-be-named-after-atal-says-shivraj/articleshow/77581385.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Bareilly||Out to relieve herself in a field in an ODF district, Dalit girl, 13, gang-raped, brutalised & killed in UP||Bareilly: A 13-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped and murdered by two men, when she had gone to relieve herself on farmland owned by one of the accused, in UP’s Lakhimpur Kheri district – which was officially declared free from open defecation in 2018. There were injury marks on her eyes and tongue suggesting that she was tortured before being strangled to death. Police have registered an FIR against Sanjay Gautam and Santosh Kumar Yadav under IPC’s section 302 (murder) and SC/ST Act at Isanagar police station. Both the accused were arrested on Saturday. Later, other charges under sections 376D (gang rape), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) and also the POCSO Act were added to the FIR on Sunday. Kheri senior superintendent of police Satyendra Kumar said police will also slap the National Security Act against the accused. “We arrested the accused within a few hours after the crime was reported. It was indeed a brutal act and we have decided to slap the NSA against both the accused,” the SSP added. The girl was a resident of a village in Isanagar area of Kheri and her father and brother are labourers. As the district administration claimed that the family has a toilet but were not using it, the victim’s elder brother told TOI, “We do have a toilet but it is incomplete as there is no drain to connect it with the septic tank. That is why we have to go out and defecate in the field. Santosh had a fight with us in July when one of us was defecating on his farmland, but we never thought that he would show such brutality to my younger sister.” Kheri district panchayati raj officer Ajay Srivastava said, “The district was declared ODF in 2018 after all the families as per baseline survey of 2012 were provided toilets. The families that increased after 2012 are getting surveyed and being provided toilets. The family of the deceased girl does have a toilet. We will conduct a survey in the village to identify the reason why people are still not using the toilets.” Meanwhile, the incident drew strong opposition and condemnation, with Congress and SP leaders attacking the Adityanath government over the law and order situation in the state. Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said the incident has shaken humanity. “The rape and murder of a teenage girl in Lakhimpur Kheri in UP is an incident, which has shaken humanity. In the BJP rule, atrocities on children and women are at an all-time high,” he tweeted. Senior Congress leader Jitin Prasada on Sunday said, “The inhuman act with a girl has put humanity to shame. This is an extremely saddening incident. In this episode, the police must initiate such a strong action that it becomes a deterrent for criminals.” Terming the crime "very saddening and shameful", BSP supremo Mayawati had on Saturday demanded strict action against the guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/out-to-relieve-herself-in-a-field-in-an-odf-district-dalit-girl-13-gang-raped-brutalised-killed-in-up/articleshow/77577657.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ludhiana||All 45 spots for green belts are encroached upon in Dairy Complex||Ludhiana: It is the apathetic municipal corporation to blame for the lack of green belts in Dairy Complex on Hambran Road.For, almost all of the public parks in the area are under encroachment — a fact that came to the fore during a survey conducted by the civic officials on the directions of the local bodies department chief vigilance officer.During the scrutiny, the officials found that the places earmarked for developing public parks were encroached upon by dairy owners. The survey highlights the negligence of the civic officials, who had been claiming that there was hardly any space for developing green belts.A city-based activist, Rohit Sabharwal, had gone on a hunger strike on June 10, seeking redressal of many a civic issue, including encroachments in Dairy Complex. He had submitted a memorandum to the vigilance office, who then directed the civic officials to check the number of encroachments and what action had been taken to free those of squatters.The officials claimed that a survey was carried out in 2017 as well and on its basis, they checked the present scenario in the area. “The layout plan of Dairy Complex has at least 45 public parks. But when we checked the area, we did not find any. At the places earmarked for green belts, dairy farmers have tied their cattle and constructed temporary sheds,” they added.An MC building branch official said, “We have prepared the report. It will go to the vigilance officer. We will act as per the directions of the department. But these are mostly temporary encroachments and if we remove these, then it will be mandatory for the MC to take possession of the land when it does not have adequate funds to develop so many parks in one go. Besides, there are plans to shift dairy units. In that case, encroachment will automatically be removed.”Assistant town planner Mohan Singh said those were temporary encroachments and could be removed anytime. Layout plan shows…“The layout plan of Dairy Complex has at least 45 public parks. But when we checked the area, we did not find any. At the places earmarked for green belts, dairy farmers have tied their cattle and constructed temporary sheds,” said MC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/all-45-spots-for-green-belts-are-encroached-upon-in-dairy-complex/articleshow/77578680.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||Congress listens to Sachin Pilot, replaces Rajasthan in-charge||JAIPUR: Fulfilling one of the key demands of Sachin Pilot, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) has replaced Avinash Pande with Ajay Maken as the general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Congress on Sunday. Pande was in the line of fire of Pilot camp and the latter had demanded his dismissal from the state for taking sides with chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Also, the party has formed a three-member panel to look into issues and demands raised by Pilot. The announcement of a three-member panel was the immediate take away for Pilot on August 10 after his meeting Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra concluded in a truce in state Congress. The three members of the committee are senior leader Ahmed Patel, AICC general secretary in-charge (organisation) K C Venugopal, and the new state party in-charge Ajay Maken. Reacting to the developments, Pilot welcomed both the moves taken by the high command. "I thank Congress leadership for establishing coordination in Rajasthan, today shri @Ahmedpatel, shri @kcvenugopalmp, shri @ajaymaken has been appointed three-member panel. I am fully confident that under the guidance of this committee, Congress will get a new and fresh direction," Piot tweeted. Speaking to TOI, he said, “I am thankful to Congress president Sonia Gandhi ji and Rahul Gandhi ji for constituting the committee that will look into the issues that we raised.” Welcoming the decision, chief minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, "I welcome the decision of CP Smt. Sonia Gandhi ji to appoint Shri Ajay Maken as AICC General Secretary in-charge of Rajasthan. I congratulate Shri Maken and hope that his vast organisational experience will help strengthen the party and energise the party workers in the state. Eagerly looking forward to working with him." Maken, a two-time MP, had been deputed along with Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala by the party high command to resolve issues after trouble broke out a month ago within the state party. Maken had stayed with the Gehlot camp MLAs at a hotel in Jaipur and in Jaisalmer and was part of all recent developments within the state unit. He has been chosen for his neutral approach taken during the political crisis and his close network in Delhi. After getting the double responsibility, he tweeted, "Extremely grateful to the Hon’ble Congress President Smt. Sonia Gandhi and Shri @RahulGandhi for reposing faith in me. Will leave no stone unturned to further strengthen the Congress Party in Rajasthan. Also thank my colleague @avinashpandeinc ji for his services & contribution." Pande was appointed party in-charge in May 2017. His role in the state became significant after Congress came to power. “He was to coordinate between the party and the Congress government. But, he failed to strike a peace deal between Gehlot and Pilot who were at loggerheads even before the assembly elections were announced. Gehlot’s statement that he was not in talking terms with Pilot for the past 15 months also raised a finger at Pande whose primary job is to be a troubleshooter and maintain coordination between the organisation and the government,” said a party source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-listens-to-pilot-replaces-raj-in-charge/articleshow/77580996.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nashik||Covid-19: 277 cases, 9 deaths in Nashik||NASHIK: As many as 277 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Nashik city in the 24 hours ending on Sunday, taking the tally of positive cases to 16,381. Nine more patients also succumbed to infection, increasing the city’s death toll to 395. Moreover, 544 patients recovered and were discharged on Sunday. At present, the city has 2,823 active cases. The nine deaths include a 36-year-old woman from Chehadi, a 63-year-old woman from Ashok Chowk, a 70-year-old woman and 79-year-old man from Upanagar, a 69-year-old man from Saibaba Nagar, a 40-year-old man from Sadik Nagar, a 40-year old woman from Deolali, a 67-year-old man from Kazi Nagar and a 55-year-old woman from Shivaji Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/277-cases-9-deaths-in-city/articleshow/77578669.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: MLAs may have to face Covid-19 test||LUCKNOW: Before the start of the forthcoming monsoon session, MLAs may have to undergo antigen tests for the confirmation of Covid-19. With the death of two cabinet ministers Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan and over six ministers and several MLAs already in the grip of Covid 19, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath does not want to take any risk. The CM is learnt to have discussed the matter with UP Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit and parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna and they are of the opinion that all MLAs should undergo tests for novel coronavirus infection and only then they be allowed to attend the monsoon session beginning August 20. However, no final decision has been taken in this connection so far. “The state health department has been asked to make arrangements for conducting the Covid test of all MLAs,” stated a senior officer of the state health department while talking to TOI. He said that it is yet not final whether the Covid test for the MLAs attending the House is compulsory or not. Meanwhile, the Covid test for secretariat staff deployed in the House has been made compulsory. Their test will start from Monday. Over 125 employees, including security guards, who are deployed during the session, would have to undergo the Covid test. The sitting arrangement for the session has been staggered into ground and the first floor to follow the Covid protocol and maintain social distancing norm. It has also been decided that the first time MLAs would be asked to take seats on the first floor, while the ground floor would be reserved for seniors. To avoid transmission of the novel coronavirus infection among the lawmakers it is also being actively considered to run the House maximum for one or two hours every day. But this will be decided only at the business advisory meeting with the consensus of all political parties, mainly the Opposition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mlas-may-have-to-face-covid-19-test/articleshow/77581382.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 17, 2020||Nashik||Zero Covid death for the second time in a week in city||Nashik: Nashik city has recorded zero Covid-related deaths twice — August 8 and August 15 — in the past week. Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials said that prior to this, the city recorded zero death on June 5. The city reported first Covid-19 positive patient on April 6 while the first Covid-related death was recorded on May 5. The city had 214 positive patients with eight deaths by May end. However, the number of deaths increased in June. On an average, the city registered three deaths every day in June, taking the death toll by June 30 to 105. July was more crucial in terms of Covid-19 deaths as the city reported 5-6 deaths every day on an average, taking the death toll by July 31 to 276. Although coronavirus cases had increased in July, the death rate had dropped from 4.81% on June 30 to 2.92% on July 31. This was attributed to the various measures undertaken by the NMC. The efforts by civic body’s health teams yielded results in the first half of August when the death rate further dropped to 2.39%. Earlier, the NMC would trace 22 high and low-risk contacts of every Covid-19 patient, but the civic administration increased the tracing up to 35-40 contacts per patient. “We immediately conduct antigen tests of these high and low-risk contacts of Covid positive patients and once a person tests positive for the contagion, immediate treatment is provided to them,” said NMC officials. “We have also deployed over 600 teachers from civic-run schools to conduct surveys of co-morbid patients and conduct tests for early detection of patients which, in turn, lowers death rate” the officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/zero-covid-death-for-the-second-time-in-a-week-in-city/articleshow/77578664.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 17, 2020||Nashik||Water storage in Gangapur Dam rises above 76%||Nashik: For the first time during monsoon this year, the storage in Gangapur dam has shot up to 4301 million cubic feet (mcft) or 76% of its total capacity of 5630 mcft. “The dry spell of monsoon has delayed in the addition of water in Gangapur dam this year. It may be noted that last year, the dam had 94% water in storage,” sources from the water resources department (WRD) said. At the same time, WRD sources have denied releasing water from Gangapur dam at this point of time given the condition that the storage of water being provided for Nashik city is not yet ensured. “There are two other dams — Gautami-Godavari and Kashyapi Dam — at the upstream of Gangapur dam. Both these dams have very low storage — 892 (48%) and 688 (37%) respectively. If water is released from Gangapur dam and rain fails to bring water to those dams, there we will be a huge problem. Hence, until there is good water storage in those two reservoirs, the decision of releasing water is unlikely to be reached in the near future,” the WRD sources said. The Gangapur Dam complex, including all the three dams, now has 63% water. Officials of the water department also pointed out that though the rise in the water levels brings some relief to citizens, it is not up to the mark and, hence, the WRD has not withdrawn its letters of ‘cautious usage of water’ so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/water-storage-in-gangapur-dam-rises-above-76/articleshow/77578704.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 17, 2020||Ludhiana||In a 1st for MC, e-auction of prime properties on Sept 18||tnnLudhiana: To generate revenue, the fund-starved municipal corporation will e-auction some of its prime properties located in various parts of the city. This is for the first time that the civic body will take the online route for sale of properties.The e-auction, which will also help check participants’ gathering, will be held on September 18 and the registrations from September 1 to September 15.MC officials said, “Many properties are of no useful purpose, as civic body does not have development funds. So, it is better to sell these. At least, these will help MC generate funds.” Vacant plots opposite Keys Hotel for shop-cum-offices, those in Jamalpur Awana, on the rear of Kailash Cinema and in Bearing Market on Old GT Road will be auctioned.MC superintendent Rajiv Bhardwaj said, “The entire information is uploaded on MC portal. Residents can also meet me at Zone D for redressal of queries. Other departments have already switched over to online auction.” Zonal commissioner Kulpreet Singh said, “Earlier auction was held before 2017 and it was manual. For the first time, we will organize it online.” Months ago, Ludhiana Improvement Trust as well as Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority had introduced e-auction in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-a-1st-for-mc-e-auction-of-prime-properties-on-sept-18/articleshow/77578701.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM orders aid to flood victims in 24 hours, wrecked houses rebuilt||LUCKNOW: Reviewing the flood situation in the state, Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that financial assistance should be provided to an affected family within 24 hours of the loss of life or property in floods. He has also said that those who have lost their homes in floods should be given houses under the PM or CM Awas Yojana. While speaking to district magistrates of 40 districts which are sensitive or extra sensitive with respect to flooding and senior administration officials, including those from the revenue and irrigation departments, the chief minister has asked officials to prepare a policy under which those families who lose their homes in floods should be given houses under the PM Housing Scheme or the CM Housing Scheme. The revenue department has been asked to prepare a proposal for cases where there is a problem of land availability in a specific village, and an alternate site has to be offered to the affected family. “Ration kits should be distributed to all those affected by floods. The threat of floods is usually there till mid-September and districts should prepare themselves for any eventuality till then. Mobile medical teams should take regular rounds in flood affected areas so that people can get immediate assistance. Food and relief should be provided to affected families at the earliest,” the CM said. He also pushed for desilting and revival of natural ponds, saying that they play a significant role in water preservation. Currently, 15 districts are affected by floods in the state, including Ambedkarnagar, Ayodhya, Azamgarh, Bahraich, Barabanki, Basti, Deoria, Gonda, Gorakhpur, LakhimpurKheri, Kushinagar, Mau and Sitapur. Additional chief secretary, revenue, Renuka Kumar said that 710 villages are affected in the 15 flood hit districts. Out of these, 436 are marooned. The government has established 328 flood shelters in the state. In Ballia, Azamgarh, Mau and Ambedkar Nagar, there are 1,402 people living in 24 shelters. An official said that at present, there are 265 mobile medical teams, 15 teams of NDRF, nine teams of SDRF and 17 companies of PAC which have been deputed for relief and rescue work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-orders-aid-to-flood-victims-in-24hrs-wrecked-houses-rebuilt/articleshow/77581390.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Shortage of funds hit readymade garment manufacturers||Ludhiana: Faced with several problems, city’s readymade garment exporters are in a jittery. According to businessmen, the biggest problem they are facing right now is shortage of funds and in addition to this the shortage of labour has worsened the matters. Readymade garment exporters are now demanding that government steps in and brings out special package for the garment exporters in which they should not only be given interest free loans but the current incentives available on exports should also be hiked so that they could get capital to carry on with business and also to absorb losses which they incurred due to Covid-19. Speaking on the issue, Harish Dua, president of Knitwear and Apparel Exporters Organisation, Ludhiana, said, “The export of readymade garment from India was on the decline but due to onset of Covid-19 it has taken the worst-ever hit. If we compare the export turnover with the last year there has been more than 50%decline in the exports for the period of April to July. In the financial year 2019-20 the RMG export from India for the above period was Rs 38,398.47 crore, which tumbled to Rs 18,928.48 crore in the financial year 2020-21. Covid-9 has turned out to be the worst nightmare for readymade garment exporters of India as quantum of losses suffered by us during this period is so huge that it cannot be set off for years to come. Moreover, there are some exporters who after being unable to tackle the situation have shut down their businesses permanently.” Dua added that, “Though the overseas orders have started coming but we do not have much capital left to invest and therefore we are unable to process this. Moreover, with shortage of labour it is very difficult for us to even execute the even smallest of the consignments. Our only request with the government is that it must act now and support the RMG exporters by introducing interest free loans at the earliest which will give the exporters, who are on the brink of bankruptcy, to come out of the situation and give a fresh start to their business.” According to Charanjiv Singh, general secretary of Knitwear and Textile Club, “Ludhiana has the highest number of readymade garment exporters from India and for years we have been successfully give tough competition to the manufacturers of other countries in global exports. However, the situation which has ensued after coronavirus is unprecedented and even the big players are confused on what to do. Shortage of funds to continue with the exports has emerged to be the biggest problem along with the rising costs, particularly in the wake of shortage of labour. We therefore demand that the government along with introducing interest free loans for readymade garment exporters also revise the incentives and subsidies available to us currently as this will help to reduce our losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shortage-of-funds-hit-readymade-garment-manufacturers/articleshow/77579992.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nashik||Nashik ZP collects data of 5.5 lakh co-morbid, elderly citizens||Nashik: With Covid-19 infection spreading fast across the district and people aged 60 and above as well as those having co-morbid conditions likely to contract the infection fast, the Nashik zilla parishad’s health department, through its health workers and Ashas, has gathered data of 5.5 lakh residents from the rural areas for monitoring their health. District health officer of Nashik zilla parishad said, “The data of 5.5 lakh such citizens from the rural parts of the district has already been gathered and the work of noting names and other details of the remaining such people would be soon conducted. The details of such elderly citizens and co-morbid patients has been entered in the recently launched ‘Sach’ application.” Ashas and other health workers have been tasked with the work of making regular visits to the houses of elderly and co-morbid patients and gather information about their health, including oxygen saturation, body temperature and other details. Aher said that the health workers and the Asha workers have been given pulse oxymeter and infra-red guns to check the body temperature of people. If they come across any co-morbid patients suffering from any kind of ailment or health problem, the same has to be noted down in the said application. Once the details are registered in the application, the data of the same is made accessible to medical officer, taluka medical officer and other senior officials. The app will sound an alert if the health of any of the registered residents deteriorates or they suffer from Covid-like symptoms. The alert will help the officials concerned to take the necessary action and ensure that the patient receives timely treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-zp-collects-data-of-5-5-lakh-co-morbid-elderly-citizens/articleshow/77578688.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 17, 2020||Trichy||NGO on a mission to raise palmyra palms||Trichy: As dried up palmyra palm seeds have started falling from trees, members of Thanneer - a city-based NGO -have started collecting them across the district. When the palm fruits are not plucked, they dry up on the trees and eventually fall. Over 1,000 of them were collected by a team from Thanneer on Saturday from around K Sathanur tank and Kanakankulam in Trichy. The seeds will be planted on the banks of water bodies and barren land from September with an objective to increase its population in the district. “Although palmyra is the state tree of Tamil Nadu, its numbers have significantly come down in recent years. Thanneer started a campaign on palmyrah plantation in 2015 and since then over 20,000 seeds have been sown so far. Over 80% of the seeds have survived and are in different stages of growth across the district,” Thanneer secretary K C Neelamegam. Last year they had to purchase palm seeds from Salem district, but this year they chose to collect them on their own. “While searching for seeds, it was satisfying to come across saplings that germinated out of seeds that we had sown in the last few years,” said K Sathish Kumar, joint secretary of Thanneer. He said it will take at least 10 years to bear fruits, but these trees serve a larger purpose by strengthening bunds and storing water under them. Every part of Palmyrah palm is useful in some way or the other, he added. N Venkatesh, a college student and part of the team said, “We are urging people to collect palmyrah seeds and plant them in September during the monsoon so that they germinate fast.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ngo-on-a-mission-to-raise-palmyra-palms/articleshow/77581386.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Rajkot||Infected jail inmate falls to death; 23 more test +ve||Rajkot: An under-trial prisoner from Gondal sub-jail who had tested positive for Covid-19, fell to his death after he tried to flee from the second floor of a quarantine centre. Meanwhile, 23 prisoners of Rajkot Central Jail too tested positive of the virus on Sunday. The under trial prisoner was kept in the second floor of a quarantine centre in Bedinaka locality of Rajkot after he had tested positive of the virus. On Saturday morning, while trying to flee the centre, Anandgiri Goswami, fell down and lost his life.An official from Rajkot A division police station said that the deceased had even earlier made an unsuccessful attempt to escape. “Goswami had tested Covid-19 positive in Gondal sub-jail from where he was transferred to Rajkot Civil Hospital. Goswami had tried to escape from the hospital last week but was caught. In his second attempt he lost his life,” the cop said.Reports of the samples of prisoners that had been taken on Friday for Covid testing were released on Sunday. A jail official said that 23 prisoners were infected which included both under trial prisoners as well as convicts. “We have created a special isolation ward for these prisoners in the jail itself,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/infected-jail-inmate-falls-to-death-23-more-test-ve/articleshow/77578699.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||Floods cut off 252 villages in rain-drenched Gadchiroli||NAGPUR: Life in 252 villages was affected as rain continued to play havoc in Gadchiroli district of in eastern Vidarbha which received a rainfall of 43.6 mm on Sunday. In south Gadchiroli, around 85 villages have lost connectivity. The villages, which were in Bhamragarh (50), Sironcha (15) and Aheri (20) tehsils, have remained cut off for the last 48 hours from the rest of the district. Bhamragarh, which received the highest 126.5mm rain, remained the worst-hit when Parlakota river started flowing over the danger mark. Soon after the water started flowing over the bridge and entered the village inundating the market and submerging other low-lying areas. Around 50 families had to be shifted to government school and forest rest house hall from the flooded areas. Bhamragarh was also cut off from Laheri and Beenagunda. The electricity supply had to be closed in most parts of the district adding to the already aggravated flood condition. Around Nelgonda, close to Chhattisgarh border, 18 villages were marooned. Connectivity of these villages was snapped after Juwi and Kumarguda nullahs started overflowing following incessant rains. With water gushing in from the neighbouring rivulets, Alapalli-Bhamragarh road was flooded on Saturday. With Indravati and Godavari river flowing much above the normal level, water gushed into adjoining villages. Gadchiroli collector Deepak Singla said rescue and rehabilitation teams had been already sent to 252 villages that have lost connectivity. “We had provided ration to the families of the affected villages in June which would last till September. The Primary Health Centres in the interiors have been also supplied with anti-malarial drugs and medicines for other diseases. Wualified nurses too have been posted there,” said the collector. “Bhamragarh is the most affected tehsil where 40,000 population is facing the brunt of the flood and torrential rains. Search and rescue teams with rubber boats, search lights, ropes and other equipment have been rushed for immediate help,” he said. “Parlakota bridge is expected to be reconstructed elevating it’s height soon. The machineries have reached the site of construction,” said Singla. In Sironcha, many villages were cut off after Asaralli-Somanpalli road was flooded when Somanpalli nullah started overflowing. The traffic on the Ashti-Sironcha road too was halted after Guddiguddam nullah started overflowing. Sironcha-Etapalli road too was under water. Akinsa and Asaralli villages in Sironcha taluka had a surge of flood water after 65 gates of Mendigatta project were opened in Telangana. Kambalpeth nullah flooded the Jaffrabad road cutting it off from rest of the district. Similarly, Vatra nullah flooded the Aheri-Dewulmari road leading to almost 20 villages in the interiors being cut off. Dina and Bande rivers too are learnt to be in spate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/floods-cut-off-252-villages-in-rain-drenched-gchiroli/articleshow/77581032.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||Body of jawan who was injured in Galwan brought home, cremated||Pithoragarh: Havildar Bisan Singh (43) of 17 Kumaon Regiment, who died on Friday night in Chandigarh after getting fatally injured in the Galwan stand-off with Chinese soldiers three months ago, was cremated with full military honours at Chitrashila Ghat at Ranibagh in Uttarakhand's Nainital district. On May 6, Singh, after getting injured at Galwan, had been admitted at Leh Army Hospital. According to sources, Singh initially seemed to be recovering, but his wound festered into an infection and he was referred to an Army hospital in Chandigarh. On Sunday, Singh's body reached Kamaluaganga in Haldwani. His 19-year-old son Manoj and elder brother Jeevan did the last rites at Chitrashila ghat. Singh was a native of Mani Dhami village of Bangapani tehsil of Pithoragarh. Apart from his wife and son, he is survived by his 16-year-old daughter Manisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/body-of-army-jawan-who-was-fatally-injured-in-galwan-brought-home-in-haldwani-cremated-with-military-honours/articleshow/77577690.cms||Prem Punetha
August 17, 2020||Bareilly||119 new Covid +ve cases in Bareilly, 54 in Meerut||Bareilly/Meerut/Agra: At least 119 new Covid-19 cases were reported from Bareilly district, taking the active cases to 2,114. Also, 95 deaths have been reported here, so far. In Shahjahanpur, 78 people were found positive while 24 have succumbed to the virus. In Meerut district, at least 54 cases tested positive on Sunday, taking the tally to 2,831. Also, one new death took the toll to 103, according to Meerut's chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar. Moreover, one Covid death was reported in Agra district on Sunday. A 54-year-old man died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Delhi. The resident of Awas Vikas Colony had a renal failure. His renal transplant had failed after he was tested Covid-19 positive. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to co-morbid condition. So far, 102 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. As many as 28 new Covid-19 cases also surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 2,318. Meanwhile, 43 Covid-19 patients were discharged. Of the 2,318 cases reported in the district, 81.6% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are 323 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/119-new-covid-ve-cases-in-bareilly-54-in-meerut/articleshow/77577701.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana Congress gears up for ‘early’ GHMC elections||HYDERABAD: With a host of works either inaugurated or grounded clearly indicating civic elections are round the corner, parties are drawing up strategies to claim credit for development of Greater Hyderabad. TRS has started wooing the urban voters with welfare programmes (Basti Dawakhanas) and infrastructure projects (SRDP and Durgam Cheruvu cable-stayed bridge), while Congress wants to go to the people, expose the ruling party and claim credit for the ‘global city’ tag of Hyderabad. Big-ticket projects like RGI Airport at Shamshabad, PVNR Expressway, ORR, flyovers, Krishna and Godavari river and Hyderabad Metro Rail were either started by Congress governments or completed during its tenure, Congress leaders claimed at a GHMC poll strategy meeting here on Sunday. Also, Greater Hyderabad got recognition as IT and pharma hub before TRS came to power in 2014, they said. Senior Congress leaders, including Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, have decided to counter claims of TRS on Greater Hyderabad. They decided to go to the people and spread awareness about the achievements of the Congress governments in making Greater Hyderabad a global city. Incidentally, City Congress president Anjan Kumar Yadav, Marri Shashidhar Reddy and V Hanumanth Rao, both from the city, were conspicuous by their absence at the meeting. Hanumanth Rao and Shashidhar Reddy said they were told the meeting was to discuss illegal demolition of two mosques and a temple in the secretariat. “The TRS government has done nothing significant for Greater Hyderabad. TRS has failed to deliver 2-BHK houses to lakhs of homeless poor,” they lamented. “The Congress leaders will go in person to the doorsteps of the voters once the pandemic subsides. Until then, we will campaign about Congress achievements on social media platforms,” Uttam Kumar Reddy told TOI. Committees to work on election-winning strategies would be formed from the party’s frontal organisations and various cells in all the 24 Assembly constituencies and 150 divisions in the GHMC limits. Malkajgiri MP Revanth Reddy said GHMC poll strategies discussed by the party should be implemented and not remain on paper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-cong-gears-up-for-early-ghmc-elections/articleshow/77579982.cms||Roushan Ali
August 17, 2020||Goa||In peak monsoon, water woes worry New Vaddem locals||VASCO: It’s a typical case of ‘water, water everywhere, but not a drop to drink’ for residents of New Vaddem, Vasco, who have been facing acute water shortage due to leaks in the pipeline. For 10 days, the residents had to rely on tankers for water for their daily requirements. While the leakage was finally fixed by the PWD on Friday evening, the residents are apprehensive about the pipeline rupturing elsewhere soon. Such leakages are nothing new they say, adding that though they are fixed often, the problem keeps occurring as the old PWD pipeline is corroded. Speaking to TOI, PWD assistant engineer Eknath Paste said that the leakage had been located and fixed. Agreeing that there is still a possibility of more leakages occurring, he said, “It becomes very difficult to locate the problem, especially during the monsoon, as rain water accumulates everywhere.” Further, he said that the department aims at resolving the New Vaddem problem within the next six months, as a JICA-funded pipeline will be connected from Chicalim which will provide water at high pressure and in the required quantity. The New Vaddem area, which is part of the Dabolim constituency, always receives PWD water supply during the night. One resident, Vinod Kinlekar, said, “Besides disruption of water supply, our area is always plagued by water shortage. Here we are supplied water at around 2-3am and it stops by 6-7am. Due to this, at least one family member has to remain awake to fill water.” Shridhar Mardolkar, who represents New Vaddem in the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC), said that one issue is that the area receives only seven or eight MLD of water instead of the required 15 MLD. Further he said that the pipeline is old and has been repaired in many places. “Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho has helped get a Rs 45 lakh project sanctioned to install a new pipeline. Once the monsoon ends, work on this will start in full swing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-peak-monsoon-water-woes-worry-new-vaddem-locals/articleshow/77581413.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Criminals ruling the roost as cops, govt watch: Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Holding the ruling BJP responsible for the sudden spurt in sensational crimes particularly against women and girl child, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday said the state was reeling under a reign of terror in which criminals are running riot while the police and the government stand as mute spectators. Highlighting the shocker in Lakhimpur where a 13-year-old girl was brutally raped, her tongue chopped off and eyes gouged, abduction and murder of a 11-year-old boy in Shamli whose body was found with bite marks and killing of a woman in Kanpur and that of a youth in Lalitpur, the Samajwadi Party president said that incidents which took place within the last 24 hours only give a glimpse of the state of affairs in Uttar Pradesh. Talking about his parliamentary constituency Azamgarh where four murders took place a day before the Independence Day, Akhilesh said the murder of a village pradhan who was asked to come out of his house and then shot and murder of a youth in Gonda by local goons for objecting to the lewd remarks at his sister were examples of how fearless criminals are in Uttar Pradesh and how inefficient were the police in putting them behind the bars. “It seems criminals are confident that they will get away no matter what they do … else how can an outlaw be so bold and fearless to commit sensational crimes and walk off,” Akhilesh said. The former UP chief minister said such things happen only when the police and administrative set-up fail to reign in culprits and perpetrators of crime and only focus on statistics to keep the records straight. Akhilesh said the government has failed miserably to curb the crime because the first thing that the police do after commission of crime is to find ways to dismiss the claims of the victim or the complainant. “Such approach will only worsen the situation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/criminals-ruling-the-roost-as-cops-govt-watch-akhilesh/articleshow/77581396.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Mysuru||Hassan: Man duped of Rs 6 lakh by woman he met on matrimonial site||HASSAN: A 36-year-old Hassan-based businessman has filed a complaint accusing a woman whom he befriended on a matrimonial website of cheating him of Rs 6 lakh. The victim, Paramesh NM, a resident of Vijayanagara Extension in Hassan, said that he had made the acquaintance of the woman, 32-year-old Lakshmi, a year-and-a-half ago. The woman and her accomplice were subsequently arrested. Police said that Lakshmi, a native of Bagepalli in Chikkaballapur, who operates along with 32-year-old Shivanna, both of whom are from Kolar district, had previously targetted and defrauded people in Bengaluru, Chikkaballapur and Bagalkot districts, often posing as government officials and on occasion as functionaries of human rights organisation. The FIR states that Paramesh and Lakshmi got acquainted with one another through a matrimonial website, wherein they exchanged their photographs Lakshmi reportedly identified herself as an income tax officer. She sought money from Paramesh citing financial troubles in her family. Starting from January 2019 through March ’20, she repeatedly sought money from Paramesh, duping him of a total of Rs 6 lakh. Paramesh grew anxious when he was unable to contact her following the enforcement of the lockdown. He saw her on August 13, when she arrived in Hassan with Shivanna. She allegedly threatened Paramesh of lodging a sexual harassment complaint if he did not stop contacting her. Paramesh however filed a complaint with Hassan city police on August 13 evening. Cops subsequently learnt that they were staying at a hotel in the heart of Hassan district, and proceeded to arrest them on the morning of August 14. The duo has been booked under various sections, including cheating, extortion, of the Indian Penal Code. However, Lakshmi has claimed that she is the one who has been cheating, police said. “We will go through the call history of both Lakshmi and Paramesh and conduct a thorough investigation. The probe will be handled by Hassan police since it was here that the duo was apprehended,” said Hassan additional superintendent of police BN Nandini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-duped-of-rs-6-lakh-by-woman-he-met-on-matrimonial-site/articleshow/77578722.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Three lions prey on donkey in village bus stop near Dhari||RAJKOT: Rain fury has brought lions out in the open when a pack of three adult lions were seen venturing around human habitation in a village near Amreli state highway on Saturday night. While wild cats are often spotted moving freely around the villages located in and around the Amreli forests, a video of lions preying on a donkey in Morzar village in Dhari taluka has caught fresh attention after it went viral on social media. It’s believed that the video had been shot by a passer-by or some local on Saturday night. Located 25km off Amreli town towards Dhari, Morzar village falls on the state highway is not a typical jungle village and therefore, the ferocity of the three fully grown lions killing the donkey that was resting in the bus stop of state transport, managed to leave the residents shocked. The video shot from inside a car shows how the lions coordinated their kill. While one attacked the donkey, two others kept moving on both sides of the road to keep vigil on humans. After sometime the wild cats disappeared with their prey. There are more than 100 lions in Amreli district, which has now been defined as the greater Gir area. Watch On cam: Lions attack donkey at bus stop in Amreli, Gujarat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lions-prey-on-donkey-in-amreli-gsrtc-bus-stop/articleshow/77578780.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Bhopal||Body misidentified, Hindu family cremates Muslim in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: The fear of Covid-19 and missing tags led to misidentification of a body in Gwalior district, where a Muslim was cremated by a Hindu family. The collector has ordered an executive inquiry into the mixup. Preliminary probe has revealed that the identification tags of the bodies were lost, and a youngster mistook Mohammad Izrat's body for his father's, possibly due to shock and Corona panic. Izrat, (65), a resident of Morena, was admitted at JAH hospital after being stung by a poisonous insect on August 9. He died five days later. When his family approached the hospital to collect his body, they were told to wait until his Covid-19 report came. On August 15, Izrat’s Covid-19 report came negative. When his family approached the hospital again, his body couldn’t be found, they say. The box, which held his body earlier, now had the body of another person named Suresh Chand, aged 50. Shocked, Izrat’s family protested before the hospital authorities and then went to police. After investigation, it was found that Izrat’s body had been handed over to Suresh’s family and it had already been cremated. Hospital authorities told police that Suresh’s son had ‘identified’ the body in the morgue. “It’s surprising that his son could not identify the body,” said Gwalior collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh. None of the two were Covid patients. When questioned by cops, Suresh’s son, who is in his early twenties, could not say why he had failed to identify the body of his father. “The doctor had lost tags of the body but when Suresh’s son was there to identify, there was no need for any other document,” said the collector. Suresh’s son later said he had realised it was a different body while carrying out the last rites but was too scared to point out in the middle of the rituals and not in a position to decide anything, so he went along with the cremation. Officials believe he would have been in shock from his father’s death, and coupled with the fear of entering a morgue, in Covid times, may have led to the error. The bones and ashes of Izrat have been handed over to his family. “Both families have understood the problem. Action will be taken against hospital authorities if anyone is found accountable,” said the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/body-misidentified-hindu-family-cremates-muslim/articleshow/77581394.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||Cops reunite mentally challenged woman with son||NAGPUR: Mankapur police observed Independence Day in a special manner by reuniting a 45-year-old mentally challenged woman, a native of Gujarat, with her son. She had left her house at Bagarghat in Gujarat on March 8, and had been untraceable since then. A citizen Nagpur police control room on August 12 on spotting the woman loitering aimlessly. Mankapur police rescued her, but could not find accommodation for her in a government shelter homes. They kept the woman at the police station itself under the care and protection of women constables. The women constables, like Lalita Unhale, Meena Maske and others, counselled her and managed to extract the name of her native place, Bagarghat and Nawapur. Naik police constable Pramod Dighore spread the word to find Bagarghat and Nawapur via social media groups. “I got feedback that Nawapur was in Nandurbar district, where cops told us Bagarghat was in Gujarat’s Ucchal police station limits, which is on the state border,” he said. “We sent a photograph of the woman via WhatsApp to Ucchal police station officer, and it was circulated in social media groups there. A relative alerted the family, and the son reach here to take her,” said Dighore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-reunite-mentally-challenged-woman-with-son/articleshow/77581034.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 17, 2020||Hubballi||Selection process of vice-chancellors hits a roadblock||DHARWAD: The process of short-listing the names for the appointment of regular vice-chancellors to Karnatak University and Gulbarga University has hit a roadblock. The search committees, comprising of nominees of the chancellor, UGC, state government and the university concerned, have short-listed four names each for consideration of the chancellor. As per the Karnataka State Universities’ Act, the chancellor will choose one of the names recommended by the search committee for the post of vice-chancellor. However, things are not moving. Highly placed sources said a Mysuru-based professor, who was an aspirant for the VC’s post in both Karnatak University and Gulbarga University, has questioned in the high court non-inclusion of his name in the short-list by both the search committees. The court is expected to hear the matter on August 18. Till then the recommendations of the search committees will be kept on hold, the sources said. Incidentally, August 20 is the last date for the search committees to submit the shortlisted names in alphabetical order in a sealed cover to the chancellor (governor). Another hurdle in the selection of VC for Karnatak University is the fact that one of the search committee members is said to have refused to sign the list prepared by the committee on the ground that there has been no social justice in short-listing the names. The search committee for Karnatak University has recommended the names of professors KB Gudasi, TC Taranath, SA Kori and SK Kallolikar. The first three belong to the Lingayat community. Sources said the dissenting member wants the list should have the names of one from SC/ST, one from OBC and one from general category and until that is done, he is not ready to sign the list. In a related development on Friday, prof Kori was appointed as the VC of Central University of Andhra Pradesh (Anantpur). The search committee for Gulbarga University has short-listed the names of professors Dayanand Agsar, B C Mylarappa, L Gomathi Devi and C M Yatanur. Dr B N Gangadhar, director of NIMHANS, Bengaluru (chairman), Dr Pratapsinh Chavan from Godhra, Gujarath, professor V S Chouhan from New Delhi and Jogan Shankar as its representative are on the committee. It has been more than a year since the post of vice-chancellor at Karnatak University fell vacant and in the last one year, the varsity is being managed by acting vice-chancellors and it has seen three acting VCs thus far. The term of S R Niranjan, vice-chancellor of Gulbarga University ended in June last year and the varsity is managed with an acting VC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/selection-process-of-vice-chancellors-hits-a-roadblock/articleshow/77578718.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
August 17, 2020||Mysuru||Contamination at lake poses threat to birds||MYSURU: In the shadow of the Chamundi Hills, right beside the Outer Ring Road (ORR) in Lalithadripura is a small waterbody that is in itself a micro biodiversity hotspot, given the number of birds that flock to the lake: Thipparayanakere. Unfortunately, the apathetic attitude of the civic authorities concerned has resulted in the waterbody getting contaminated, and residents of Lalithadripura, where Thipparayanakere is situated, are growing increasingly worried lest the waterbody turn into Bellandur Lake in Bengaluru. The lake, maintained by the Mysuru Zoo, has hundreds of fish swimming in it, which attracts a whole host of birds. However, unchecked flow of sewage from Alanahalli, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Police Layout, et al, has had a detrimental impact on the health of the lake, owing to which the waterbody is beginning to froth at the edges. It is galling that the lake, which was not too long ago a source of drinking water, has been allowed to go to waste owing to neglect of the authorities. Leela Shivakumar, a resident in a nearby locality, said that there were as many 4,000 sites on the periphery of the lake, with 1,000 houses having been constructed already. “Sewage from Alanahalli and Sukadayi layouts are released without being treated into the lake. We had appealed to the authorities to develop a dedicated septic tank for treating sewage generated in a specific locality, but our pleas have fallen on deaf ears,” Leela told TOI. A survey conducted by the Mysuru nature Organisation found that there were nearly 150 species of birds that nested at Thipparayanakere. “With the growth in the population around the lake, the amount of sewage flowing into the waterbody too has increased, which will result in the waterbody no longer attracting as many birds as it did earlier,” said A Shivaprakash, member of the organisation. Furthermore, the failure of the authorities to treat the sewage in these layouts has resulted in the contamination of the groundwater reserves used to pump water to the borewells used by the residents. “This is a health hazard, and we have intimated both the civic agencies and elected representatives about the problem but to no avail,” said Manukumar S, member of Samana Manaskara Vedike. Member-secretary of Zoo Authority of Karnataka BP Ravi said that it was the responsibility of the civic agencies to streamline the flow of sewage through the underground drainage network. “We introduced a biological treatment system to protect the lake from being polluted by sewage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/contamination-at-lake-poses-threat-to-birds/articleshow/77581093.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 17, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Cop never misses covering dead with shrouds||VADODARA: Three years ago, he came across a horrible sight of a woman lying in a pool of blood after the car she was travelling in met with an accident near Tarsali flyover. Instead of covering her dead body that had almost no cloth on it, the passers-by were busy clicking her pictures. Head constable Suresh Hinglagia, who had rushed there as a police response team member, immediately put a cloth on her body but the incident shook him up. On that day, he decided to cover the dead bodies he came across with shrouds. “I was shocked that the people who had gathered there didn’t think of covering the woman’s body. No one even helped the police on the busy highway. It was then that I decided to cover any dead body I came across with the shroud,” said Hinglagia (49) who is posted at Makarpura police station. Hinglagia made it a point to always carry some shrouds with him in the police control room (PCR) van. “Whenever any incident of crime or road accident occurs, the PCR van is the first to reach the spot. I carry the shrouds in the van and once at the spot, the first thing I do is cover the dead body,” Hinglagia told TOI. In the last three years, Hinglagia has wrapped nearly 200 dead bodies in the shrouds that he bought by spending money from his own pocket. From road accidents to murders, suicides and unknown persons, he has never missed covering any dead body in the jurisdiction of Makarpura police station. A native of Porbandar, Hinglagia joined the police service in 1991. He began his career in Ahmedabad and later got transferred to Porbandar. “My daughter studies in the city and my wife too is an advocate. So I sought transfer to Vadodara and shifted here in 2016,” he added. Hinglagia says that many people have appreciated him for his gesture and hopes that others too get inspired to help the needy. Watch Gujarat: Cop who never misses covering dead with shrouds spending money from his own pocket||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cop-never-misses-covering-dead-with-shrouds/articleshow/77577741.cms||Tushar Tere
August 17, 2020||Nashik||PWD employee assaulted, 2 booked||Nashik: The Nashik Road police have booked two individuals on the charge of assaulting a public servant attached to the public works department (PWD) service centre. Dilip Warghade, the complainant, had gone to the Distillery Quarters in the Nashik Road area on Friday afternoon to ask the occupant of a particular accommodation unit to vacate the premises as he was no longer eligible for stay there. However, the occupant got furious over continuously being issued notices to vacate the house and pointed out that government quarters too had ineligible residents. The occupant and another person heckled Warghade and later punched and kicked him and also threatened him of dire consequences if he returned in the Distillery Quarters area. The Nashik Road police said that they were investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pwd-employee-assaulted-2-booked/articleshow/77578731.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nashik||No threat to coalition government: Thorat||Nashik: State revenue minister and Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee president Balasaheb Thorat on Sunday said that there is no threat to the coalition government. Thorat, who was in Nashik on Sunday to interact with the office-bearers and workers of the Congress party, said the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) will complete its tenure of five years even though the BJP is trying to create disturbance. Thorat praised his party workers for their diligence in helping people during the Covid-19 pandemic and asked them to be keep working in the interest of common people. When asked about the Sushant Singh Rajput and Parth Pawar issues, Thorat refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-threat-to-coalition-government-thorat/articleshow/77578725.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Don’t force parents to pay fees: Education minister to schools||Aurangabad: State education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Sunday appealed to schools to not force parents to pay fees for their wards right now. “During this pandemic, several parents are facing financial difficulties due to salary cuts and loss of jobs, among other reasons. It will be unjust to force such parents to pay school fees,” she said, during her visit. Gaikwad said the government knows of the difficulties faced by the schools as the managements have to give salaries to staff and bear other expenses. “The earlier government order putting a stay on fee recovery was legally challenged by a section of private schools. We will wage a legal battle to protect the interest of parents,” she said. She said the government was taking all measures to ensure every student gets education. She said the focus is on students who do not have access to the internet. Efforts are being made to offer education through TV. On the New Education Policy approved by the Centre, Gaikwad said the state would take measures for its successful implementation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/dont-force-parents-to-pay-fees-education-minister-to-schools/articleshow/77577724.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Goa||23 held as cops bust drug-fuelled party in Goa||PANAJI: Goa police on Saturday night busted a drug-fuelled party at a villa in Arpora, arrested 23 persons including 6 foreigners, and seized drugs including cocaine, MDMA and ecstasy worth Rs 9 lakh. The raid comes even as reports abound that foreigners in Goa continue to organise parties through the raging Covid-19 pandemic. "The party was hosted by Kapil Jhaverri, who claims he is a Bollywood actor, and he has been arrested," said crime branch SP Shobhit Saxena. "It was attended by mostly businessmen and employees of private sector companies." Police said the revellers were mostly between 25-40 years of age, and that none of them were students or government employees. Of the 23 arrested, three foreign women have been held in a narcotics case. Later on Sunday evening, a local court sent Jhaverri and three others to four days in police custody. Saxena said that the police received reliable information about a party being organised at a villa. Three crime branch teams were quickly constituted. “We conducted a raid on the villa and busted the party,” he said. On searching the premises, they found cocaine, MDMA, ecstasy tablets and charas. Jhaverri organised the party by contacting “customers” on the phone, and the guestlist was limited to his close circuit, Saxena said. The crime branch filed an FIR against those arrested for endangering public safety and also under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. After it came to light recently that parties were being organised along the state’s coastal belt even during lockdown, Goa DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena said the police would crack down on such illegal parties. Saxena said that after his remark, the crime branch has stepped up intelligence gathering on the ground. The increased incidents of parties comes even as the state grapples with hundreds of new Covid-19 cases everyday. A senior health official said that the surge in cases can directly be linked to increased “social activity” along the state’s coastal belt, famous for its party scene. In Arpora itself, the party on Saturday night was the second within a fortnight; the first was a “farewell party” by a 22-year-old Russian woman which culminated in a violence. It was attended by several youth between 17 and 22, many of them children of prominent businesspersons in Goa. Health minister Vishwajit Rane too mentioned this party while cautioning people to follow strict protocols and keep themselves safe. Earlier, sources said that some foreigners had organised a party in a stone quarry in Arambol. Later, there was another in the same village, where police seized some musical instruments. In April, attempts by foreigners to hold rave parties in Pernem’s jungles were foiled by alert locals. Last month, Goa police arrested a Russian national for organising a party in Morjim. He was later released on bail. Also in July, police arrested a Russian national and hotel owner for hosting a in the hotel premises in Morjim. Parties have also been held at Ozrant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/23-held-as-cops-bust-drug-fuelled-party/articleshow/77581040.cms||Murari Shetye
August 17, 2020||Patna||One more doctor, 21 others die of corona in Bihar||PATNA: One doctor and 21 other coronavirus patients died in Bihar on Sunday. Altogether 20 doctors have died of Covid-19 infection in state so far. The 40-year-old Dr Anand Shankar, an orthopaedic surgeon posted at Chhapra Sadar Hospital. He died at AIIMS-Patna. The number of Covid-19 cases in Bihar climbed up to 1,04,093, with 2,187 fresh cases reported in past 24 hours. The number of new cases was the lowest since July 30 when 2,082 cases were reported with only 20,000 people tested that day. Altogether, 67,212 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Among the deaths reported on Sunday, five were from Patna, which has recorded 537 Covid casualties so far. Among the other deceased, four were from Gaya, two each from Rohtas and East Champaran and one each from Bhagalpur, Bhojpur, Buxar, Darbhanga, Gopalganj, Munger, Nawada, Siwan and West Champaran. Bihar has become the eighth state in the country to cross the 1 lakh-mark of Covid patients. Maharashtra was the first to cross the mark, followed by Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. With the recovery rate at 69.71%, the state had 30,990 active cases. Altogether 72,566 people have recovered, including 3,891 discharged from the health facilities after their subsequent test results found negative. Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said the positivity rate in Bihar declined to around 3% with the ramping up testing. Previous day, 1,13,498 samples were tested in Bihar and 3,536 of them were found infected. Patna reported 253 positive cases in a day, taking the total infected cases to 16,621. There were 3,722 active cases as 12,798 people recovered from the infection. Other districts with the maximum number of Covid cases after Patna were Bhagalpur (177), Madhubani (127), Aurangabad (113), Muzaffarpur and Saharsa (97 each), East Champaran (96) and Nalanda (90). Six Covid infected people died at AIIMS-Patna on Sunday. Its nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said four of them were from Bahadurpur, Anisabad, Sultanganj and Rajeev Nagar in Patna. A 51-year-old man from Khagaria also died at AIIMS- Patna. The Bihar chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) condoled the death of Dr Shankar. IMA (Bihar) secretary Dr Sunil Kumar said Dr Shankar was the second youngest among the doctors who died of Covid in Bihar. A 35-year-old general physician from Muzaffarpur had died about a week ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-more-doctor-21-others-die-of-corona-in-state/articleshow/77579999.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 17, 2020||Goa||Amid strict social distancing, Panaji matoli fair to begin from Wednesday, carry on till Friday||PANAJI: Sale of matoli items for the Ganesh Chaturthi festival this year will begin from Wednesday under the strict watch of the police and municipality in Panaji. The bazaar will be spread out across Wednesday, Thursday and Friday on the pathway near Royal Chicken and opposite Dempo House near the municipal market. The Ganesh Chaturthi festival is scheduled to be held from Saturday onwards. “The two spaces will be cordoned off from vehicular traffic so that there will be freedom for customers to freely move around and make their purchase. However, both vendors as well as buyers have to compulsorily wear a mask,” Panaji mayor, Uday Madkaikar said. The annual fair which is organized just before Ganesh Chaturthi, sees vendors from Goa’s hinterlands and even as far as Maharashtra selling rare fruits for the matoli will only have local vendors due to the pandemic. Vendors, mostly from Banastarim, Saligao, Marcel and other areas, are expected to sell their wares. As of now, there is no restriction on the number of buyers who can enter the shopping space at any given time. However, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) will post a supervisor and four inspectors to monitor the situation to ensure social distancing norms are not flouted while shopping, Madkaikar said. Matoli is much more than a decorative canopy laid out above the idol of Lord Ganesh during the festival. Its items are known to possess medicinal, aesthetic, cultural as well as economic value. Made of wood, it is decorated with the state’s indigenous fruit and floral variety with emphasis on medicinal plants. Both wild and cultivated leaves, flowers, fruits and tubers are used to decorate the matoli. There are various places in Goa where Matoli bazaars come to life, with the Banastarim matoli bazaar being one of the most popular in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amid-strict-social-distancing-panaji-matoli-fair-to-begin-from-wed-carry-on-till-friday/articleshow/77581041.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nashik||No Ganesh immersion procession this year||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has said that there will be no public Ganpati immersion procession in the city this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The civic body has also issued guidelines in this connection. Over 1,000 small and large Ganesh mandals in the city celebrate the festival every year. This year, the NMC has also appealed to the devotees to celebrate Ganesh festival in a simple way and focus on health awareness instead of organizing cultural programs during the 10-day-long festival. The civic administration has appealed to the devotees to immerse Ganesh idols in their homes as their will be no immersion procession as part of precautionary measures in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. “We have appealed to people to use clay-made Ganesh idols instead of plaster of paris (PoP)-made Ganesh idols. We have also appealed to people to immerse Ganesh idols at their homes by using ammonium bicarbonate which will be provided free of charge to people before immersions,” said NMC officials. Meanwhile, municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game has directed the officials concerned to create artificial ponds for immersion of Ganesh idols in all 31 wards across six divisions of municipal corporation in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-ganesh-immersion-procession-this-year/articleshow/77578765.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Three district police chiefs shunted out||LUCKNOW: Three police chiefs of Pratapgarh, Gorakhpur and Azamgarh were shunted out on Sunday in a swift churning of the force after spate of murders and violence rocked these districts over 48 hours. Nine other SPs were also moved out. SSP, Gorakhpur, Sunil Gupta was shifted in the same capacity as SP, training and security, at DGP headquarters in Lucknow while superintendent of police, Agra, Jogendra Kumar was appointed in his place. Gupta was transferred hours after a lawyer, Rajeshwar Pandey, 50, was shot in Gorakhpur over a property feud. Superintendent of police, Pratapgarh, Abhishek Singh, was shifted in the same capacity to Baghpat, while SP Bijnor, Sanjeev Tyagi, was made the new police chief of Pratapgarh. Singh was moved out after two persons, Dayashanker, 55, and his son Anand, 21, were killed in a group clash at a panchayat meet. Also, for failing to control a mob that killed a Dalit gram pradhan Satyamev Jayate and torched a police outpost in Azamgarh, SP Triveni Singh was moved out in the same capacity as SP cyber crime in Lucknow. SSP STF Sudhir Singh was appointed the new police chief of Azamgarh. Others who were transferred on Sunday included SP, human rights, Ganesh Saha, who was shifted as DCP in GB Nagar commissionerate. In January, Saha who was then SP Banda was removed on corruption allegations levelled by then SSP GB Nagar Vaibhav Krishna. DCP, GB Nagar, Sankalp Sharma, was appointed the new SP of Badaun and SP Badaun Ashok Tripathi was shifted in the same capacity to human rights cell in DGP headquarters. SP training and security, Manikya Chandra Saroj, was made SP (vigilance). SP Mirzapur Dharamvir Singh has been made the new police chief of Bijnore and SP Baghpat Ajay Kumar Singh took over as new police chief of Mirzapur. Meanwhile, IG Tarun Gauba who was on study leave was posted as IG vigilance, while IG Piyush Mordia who returned from deputation was made IG, Aligarh range replacing Deepak Ratan who has gone on deputation to CRPF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/three-district-police-chiefs-shunted-out/articleshow/77581408.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t try to dominate, NCP is now big brother: Praful Patel to Congress||NAGPUR: In a clear signal to alliance partner Congress against dominating state politics, former Union minister Praful Patel asserted that NCP is now bigger than Congress in Maharashtra in terms of Lok Sabha and assembly seats. Till last year, Congress used to play elder brother’s role all these years on the basis of its larger number of seats than NCP. Speaking at a function wherein Jai Jawan Jai Kisan Sanghatan leader Prashant Pawar joined NCP, the senior NCP neta appealed to party activists and ministers, including home minister Anil Deshmukh, to spread the party’s footprints across Vidarbha. Lamenting that despite being a major party, NCP has only six MLAs out of 54 assembly seats in Vidarbha, Patel called upon leaders like Deshmukh and former MLA Ramesh Bang to strengthen the party by extending their outreach beyond their constituencies. “We don’t have a single seat in Chandrapur, Amravati, Washim and Akola, which is very unfortunate,” he said. On controversy surrounding NCP supremo Sharad Pawar’s grandnephew Parth Pawar’s demand for CBI probe into actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and his tweets of Jai Shree Ram seemingly going against party line and his admonition by Sharad Pawar, Patel clarified that the hype was created by the media and there are no differences within the Pawar family. Speaking on NCP’s equations with the Congress, the Rajya Sabha member stated that latter’s psyche of being a bigger partner still persists despite the former having more seats. “When negotiations were underway for Nagpur assembly seats, I was keen on having at least one for NCP. I was sure Congress would agree, but it proved me wrong,” he said. The former Bhandara MP flayed BJP for making tall claims on Mihan, Nag River and other projects, but doing nothing. “When in opposition, BJP used to shout for transferring Nagpur airport to Mihan. In the last five years, hardly anything has changed, except Ramdeobaba’s Patanjali getting land. This is despite the fact that then CM (Devendra Fadnavis) and heavyweight (Nitin Gadkari) are from the city,” he said. Warning that it would be the last chance for the party to strengthen its base in Vidarbha, he said NCP workers need to reach out to people and address their grievances. “Fortunately, we’ve our leaders in top ministries like home, finance and even minority affairs. We must take advantage of this and help people solve their problems. Even issues related to our activists need to be addressed. They can’t go to Congress or BJP for help,” said Patel. The Jai Jawan Jai Kisan leader ended the speech by stating that many BJP leaders were in touch with him and wanted to join his organization as they were fed up with their party’s suppressive tactics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-try-to-dominate-ncp-is-now-big-brother-patel-to-cong/articleshow/77581038.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Shift TSRTC workers to pvt hosps: Unions||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) unions have demanded that the Covid-19 affected employees be shifted to a private hospital for treatment, in case of an emergency. The move comes after the state transport minister, Puvvada Ajay Kumar, expressed concern over many workers testing positive. According to a senior TSRTC official, around 450 employees and their family members have tested positive so far, in addition to the 14 confirmed deaths. “We urge the authorities to shift the patients to private hospitals that are well-equipped to handle the cases or start a Covid-19 wing in TSRTC hospital in Tarnaka. We also urge the management to give compensation to those who died of Covid-19,” said K Raji Reddy of TSRTC employees union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/shift-tsrtc-workers-to-pvt-hosps-unions/articleshow/77579995.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nashik||Cash, jewellery worth Rs1.19L lakh stolen||Nashik: An offence of house break-in has been registered by Mhasrool police wherein the burglars managed to decamp with cash and valuables worth Rs 1.19 lakh from an apartment in Uday Nagar area along Makhmalabad Road between August 11 and 13. According to police, the complainant, Haribhau Gotarne, had gone to his native place in Niphad taluka for bringing his children and wife back to Nashik. “He had locked his house at 11 am on August 11 and he came back on August 13 at 4pm. When Gotarne reached home, he saw the lock on the main door was broken and the whole house was ransacked,” a police officer said. “The burglars managed to steal Rs 23,000 along with some gold jewelley — all amounting to Rs 1.19 lakh. We are investigating the case and will soon arrest the suspects,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cash-jewellery-worth-rs1-19l-lakh-stolen/articleshow/77578751.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Aurangabad||SCR conducts cleanliness programme||Aurangabad:Nanded and other five divisions of the South Central Railway (SCR) witnessed extensive cleaning of railway tracks among other activities as a part of a cleanliness drive that concluded on Sunday. The drive, which commenced on August 10, was organised as per the directives of the Railway Board to mark the Independence Day. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-conducts-cleanliness-programme/articleshow/77577732.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||Students unhappy with CBSE over Sep exams and re-evaluation online schedule||NAGPUR: The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) is trending online for all the wrong reasons. A host of students and parents are demanding cancellation of the compartment exam scheduled for September, due to the pandemic. Many Std XII students are also upset about the online window being closed “early” for applying to get a photocopy of their board exam answer sheets. CBSE had released the detailed schedule on July 14, where it was mentioned that Std XII students can apply for verification of marks between July 17-21, followed by application for photocopy of answer sheets between August 1-2. It was this online application window which riled many. One user said August 1 was Eid and the next day was Sunday, due to which students missed out, as cyber cafés were closed. On Twitter, many posts appealed to both CBSE and Union HRD minister Ramesh Pokhriyal for opening the application window again. A user @rajeev21r tweeted he was unable to apply for his daughter’s Std XII re-evaluation due to internet problems, and since it was a public holiday and then a Sunday, he was unable to take help from cyber cafés either. Another user @Pritich75538474 claimed some students had not got their details about verification of marks even by August 1. “How can they proceed for the next step if their first step is incomplete,” the user tweeted. Another user @Shailendra_Akh tweeted that even on August 2, the last date for the application, he was unable to apply. “Site says last date is over. When August 2 is today and not passed (sic),” he wrote. CBSE had mentioned in its official schedule that the link would close by 5pm on August 2. It was not clear if the user had applied after that cut-off time. Apart from this, hashtags like #CBSEkillingstudents and #CBSEcancelExamsSaveStudents were doing the rounds on social media. This was in protest against CBSE proposing to hold compartment exams — for those who failed to clear their boards — in September. CBSE, in an official note, said cancelling the exam would “adversely affect” a large number of students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/students-unhappy-with-cbse-over-sep-exams-and-re-evaluation-online-schedule/articleshow/77581044.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Govt sealed party office in Lucknow, claims AAP||LUCKNOW: Aam Aadmi Party was allegedly evicted from its Gomtinagar party office in Lucknow on Sunday. Party MP and UP in-charge Sanjay Singh said the UP government was harassing them because he had accused chief minister Yogi Adityanath of promoting Thakurs in the state at the expense of all communities. Meanwhile, the owner of the property, Meera Kumar, said that she had not asked anyone to leave but had only informed the person, to whom the building had been rented, that she did not want it used for party work. “We had signed an agreement with one Rakesh Kumar that ended four to five months back but due to Covid-19 we did not do anything about it. I only told Kumar that I don’t want the property to be used by the party. The lock at the gate is also theirs and the party has made an issue out of it, not us,” she said. However, Singh alleged that UP Police had been mounting pressure on the family to take back the property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-sealed-party-office-in-lucknow-claims-aap/articleshow/77581426.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Pollution board cracks whip over garbage handling by civic bodies||PANAJI: Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) has issued directions to 53 village panchayats and seven municipalities asking them to put a system in place to manage the garbage generated in areas under their jurisdiction and has warned of stringent legal action in case of non-compliance. The directions have been issued under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. The board had directed municipalities and panchayats to establish facilities — biogas or composting of 4.5 tonne and 2.5 tonne capacity per day, respectively — to treat biodegradable waste. For disposal of biomass waste, village panchayats have to make necessary arrangements, it stated. Municipalities have to maintain records of wet waste collected and treated, the board stated. With respect to non-biodegradable waste, the GSPCB said that civic bodies have to improve and enhance their collection mechanism. It also directed that material recovery facilities be established. Pharmacies and shops must be told to provide a box for collection of domestic hazardous waste, the board stated. Any agencies engaged to collect/transport/dispose waste needs the board’s authorisation, GSPCB stated. “Failure to satisfactorily comply with the present directions within the stipulated time period will compel the board to initiate stringent legal action against the municipalities and panchayats under the provision of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1989, read with the Solid Waste (Management) Rules, 2016, which will include initiation of criminal prosecution without further notice,” GSPCB chairman Ganesh Shetgaonkar said. The directions are issued to Ponda, Sanguem, Mormugao, Cuncolim, Curchorem-Cacora, Canacona and Quepem municipal councils and panchayats, including Wadi-Talaulim, Raia, Curtorim, Veling-Priol, Dhiroda, Dramapur-Sirlim, Madkai, Aquem-Baixo, Sarzora, Nagoa, Cundaim, Camorlim, Macazana, Sancoale, Paroda, Velsao-Pale-Issorccim, Ambelim, Quelossim, Guirdolim, Querim, Sao Jose de Areal, Chandor-Cavorim, Assolna, Chicolna Bogmalo, Bhoma-Adcolna, Rumdamol, Davorlim, Navelim, Quela, Borim, Davorlim-Dicarpale, Cortalim, Cansaulim-Arossim-Cuelim, Orlim, Chicalim, Seraulim, Agonda, Molcornem, Rivona, Cola, Dharbandora, Fatorpa-Quitol, Rachol, Vere-Vaghurme, Poinguinim, Cana Benaulim, Morpila, Netrolim, Balli, Molem, Sanvordem, Ambaulim, Loiem, Polem and Avedem. “Panchayats and municipalities are required to submit a detailed action plan/compliance report to this board within 15 days from the date of receipt of this directions,” Shetgaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pollution-board-cracks-whip-over-garbage-handling-by-civic-bodies/articleshow/77581479.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Raja Singh denies posting communal post||Hyderabad: Goshamahal BJP MLA T Raja Singh on Sunday posted a video on Twitter in which he denied having posted anything communal on his official Facebook account. He posted the video after a recent report in the US daily ‘The Wall Street Journal’ said that even though Singh had posted hateful content on his Facebook page, complaints were not registered against him as he belonged to a big political party in India. The report had claimed that the MLA had criticised the Rohingya. In the video, the MLA said, “There are several pages operating in my name that promote vile ideas, but I only maintain official handles on Twitter and YouTube. I have nothing to do with the pages that operate under my name.” The MLA said that he does not have an official Facebook page and that none of his posts have led to communal riots. He added that his official Facebook account was hacked in 2018 and that he had lodged a complaint with the cyber crime police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/raja-singh-denies-posting-communal-post/articleshow/77579997.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Take over as Cong president: AICC secy to Rahul||HYDERABAD: All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary and former MLA Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy on Sunday wrote to AICC ex-president Rahul Gandhi urging him to take over as the president of the party and bring it back to power in the country. “Our country is passing through communal tensions and the economy has been badly affected. There is insecurity among various sections of society. In such a situation, there is an urgent need for a leader like you to lead the Congress from the front and restore its lost glory,” Vamshi said in his letter. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/take-over-as-cong-prez-aicc-secy-to-rahul/articleshow/77580000.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: University finds skewed faculty selection||HYDERABAD: Many colleges are violating affiliation regulations in respect to faculty selections, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTU-H) has found. Ahead of issuing affiliations to all the colleges, the university has found that colleges have appointed faculty members without duly constituting selection committee comprising the university nominee. “The university treats the status of all such appointments as invalid until a duly constituted selection committee comprising university nominees conducts the selection process. The university notifies about the faculty selection process to the colleges based upon the number of requests received from colleges,” reads a circular issued to all the affiliated colleges. The university observed that many colleges are not divulging details about non-availability of faculty members and appointment of faculty members on temporary basis. Not just that, colleges have also not come forward requesting the university for conduct of selection of faculty member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/varsity-finds-skewed-faculty-selection/articleshow/77580001.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||Now 2 more foresters want suspension to be revoked||NAGPUR: Taking a cue from revocation of suspension of range forest officer (RFO) Sachin Shinde from Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR), two more suspended forest employees have demanded they be reinstated. Shinde, round officer Charanlal Balpande and forest guard Ashwini Munde were suspended by park’s deputy director Poonam Pate on July 16 for their involvement in irregularities worth Rs29 lakh. Pate took action as per section 4 of the Maharashtra Civil Services (Discipline & Appeal) Rules, 1979. However, Shinde lodged a complaint with the PCCF (head of forest force) N Rambabu on July 23 and Maharashtra Forest Rangers’ Association (MFRA) also represented his case arguing that the Maharashtra Civil Services (Discipline & Appeal) rules doesn’t notify powers to the deputy director to suspend him. Supporting Shinde’s view, PCCF Rambabu revoked the suspension and put the ball in the court of NNTR’s conservator of forest and field director who is the competent authority to take action. “As per the rules, a deputy conservator (DyCF) or divisional forest officer (DFO) and deputy director social forestry is competent to take action,” said Rambabu. However, the post of deputy director in wildlife is exercising all financial and administrative powers since long in the same way as deputy conservators with territorial wing and deputy directors with social forestry. “Therefore, if RFO Shinde’s suspension revocation is considered as legal then all decisions and financial and administrative orders, including tender orders of all deputy directors of wildlife wing will have to be revoked,” said wildlife wing officials. “Taking the same stand, the Maharashtra Forest Guards-Foresters Union, Nagpur, has written to NNTR field director M Ramanujam demanding to revoke suspension order of forester Balpande and forest guard Munde issued by deputy director Poonam Pate on July 16,” said Indrajeet Baraskar, state general secretary of the union. NNTR field director M Ramanujam was not available for comments. However, wildlife wing officials said powers of deputy director (wildlife) should be included in the Maharashtra Civil Services rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-2-more-foresters-want-suspension-to-be-revoked/articleshow/77581042.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 17, 2020||Aurangabad||224 fresh cases in Aurangabad district||Aurangabad: The district reported 224 fresh Covid-19 patients on Sunday, including 103 from the limits of the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) and 139 from rural areas, taking the total number of cases to 18,789.  A total of 13,882 people have recovered from the contagion so far. Six deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in the district. The death toll stands at 587. There are 4,318 active cases. AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey on Sunday announced that from Monday, the AMC will carry out a special drive for five days conducting a survey of street vendors across the city. This survey will be carried out in each of the wards under the supervision of the respective ward officers. Under this initiative, data of these street vendors would be collected put in a government-provided mobile app which will be shared with NULM department. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/224-fresh-cases-in-aurangabad-district/articleshow/77577744.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nashik||‘E-psy’ clinic inaugurated to counsel Covid patients||Nashik: The district administration on Saturday launched an ‘e-psy’ clinic to counsel Covid-19 patients, those who have recovered from the contagion, health workers and others to keep them in a positive frame of mind. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujba lon Saturday launched the Nashik Zilla Parishad’s programme at the Independence Day celebration in the city. The aim of the clinic is to help Covid patients, their relatives, health workers, and citizens in general to keep them in a positive frame of mind amid the rise in Covid cases in the district. Under this programme, counsellors will be available to guide the people. The counsellors can be contacted on-7303250515. Senior officials of the district health department said that the e-psy clinic has been launched under the guidance of Nashik ZP CEO Leena Bansod. The programme has received financial aid from a Bangalore based organisation called ACT, said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/e-psy-clinic-inaugurated-to-counsel-covid-patients/articleshow/77578783.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 17, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal praises govt agencies, citizens for jointly fighting Covid-`9||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal was all-praises for citizens as well as government agencies, including health police supply industries and others, in putting up a common fight against Covid-19 infection. Unfurling the national flag on the occasion of 73rd Independence Day celebrations organized at divisional headquarters, the guardian minister said, “It was a good fight put up together by the government, local administration and citizens against Covid-19, saving many lives and, at the same time, enabling the society to start trade and industry albeit slowly.” In the fight against Covid-19 infection, health teams were at the forefront of the battle while the police ensured law and order among public during the lockdown. “These departments were aptly supported by the supply department that provided grain to the needy through its network of fair price shops while the transport sector and industries department ensured timely and safe delivery of essentials,” Bhujbal said. Drawing attention of people towards a large number of patients receiving treatment and getting discharged from hospitals, Bhujbal observed that the emergency operations centre (EOC) brought out the human face among the citizens that contributed collectively in the government’s battle against Covid-19. The EOC became the hub of activity and transformed into a people’s movement in which 159 NGOs joined hands for distributing 17.53 lakh food packets to the needy sduring the times of uncertainty when the lockdown began.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-praises-govt-agencies-citizens-for-jointly-fighting-covid-9/articleshow/77578773.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 17, 2020||Rajkot||Shop owner stabbed to death, one arrested||Rajkot: Police on Sunday arrested a man who stabbed a grocery shop owner to death on Friday night in Tarsingada village of Maliya Hatina taluka in Junagadh district. According to police, Jesa Maka (30) stabbed Nanji Trada (45) with a knife after the latter refused to give him items on credit. Police said the accused entered into an altercation with the owner and in a fit of rage stabbed him. “Trada was rushed to Maliya Hatina Civil Hospital where he died during treatment. Maka was booked on the complaint of Trada’s son Gopal, who too received a wound on his hand from a knife inflicted by Maka. We nabbed Maka from the village,” said H V Rathod, sub-inspectpor with Maliya Hatina police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/shop-owner-stabbed-to-death-one-arrested/articleshow/77578838.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Business||Banks plan EMI deferment for home loan restructuring||MUMBAI: Lenders, including SBI, are working on restructuring options for home loans where the overall tenure of the loan does not extend by more than two years, even after relaxing the repayment schedule. The options include allowing EMI deferment for a few months in cases where the borrower has suffered total loss of income or allowing step-up EMIs, with a lower payout for a couple of years to make up for a reduction in salary or loss of income due to the pandemic. Read AlsoWorking from home may prove ‘taxing’Work From Home may feel lighter on your pockets now without the cost of a daily commute or leisure travel. Employees might end up paying over 70% more income tax for FY21, assuming remote work continues till the end of the fiscal. As professionals work from home, salary components such as conveyanceAccording to sources, the KV Kamath committee will not look into retail and home loan restructuring and banks will draw up their own proposal which they will submit to their boards by early next month after getting an idea of the number of borrowers facing stress. Bankers are keen to restructure loans in order to avoid having to classify defaulters as non-performing assets. Also, banks say this isn’t the right time to enforce security and attach assets. Though RBI has let banks extend loan tenure by two years, bankers say that they cannot provide a two-year moratorium. Read AlsoBanks reassess loans, home buyers in soupIn the season of salary cuts and job losses, builders and people who booked flats in their projects now have to deal with another challenge. Flat buyers whose loans were sanctioned by banks have been asked to resubmit their new salary slips. Due to salary cuts and large-scale retrenchment, banksAnyone with a 15-year loan who has availed moratorium for six months will already see their overall loan tenure extend by 14 months. This means that at most banks can defer EMI by a few months. The exact relaxation would depend on the interest rate that the borrower will be paying. While home loan rates have come down to below 7%, banks say that it will be difficult to provide their best rates to restructured loans as lenders have to make an additional provision of 10% on restructured loans. This will increase costs by up to 30 basis points. Read AlsoNow, individual businesses can get top-up loans on govt guaranteeThe government on Saturday expanded the coverage of the guarantee-based top up loans for small businesses to include individuals such as dentists, doctors, shopkeepers and truck and cab owners, who had availed of loans from banks.According to the terms of reference of RBI’s appointment the Kamath committee is expected to submit its report by mid-September. Bankers expect the committee to give various parameters for restructuring including the maximum debt-equity ratio to be allowed, the permissible leverage for each sector like hospitality, aviation, real estate, or construction. Read AlsoCovid shot: Companies offer WFH allowanceNow, in its sixth month, work from home (WFH) in India has had its share of hiccups. A couple of months ago, Google had announced it would give every employee $1,000 to buy necessary equipment and office furniture. Now, several Indian startups have also introduced benefits to keep up productivityThe committee would also decide under what circumstances can conversion of debt to equity would be allowed. In addition, every individual corporate loan, where bank exposure is over Rs 1,500 crore would be reviewed by the committee to consider restructuring. Watch Banks plan EMI deferment for home loan restructuring||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-hit-may-get-up-to-2-more-yrs-to-repay/articleshow/77581432.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Golden Temple mail cancelled till situation becomes normal||Ludhiana: Due to low occupancy in one of the oldest running passenger train heading towards the financial capital (Mumbai) from Amritsar via Ludhiana railway station after a large numbers of passenger cancelled their train tickets owing to rise in the number of Covid-19 cases across the nation, Northern Railway authorities have taken a decision to partially cancel the Golden Temple Mail train until the situation comes to normalcy. The railways is struggling to cope up with the huge financial losses which is being faced by them for the past five months following railway ministry’s decision to suspended all major long-route passengers train across the nation. The decision has been taken by the higher authorities of the Northern Railway after analysing monthly occupancy reports of limited trains passing through the major stations of the northern region of the country (including Ludhiana). Apart from that, Northern Railway authorities are ready to face huge losses in the next few days as passengers are converging on the reservation counters to get refund on their train tickets for trains not being run by the authorities concerned after August 12. After cancellation of this main long route train service, Ferozepur division is left with only one major long route passenger train, Paschim Express, which is being run towards financial capital (Mumbai) from Amritsar via Ludhiana and other major stations of Northern Railway region. Moreover, Northern Railway has extended their decision to not change the route of the lone train heading towards (Mumbai) as the train passes through the Sahnewal-Chandigarh-Ambala railway station for getting more passengers to overcome the issue of low occupancy in these. Although railway authorities have not changed the timing of the superfast train as the train will cross through the city railway station as per the respective time table after having a 10-minute stoppage for boarding local passengers. Speaking to a high rank official on the condition of anonymity, he said, “We have been running two trains for Mumbai from Amritsar via Ludhiana railway station for the past two months but failed to get adequate response to the Golden Temple train because it runs during night and a large number of passengers have restricted themselves to getting entries to big cities of the country like Mumbai and Delhi. Although, after analysing the monthly occupancy report of main long route trains, the authorities have partially suspended its service for the next few days until passenger rush increases on this route.” “The railways has decided to extend its decision to not change the present running route as the same train will pass through Chandigarh. We are getting regular demand from that side of the railway route to resume the service of one of long route passengers train for ferrying local passengers towards Delhi or Mumbai side. We have updated the revised time-table boards and informed the ticket checking staff for creating adequate awareness on this development, so that no local passengers faces inconvenience of travelling on a different route train,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/golden-temple-mail-cancelled-till-situation-becomes-normal/articleshow/77580056.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Teachers need not report for duty from August 17||HYDERABAD: The incessant rainfall across the state has forced the education department to postpone the commencement of digital classes, which were supposed to start on Monday, for the intermediate second year students. “The inauguration of digital classes for intermediate students by the minister of education Sabitha Indra Reddy is postponed because of continuous heavy rain in the state,” reads a circular issued on Sunday. It also said that the commencement date for the digital classes will be intimated shortly. On August 10, the education minister had announced that digital classes will start for intermediate second year students and class 6 to 10 students from August 17 and August 20 respectively. The Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education had also issued proceedings on the subject on Friday but withdrew them immediately on the directions of higher officials. The government teachers, who were earlier asked to report to schools from Monday, also have to wait until further instructions are released. “After the education minister made the announcement a few days back saying that 50% of teachers have to start attending duties every day from August 17, the officials were supposed to release guidelines on the matter. However, the state is yet to release any government order or guidelines. As there are no official orders, we need not report to duties yet,” said Chava Ravi, general secretary, United Teachers Federation. The members of Progressive Recognized Teacher’s Union Telangana State said that the instructions will be released in the next three to four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teachers-need-not-report-for-duty-from-aug-17/articleshow/77580074.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||Pay Rs 5 lakh to Shoma Sen: HC tells NU||NAGPUR: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has directed Nagpur University to pay Rs5 lakh to its former professor Shoma Sen towards retirement and pensionary benefits that included provident fund and gratuity. A professor with NU’s postgraduate English department, Sen, who was supposed to retire in July 31, 2018, was suspended by NU administration after her arrest. Subsequently, her retirement benefits were kept on hold. Sen had challenged the NU action. Sen is currently behind bars in Pune for her alleged links with Maoists, playing active role in flaring up Koregaon-Bhima violence and indulging in Elgar Parishad activities in 2017. The case was listed before a division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Nitin Suryawanshi through counsel Prakash Meghe. While granting her interim relief, the judges asked NU to release her dues within a week. They noted that NU failed to come up with satisfactory explanation for withholding Sen’s retirement benefits. “In the meantime, we direct NU to pay Rs5 lakh to the petitioner within a week, without prejudice to rights and contention of the parties. This shall be subject to further adjustment upon final adjudication,” said the judges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pay-rs5l-to-shoma-sen-hc-tells-nu/articleshow/77581052.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 17, 2020||Aurangabad||All eyes on Aurangabad’s 1st plasma therapy beneficiary||Aurangabad: A 42-year-old man who had tested positive for Covid-19 has become the first plasma therapy beneficiary at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Aurangabad. All eyes are now on his recovery. GMCH dean Kanan Yelikar on Sunday said the patient concerned has received two bags of plasma from a recovered patient and is kept under close watch. “The first clinical trial of plasma therapy has been initiated successfully at our level. We have received a target of facilitating 22 plasma donations as a part of around 236 clinical trials planned at the state level,” she said.Yelikar said so far, GMCH-Aurangabad has collected 28 bags of plasma that can be donated to 14 patients. “We appeal to patients who have recovered from Covid-19 to donate plasma. Only critical patients are considered eligible for the plasma therapy irrespective of age,” the dean said.Dr Pragati Phulgarikar, associate professor at GMCH said recovered patients who are in the age-group of 18-60 years and do not have diabetes or hypertension can donate plasma 28 days after the recovery. “Those who want to donate plasma can call on 0240-2402108, 8459880622 or 9503415553,” GMCH authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/all-eyes-on-aurangabads-1st-plasma-therapy-beneficiary/articleshow/77577761.cms||Prasad Joshi
August 17, 2020||Nashik||400 teams deployed to trace Covid suspects||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has deployed 400 health teams in over 1,400 residential buildings to trace suspected patients of Covid-19 and to conduct antigen test for early detection. Of the 1,487 active containment zones, 1,481 are residential buildings. Hence, the NMC is focusing on tracing and testing in residential buildings. Around 1,500 antigen tests are being conducted in the city. Earlier, Wadalgaon, Phule Nagar, Ram Nagar, Gosavai Wadi, Datta Nagar and other slums were the major Covid hotspots. A senior official of the NMC said, “The trend now has changed. The slums are under control but the residential buildings have become the Covid hotspots. This is because most of the people are not maintaining safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing.” “We have deployed 400 teams comprising health officials and staff to trace out the Covid-19 suspects in residential buildings.” said NMC officials. Nashik municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game has appealed to the people to cooperate with the health teams conducting surveys in residential buildings to trace Covid-19 suspects and comorbid patients. Game has uploaded a video on social media, where he appeals to people to maintain safety protocols to contain the spread of the infection. “NMC has also started around 35 fever clinics in the city to check for fever and segregate them into Covid and non-Covid cases like dengue, malaria, typhoid in the view of monsoon. There was a spike in dengue cases by this time last year. This year, the dengue cases are completely under control due to various measures taken by the NMC,” said NMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/400-teams-deployed-to-trace-covid-suspects/articleshow/77578788.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: JD(U) expels Shyam Rajak, RJD fires 3 MLAs||PATNA: Alliance partners of both the NDA and Mahagathbandhan have accelerated the pace of shuffling their cards before the announcement of the state assembly elections likely to be held in October-November this year. While JD(U) on Sunday expelled its industries minister Shyam Rajak from the primary membership of the party, RJD showed doors to its three MLAs – Maheshwar Prasad Yadav, Prema Chaudhary and Faraz Fatami – earlier in the day amid reports of some more MLAs of both the parties going to switch sides soon. Governor Phagu Chauhan, on the advice of CM Nitish Kumar, removed Rajak as industries minister with immediate effect. Rajak is set to join RJD, which he had left in 2009. “Rajak has been expelled from the primary membership of the party for anti-party activities,” state JD(U) president Bashistha Narain Singh told TOI over the phone. When contacted, Rajak neither confirmed nor denied the report of his going back to RJD led by Lalu Prasad. Once upon a time, Rajak and now BJP MP Ram Kripal Yadav were known as the ‘Ram-Shyam’ of Lalu. Reports said JD(U) wanted to field former Masaurhi MLA Arun Manjhi from Phulwarisharif, a constituency represented by Rajak in the state assembly. “I cannot comment. You will know when the time comes,” Arun told TOI. Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi is also likely to join hands with JD(U) this week. One of Manjhi’s close aides said the RJD has left no space for Hindustani Awam Morcha (S) chief to remain in the Mahagathbandhan and he will either merge his party with JD(U) or join hands with it before August 20. JD(U) sources said Manjhi, whom Nitish Kumar had made the CM, would suit the party as a Dalit face to counter LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who asked his party workers in Patna on Saturday to keep raising the Nitish government’s shortcomings in dealing with floods and coronavirus and simultaneously make poll preparations in all the 243 assembly constituencies. “Manjhi represents the Dalits in Bihar. He appreciates Nitish for implementing several things which he had himself brought on agenda as the CM,” the HAM(S) functionary told TOI, preferring anonymity. JD(U) spokesperson Rajeev Ranjan Prasad said Manjhi is a senior leader and he is always welcome. “But Manjhi has to decide about it,” he told TOI. Though LJP now says it’s not against Nitish or his government, its president Chirag Paswan’s reported meeting with former MP and Jan Adhikar Party (Loktantrik) chief Pappu Yadav on August 15 indicated the possibility of a new alignment in state politics. Pappu told mediapersons on Sunday that he wanted Chirag to be the CM face and urged Congress to join hands with him to give Bihar a fresh start after 30 years of “misrule” by the RJD and NDA governments. LJP’s Lok Sabha member from Nawada, Chandan Singh, said, “Chirag will decide the alliance matter, but LJP is making poll preparations in all the 243 constituencies. We are not against Nitish or his government, but LJP is focussed on people’s sufferings due to coronavirus and floods and we will keep raising government’s shortcomings, if any.” When asked why Chirag has been so vocal against the Nitish government, a JD(U) functionary said it was all for a larger share in assembly seats. “LJP wants to contest 43 seats. BJP wants to contest 143 seats by proxy by fielding some of its candidates on LJP tickets. That’s why such pressure tactics. But, if Manjhi comes with us, both BJP and JD(U) will have to accommodate him from their own share of seats, reducing the chances of LJP to contest more than 20 seats in that case,” he said, preferring anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-expels-rajak-rjd-fires-3-mlas/articleshow/77580079.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
August 17, 2020||Goa||Manohar Parrikar’s son admitted to private hospital||PANAJI: The former chief minister Manohar Parrikar’s son, Utpal, who tested positive last week and was in home isolation, was admitted to a private hospital in the city. Utpal tweeted on Sunday that “on advice of doctors and to get proper treatment I’ve got admitted to hospital.” A source said Utpal was first taken to Goa Medical College (GMC) on Saturday evening and from there he was shifted to Manipal hospital, Donal Paula. Ayush minister Shripad Naik, who has been admitted to a private hospital after testing positive mid-last week, is doing well. Wishing him speedy recovery, health minister Vishwajit Rane in his Facebook post said that he was in constant touch with the team of doctors who are monitoring his condition. “Praying for his good health and well-being,” Rane said. Naik had also opted for home isolation initially, but was admitted to hospital after he developed a fever.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parrikars-son-admitted-to-private-hospital/articleshow/77581059.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen angry over no guidelines for mask exports||Ludhiana: After personal protective equipment (PPE) suit manufacturers opened a front against the state government for easing the process of exports from India, now anger is brewing among two and three ply mask manufacturers on the confusion over exports of their products. Lack of information has further angered the businessmen as there is no update from the department concerned regarding the result of the applications filed for export quota for this month for which applications were taken between August 5 to 8. Speaking on the issue, Vinod Thapar, chairman of the Knitwear Club said, “There is huge confusion among the 2 and 3 ply mask manufacturers and exporters regarding export. The government has capped the quantity of the maximum number of 2 and 3 ply masks.Further to the agony of businessmen the results for the applications taken between August 5 and August 8 have also not been announced yet, which is delaying the exports and there is a huge danger of confirmed orders taken by some of the Ludhiana businessmen being cancelled. Therefore, it is our request to the central government to ease the restrictions and also make the process easier, rather than keep complex procedures.” Speaking on the issue and on the condition of anonymity, a 3-ply mask manufacturer said, “As per the information available to us from government departments, the result of applications for the export of two and three ply masks for August was to be declared on August 10, which was later said to be August 14, but so far nothing has happened. The government must understand that any kind of delay in permitting us to export against confirmed orders will prove to be a huge setback for us as our orders may get cancelled for failure to deliver these on time.” Box – Guidelines for export of 2&3 ply masks Export of 4 crore units of 2 and 3 ply masks allowed per month Exporters need to apply online through directorate general of foreign trade (DGFT) eCOM system Validity of export licence will be for three months only Documentary proof of manufacturing 2/3 ply surgical masks to be submitted. Only 1 application per import export code (IEC) may be considered during a month Copy of purchase order, invoice, copy of IEC, proof of any advance payment received before March 19, 2020, (certificate from bank certifying that the advance payment received is against the export order of 2/3 ply surgical masks)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-angry-over-no-guidelines-for-mask-exports/articleshow/77580101.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vadodara||WR to run Ganapati special trains||VADODARA: The Western Railway (WR) will run 12 trips of special trains to Ratnagiri, Kudal and Sawantwadi Road from Vadodara and Ahmedabad. The Vadodara-Ratnagiri (weekly) special train on special fare will make four trips. This train – number 09106 – will leave Vadodara at 3.20 pm on Sunday and reach Ratnagiri at 5.30 am on Monday. It will run on August 23 and August 30. Similarly, on return as train number 09105, it will leave Ratnagiri ay 7.20 am on Monday and reach Vadodara at 8.15 pm on Tuesday. It will run on August 24 and August 31. The train will halt at Bharuch, Surat, Valsad, Vapi, Vasai Road, Panvel, Roha, Mangaon, Veer, Khed, Chiplun, Sawarda, Aravali Road and Sangameshwar stations in both directions. WR will also run four trips each of Ahmedabad–Kudal weekly special train and Ahmedabad-Sawantwadi Road weekly special train. The Ahmedabad-Kudal train will run on August 18 and August 25 and return on August 19 and August 26. Ahmedabad-Sawantwadi Road train will run on August 21 and August 28 and return on August 22 and August 29. The bookings for the trains will open from Monday. “There will be no unreserved general second class coach but only second class reserved seating coach,” said an WR official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/wr-to-run-ganapati-special-trains/articleshow/77577941.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Bike theft racket kingpin at large||HYDERABAD: Police are looking for Akbar Khan, a 40-year-old man, who remotely controlled gangs stealing bikes in the city while sitting in Nizamabad. Though police managed to recover 77 bikes by arresting his gang members, they are yet to recover at least 70 more two-wheelers sent to Nizamabad through a parcel service in the city after the lockdown. In the first week of August, Hyderabad police had busted three bike stealing gangs operating under the control of Akbar Khan, who has political links. They had arrested 16 members of the three gangs, but he has remained elusive even after three weeks despite police managing to arrest his brother Mohammmed Azghar Khan, 36, a realtor from Nizamabad. During the investigation, Azghar confessed that he and his brother had been procuring stolen bikes and loan defaulted bikes from Hyderabad and selling them. Police have not yet found details of any criminal history pertaining to Azghar or Akbar. “We know that Akbar is locally known as an affiliate of a political party and the investigation details indicate that he has been operating the bike theft gangs in Hyderabad for the past nine months. He has been taking shelter in another state with the help of relatives in Nizamabad,” a police officer, who has been part of the investigation team, told TOI. The investigators found out that Akbar primarily used one particular motor vehicle parcel service in Hyderabad to transport bikes from the city to Nizamabad. However, over 70 stolen and finance defaulted bikes worth over Rs 1 crore have been sent through another parcel service company office in Begum Bazar by Akbar’s gang to Nizamabad. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP), North Zone, Kalmeshwar Shingenwar, who supervised the special teams that have busted the gang, told TOI: “Akbar is currently accused in over 30 bike theft cases and we will arrest him soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bike-theft-racket-kingpin-at-large/articleshow/77580105.cms||Mahesh Buddi
August 17, 2020||Delhi||Pollution fight: Delhi civic bodies stare at RFID challenge||NEW DELHI: With January 31, 2021 fixed as the deadline for installing the RFID border toll collection system at all 124 border points, the municipal corporations face an uphill task in the next five and a half months. Track the pollution level in your cityCurrently, 13 major points have the radio frequency identification (RFID) infrastructure with an automated barrier and a toll collection system. An official of South Delhi Municipal Corporation, which is the nodal agency for toll collection, said the firm that was in charge of installation in phase 1 would carry out the work at 111 border points. The expansion project will cost Rs 36 crore and the overall project expenditure will remain within the Supreme Court-mandated Rs 120-crore limit. “In the coming winter season, handheld devices will be utilised to scan RFID chips to ensure compliance. All 124 border points will have the devices by November,” the official said. An Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA) report states the results of the first phase have been substantial and efforts to mitigate pollution have been rewarded. “There is a 95% reduction in the total particulate load from trucks entering from 13 locations as compared to 2015. There is a 87-94% reduction in NOx loads from light and heavy-duty vehicles,” it states. The official said over 6,000 polluting diesel vehicles that were older than 10 years had been blacklisted. “RFID readers will immediately detect if a vehicle is blacklisted,” he said. According to the corporation’s data, more than five lakh commercial vehicles have been tagged. However, polluting vehicles trying to enter Delhi through the non-RFID border points may be reducing the gains, said another official. “These vehicles are diverting to the 111 border points to slip away, which defeats the purpose of ban,” he pointed out. The problem becomes apparent from the fact that before the implementation of Phase 1, more than 85% of Delhi’s incoming traffic was reported at those 13 border points, but the load has shifted to several smaller non-RFID points since then, the official said. Some of these points are Noida Major, New Kondli, Loni and Chander Nagar. The EPCA report also states that diversion of trucks to smaller border points, which aren’t equipped to handle heavy volume of traffic, is leading to frequent jams on minor roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pollution-fight-corpns-stare-at-rfid-challenge/articleshow/77580108.cms||Paras Singh
August 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Cunchelim locals threaten to move HC to save ground||SALIGAO: Upset over the alleged proposal of the Cunchelim communidade to convert an open ground into plots, local sports enthusiasts along with activists have now threatened to approach the high court and bring a stay on the development of the area. On Sunday, despite incessant rain, sports lovers gathered in large numbers at the Cunchelim ground to protest against the communidade’s decision to sell the playing field after converting it into plots. Stating that the ground has always been used for various sports activities - mostly football and cricket, the locals demanded that the government maintain the open space as a playing field and not allow any construction in the area. The attorney of the Cunchelim comunidade, Amancio D’Souza, had earlier told TOI that the communidade had all the permissions from the PDA and Mapusa municipality to take up the development of the ground. Pravin Asolkar, a local, said that the communidade had allegedly used fraudulent means to obtain the NOC to develop the ground. “We need the support of all sports enthusiasts and activists to support us inorder to take this battle forward,” Vijay Bhike, president of the North Goa Pradesh Congress Committee, said. Among those present during the protest were Sanjay Barde of the NCP and Jitesh Kamat of the Shiv Sena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cunchelim-locals-threaten-to-move-hc-to-save-ground/articleshow/77581506.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||NALSA, NCW launch project to empower women||Hyderabad: In a unique initiative, the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) and National Commission for Women (NCW) have come together to educate women about their rights and schemes available for them in the legal sphere. Justice NV Ramana, Supreme Court senior judge and executive chairman of NALSA, launched this joint initiative in Delhi on the occasion of 74th Independence Day of the country. Under this initiative, legal literacy programmes for women will be carried out in eight states to enhance the capacities of the women. As many as 285 districts in AP, Telangana, Assam, MP, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, UP and West Bengal will witness 570 legal awareness programmes. “Lack of information and awareness are two aspects that are preventing women from making use of several progressive laws made for them. The role of women has been increasing in the legal aid movement,” Justice Ramana, who presided over the effort, said. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma said that women cannot empower themselves without equipping selves with legal awareness. NALSA member secretary Ashok Kumar Jain welcomed the dignitaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nalsa-ncw-launch-project-to-empower-women/articleshow/77580116.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||IMD issues red and orange alerts for parts of Pune district for Monday||PUNE: The incessant showers that lashed the city all of last week continued over the weekend, forcing many residents to stay indoors. The India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) has issued red and orange alerts for Monday for the ghat areas in Maval, Mulshi, Bhor and Velhe in Pune district, forecasting heavy to very heavy rainfall. The weathermen have forecast moderate rains till August 21 for Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. The IMD’s Shivajinagar observatory recorded 19.8mm rain in the 33 hours between 8.30am on Saturday and 5.30pm on Sunday. The overcast conditions with intermittent rainfall activity continued across the city throughout Sunday. The Lohegaon observatory, which covers the eastern fringes of the city, and the Pashan observatory on the western outskirts, recorded 18.4mm rain each during the 33-hour period till 5.30pm on Sunday. Met officials attributed the current spell to some of the prevailing weather conditions in the Bay of Bengal, including a low pressure area and a cyclonic circulation over South Gujarat and neighbourhood. The southwest monsoon has been vigorous, among other regions, over Konkan (which covers Mumbai) and Madhya Maharashtra (which covers Pune). A senior IMD official said, “Since the beginning of this month, there have been two low pressure systems in the Bay of Bengal, which have contributed to the rain over Maharashtra. Monsoon winds flowing from the Arabian Sea strengthened because of this system and their convergence has led to heavy to very heavy rain over Konkan and moderate intensity rain over Pune district. As these systems were formed in quick succession, the rainfall has continued over the fortnight, resulting in the ongoing wet spell.” The state highway control authorities said vehicular movement on the highways was normal as no untoward incidents such as landslides or accidents were reported. Prashant Ranpise, chief fire officer of the Pune Municipal Corporation, said there was no call regarding tree falling or waterlogging from any part of the city. “Our teams are on standby to attend any emergency call,” he said. Meanwhile, a senior official from the district agriculture department said, “The continuous rainfall has brought a much needed respite for paddy farmers as they could complete their plantations. The moderate rainfall is also conducive for sugarcane crops. However, it has damaged leafy vegetables such as coriander, fenugreek at many places across the district. If this rainfall continues, it will also impact vegetables such as tomato, cauliflower, cabbage, among others in the coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/imd-issues-red-orange-alerts-for-parts-of-pune-district-today/articleshow/77580112.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Railways develop unique electric engine for maintaining high temsion cables||Ludhiana: In an attempt to promote Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan, local engineers of Ludhiana railway station have developed a unique kind of electric engine that runs on high voltage batteries to handle maintenance work of high tension cables passing over the railway tracks during peak hours of railway traffic. The team of electric engineers (loco shed of city station) has successfully developed the advanced low power consumption engine in just one month. The local engineers have made the use of a 40-year-old non-functional electric engine to convert it into a modern electric unit which runs on limited electric power supply being supplied by a certain set of batteries to make its engine functional for managing maintenance work efficiently during peak hours of traffic. Moreover, railway engineers have installed a proper chain of new copper wire inside the newly developed engine to counter the issue of marginal short-circuits which could turn into major mishap some times. Giving more information on this development, Mohan Swaroop, senior divisional electrical engineer, said, “We have appointed an expert team of electric engineers to complete the first project under the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan by converting the unused material of loco-shed into advance low power consumption engine to manage the work of high tension wire equipment passing over the railway tracks.” “Local engineers have removed the vacuum circuit from inside the engine and fitted an air brake system into the newly developed engine to manage the work quickly without any delays. Apart from that, we have fitted 800 ampere of batteries to produce adequate horsepower to make the engine functional to meet its daily need during high tension wire maintenance work,” said the engineer. Tarun Kumar, director of Ludhiana railway station, said, “It has proved helpful to complete shunting work across the city station (along the outer places of the village) as it can be be moved on railway tracks wherein provision of electric supply is not available to run other electric as well diesel engine.” “Moreover, it will reduce the work of diesel engines as earlier we had to pitch in for diesel engines to maintain the work of high tension wire placed over the railway tracks during peak hours,” said the director.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/railways-develop-unique-electric-engine-for-maintaining-high-temsion-cables/articleshow/77580117.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Zoroastrian community rings in the new year on virtual platform in Covid times||KOLKATA: From little Anush Parsi Subbawala, who is under two, to nonagenarian Roshan Burge, better known as the “21 plus” among themselves, everyone was roped in as the Zoroastrian community celebrated its new year on Sunday. So what if they didn’t physically meet and dine? They did everything virtually from Saturday onwards to make the Corona year Navroze as special as possible. Saturday was celebrated as Papeti, the last day of the year when forgiveness is sought so that the new year can begin on a clean slate. On New Year’s eve, the 381-member community gathered around their screens to be transported back to the magical 60s and 70s evenings on Park Street, hand-held by Usha Uthup, who sang some of their favourite English and Hindi numbers. When the two-hour-long musical programme ended, everyone was happy to the brim, especially 238 of them, who are into their 60s. For them, it was a happy dose of nostalgia. “Usha has been a friend of the community for decades and she brings back those wondrous memories of young nights on Park Street alive for most of us,” said Noomi Mehta, a senior trustee of the Calcutta Zoroastrian Communities Religious and Charitable Fund. On New year’s eve, the much-awaited directory of the community was released. It contains details of every member, even blood groups. The celebration on Sunday started with the flag hoisting at the 112-year-old Calcutta Parsee Club. A video was taken and posted in the WhatsApp group that connects every member. To ensure that there is no break in the tradition due to the pandemic, the Calcutta Parsee Amateur Dramatics Club presented its play for the 113th year in succession on Sunday evening on the virtual platform that was streamed live on YouTube. “This is the most awaited event of the year for us and normally we gather at a theatre to see the performance. Our actors rehearse for months to bring this alive. This year despite the pandemic, the CPADC made it possible to stage another comedy, ‘Batli Bolechhe’ (The Bottle is Talking) and we laughed our guts out, throwing our worries out for once,” said Prochy Mehta, the community’s chronicler. Among the actors were Cyrus Madan, Yezdi Karai and Ratan Postwala. However, the members missed the dinner organized after the play at the Olpadvala Hall, but a box of sweets reached every household on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/zoroastrian-community-rings-in-the-new-year-on-virtual-platform-in-covid-times/articleshow/77580138.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Jal Board starts rejuvenation project at Dasghara-Todapur village||NEW DELHI: Delhi Jal Board began work on the rejuvenation of a waterbody in Dasghara-Todapur village on Sunday . Laying the foundation stone for the work, DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha said that the water table has gone down alarmingly in Delhi due to over exploitation. “It is the need of the day to extensively use rainwater to recharge the groundwater through natural as well as artificial water bodies and rainwater harvesting structures. DJB has already taken the initiative of rejuvenation of the waterbody and creating new water bodies,” Chadha said. The project will be executed under the ‘city of lakes’ waterbody rejuvenation programme. Chadha said that in the first phase of the rejuvenation project, the slopes around the waterbody will be altered to trap rain water and fill it up. Ankit Srivastava, technical advisor to DJB, said that the 9.85 acre dry lake bed has a good eco-system around it. “It is one of the fastest moving projects as the land was identified just 1.5 months ago. It was under DDA and working permission has been taken,” he said. Srivastava said that 750 KLD constructed wetland will be set up on the lines of Rajokari lake project. “Excess rainwater is causing flooding in downstream areas in Rajender Nagar constituency. This water will now be diverted towards the lake, improving drainage in the constituency as well,” he added. In Rajokri, DJB revived a waterbody with a decentralised sewage treatment plant coupled with bio-digesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/djb-starts-rejuvenation-project-at-dasghara-todapur-village/articleshow/77580176.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||Onset of rain robs hawkers of income from veggies||By: Anjali Jhangiani PUNE: People who had started selling vegetables, fruits and masks on the roadside to earn an income during the lockdown are now struggling to make ends meet again due to the onset of monsoon. “I used to drive an autorickshaw, but had started selling vegetables to earn a daily income to feed my family during the lockdown. I would use the autorickshaw to stock up vegetables and park it in front of some residential complexes in Kondhwa. But for the last few days, it has become difficult to get the stock and sell it due to the rains,” an autorickshaw driver-turned-vegetable hawker said. After losing his job as serving staff in a budget restaurant, Ajay Chiplunkar had started selling masks for a marginal profit on the roadside. “In May, the restaurant we used to work in fired all four serving staff and only kept on the kitchen staff. So, the four of us bought masks in wholesale and sold them on the roadside throughout Yerwada and nearby areas. But for the last few days, we have not been able to go and make a sale due to rainfall and it is getting difficult to afford daily meals too,” he said. There has been a considerable rise in the number of hawkers encroaching on the roads during the lockdown, however, most of them are unregistered with the traders associations. Shyam Awghade, zonal encroachment inspector, said, “I know that many of these hawkers we see on the streets these days used to either drive an autorickshaw or a two-wheeler. Over the days, we have received a lot of complaints from the citizens stating that these hawkers do not follow social distancing norms or ask their customers to do so. We are forced to clear them out in the wake of norms violation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/onset-of-rain-robs-hawkers-of-income-from-veggies/articleshow/77580131.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kochi||Kalvathy lanes make slow, cautious return to normal||Kochi: Kalvathy, which witnessed most-number of Covid-19 cases in West Kochi area, is limping back to normalcy but with caution. People, who were tested positive for the disease, have started returning home after recovery. For past few weeks, the area looked deserted due to shifting of people en masse to Covid first line treatment centres. The common toilet behind the housesKalvathy, a place in Kalvathy division, reported 62 cases, nearly half of the total 122 cases recorded in the division so far. But what made the area a hotbed of Covid-19 cases in West Kochi is its lane houses. Also, public toilets, water taps and wells had made matters worse for residents and authorities. Sixty-two cases were reported from eight out of 10 lanes in Kalvathy and most-number of cases were recorded in Lane 5. Most of them have returned post recovery. “Houses, mostly built on half-a-cent or less than one cent, are so close to each other that social distancing is a near impossible task. Only those who are financially sound have toilets in their houses. Others depend on public toilets. Chances of spreading infection are more when people gather to dry clothes, fetch water in the little space available,” says K M Anwar Sadath, a fisherman who resides in Lane 5. His family members were also infected. Now, all of them have returned home after recovery and undergoing quarantine for seven more days. Though many families received a financial support of Rs.4 lakh under PMAY scheme to construct houses, they could not start the work as banks refuse to give them loan due to negligent space of land in their names. “Of the 122 positive cases, 70 people returned post recovery. They have been lodged at a training centre of a bank and home stay for post-recovery quarantine. Only those with facilities at home were allowed to undergo home quarantine. Moreover, some small shops have been allowed to open from Monday between 8am and 1pm. We also want boat services to be resumed,” says Zeenath Rasheed, Kalvathy councillor. Earlier, many Asha workers complained that people were ignorant about the pandemic and hardly took any precautionary measures. “Residents used to interact with each other without masks, resulting in the spread,” says Rehna K M, an Asha worker in the area. Though people in Kalvathy are relieved now, many cases are being reported from other parts of West Kochi, which is a cause for concern for health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kalvathy-lanes-make-slow-cautious-return-to-normal/articleshow/77578945.cms||T C Sreemol
August 17, 2020||Ludhiana||City gets maximum number of micro-containment zones||Ludhiana: Seeking to check rising case of Covid-19 in many areas, Ludhiana district administration has declared highest number of micro-containment zones in the district. While providing information in this regard, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that the micro-containment zones include areas near bus stand, Jodhan Pakhowal village, Rajguru Nagar, Shakti Vihar, Haibowal Kalan, Shiwala Road, Chaura Bazar, New Azad Nagar, Dhandari Kalan in front of J-7 Resorts, Sham Singh Road, Civil Lines, Ludhiana, Bhumadi (Manupur) village, New Kidwai Nagar, Modi Enclave, Rajguru Nagar, New Amar Nagar, Daulat Colony, Maya Nagar, Tagore Nagar, Corton Woods Flats Jhammat, Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar, B- Block, H.No18, Nehru Nagar, Street No.3, Basant Avenue, Friends Colony Mundian, Street No.2, Chandigarh Road, Mundian, Police Colony, Civil Lines, Ram Nagar, near Kailash Chowk, Malikpur village, block Manupur, Joshi Nagar, Haibowal, Block Rajguru Nagar, Vishal Nagar, Pakhowal Road, Daad village, Pakhowal, Sant Enclave, Dhandra Road, Dugri, Lotus Farm, Pakhowal Road and 355-A, Model Town Extension. He added that all these micro-containment zones have been sealed and the departments concerned have been asked to take necessary action. Deputy commissioner said that as per the directions of the health department, a district-level committee comprising ADC (D) Sandeep Kumar, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga, district epidemiologist Dr Ramesh Kumar and medical college head Dr Clarence Samual, has been set up to identify containment and micro-containment zones in the district. He said that containment and micro-containment zones had been declared on the basis of recommendation of this committee. Sharma appealed to the residents to follow all directions of the Punjab government and if they stay indoors, they would not only make themselves safe, but would also contribute in keeping everyone around them safe. Meanwhile, Ludhiana police has shared message on it’s Facebook page that read “Effective sealing of micro-containment zones is an important aspect to contain the spread of coronavirus. The exit and entry points of these micro-containment zones have been sealed and the area has been barricaded. The residents of these zones are not allowed to leave their homes, even for work. Only essential activities will be allowed in these zones between 7am and 8pm. These include fruit and vegetable vendors, grocery shops, pharmacies, nursing homes, private medical clinics and hospitals. Door to door medical testing is being carried out by the health authorities to check for early symptoms in these areas. People residing in these areas are requested to cooperate with the district administration in this regard. With effective cooperation of all, generally a micro-containment area becomes virus free within 14 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-gets-maximum-number-of-micro-containment-zones/articleshow/77580161.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Bengaluru riots: Seven booked for spreading rumours||HYDERABAD: The cyber crime sleuths have registered a case against seven person for allegedly spreading rumours regarding the Bengaluru riots over social media. A Bengaluru resident has also been named in the FIR. Taking suo-moto action, the cyber crime cops identified a few Whatsapp groups and Facebook pages that were spreading misinformation. Narender Reddy, a sub-inspector of Central Crime Station, lodged a complaint and alleged that he had received credible information about some miscreants spreading rumours. The sub-inspector also alleged that the social media messages may create feelings of enmity between different religions in Hyderabad. “The Cyber crime wing is vigilant against the spread of rumours on social media. We have registered a case and investigation is underway,” said joint commissioner of police of CCS Avinash Mohanty. The seven people were booked under IPC Section 505(1) (intent to incite any class or community of persons to commit any offence) and 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between the classes).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bengaluru-riots-7-booked-for-spreading-rumours/articleshow/77580186.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||PMC limits Ganesha idol stalls to 500 in 41 spots||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation has permitted stalls for selling Ganesha idols at 41 places to check the spread of the coronavirus. Places have been picked under the jurisdiction of the 15 ward offices. They include the grounds of municipal schools. Only 500 licences will be issued for these stalls. Every year, around 4,000 stalls are set up and they sell around 4.5 lakh idols. The civic administration has issued the notification. Around 500 stalls will be set up at these locations. Areas like civic properties, amenity spaces and grounds have been selected. “The civic administration has decided to permit only these spaces to make sure that physical distancing is maintained. Crowding during the purchase of the idols can be avoided with such restrictions,” the circular said. “The PMC will make sure that the spaces are made available for traders. Norms of physical distancing and other precautions should be followed,” mayor Murulidhar Mohol said. Classrooms in municipal schools should be put to use for such activity, he added. The traders can keep the idols in these rooms. The civic administration should not charge high rent from the traders, civic officials said. The administration has banned setting up of stalls on the roads or footpaths. “Action against illegal stalls is being taken. The PMC has issued notices to such stalls and offenders are being fined,” a civic official said. Cops won’t allow crowd outside Dagdusheth temple The Pune police will not allow crowds to gather in front of Shrimant Dagduseth Halwai Ganapati Mandir on Shivaji Road during the 10-day festival that begins on Saturday. The police conducted an anti-terror mock drill at the temple on Sunday afternoon. An impromptu call was made to the Pune police control room following which Quick Response Teams, Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad, senior police officers, and rapid action teams arrived at the spot. A suspicious object was removed from the temple premises by the BDDS team after the area was evacuated by the other teams. Police inspector Ram Rajmane of Vishrambaug police station said the temple will remain closed for devotees. “There will be a 24-hour bandobast for 10 days in front of the temple. We will ensure that no crowd gathers,” he said. A senior police officer told TOI, “We wanted to check the promptness and alertness of the teams. Hence, a hoax call was made to the control room after a bag was placed on the temple premises.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-limits-ganesha-idol-stalls-to-500-in-41-spots/articleshow/77580152.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Heavy rain forecast till August 21||AHMEDABAD: According to the bulletin issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD), heavy to very heavy rains are forecast on Monday in Banaskantha, Anand and Kutch while heavy rains are predicted in Patan, Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Kheda, Ahmedabad, Panchmahal, Dahod, Vadodara, Chhota Udepur, Narmada, Surat, Dangs, Navsari, Valsad, Tapi and in Daman, Dadra Nagar Haveli Surendranagar, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Porbandar, Morbi, Dwarka and Botad. IMD stated that the rains are expected to continue in most parts of the state up to August 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/heavy-rain-forecast-till-aug-21/articleshow/77587388.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||Pune sees year’s first heart and lung donation||PUNE: The husband of a 39-year-old brain-dead woman donated her vital organs, including heart, lungs, liver, and kidneys in a move that went on to benefit five patients in Chennai, Hyderabad and Pune on Sunday. “This is the year’s first heart and lung donation in the city. This is also the ninth donation during the lockdown in Pune and the 23rd since January,” said Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee (ZTCC), Pune. The ZTCC is the apex body in the Pune region that oversees allocation of donated organs. The donor had developed fever, dizziness and had suffered a fall at her home in Karvenagar. She was then admitted to the Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital on August 13. “She had intracranial bleeding. Despite our best efforts, we could not revive her. She was declared brain-dead on August 15,” Gokhale said. Since there were no suitable recipients for heart and lungs in Pune and other parts, the organs were allocated to patients enrolled with hospitals in Chennai and Hyderabad as per norms set by the National Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (NOTTO), an apex body under the union ministry of health that oversees the allocation of donated organs at the national level. Medical teams from Chennai's MGM hospital and Hyderabad's Krishna Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) flew down to Pune in separate chartered flights, retrieved the allocated organs and flew back to their cities on Sunday afternoon. .The woman’s liver benefitted a patient who had been battling chronic and end-stage liver disease at Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital in Erandwane. Her donated kidneys gave a new lease of life to two patients suffering from renal failure at Jupiter hospital in Baner on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-sees-years-first-heart-and-lung-donation/articleshow/77580166.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 17, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Heavy rain forecast till August 21||AHMEDABAD: According to the bulletin issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD), heavy to very heavy rains are forecast on Monday in Banaskantha, Anand and Kutch while heavy rains are predicted in Patan, Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Kheda, Ahmedabad, Panchmahal, Dahod, Vadodara, Chhota Udepur, Narmada, Surat, Dangs, Navsari, Valsad, Tapi and in Daman, Dadra Nagar Haveli Surendranagar, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Porbandar, Morbi, Dwarka and Botad. IMD stated that the rains are expected to continue in most parts of the state up to August 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/heavy-rain-forecast-till-aug-21/articleshow/77578947.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Heavy rain forecast till August 21||AHMEDABAD: According to the bulletin issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD), heavy to very heavy rains are forecast on Monday in Banaskantha, Anand and Kutch while heavy rains are predicted in Patan, Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Kheda, Ahmedabad, Panchmahal, Dahod, Vadodara, Chhota Udepur, Narmada, Surat, Dangs, Navsari, Valsad, Tapi and in Daman, Dadra Nagar Haveli Surendranagar, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Porbandar, Morbi, Dwarka and Botad. IMD stated that the rains are expected to continue in most parts of the state up to August 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/heavy-rain-forecast-till-aug-21/articleshow/77587391.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Heavy rain forecast till August 21||AHMEDABAD: According to the bulletin issued by India Meteorological Department (IMD), heavy to very heavy rains are forecast on Monday in Banaskantha, Anand and Kutch while heavy rains are predicted in Patan, Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Kheda, Ahmedabad, Panchmahal, Dahod, Vadodara, Chhota Udepur, Narmada, Surat, Dangs, Navsari, Valsad, Tapi and in Daman, Dadra Nagar Haveli Surendranagar, Rajkot, Jamnagar, Porbandar, Morbi, Dwarka and Botad. IMD stated that the rains are expected to continue in most parts of the state up to August 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/heavy-rain-forecast-till-aug-21/articleshow/77587389.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Rajkot||Man held for stabbing shop owner to death||RAJKOT: Police on Sunday arrested a man who stabbed a grocery shop owner to death on Friday night in Tarsingada village of Maliya Hatina taluka in Junagadh district. According to police, Jesa Maka (30) stabbed Nanji Trada (45) with a knife after the latter refused to give him items on credit. Police said the accused entered into an altercation with the owner and in a fit of rage stabbed him. “Trada was rushed to Maliya Hatina Civil Hospital where he died during treatment. Maka was booked on the complaint of Trada’s son Gopal, who too received a wound on his hand from a knife inflicted by Maka. We nabbed Maka from the village,” said H V Rathod, sub-inspectpor with Maliya Hatina police station. Murder accused arrested Rajkot: The accused in the murder of a 24-year-old man who was stabbed to death on Kodinar bypass in Gir Somnath district on Thursday was arrested on Sunday from Vadodara. Police said the accused, Pratik Vaghela, had allegedly stabbed Digvijaysinh Kachhela to death, while the latter was driving his bike. “The murder was the result of an old enmity between Vaghela and Kachhela,” said an official from Kodinar police station, adding that Vaghela was nabbed from Savli near Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-held-for-stabbing-shop-owner-to-death/articleshow/77578959.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vadodara||Respite for Barodians as Vishwamitri recedes||VADODARA: The civic authorities breathed easy on Sunday evening after water levels started receding in Vishwamitri River that passes through the heart of the city. In the morning the water levels had almost touched 23 foot but within a few hours, it went down to 21 foot Residents of the localities along the river, though, have been kept on alert. Some of the areas adjacent to the river in Akota and Sayajigunj have been flooded and residents of Casa Residency in Vadsar too were surrounded by knee-deep waters on Sunday. The firemen had to rescue the residents of this locality who had faced similar trouble during the floods in August last year. Some residential colonies on Waghodia Road too witnessed water-logging after a heavy round of rains on Saturday. There were reports of crocodiles being spotted near the slums next to Vishwamitri River in Sayajigunj. The stretch between Sayajigunj and Akota is home to a number of crocodiles. The district officials said that the city received 16 mm of rains throughout the day but more rains are predicted in the next 24 hours. The Ajwa Lake has been flowing steady at 212 foot and no water has been released from it yet. The authorities said that the water level in Vishwamitri River may go down further in the next 24 hours. In district areas, residents of Por village near Dhadhar River have been shifted to a safer place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/respite-for-barodians-as-vishwamitri-recedes/articleshow/77577956.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Surat||Flood waters recede in Limbayat, Parvat Patiya||Surat: There was some relief for thousands living in Limbayat and Parvat Patiya as the sewage and rainwater that overflowed from Mithi Khadi (creek) flooded these areas were receding gradually. The incessant rainfall in Bardoli, Palsana and Kamrej, in the upstream of the creek, abated. Surat municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said that the situation was under control and 1,005 people were rescued from the worst-hit Limbayat zone on Friday and Saturday. On Saturday, Surat brigade personnel rescued 326 residents from Madhav Baug, Vraj Bhumi society, Saniya Hemad, Gayatri Nagar, Kamrunagar, Nandanvan Society, Modern Township and Wambe Avas. SMC has started relief centres in schools to provide shelters to people affected by floods. “There is nothing to worry as local residents who moved to safer places as a precautionary measures from the Mithi Khadi area are now returning back. We have deployed 25 boatsfor rescue and shifting while 160 fire brigade personnel were engaged in the work,” Pani said. He said that 125 workers are cleaning the area as flood waters receded and post-flood activities have been started in the area. Over 20,000 food packets and 10,000 dry snack packets were distributed among the affected people. Meanwhile, one lakh cusec water is being released from Ukai Dam into Tapi River, but the situation is not alarming. “Moreover, the dam is overflowing but it is filled with 75% of its total storage capacity,” Pani said requesting citizens not to heed to fake news and rumours circulating on social media. On Sunday, rain took a break in most parts of the south Gujarat, giving relief to farmers. The highest rainfall recorded was in Valsad’s Dharampur with 77 mm followed by 50 mm in Subir taluka of Dang district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/flood-waters-recede-in-limbayat-parvat-patiya/articleshow/77578980.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Man dies after bike taxi skids on EM Bypass||Kolkata: A 34-year-old contractor died in a road accident on EM Bypass on Friday night while returning home on an app-bike. The victim was identified as Sujay Maity, a resident of Namkhana in South 24 Parganas. The accident happened when the bike taxi skidded on the road that was wet due to rain, and hit the divider. As he was trying to get up, a truck hit him from behind and dragged him for some distance. However, though the truck driver stopped on hearing the cries of people, Maity died on the spot. According to the police, the driver claimed that he had not noticed the man in the darkness and was speeding around 10.45pm to leave the city before the border shutdown for Independence Day at midnight. The app-bike driver, Amir Hossain, sustained minor injury. The deceased used to stay in Rajdanga where his labourers were engaged for construction of the new police station. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-dies-after-bike-taxi-skids-on-em-bypass/articleshow/77580202.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kochi||Muvattupuzha: 5 cops test positive for Covid-19, DSP among quarantined||KOCHI: Muvattupuzha DSP and the entire staff at the Muvattupuzha sub-divisional office were placed under quarantine on Saturday after five officials at the office tested positive for Covid-19. Rural police said the office was disinfected after which it resumed functioning. The sub-division's charge has been given to Perumbavoor DSP. According to sources, those who came in contact were moved to quarantine centres while the personnel who were tested positive were transferred to Covid first line treatment centres. Official sources said an official with another police station, who was tested positive earlier had attended a review meeting at the sub-divisional office and that could be the possible source of infection. However, officials said they are still in the process of confirming the exact source of infection. Ernakulam rural SP K Karthick said the incident hasn’t affected the normal functioning as other officers have taken over for those who have gone into quarantine. “Functioning of police stations will go on, no matter what. Personnel who have become contacts of those who were tested positive have been sent into quarantine. At the same time, alternate arrangements, as planned beforehand, have been implemented to keep the offices up and running,” said the rural SP. Meanwhile, on Sunday, the rural police booked 30 people for conducting a birthday party at a hotel in Kuttampuzha. Police booked 29 people, including three women, for participating in the party and the hotel manager for facilitating the event. Police said procedures have been initiated to suspend the license of the hotel. The Thadiyattaparambu police booked five persons for violating quarantine norms. A case was registered after it was found that the offenders, who were asked to stay home after coming in contact with a patient, were not following protocols. At Kuruppampady, one person was booked for violating restrictions at a micro-containment zone. “We ask certain people to go under quarantine to ensure safety of individuals, family members and the society. Violating this will attract stringent action,” said the rural SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/muvattupuzha-5-cops-ve-dsp-among-quarantined/articleshow/77578971.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Two inmates at Colvale jail test positive||PANAJI: Two jail inmates of Colvale central jail tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. Both have been kept in isolation in the jail premises. Test reports of fourteen other jail guards and inmates are awaited. The inspector general of prisons (IGP) Gurudas Pilarnkar said the two inmates were sent for testing after a jail guard tested positive. “The jail guard was on duty and complained of fever two hours after he came to work. He was checked and sent for testing,” said Pilarnkar. There is a doctor posted inside the jail. Later, the two inmates complained of fever and were tested, he said. There are about 460 prisoners in the jail. The IGP said all the inmates, security personnel, including IRB, jail guards and escorts totalling about 800 will be tested for Covid starting from Monday. “A contingency plan is ready. It was drawn as early as April-May,” he said. A barrack has been readied to accommodate 100 people in isolation if need be. It is suspected the jail guard must have got the infection from outside the jail. He is the second jail guard to test positive so far. A month ago, another jail guard, a resident of Vasco, had tested positive after his family got infected. Then too, all inmates and jail staffers were subjected to Covid tests and they came negative. An official said that so far they have scrupulously followed all guidelines issued for protection from Covid-19. “Even as cases have arisen in other parts of the state, we have ensured that our inmates and staff are taken care of,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-inmates-at-colvale-jail-test-positive/articleshow/77581070.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||PSC stopped recruitments, govt offering backdoor jobs: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala has alleged that state public service commission has temporarily stopped recruitment process in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. During this time, the government is engaged in backdoor appointments and has thrown open contract appointments to consultancies, he said. Chennithala said thousands of posts that felt vacant after retirements have not been reported to the PSC. Hundreds of rank lists got expired in the last four to six months. Only a few appointments were made from these rank lists. However, hundreds of contract and backdoor appointments took place during this time, the Congress leader said. It is strange that PSC chairman has claimed that no contract appointments have taken place in government departments. The appointment of Swapna Suresh (to KSITIL) itself is a proof to the contract appointments being made by the LDF government, he added. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy alleged that the government is not interested in making placements from the rank lists of the PSC and that was the reason why the government is not even ready to create new rank lists when several of the lists have expired. During the tenure of the previous UDF government, there was a history of extending the tenure of the rank lists for helping the candidates. However, the LDF government had not shown any interest to support the thousands of the candidates who feature in the rank lists of the PSC. It is most unfortunate that in the last three months at least 200 rank lists have expired, Chandy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/psc-stopped-recruitments-govt-offering-backdoor-jobs/articleshow/77578977.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Man killed in drunken brawl at Silent Valley Colony||KOCHI: A 65-year-old man was killed, reportedly following a drunken brawl at Silent Valley Colony at Karukutty, Angamaly. The deceased has been identified as Varghese, son of Kunjuvareed of Maliekal house. According to Angamaly police, the incident happened around 8pm on Saturday. Police said they have identified the accused, who is a Marangaadam native. “He would be arrested soon,” said an officer. Police said that the suspect and Varghese were drinking near the latter’s house when the incident happened. “The duo suddenly entered into an argument. It is suspected that Varghese fell during the brawl, hitting his head on a rock. This is suspected to have caused the death,” police said. After inquest proceedings, the body was moved to a private hospital at Mookannoor. Police said that the body would be handed over to the kin after autopsy and receiving Covid test result. Four members of chain-snatching gang heldErnakulam rural police on Saturday busted a gang which used to roam around on bikes to snatch gold chains. Police arrested four members of the gang including a minor. The arrested persons are Fazal Zakeer (20) of Kombara, Aluva; Nishad Kunjathaayi (32) of Kaloor and Shifaas Kooliya (21) of Aluva. The accused were arrested following an investigation into a complaint from a woman, a chain-snatching victim. The accused snatched the chain of the woman when she stopped her scooter along the road to use her mobile phone. The accused who approached her on a bike, had fled with her gold chain weighing about two sovereigns, police said. Police said that as per the order of rural SP K Karthick, cops were on the look-out for bikes involved in similar incidents and the probe on this line led them to the accused. Police said the accused were behind similar incidents reported from Vazhakulam and Kuruppampady police station limits, last month. The accused were arrested by a team led by Perumbavoor DSP K Bijumon. Kunnathunadu inspector V T Shajan, SIs K T Shaijan, Sajan O V, ASI Sathar, SCPO Manaf, Sivadas, Anoop, Ajilkumar and Nishad were part of the probe team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/man-killed-in-drunken-brawl/articleshow/77578987.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Cap company commission to 5%: Transport workers to govt||Hyderabad: The Indian Federation of App Based Transport Workers (IFAT) has urged the central government to direct the cab aggregators to only take 5% of commission from the total charges of a trip, instead of the usual 20%, till the time the Covid-19 pandemic is controlled and businesses result to normalcy. In a letter addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the transport workers stated that since the beginning of the lockdown, their savings have dwindled, ration stocks in households have depleted and debts have mounted while they have taken new loans to deal with an unprecedented crisis. “We request you to please consider the plight of the app-based workers and implore you to take into cognizance the severity of this situation and direct agencies, authorities and companies to reducing the commission amount from 20% to 5% so that the financially straddled drivers can partly mitigate their economic miseries,” the letter read. The IFAT, which has members from 19 Indian states including Telangana, also requested the prime minister to advise app-based companies to provide health insurance coverage to all its employees and increase fares of app-based cabs in view of the sky-rocketing fuel prices. “This should be an issue of grave concern for the government, the companies and the riding public who need to be assured about their safety. Also, the safety and protection of the drivers/delivery partners should be of utmost importance under the current circumstances. We are hopeful that the prime minister will soon respond to our concern,” said IFAT national general secretary Shaik Salauddin. The members have also written to the Reserve Bank of India asking for the moratorium on loans to be extended to December 31, as the transport sector suffered majorly due to the lockdown and is facing problems in paying EMIs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cap-company-commission-to-5-transport-workers-to-govt/articleshow/77580210.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: KSRTC buses to Bengaluru from August 25||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will resume interstate services between Bengaluru and various districts in the state in view of Onam festival. The services will be operated from August 25 to September 6. KSRTC will charge an additional fare of 10% for the services. The tickets will be issued as end-to-end services. “The services will be operated following Covid protocol and the passengers are required to follow guidelines enforced by Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu government on the day of travel. Ticket charges will be refunded to passengers who cannot comply with these instructions. Full refund will be provided to passengers if the bus service is cancelled when there is not enough number of passengers or any of the state government denies the travel permit,” said a statement from KSRTC. There will be daily bus services to and from Thiruvananthapuram via Palakkad-Salem; Kottayam via Palakkad-Salem; Pathanamthitta via Palakkad-Salem; Ernakulam via Kutta; Thrissur via Palakkad-Salem; Palakkad via Salem; Kannur via Virajpet, Kozhikode via Sulthan Bathery; and Kasaragod via Sullia- Mercara-Mysuru. People may log onto online.keralartc.com for reserving tickets. The passengers who have registered for travel pass at Covid Jagratha portal http://covid19jagratha.kerala.nic.in will only be allowed to travel. They should also install Aarogya Setu application in their mobile phones before the commencement of the journey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-buses-to-bluru-from-aug-25/articleshow/77578991.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Fight poverty, not each other: Peace activists from India, Pakistan||Bathinda: What should have been an assembly of peace activists from East and West Punjab lighting candles at the border on the eve of Independence Day turned into a night long ‘virtual’ interaction due to Covid-19 restrictions. Peace activists shared their hopes in two events, “Guftagu azaadi ki chale chalo ki woh manzil abhi nahi aayi,” by Pakistan-India people’s forum for peace and democracy(PIPFPD) and midnight peace vigil by Aaghaz-e-dosti. Addressing the online gathering, martyr Bhagat Singh’s nephew Prof Jagmohan Singh urged youths on both sides of the border to keep up regular interactions. He said long-drawn hatred takes the form of mental sickness which could be cured with love. He said Bhagat Singh dreamt of independence from poverty and inequality but neither Pakistan and India realised that dream. Rights activist Asma Jahangir’s daughter, activist Munizae Jahangir said both countries are targeting human beings instead of environment degradation and the pandemic. She said it is high time to initiate a dialogue and look for new opportunities beyond borders.” “We are here because we believe in friendship across borders and peace. We don’t believe in narrow nationalism. We have gathered to say that we are not the wall that separates. We are the cracks in the wall. We will make new paths, we will light them in the darkness,” said social activist Kamla Bhasin. “We are the conservatives who are trying to conserve the rich history of friendship, love and peace across South Asia,” PIPFPD India chapter convener Vijayan M J and Aaghaz-e-Dosti India chapter convener Devika Mittal said. Faiz Ahmad Faiz’s daughter Salima Hashmi recited her father’s poem on peace. “The history of freedom in South Asia is that of fighting oppression and I would like to remember the people we have lost,” said Nighat Khan, a women’s rights activist, researcher and author from Pakistan. “We need to recognise that we are communities of people and it was the colonial powers that brought the idea of nationalism to us,” said Tapan Bose, founding member of PIPFPD. Another founding member of PIPFPD, I A Rehman said the future lies in open borders and peace. “Governments of India and Pakistan co-operate wonderfully to keep the people separate. We ask for peace over buying arms and war. We are celebrating the withdrawal of colonial power in South Asia. Future of the people in the sub-continent lies in open frontiers and in peace,” said Rehman. “It is feminism which has taught us power of love, not love of power. We will fight the oppressive state with love, friendship and solidarity. We are celebrating freedom on this auspicious day for South Asian solidarity and friendship. Gagging of people’s voices by the state is shameful,” said social activist Khushi Kabir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fight-poverty-not-each-other-peace-activists-from-india-pakistan/articleshow/77580212.cms||Neel Kamal
August 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Extend scope of CBI inquiry into mining mafia: SAD to HC||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) welcomed the verdict of the Punjab and Haryana high court ordering a CBI inquiry into illegal and unauthorised checkpoints near mining sites at Ropar and urged it to extend the inquiry to the entire state. Party leaders alleged that ‘goonda tax’ was being levied by the sand mafia from across the state. Former minister Dr Daljit Singh Cheema said the high court had decided to order a CBI inquiry in view of the exceptional circumstances of the case. A report by the Ropar district legal services authority had nailed the lie of the Congress government that no ‘goonda tax’ was being collected in the district by the sand mafia, he said, adding that it had been proved in court that the Punjab government had tried to mislead the court by stating that there were no illegal checkpoints or barriers in Ropar. Dr Cheema said the sand mafia is not only looting the state treasury but also damaging the environment. The state government, he said, was a mute spectator as Congress legislators were at the forefront of the racket. ‘Govt repressing stir against liquor mafia’ Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal condemned the Congress government for trying to repress people’s protest by registering a case against former chief parliamentary secretary Virsa Singh Valtoha and others for protesting against the liquor mafia. Sukhbir condemned police action against Valtoha and Manjit Singh, youth leader Gaurav Valtoha and others who had staged a protest outside the residence of Congress legislator Sukhpal Singh Bhullar at Mehmoodpura village in Tarn Taran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/extend-scope-of-cbi-inquiry-into-mining-mafia-sad-to-hc/articleshow/77580207.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Surat||Drowned 18-yr-old Valsad youth’s body recovered two days later||SURAt: The body of an 18-year-old youth was recovered from the riverside in Mendha village of Dharampur taluka of Valsad district on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as Vilesh Rathad, a resident of Mani village of Dharampur. According to Valsad collector, R R Rawal, he was among four persons from Mani village who had ventured into the check dam to bathe near Mani village on August 13. The other three have been identified as Santosh Rathad, Uttam Neval, and Dilip. After all of them started to drown in the heavy currents, local villagers could manage to rescue the other three while Vilesh went missing. His body was recovered two days later from the riverside in Mendha village. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/drowned-18-yr-old-valsad-youths-body-recovered-two-days-later/articleshow/77579017.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops nab 2 snatchers||Ludhiana: The police have arrested two chain snatchers, allegedly involved in many chain snatching incidents. The accused were identified as Davinder Singh of Basti Jodhewal and Manjit Singh Sunny of Tibba road. Station house officer of Division Number Six police station, inspector Amandeep Singh Brar said Raminder Kaur of Sampooran colony had complained to the police on August 7 that she was returning home when two motorcycle-borne miscreants had surrounded her and snatched her gold chain. He added that after a thorough investigation, the accused were identified. Police officer said acting on a tip-off, they set up a check post at Partap chowk and caught the accused. Police also recovered the snatched gold chain of the woman from them. SHO said the duo confessed to having committed several snatching in the past. He added that Manjit had a murder case against him at Basti Jodhewal police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-nab-2-snatchers/articleshow/77580240.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Contact tracing in Lucknow is alarmingly late, risk rises||LUCKNOW: Naresh Chandra Tiwari (62) tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday and succumbed to the infection two days after on Saturday. Ideally, his contacts should have been traced for testing within 24 hours after he was diagnosed with the disease. However, even after three days – till Sunday afternoon – family members were waiting for a call from authorities for sampling. It is not the lone example of authorities not being able to keep pace of contact tracing and testing with the high number of cases reported daily. Several families of the Covid-19 patients, who were diagnosed with the infection on August 13, when contacted by phone, said that even after three days, nobody from the health department has contacted them for contact tracing or testing. Times ViewIt's an extraordinary situation which requires extraordinary effort with little scope of laxity. The first 16 days of August have recorded more Covid-19 cases and deaths than the five months preceding it since the outbreak in March. People are blamed for negligence while adhering to safety protocol, but authorities too have been found to be lacking in contact tracing and creating containment zones . The delay in contact tracing and that too incomplete provides enough time to the host to transmit the virus to others. Authorities need to reach out and make people realise the seriousness of the situation. The two-pronged strategy should spread awareness while simultaneously acting tough on those not taking precautionary measures,while making the administrative machinery follow the drill. The plan laid out by the administration is good, but it needs to be implemented with equal seriousness.There were also cases where authorities did contact families for sampling, but it was done on Sunday, two days after one of the family members tested positive. Further, only family members were tested, leaving out other close contacts such as friends, neighbours and colleagues.  “He (Naresh) got admitted in a private hospital after breathing difficulty on Thursday. After the test found him Covid-19 positive, he was shifted to a Covid facility where he died. However, no one has approached us so far to give instructions about home quarantine or sampling,” said Amit Tiwari, nephew of the deceased, a resident ofKailashpuri in Alambagh. “We are a joint family with 30 members living in a house and three elderlies have developed coughs, but have no clue what to do. No one in our neighbourhood has been tested either,” said Amit. TOI gave Amit the helpline number of Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) constituted to monitor Covid-19 in the city. He then called at the centre and lodged a complaint following which he received an assurance that a team will be sent to his house soon. Shakeena Khatoon, Dubagga, who tested positive on August 13, got a call from the administration the same day to inquire if she wants to be in home quarantined or hospitalised. She opted for home isolation. “Thereafter, authorities did not contact the family or close neighbours for sampling or to inform them about do’s and don’ts to be followed during quarantine,” said Zahid Ansari, Khatoon’s brother. Bimla Gupta (72), resident of Faizabad Road, is undergoing treatment for Covid-19 at a private hospital after being diagnosed with infection on Thursday. Her daughterDarshika Gupta said, “Forget about neighbours, even we have not received any call from the health department so far regarding contact tracing, sampling or home isolation.” Chief medical officer Dr Rajendra Prasad Singh, when contacted, said that the problem is due to delay in real time uploading of reports of positive cases by many private labs and a few government labs. “Now instructions have been given to upload reports within an hour after a person tests positive. This will enable ICCC to immediately dispatch a team to the patient’s house for contact tracing and sampling,” he added. “The teams will also deliver the drugs at the earliest. Action will be taken against those not following the orders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/contact-tracing-in-city-is-alarmingly-late-risk-rises/articleshow/77581080.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Ludh taken on a ride: City bus service cuts corner, plys only 4 routes||Ludhiana: Come election, politicians promise earth and moon, but these merely remain poll sops, to be revisited every five years. One such tall claim to the residents of Ludhiana is the better public transport system. Whether it is Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)-Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) or Congress, the promise of metro rail service or bus rapid transport system (BRTS), remained merely on paper. In reality, people are struggling to get even simple bus service from in one corner of the city to the other. The residents are dependent on auto rickshaws or rickshaws to travel within the city. The lockdown made it even worse by restricting bus service to just one route. The authorities have willingly let the citizens suffer, as legal battle is going on in the court for deciding termination of the present operator and revision of fare. The next date of hearing is on August 20. After so many road blocks, the city bus service was launched with much fanfare in 2011 during SAD-BJP regime. Since then, the bus service remained embroiled in one controversy or the other — sometimes due to selection of firm by civic body and sometimes due to poor service to the commuters. The initial plan was to introduce 200 city buses in first phase, covering all routes. But the bus service is available at merely four routes today — the operator had opted out of the rest of the routes, as they were not viable. When contacted, Congress MP Ravneet Bittu, who always boasts of expanding city bus service, said, “I admit that we could not do anything till date about the expansion of city bus service. Due to lockdown, I could not conduct meetings with officials — I had sought permission, but could not get it.” He said as soon as he will get the permission, he will definitely talk about this issue with officials concerned and finalise a plan of action. Meanwhile, the Akali Dal district president Ranjit Dhillon said, “We tried our best to make city bus service a successful venture, but somehow it did not work out. We had protested against Congress government as they could not run the service as promised. During elections, Congress MP Bittu had protested against Akali Dal and had claimed to make it successful.” He said to run a successful bus service, it is important to educate people about the ease of using public transport instead of their own cars and two-wheelers. Ignored by smart city projects Unfortunately, better transport system could not be accommodated in the smart city project. Earlier, there was a plan to introduce electric buses under smart city mission, but the trial run of electric buses in Chandigarh had failed, so the project plans for Ludhiana were dropped too Illegal autos, mini buses The biggest challenge to city bus service is illegal autos and mini buses. Jaskirat Singh of Horizon Connect Transways Private Limited, the operator hired for city buses, said city bus service in the city will not become successful unless illegal service is checked by authorities Fleet of 200 buses, a pipedream In 2009, when this project was approved, 200 buses were supposed to ply on city roads but only 120 buses were purchased by Ludhiana City Bus Services Limited. Even these 120 buses are not operational fully. Nearly 37 buses are lying unused at Tajpur Road depot of the municipal corporation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ludh-taken-on-a-ride-city-bus-service-cuts-corner-plys-only-4-routes/articleshow/77580222.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Gas leak triggers fire at Domalguda||Hyderabad: A fire broke out in a flat at an apartment complex in Domalguda on Sunday morning after gas leak from three cylinders triggered explosions. A short circuit is suspected to have caused the fire, officials said. No injuries or casualties were reported. The fire control room was alerted around 8.15am when the fire broke out on the second floor flat in the five-storied Tulsi Apartment at Gagan Mahal in Domalguda. “Six members were staying at the flat. All were sleeping when the maid arrived in the morning and woke them up saying, the kitchen was filled with smoke,” station fire officer, Chikkadpally, Venkateshwar said. Four cylinders were in the kitchen and gas leaked from three of them, triggering explosions. The family immediately left the house and called for help. “Other people in the apartment complex were also evacuated within minutes. By the time we reached, two cylinders started leaking,” the official added. Another explosion occurred when firefighters reached the flat entrance. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gas-leak-triggers-fire-at-domalguda/articleshow/77580258.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kochi||Kochi corporation moots septage plant worth Rs 23 crore at Brahmapuram||KOCHI: Even after repeated failures in setting up sewage or septage treatment plants in the city, Kochi corporation is planning to pump in Rs 23 crore for constructing a septage treatment plant at Brahmapuram. The project has been designed in a haste so as to ensure that the funds allotted from the 15th finance commission is not lapsed. The allocation from 15th finance commission to the corporation has been in two categories. An amount of Rs 12.84 crore has been allocated as basic grant while Rs 59 crore has been sanctioned as a side grant. The basic grant can entirely be used for projects to be implemented in corporation limits. Of the Rs 59 crore side grant, Rs 23.4 crore should be used for projects which are beneficial to urban agglomeration which consists of Kochi corporation and adjoining local bodies. “Many of the local bodies in the district are now depending on the corporation’s waste treatment plant at Brahmapuram for waste disposal. Similarly, if a septage treatment plant is set up at Brahmapuram, it will be helpful for the neighbouring local bodies,” said corporation development standing committee chairperson Gracy Joseph. At the same time, another septage plant which was constructed at a cost of Rs 4.5 crore and opened in 2015 is not functioning properly. “Still, the corporation is planning to set up another plant,” said V P Chandran, secretary, LDF parliamentary party, Kochi corporation. “When the proposal came up for the consideration of the health standing committee, many members of the committee objected to it. We should design decentralized projects for waste treatment using the amount. Neighbouring local bodies also can design similar projects,” said Chandran, who is a member of the health standing committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-moots-septage-plant-worth-rs-23cr-at-brahmapuram/articleshow/77579014.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Tribal students seek extension of deadline for courses||KOCHI: Tribal students write to the education department requesting extension of the deadlines for the registrations and applications set by various universities and autonomous colleges regarding undergraduate admissions.  In the letter written by Adishakthi Summer School, which is a collective of tribal students guided by senior Adivasi activists, government is requested to ensure that the reserved seats for Scheduled Caste/Tribe students are not converted into general seats till the last leg of the admission process which will maximize the possibility of all aspiring students to secure admissions in the colleges of their choice. The letter also alleged that while universities and autonomous colleges are supposed to publish admission details and maintain transparency around the SC/ST allotment process; this has not been followed for the 2020-21 admissions. It also seeks exemption of registration fees, which the students from SC/ST communities have to pay while applying for UG courses in different universities and autonomous colleges. “Due to the difficulties posed by the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19), many students, those belonging to SC/ST categories in particular, have been unable to register and submit their applications for admissions this year. In this regard, we believe that it would do well to extend the deadlines of the registrations and applications set by various universities and autonomous colleges. The institutions should publish the details of allotment of seats under the SC/ST reservation category on their websites and have the press publish the same so that students are equipped with the necessary information,” said the letter written by Mary Lydia, coordinator of Adishakthi Summer School. “Over the last few year universities and colleges have converted the seats reserved for the students of the SC/ ST community into seats under the general category before the completion of admission process thus depriving backward community students the option to pursue higher education. This should stop and there is rules to prevent this. But unfortunately they are not followed,” Lydia said. Different organizations working with the Dalit and Adivasi communities had earlier requested the exemption of registration fees in the past three years. As a result, a letter by Director, Scheduled Tribe Development Department (STDD) was sent to the Principal Secretary (STDD), asking for the exemption of registration fee for students from ST communities last year. “The SC/ST students get their scholarships and grants only after the classes are begun. But during registration of admission they have to pay fees and for students this is difficult. Hence the government should waive of the registration fees for these students. We request that necessary instructions may be issued to all universities concerned, and the responsibility of reimbursing the registration fee of SC/ST students to the universities and colleges be taken,” Lydia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tribal-students-seek-extension-of-deadline-for-courses/articleshow/77579040.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Two drug dealers held, 530g heroin seized||LUDHIANA: The Special Task Force (STF) has arrested two drug peddlers after it recovered 530g heroin from their possession. The accused were identified as Lakhwinder Singh of Guru Nanak Colony in Dehlon and Sanju Loomba of Himmat Singh Nagar. Another accused, Anoop Singh of Dugri, managed to give slip to the cops. According to additional inspector general (STF) Ludhiana Ferozepur range Snehdeep Sharma said a tip-off was received that the accused were to deliver consignment of drugs to their clients and were in a house in Guru Nanak Colony. He added that acting on the tip-off, STF team conducted a raid at the place and arrested two accused with drugs while one other accused managed to run away from spot. STF officials said police team seized the car of the accused. They added during preliminary questioning, accused Rinku divulged that he is driver by profession and has a heroin peddling case against him whereas other arrested accused revealed that he is a property dealer and started the illegal trade to earn money fast. STF officials said more disclosures are likely from the accused about the drug trade. They added that manhunt has been launched to arrest the accused who ran away from spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-drug-dealers-held-530g-heroin-seized/articleshow/77580257.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Over 1 lakh patients defeat Covid in UP, back home||LUCKNOW: The total number of patients to have beaten the novel coronavirus in UP crossed the one lakh mark on Sunday with the recovery of 4,201 persons in the past 24 hours. “Of the total 1,54,515 cases reported so far, 1,00,432 have recovered. This means that over 65% of the total patients in UP have recovered from the pandemic infection,” additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said, adding that “the total number of active cases in the state was 51,537 of whom 24,686 were under home isolation.” The remaining 26,851 were undergoing treatment at government facilities mainly medical colleges. “Over 85% of all patients at our 52 government or private medical colleges were handling serious patients. Almost everyone in this group had at least one co-morbid condition,” said additional chief secretary, medical education department, Dr Rajneesh Dube. A look at the recoveries showed that an average of 3,900 persons were discharged since August 11 when the state medical education department adopted the Union health ministry’s discharge policy. Before that, the average number of discharges per day was around 2,500. “The new criterion is more liberal than the one that we followed till now. It deals with mild and moderate cases to achieve a faster turnover of patients in the medical colleges. The changeover was a need of the hour in wake of the surge in cases over the past two months,” explained Dr Dube reiterating that prevention was the only reliable weapon available at the moment. Covid-19 tally crosses 1.5 lakh: The coronavirus tally of UP crossed the 1.50 lakh mark with 4,454 cases in the past 24 hours. Of the total new cases, Lucknow (814) and Kanpur (397) alone accounted for 27.2% (or 1,211) of the burden. 58 deaths in the past 24 hours: Health officials recorded 58 deaths in the past 24 hours. The list included 11 deaths in Lucknow followed by Moradabad (5) and Kanpur (4 deaths). ICMR approves three new labs: Health officials stated that the Indian Council of Medical Research had approved three new labs to boost RT PCR testing in the state. “The labs will come up at the district hospitals in Pratapgarh, Ballia and Azamgarh. The necessary equipment is also being provided by the government,” said health department chief Amit Mohan Prasad. With this, the total number of functional labs - including private labs -in UP will reach 46. Of these, less than 10 are in the private sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-1l-patients-defeat-covid-in-up-back-home/articleshow/77581086.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 17, 2020||Goa||Damp, sometimes spoilt veggies at horticulture outlets||PANAJI: Vegetables at horticulture outlets are not in the best of their health these days. Sourced from Belagavi, many of these greens are damp, sometimes spoilt, by the time they reach Goa. Leafy vegetables like spinach and fenugreek (methi) are spoilt almost every day when they reach vendors. “Heavy rains have been lashing the state since last week and the most affected regions are the ghat areas. Vegetables are bound to get affected due to the moisture even if they are sealed within sacks or wooden crates inside the trucks. The GSHCL should be more proactive in ensuring that the suppliers are handling the greens properly,” a vendor said. Sources said that some of the greens have fungus growing on them leaving no choice for the vendors but to discard such items. “If the vegetable quality is poor due to rain, we cannot even keep such spoiled vegetables on our shelves let alone sell them to our customers. As a result, we are left with no choice but to incur the loss,” another vendor said. The officials of the Goa State Horticulture Corporation Limited (GSHCL) have blamed bad weather and landslides for delay in transportation. The vegetable bags were therefore getting drenched in transit, thus leading to the rotting, the officials added. “We have informed our suppliers to send us better quality vegetables and they have assured us that they will act swiftly,” GSHCL managing director Sandeep Faldessai said. On the transport conditions, Faldessai said, “Most of our vehicles are equipped with waterproof wood so there is hardly any fungus. We cannot avoid it during heavy rains and only on such days, the vegetables tend to catch fungus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/damp-sometimes-spoilt-veggies-at-horticulture-outlets/articleshow/77581585.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangalore University opts for digital evaluation of answer scripts||MANGALURU: Although the dramatically altered scenario in the educational sphere has resulted in ringing in many changes, students are likely to continue writing their examinations on paper, at least in the foreseeable future. However, Mangalore University is all set to digitise the evaluation process, wherein lecturers will examine scanned copies of the answer sheets. The answer scripts of all subjects will be evaluated at decentralised internet centres of educational institutions as against multiple evaluation centres for different subjects in Mangaluru city. Mangalore University has successfully tested the method with answer scripts of its MBA students. With the varsity having scheduled examinations for the final semester of both undergraduate and postgraduate students from September 16, Mangalore University has identified 16 centres – four each in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Kodagu, while four others have been identified as a contingency. Valuation of the answer scripts is expected to start in the first week of October. Mangalore University registrar (evaluation) PL Dharma said that the varsity had named three nodal officers respectively for the three districts, who had been entrusted the responsibility of inspecting colleges that will serve as evaluation centres. “Colleges that offer BCA and MCA programmes have been chosen to serve as evaluation centres since they will have the advanced infrastructure needed for the purpose,” Dharma told TOI. In light of the flood-like situation in Kodagu district, the university has made arrangements at alternative centres should it prove impossible for evaluation to be conducted at colleges in the hilly district, the registrar said. Dharma said that, under the changed circumstances, the powers vested in the chairperson of the board of examiners for specific subjects ought to be delegated to senior lecturers in their respective districts. “We will discuss this possibility at a meeting later this week. Under the new set-up, younger faculty members who are better acquainted with computers may shoulder a greater share of the evaluation duties,” he said. The Mangalore University syndicate has gisven its nod for the new evaluation model, and vice-chancellor PS Yadapadithaya is committed to changing processes that will benefit students, Dharma said. “But this is bound to eat into the varsity’s finances since we will have to provide assistance to colleges so they are equipped with the necessary infrastructure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangalore-university-opts-for-digital-evaluation-of-answer-scripts/articleshow/77581071.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||3 DRF teams deployed in Warangal||HYDERABAD: To tackle the unprecedented situation resulting from the incessant rainfall, three disaster response force (DRF) teams, consisting 40 personnel, were deployed in Warangal on Sunday. The teams, equipped with pumps, portable lighting systems, and a boat were pressed into service to assist officials in rescue and relief measures. On Saturday, Nallabelli mandal in Warangal recorded over 27cm rain - the highest in the state. This is also the highest rainfall recorded in the district in the past ten years. “The teams are equipped with a boat too and they will assist the people in every possible way,” said Vishwajit Kampati, director of GHMC’s Enforcement Vigilance and Disaster Management (EVDM). The teams are deployed for 24 hours and depending on the rain and requirement of urban local body in Warangal a decision will be taken about extension of services for another 24 hours, said EVDM officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-drf-teams-deployed-in-warangal/articleshow/77580767.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Power bill helps cops work out murder case||LUCKNOW: An electricity bill paved way for police teams in cracking murder of a Bandra woman whose dismembered body stuffed in a suitcase was recovered from Barabankion July 7. The police arrested Samir Khan from Lucknow on Sunday. The Barabanki police got the breakthrough when it rechecked the suitcase and recovered an old electricity bill which turned out to be of a woman identified as Rizwana in Indiranagar, Lucknow. “It surfaced that Rizwana had sold the house to one Samir Khan of Balrampur. He also confessed of having married the victim Ayesha, a Bandra native, who was missing since July 5,” said Barabanki SP Arvind Chaturvedi. Later, Samir was arrested fromMunshipulia in Lucknow, said the officer. Samir revealed that he went to Mumbai to earn a living in 2005. “In 2012, he met Ayesha who worked at a restaurant and fell in love with her. They also decided to marry in 2017. However, due to lockdown Samir’s business failed and he returned toBalrampur, leaving Ayesha in Mumbai,” the SP said. Samir called Ayesha to his Indiranagar house which he had purchased from Rizwana on June 26. The duo again fought after Ayesha reached Lucknow as she had insisted on visiting Samir’s village in Balrampur, but the latter suspected the former of having an affair. As a result, the duo fought on July 5 and later Samir killed her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/power-bill-helps-cops-work-out-murder-case/articleshow/77581100.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Officials keep vigil as Hussainsagar crosses FTL limit||HYDERABAD: The sluice control gate of Hussainsagar was opened after water levels went above the full-tank-level (FTL) capacity of 513.4 metres with Sunday seeing an FTL of 513.55 metres. The two water channels on either side of Tank Bund which drain out excess water to downstream storm water drains witnessed heavy flow on Sunday. “Currently there is no need for alarm over the Hussainsagar but if the water level crosses 513.8 metres, residents will be alerted and shifted. We are also monitoring the 18 vents of Hussainsagar to ensure excess water is drained out,” said a GHMC official. The civic body said those living in low-lying areas of Ashok Nagar, Liberty Circle, Himayatnagar, and Domalguda will be shifted if the water level crosses the maximum limit. The lake is also being watched by irrigation department officials. “As on date (Sunday), there is one TMC water in Hussainsagar and we are maintaining it by diverting the surplus water to Musi,” said an official from irrigation department. At multiple locations, teams were pressed into to ensure seamless flow of water and avoid a flood-like situation in low lying areas. Civic officials have been keeping watch on water channels in Kavadiguda, Ashok Nagar,Ramanthapur and Moosarambgah ever since FTL capacity was crossed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-keep-vigil-as-hussainsagar-crosses-ftl-limit/articleshow/77580731.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Vehicle owners to soon get RCs, DLs||HYDERABAD: Following reports of a two-month long delay in issuance of smart cards, the Regional Transport Authority (RTA) said it has procured the cards and start dispatching them to the applicants. On August 3, TOI reported the issues being faced by vehicle owners, who were being forced to drive around without a registration certificate (RC) and driving license (DL), and pay traffic penalties when caught by the police. Officials, who reviewed the matter, ensured that the tender to procure the raw material is processed so that they can start printing and dispatching the cards. Appreciating the quick response by the officials, auto unions reiterated the necessity of a permanent solution to the problem, which seems to be recurring. “They should soon find a permanent solution to this or stop collecting the postal fee. Awareness should be created about RTA M-Wallet, where applicants can have a digital copy of their registration, license and other transport documents,” said M Dayanand, general secretary of Telangana State Auto and Motor Welfare Union. RTA officials said that each office in the city was equipped to print around 300 cards every day and these would be sent to vehicle owners within a week. “There was a delay because the tender was in process. The issue has been resolved now and we have also started dispatching them to the applicants through speed post,” said a senior RTA official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vehicle-owners-to-soon-get-rcs-dls/articleshow/77580284.cms||Moulika.KV
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Pockets of rain-hit Hyderabad under knee-deep water||HYDERABAD: Authorities at the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Sunday said they have kept two boats on standby for emergency evacuation as water levels in various lake and tanks rose due to three days of continuous rain. Wiser after rescue operations by the Indian Air Force (IAF) to airlift farmers stranded in flood waters in Bhupalpally district, the GHMC said they are preparing for any eventuality as they anticipate more rains in the coming days. So far, the continuous rainfall has resulted in storm drains overflowing, trees being uprooted, tangling of wires and water logging in pockets across the city. Locals, in waterlogged areas, are wary of a flood-like situation. In Miyapur’s Deepthi Sri Nagar, a car was washed away while in Motinagar’s Balaji Swarnapuri Colony, a car and a bike were smashed after a tree branch fell on them. Residents across the city reported instances wherein basements of apartments and standalone buildings were flooded and vehicles were submerged in water. Many were seen trying to take their vehicles to safe spots. Deepthi Sri Nagar and Kushinagar Colony in Miyapur, Sri Ram Nagar Colony in Kondapur and Doctor’s Colony in Madhapur were among some of the areas that saw water gushing into bylanes and cellars. “So far, only vehicles have been damaged in our locality. However, if permanent measures are not taken, even houses will be inundated. We fear more losses if the rains continue,” said T Sirish Kumar, a resident of Deepthi Sri Nagar. Elsewhere, two walls collapsed in GHMC’s Charminar zone but no casualties were reported. Meanwhile, municipal administration pricipal secretary Arvind Kumar instructed disaster response teams to attend to complaints on war footing. GHMC has urged residents to reach out through its phone helplines (04021111111; 04029555500), Dial 100, GHMC app or Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pockets-of-rain-hit-city-under-knee-deep-water/articleshow/77580646.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Groundwater tables see rise in 3 districts of Telangana||HYDERABAD: The recent downpour has resulted in a substantial rise in the groundwater table in Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts according to a report released by the Telangana Groundwater Department (GWD). The report was prepared based on figures from last month’s rain data. As per the report, Hyderabad received excess rainfall of 22% while Rangareddy and Medchal recorded excesses of 33% and 11% respectively. Consequently, the groundwater table has risen by 4.84 metres above ground level in Hyderabad, 2 metres in Rangareddy and 1.27 metres in Medchal. Interestingly, even Marredpally (in Hyderabad district) was found to have satisfactory groundwater table as a result of the rains. Other areas such as Ameerpet, Trimulgheery among others also saw a considerable rise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/groundwater-tables-see-rise-in-3-dists/articleshow/77580669.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 17, 2020||Surat||284 more patients discharged in Surat, 159 others test positive||SURAT: Surat city reported more recoveries than fresh cases on Sunday when the city saw 284 Covid-19 patients discharged from different hospitals after full recovery, while only 159 new cases emerged. However, five patients succumbed to the virus on Sunday taking the death toll in the city to 574 so far. Of the 159 fresh cases, the highest was reported in Katargam with 30, followed by 27 in Rander, 26 in Central, 22 in Athwa, 18 each in Limbayat and Varachha (A), 14 in Udhna and four in Varachha (B) zone. Meanwhile, Surat rural reported 66 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the total number of Covid-19 positive cases to 3,560 in the district. Four deaths due to the virus pushed the Covid toll to 164 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/284-more-patients-discharged-in-surat-159-others-test-positive/articleshow/77579047.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vadodara||Retired cop among 18 rescued in Vadsar||VADODARA: A retired police inspector and 17 others were rescued by the Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services on Saturday and Sunday as heavy rains inundated areas near Jambuva river and Vadsar village. The retired inspector, Rajendra Sarvaiya, was rescued as his car got stranded in the overflowing Jambuva river while he was going to his farm on the outskirts of Vadodara city. Sarvaiya, a resident of Manjalpur, climbed the roof of his car as the vehicle was slowly submerging in the water. The locals informed the fire department after hearing Sarvaiya’s call for help. A team of firemen from Makarpura GIDC fire station reached out to Sarvaiya with a boat.  “As we got the message from the control room, we reached the spot with the help of the boat and rescued the retired police officer,” said fire officer Nikunj Azad of Makarpura fire station. On Sunday morning, around 17 residents of Casa Residency near Vadsar were rescued by the fire department as the waters of Vishwamitri river reached till the gates of their society. “Some of the members of my family had shifted before the water level of Viswamitri rose above 15 feet but on Sunday the water reached till the gates, so we sought fire department’s help,” said Umesh Gupta, who lives there since 2013. The society has just one approach road which gets completely inundated once Vishwamitri starts flowing above 15 feet. Last year, the society was completely under water as Vishwamitri’s levels had reached 30 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/retired-cop-among-18-rescued-in-vadsar/articleshow/77577968.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||50,000 acres of farmland submerged in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Crops in nearly 50,000 acres of farmland have submerged in Telangana as continuous heavy rains swamp large parts of the state, officials said. Cotton crop has been hit badly as farmers have taken up sowing operations of the crop in 58 lakh acres this rainy season, four acres more than last year. Officials were also expecting a bumper crop of paddy, maize, tur dal, red gram, groundnut, caster, soyabean, cotton, sugarcane, among other crops. Heavy rains lashing the state from the last three days triggered a flood-like situation in many parts of Telangana on Sunday. Almost all the projects on Godavari and Krishna rivers are receiving heavy inflows. The irrigation department officials have lifted the gates of several irrigation projects, resulting in release of water to the tanks and other water bodies downstream, which are already overflowing due to continuous heavy rains. As a result, crops in 50,000 acres have been submerged as per preliminary reports. Agriculture department officials said the submergence of crop area is more in the districts of Warangal rural and urban, Khammam, Kothagudem-Bhadradri, Mulug, Bhupalapalli, Mahbubabad, and Karimnagar, which have been receiving incessant heavy rains for the last three days. According to reports reaching here till late Sunday night, crops were submerged even in the districts of Peddapalli, Asifabad, Nagarkurnool, Mancherial, Adilabad due to heavy rains. In fact, it looks like crops in almost all the districts will get affected due to widespread heavy rains all over the State, an official said. “There would not be much of a problem to paddy crop. Once the rainwater recedes from the fields, the paddy crop will sustain itself. But the cotton crop needs to be treated. Due to a timely monsoon and good rains this time, farmers have taken up sowing operations in over one crore acres this Vanakalam crop season,” an official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50k-acres-of-farmland-submerged-in-t/articleshow/77580675.cms||Roushan Ali
August 17, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru City Corporation to issue notices to tax defaulters||MYSURU: Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) authorities on a drive to identify major property tax defaulters and for the first time notices are being served to them asking to pay the tax dues or face stern action. MCC, which has presented a budget of Rs 700 crore, had proposed to generate a revenue of around Rs 160 crore through property tax. As per the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act 1976, the civic body will provide a rebate of 5 percent on the tax payable by the property owner in April, the first month after the end of the financial year in March every year. But due to the lockdown, MCC extended the rebate period till July 31. But even after the extension, the property owner failed to pay the tax. Property tax is the major source of income for the corporation to take up any development projects in the city. There are 1,83,535 properties in MCC limits of which 1,58,156 are general properties and 25,379 are revenue properties. Out of the general properties, 13,972 are sites, 1,34,871 are houses and 1,34,871 commercial establishments. MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde has directed the revenue officials to launch a drive to collect tax from defaulters. He has also suggested to officials to collect tax through digital payment. “A list of major tax defaulters will be prepared and notices will be issued to them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mcc-to-issue-notices-to-tax-defaulters/articleshow/77581099.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||‘Initial teaching in local language will help rural schools improve’||In 2017, the state education department formally acknowledged Ashwini Sonawane as the first official to seek transfer to Naxalite-infested Gadchiroli district. Last month she completed her three-year tenure in the remote Bhamragarh taluka as the Block Education Officer (BEO). The 42-year-old has now been transferred back to her hometown Pune. She speaks to TOI about her experience of working in one of the most remotest places in the state.Excerpts...Was there ever a time during your three-year stint when you questioned your decision?Not exactly questioned it but wondered how I will be able to carry on till the end of tenure. It was mostly related to challenges of bureaucracy and coordinating with the Block Development Officer (BDO), who would get changed frequently. Since final approval of funds comes from BDO, my counterpart in the administration, such frequent changes would hamper long-term plans. These experiences gave me an insight on how to handle different people, their perceptions and working style.What will you miss the most about Bhamragarh?My students. No doubt about that. They have been a special part of my life for the last three years and I have learnt as much from them as they from me. Life here is very simple and what you seem is what you have to be. No pretensions. People are very transparent and their lifestyle is in synch with the environment. In fact, I am afraid now of shifting back to Pune with all the pollution and hectic urban lifestyle. Which initiatives are you proud of the most?The initiative of teaching Std I kids in the local Madia language. I am a firm believer that initial teaching must be in local language and it should act like a bridge to their eventual medium of instruction. So, we started teaching in Madia and then shifted to Marathi which helped kids cope with the transition. The National Education Policy too focuses on that concept which will help more and more rural schools improve their performance. Last year you simulated the most realistic version of school parliament.It was a very successful exercise indeed. Every school in taluka had to send a representative, similar to a Member of Parliament. Election at school level were held with election rallies in villages and votes sought based on agenda. My entire idea was that students must have a say in the way their schools function. The elected ‘MPs’ then resolved to have certain improvements done to their schools, which were presented to the authorities. This involvement of students will ensure a better learning environment too. Did you ever come across a Naxalite?Never, and that remains a big regret (laughs). Everyone in Pune asks me if I have met them. I have visited the most interior of places and still never even saw one of them. What changes do you feel are needed in Gadchiroli on a priority?Roads. This is the one thing that can solve half the problem. We need to increase road connectivity manifold so that tribals in the interior can access facilities. Other infrastructure too can be built upon once this is done. Officials like us can also reach out to them and create awareness. So far only certain NGOs with well-funded coffers can reach out with their services while government officials have to manage with basic resources. Will your working style change once back in Pune?I feel there will be a big change in my work attitude. Here in Bhamragarh, we made things possible even with limited resources. Schools continued to produce excellent results despite challenges faced by teachers and students. In urban areas, I would now expect schools to perform much better considering the facilities and infrastructure available there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/initial-teaching-in-local-language-will-help-rural-schools-improve/articleshow/77576923.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 17, 2020||India||Rahul demands JPC probe on Facebook ‘bias’||NEW DELHI: Congress’ Rahul Gandhi on Sunday accused BJP-RSS of “controlling” Facebook and WhatsApp in India and the party demanded a probe by a Joint Parliamentary Committee in the wake of reports that the social media giant “favoured” BJP to further its business interests. Rahul slammed BJP and claimed the party had used Facebook and WhatsApp to “spread fake news and hatred” and “to influence the electorate”, while Congress said the social media behemoth must institute an inquiry to protect its credibility and remove all Facebook India staffers who had any connection with the ruling party. Read AlsoBJP calls Rahul Gandhi ‘loser’, reminds him of CAUnion law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday dismissed Rahul Gandhi’s protest over allegations that BJP manipulated data with Facebook and WhatsApp as the gripe of a sore loser, while BJP’s IT cell chief Amit Malviya said Facebook had actually taken down 700 pro-right wing pages ahead of theCongress’s chief of data analytics, Praveen Chakravarty, and social media head, Rohan Gupta, said they had provided “evidence of clear bias” to Facebook’s senior management in India and the US, but nothing was done. A news report by the Wall Street Journal on August 15 said Facebook flouted its own policies on hate speech and allowed communally-sensitive content shared by BJP’s Telangana MLA T Raja Singh to remain online because not doing so would hurt Facebook’s business interests. Referring to the report, Chakravarty said, “The content of the article was a mere confirmation of what we already knew.” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who heads the parliamentary standing committee on information technology, said, “The parliamentary standing committee on information technology would certainly wish to hear from Facebook about these reports.” Watch Rahul Gandhi demands JPC probe on Facebook ‘bias’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rahul-demands-jpc-probe-on-facebook-bias/articleshow/77581891.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops still clueless in history-sheeter murder||HYDERABAD: Special teams are still looking for the accused involved in the murder of 32-year-old history-sheeter, who was stabbed to death by his rivals at Rein Bazar on Saturday night. K Aizajuddin, a history-sheeter with Rein Bazar police station, was stabbed to death by six persons at Chandranagar in Rein Bazar on Saturday night. “When Aizaj was having tea standing on the road at Chandranagar, the accused came on three bikes and attacked him with knives,” additional commissioner of police (Law and Order) DS Chauhan said. The body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital for a post-mortem examination and, during the preliminary probe, police found that six offenders wearing masks came on three bikes and attacked the victim. They also found out that Aizajuddin was accused in two murder cases earlier. “He was accused in the murder cases registered at Moghulpura police station in 2019 and in Mir Chowk police station in 2014,” Rein Bazar inspector P Anjaneyuliu said. Cops now suspect the involvement of family members and friends of Ameer Pathan, who was killed by Aizajuddin in 2019. After arresting Aizajuddin in Ameer Pathan’s murder case, police booked him under the PD Act. But, later Aizajuddin got the PD Act proceedings cancelled through court and came out of prison on bail. “We are questioning some suspects. The accused will be arrested soon,” the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-still-clueless-in-history-sheeter-murder/articleshow/77580309.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Financial burden leaves Covid-19 patients more stressed out||Coimbatore: More than the social stigma associated with Covid-19, it’s the financial woes that worry most of the infected. The hospitalization and subsequent home quarantine period leave them dependent on their relatives and others to run their families.Thirty-seven-year-old S Balamurugan from Sullivan Street is one of them. He was tested positive for Covid-19 in July, days after his elder brother contracted the virus. He was admitted to the ESI Hospital with mild symptoms like fever and body pain, which didn’t bother him. He was worried about his six-member family that was left out with both the breadwinners. While their friends and relatives supported the family with essential items, that came to an abrupt end when they were discharged and reached home in mid-July. However, after the initial fear of contracting the virus, his well-wishers continued to support him. There are many like him in the district. According to the data available with the health department, about 64% of the infected people are aged between 26 and 60 years. In most of the cases, they are the sole breadwinners of their families.Balamurugan said, “I was hospitalized for 10 days and spent another 14 days in home quarantine. I can’t image how my family members and I would have survived the period had our friends and families not supported us. There were days when ensuring one square meal a day for everyone itself was difficult.”Employed with a private biscuit company, he has been earning only half of what he used to earn ever since the lockdown was enforced in March-end. “Most of our savings have exhausted in the past three to four months. I haven’t paid the house rent for the past three months as it is higher than my earnings. In this situation, how we will feed our family if we are asked to remain indoors for almost a month?”Balamurugan’s brother is a goldsmith and his business has been running in loss for the past few months.Another patient said he was the sole earning member of the family, which was completely dependent on ration items and grocery that were distributed by volunteers for almost a month. He is a goldsmith.“We cannot question anyone for not supporting us, because they are also equally affected. If only the government helped the affected families, they wouldn’t need to look up to others for help,” he said.Pointing out that certain political parties and volunteers have been distributing grocery items to the affected families, J James, district president, Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Micro Enterprises, asked, “Isn’t it the responsibility of the government to take care of its citizens during the crisis period.” He too was tested positive for the virus.James said he survived with the financial help from relatives. “A lot of people from other districts and states are residing here as nuclear families and don’t have any support. They have been working in industrial units here. At a time when most of them are economically affected, hospitalization and quarantine, if tested positive, would add more burden to them. The state government should announce a package comprising essential commodities to the needy families during home quarantine and hospitalization period of their breadwinners.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/financial-burden-leaves-covid-19-patients-more-stressed-out/articleshow/77580285.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||3 former VHP cadres booked||Coimbatore: The rural police registered a case against three former members of Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) for trespassing into the house of VHP district vice-president at Narasimmanaickenpalayam and damaging the rear windshield of his car.A Ramakrishnan, 47, of Balaji Nagar on Pudhupalayam Road at Narasimmanaickenpalayam, is the district vice-president of VHP. He is residing with wife Selvam, 40, and two sons Aravind, 24, and Praveen,19, in the house. Around 2.30pm on Saturday, three persons trespassed into Ramakrishnan’s house and picked up a quarrel with him. They also threatened him with dire consequences and broke the rear windshield of Ramakrishnan’s car.The preliminary inquiry revealed that Ramakrishnan circulated notice through WhatsApp in connection with Krishna Jayanthi celebration on August 10. But he did not include the names of Mohan, Selvam and Saravanan who were former members of VHP in the notice. So, they fought with him and damaged the rear windshield of the car.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-former-vhp-cadres-booked/articleshow/77580306.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Cow bites crude bomb kept for wild boars, seriously injured||Coimbatore: A cow sustained serious injuries after it bit a crude bomb (outtukkai) placed by poachers to kill wild boars at Kallar in Mettupalayam, forest department sources said.The six-year-old animal, owned by A R Mohammed Jaffar Ali of Mettupalayam, had gone missing from his farmland at Sengalpadugai in Kallar four days ago. Ali, who was searching for the cow, found it near a stream at Kallar on Saturday with fractured jaw. Forest department officials checked the injured animal. The Mettupalayam forest range officer registered a case and formed a team to nab those who planted the bomb.Poachers often plant outtukkai in the area located just two kilometres from the reserve forest to hunt wild boars, Ali said. “I often find the explosives while herding cattle. They are strong enough to injure or even kill people. So, police and forest department should take action against the culprits,” he said.District forest officer D Venkatesh submitted a detailed report to district superintendent of police Ara Arularasu two days ago about crude bombs that endanger the lives of wild animals. “We collected information about outtukkai makers and handed over the list to the SP. We hope he will take action against them,” Venkatesh said.Poachers hide the bomb in meat or fruits to lure wild animals, forest department officials said.A 10-year-old male elephant that suffered mouth injuries after biting a crude bomb kept by farmers to kill crop-raiding wild boars died in Anaikatti in June. In May, forest department officials arrested three men on charges of poaching a wild boar using a crude bomb in Periyanaickenpalayam forest range. The officials seized six outtukkai from them and registered a case.A constable of the prohibition enforcement wing of the rural police was injured after a crude bomb exploded during a raid at a brewing den in Annur in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cow-bites-crude-bomb-kept-for-wild-boars-seriously-injured/articleshow/77580302.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Chennai||30 years and more: Such a long journey for mercy||By Justice K Chandru Banwarilal Purohit and Fathima Beevi, governors of Tamil Nadu 16 years apart, have one thing in common. They have taken their power of pardon too seriously, without adhering to the law. The mercy plea of Rajiv Gandhi assassination convicts have been presented before them and both have disregarded it. A few weeks ago, when T Arputham, mother of A G Perarivalan filed a case for parole, the court on noting the inordinate delay observed: "The governor of TN, a constitutional authority, cannot sit on the state’s recommendation on release of all seven life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case for so long". The situation was similar to 1999, when Nalini Sriharan, Murugan, Perarivalan and Santhan submitted mercy petitions to the governor of Tamil Nadu (Fathima Beevi) for grant of reprieve from the death sentence confirmed by the Supreme Court and the same were dismissed by her. Without taking advice of the state cabinet she wrote: "having gone through the records, no case made out, hence dismissed". All four prisoners moved the high court on the ground that the governor cannot pass orders on mercy petitions under Article 161 without advice being tendered by the cabinet. The Madras high court quashed the governor’s order and observed: "The procedure of getting advice from the council of ministers by the first respondent before passing the impugned order under Article 161 of the Constitution is not followed and also as decided in the above said cases by the apex court, the impugned order is not valid in law, and it cannot be sustained." The court followed Maru Ram’s case (1980) wherein it was held that the state government can advise the governor who is bound to take it. The matter then went to Karunanidhi’s cabinet, to seek due counsel, and only the reprieve for Nalini was recommended in 2000. The others went before the President which was dismissed after a delay of 11 years. When the others filed cases before the Madras high court, they were transferred to the Supreme Court. In 2014, taking exception to the delay the SC observed: "We implore upon the government to render its advice to the President within a reasonable time so that the President is in a position to arrive at a decision at the earliest". The Supreme Court also directed: "In the cases of V Sriharan alias Murugan, T Suthendraraja alias Santhan and A G Perarivalan alias Arivu, we commute their death sentence into imprisonment for life". On February 19, 2014, the Tamil Nadu cabinet advised the governor to grant reprieve to all seven accused. The Union government filed a petition and got the cases transferred to SC. The constitution bench to which the cases were listed opined that a life sentence means the rest of the life, but they can apply for remission under Section 432 of the CrPC. This will apply to cases where death sentences are converted into life and any reprieve sought for the same may be considered reasonably. Once again all of them applied for remission with the governor. The state cabinet also advised the governor to grant pardon in September 2018. As there was no response, Nalini moved the court. The Madras high court declined to give any direction and held that the governor was insulated from being questioned. Here, the court failed to note SC decision in the Swaran Singh case (1998), wherein it was observed that "we cannot accept the rigid contention of the learned counsel for the third respondent that this court has no power to touch the order passed by the governor under Article 161 of the Constitution. If such power was exercised arbitrarily, mala fide or in absolute disregard of the finer canons of constitutionalism, the by-product order cannot get the approval of law and in such cases, the judicial hand must be stretched to it". Last month the matter was in court again and it was informed that this time the delay was because the present governor is awaiting the final report of the CBI’s Multi-Disciplinary Monitoring Agency (MDMA). The MDMA, set up in 1998 on the recommendation of Justice M C Jain Commission of Inquiry which probed the conspiracy aspect of Rajiv Gandhi’s assassination, had come in for criticism by the SC in January 2018 as the court observed the agency did not appear to have achieved "much headway". Assuming its final report will contain adverse material to the seven accused, the question of reopening the case against them will not arise as they had been convicted for murder and conspiracy under Section 120-B IPC and it will violate Article 20(2) of the Constitution that guarantees that no person can be prosecuted and punished for the same offence more than once. It is open to the governor to take note of material before him and also to make enquiries as considered necessary (Epuru Sudhakar case, 2006), but such a question does not arise here. Considering they have been incarcerated for more than 30 years, and the cabinet giving the same advice more than once, the governor cannot postpone his decision without reason. It’s high time the courts step in and show the rule book to the governor who is intending to follow his predecessor in 1999. (The writer is a former judge of the Madras high court)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/30-years-and-more-such-a-long-journey-for-mercy/articleshow/77580299.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Highest single-day spike of 395 takes dist tally to 8,967||Coimbatore: The district recorded its highest ever single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Sunday when 395 people were declared positive for the virus, taking the tally to 8,967. Presently, there are 2,377 active Covid-19 cases in the district.The toll, meanwhile, rose to 185, with the state including 14 Covid-19 deaths that occurred in the district since Friday in its bulletin.A health department official said 326 new cases were reported from the city corporation limits alone. “They were spread across Gandhipuram, Selvapuram, Podanur, Gandhi Managar and Sukrawarpet, among other areas. At least 17 people were tested positive for the virus from Mettupalayam. In rural areas, cases were also reported from Sulur, Sulthanpet and Karamadai.”The health department closed a multi-storeyed jewellery showroom at Gandhipuram in the day, after 58 of its employees tested positive for the virus. The shop was also fumigated. The official said, “The shop management had recently brought a batch of employees from other districts such as Chennai and Villupuram. One of them had flu-like symptoms and test results showed he was infected.”Subsequently, health department officials subjected all the 90 employees of the showroom for Covid-19 testing and 58 turned positive.TOI found that one of the directors of Bharatiyar University (BU) had tested positive for the virus on Thursday. He is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city. As he was residing in the university quarters, his house is cordoned off and his family members are advised to undergo home quarantine. A BU official said, “We have started tracing his contacts, who would be made to undergo Covid-19 testing.” Among the dead is a 56-year-old health inspector, who was involved in Covid-19 containment measures. He was admitted to the ESI Hospital after he tested positive for the virus a few days ago. He died on Sunday.Seven patients died in the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, five in private hospitals and the remaining in the ESI Hospital. The deceased were aged between 40 and 80 years.Neighbouring Tirupur district reported 34 fresh cases of Covid-19, taking the count to 1,531, of which 457 are active cases. The district also recorded three Covid-19 deaths. The toll now stands at 47.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/highest-single-day-spike-of-395-takes-dist-tally-to-8967/articleshow/77580312.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Two arrested for sexually assaulting minor girls||Coimbatore: A youth was arrested on Saturday for sexually assaulting a minor girl. In another case, an elderly man was arrested for sexually assaulting a two and a half-year-old girl.Both were booked under Pocso Act. In the first incident, a 19-year-old youth was arrested by the Thudiyalur all women police for raping and impregnating a 17-year-old girl. The accused, a tractor driver, was booked under sections 5 (l) and 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) act.Police said the youth and the minor girl were neighbours in Karamadai, on the city outskirts. The accused often visited the girl’s house and sexually assaulted her repeatedly. Two days ago, her parents came to know that their daughter was pregnant. They lodged a complaint with the Thudiyalur all women police against the youth on Saturday. In the second case, a 52-year-old man was arrested on Sunday for sexually assaulting a two and a half- year-old minor girl near Ganapathy in the city. Police said the girl’s mother, 26, was living separately from her husband. Since she was working in a private firm, she had employed a woman in her neighbourhood to look after her daughter. On August 13, the caretaker woman was out of town. However, the woman handed over her minor daughter to the caretaker’s husband and went for work. When she returned at night from work, she noticed injuries on her daughter’s body. The child was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) where doctors told the mother that the girl was sexually abused.Based on her complaint, the Saravanampatti police arrested the caretaker’s 52-year-old husband on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girls/articleshow/77580308.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Dogs help recover two more bodies of landslide victims||IDUKKI: Local dogs were once again involved in recovering bodies of landslide victims. Two more bodies were recovered on Sunday, taking the confirmed death toll to 58. As per the official estimates, 12 persons are still missing. The bodies of Chinnathai, 62, and Muthulakshmi, 22, were recovered from Cement Palam area along the riverbank. Two dogs, Rosy and Tiger, owned by forest watcher Murukeshan, who was also involved in the operations, helped find the bodies. Rescue workers were alerted when the two started barking in a secluded area. A search ensued which lead to the recovery of Chinnathai’s body. Muthulakshmi’s body was recovered in an area nearby, said officials. Operations on Saturday had been fruitless. A review meeting of people’s representatives, rescue workers and relatives of victims in Munnar decided to continue with operations until the last body is traced. The meeting also decided to take steps to expedite the distribution of assistance to victims' families. “The bodies of two women were recovered from an area 20 metres away from the river on Sunday. On Monday, we will conduct recovery operation with over 180 people, including locals, along the riverbanks and nearby forest areas,” said Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan. “Three sniffer dogs arrived on Sunday. We will use radar and the dogs to find the missing bodies. After the landslide, flood water flowed along a vast stretch of the riverbank,” he said. “We have requested for a ground-penetrating radar from Chennai, " district collector H Dineshan said Dinesan, accompanied by Devikulam MLA S Rajendran visited the children of victims on Saturday and promised them all help for their education. On Friday, TOI had reported the plight of 26 children who have been orphaned or rendered homeless by the disaster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dogs-help-recover-two-more-bodies/articleshow/77579107.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Patients play cricket at Covid care centre||Coimbatore: Days after a video of Covid-19 patients singing and dancing their hearts out at the Covid care centre at the Codissia trade fair complex went viral on social media, another video has surfaced now, this time showing the patients playing cricket on its premises.A health department official said they have warned the patients who played the cricket. “It looks like they played the game when they were allowed to relax outside their hall. It has nothing to do with spreading the virus. But it is not advisable to do any kind of vigorous activities, including playing and running, at this point of time for their physical well-being. They can, however, do yoga or breathing exercises to keep them fit.”Ever since the district has been seeing a spike in the novel coronavirus cases in July, the district administration has been accommodating asymptomatic patients at the Codissia Covid care centre, which has close to 600 beds. Patients are usually kept there for a maximum of 10 days.To entertain the patients, the health department has installed screens for playing movies. In addition, they are allowed to play carrom board game and card games to keep them occupied and relieve themselves of psychological stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/patients-play-cricket-at-covid-care-centre/articleshow/77580315.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Donated lung flown from Pune to Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Though organ transplantations have hit an all-time low amidst the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, a coordinated effort was made on Sunday to transport a lung from Pune to the city. A transplantation surgery was carried out on the recipient at a private hospital. Coordinated by the state government’s Jeevandan programme and Zonal Transplant Coordination Center Pune, green corridors were put in place in both the cities for transportation of the organ. A patient at KIMS Heart and Lung Transplant Institute, Hyderabad, is the recipient of the organ. The family of a young patient, who was declared brain dead at a private hospital in Pune, agreed for the donation following which a Covid-19 test was conducted. “The lung was harvested and brought by a chartered flight from Pune to Hyderabad.,” KIMS said in an official statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/donated-lung-flown-from-pune-to-hyd/articleshow/77580317.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Gambling racket run by a China-based company used co-working offices||HYDERABAD: A recently busted illegal online gambling racket being run by a China-based company was using co-working office spaces to minimise expenditure and divert maximum funds to China, police officials have said. The co-working spaces used by the accused were localed in Gurugram, Noida and Delhi. The online gambling being allegedly organised by private companied under the umbrella of ‘Beijing T Power Company’ had already diverted Rs 1,100 crores before being busted. “After every three or four months, they kept changing the offices to different co-working spaces. When the arrested accused were asked the reason behind choosing a co-working space and their unusual practice of changing their office, the Indian accused said it is an instruction which they got from their superiors, who run the gambling operations sitting China,” sources in Hyderabad police told TOI.  The austere measures were not only taken up while running the business, but to the surprise of the police, even Yah Hao, the South East Asia Head for Beijing T Power Company, was residing in an ordinary house in Delhi, reportedly on rent. After Central Crime Station (CCS) sleuths announced busting of this international gambling racket, several persons, including few Indians residing in foreign countries, approached the police and explained how they lost money by gambling. Hyderabad police said that across India, 28 different cases were registered in different states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gambling-racket-used-co-working-offices/articleshow/77580349.cms||Srinath Vudali
August 17, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: A ‘raja veedhi’ to adorn Tripunithura soon||TRIPUNITHURA: The long-pending dream of residents in Tripunithura — a walkway — is finally turning into a reality as an internationally-designed walkway ‘Raja Veedhi’ would be launched by the Pedestrian Facilitation Council (TPFC) on August 17. The project will begin from North Fort Gate near the proposed mega terminal of Kochi Metro’s Tripunithura extension. The walkway will have a solar lighting system with steel railing and will extend up to statue junction via Sree Poornathrayeesha temple. “Many senior citizens reside here and the walkway will be a boon for them. The motto of TPFC is to provide adequate facilities to pedestrians for leading a healthy life. We have formulated this organization from our previous experiences during the great pedestrian march held on Gandhi Jayanthi day for two consecutive years in 2018 and 2019,” Dr R Venugopal, secretary, TPFC said. After forming a council for the well-being of pedestrians, the TPFC drafted a master plan to disinfect the drainages, Venugopal said. TPFC president Ajith Kumar said they are also planning to extend the functioning of TPFC to other zones to spread the message of maintaining a hygienic walkway and drainage. “The official launch of TPFC as a registered body will be held on August 17 in a simple manner keeping in mind the protocols. A webinar on various issues faced by pedestrians was held as a curtain raiser on August 15. The blueprint of this project will also be released as part of the inaugural meet which will also be held via video conference. The TPFC will formally begin it's functioning along with the lighting of the lamp ceremony by Satheeshan Namboothiri , the main priest of Thamaramkulangara Sree Dharma Sastha temple. MPs Suresh Gopi and Hibi Eden and MLA Swaraj will deliver the felicitation address,” Venugopal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-raja-veedhi-to-adorn-tripunithura-soon/articleshow/77579061.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||City girl doodles away in bid to set world record||Coimbatore: A city-based student made a floral doodle on a 6,055sqft paper in 13.30 hours in an attempt to set a new Guinness World Record on Saturday.R Monisha, a final year BCom student at Sankara College of Science and Commerce at Saravanampatti, took up the initiative to create a new record in floral doodling after seeing a record for the biggest drawing by an individual set by Scottish artist Johanna Basford, who drew a floral doodles on 5,381sqft in 12 hours last November.Monisha, a resident of Thondamuthur, started around 7.30am at a hall in Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology, Kuniyamuthur. “The rules allowed a 10-minute rest for every two hours. I used 15 acrylic paint markers and paper from 100m rolls taped to the ground,” she told TOI.Four art teachers were witnesses to the attempt. The event was filmed and submitted to the Guinness World Records.Art teacher P Nandakumar, one of the witnesses, said the Scottish artist’s doodles had only outlines. “But Monisha included detailing in her work. So, it took her more than 13 hours to complete. Though she couldn’t break the earlier record, she has attempted to set a new record,” he said.Monisha entered the India Book of Records by drawing portraits on 50 eggshells in 1 hour 31 minutes and 59 seconds in January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-girl-doodles-away-in-bid-to-set-world-record/articleshow/77580329.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR lashes out at LMA in letter to defence minister Rajnath Singh||SECUNDERABAD: Hours before the scheduled reopening of the 13 civilian roads, closed by the Local Military Authority (LMA), in the Secunderabad cantonment, the Telangana government expressed its displeasure through a letter written to the Ministry of Defence (MoD). In the three-page letter, minister for municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD), KT Rama Rao urged defence minister Rajnath Singh to direct LMA to follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) before they close the civilian roads. The issue was brought to the notice of KTR after BJP MLC Ramchander Rao’s tweeted TOI’s article on the closure of 13 civilian roads. Sources said that KTR had read the articles that appeared in TOI on the repeated road closures by the LMA. In his representation, the minister said that people are put to a lot of inconvenience due to the closure of civilian roads. “I feel compelled to bring to your kind notice about the plight of more than couple of million citizens living in the North & North-Eastern Parts of Hyderabad...on account of frequent road blockades and often without any justifiable reasons by the LMA of the Secunderabad Cantonment area,” KTR said in the letter. “These authorities resort to regulate the traffic at their will on certain roads...causing untold misery and hardship to the local citizens,” the minister said. KTR reminded that MoD has issued a standard protocol to be followed by LMA. “As per the the orders in the reference, the MoD will have the final word on the closure of roads in cantonments...without following the SOP, LMA had shut down four important roads for 10 days in July citing a surge in Covid-19 cases in the city,” said KTR, adding that it was illogical to try to stop the spread of pandemic by closing public roads. “Residents had been forced to take long detours at a time when public transport is not available. One can also imagine the tremendous tragedies that can occur during medical emergencies if such road blockades are allowed,” he added. Welcoming KTR’s intervention, secretary of North-Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad, CS Chandrasekhar sent a letter to the defence minister pleading him to direct LMA to reopen 21 roads that were closed in Bolarum and Yapral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-lashes-out-at-lma-in-letter-to-defence-min-rajnath/articleshow/77580350.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Five cases every 10 min, Covid grips 1,485 people in 2 days||LUCKNOW: With the rate of over 5 cases every 10 minutes, novel coronavirus infected 1,485 people — 671 on Saturday and 814 on Sunday — in the city in the 48 hours till Sunday evening. This took the overall caseload to 17,472. Of these, 9,294 cases (53%) have emerged in 16 days of August, which was more than about 8,178 cases reported in five months since the outbreak of the pandemic in March. It was the second time since the outbreak that over 800 cases were recorded in a day. Earlier, 831 cases were recorded on August 11. On an average, 580 new cases have surfaced daily this month. The fresh cases included a senior administrative officer. His office has been closed for sanitization, while contacts are being tested. As many as 1,026 Covid also recovered in two days — 387 on Saturday and 639 on Sunday. Total recoveries so far are 9,633 and the number of active cases at present is 7,628. Highest 43 cases were recorded from Talkatora followed by Alambagh 38, Chowk 35, Gomtinagar and Hazratganj 32., Hasanganj 29, Cantonment 28, Indiranagar and Mahanagar 26 each, Aliganj 25 and Jankipuram 22. Besides, 19 persons tested positive in Chinhat Thakurganj 18, Aashiana 17, Krishnanagar and Vikasnagar 16 each, Madiaon 15, Saadatganj 14 and Sushant Golf City, Wazirganj and Naka 12 each. Prof Manodeep Sen, virologist at RMLIMS, said the number of daily cases is expected to rise further in coming days because people are still not following safety protocols. Also, he added, though primary contacts of a positive person are being traced, secondary contacts often remain untraced as patients are not able to recall all the persons with whom she/he had been in contact in the recent past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-cases-every-10-min-covid-grips-1485-people-in-2-days/articleshow/77581106.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Farmer shares harvest with starving birds in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: At a time when farmers in the district are at their wits’ end in dealing with the issue of birds ravaging crops, a farmer here has planted half acre of his land with sorghum and pearl millets, for birds to feed on. Muthu Murugan, 62, who has been practicing pesticide-free farming on his field at Kulathupalayam in Thondamuthur since the 1990s, said earlier he used to sow seeds sporadically on the borders of his field for birds. But as he saw more birds coming in search of feed, this year he sowed a part of his field just to feed them. “We sowed 0.25acre of pearl millet and 0.25acre of sorghum in April, around 15 days into the lockdown. The crops have matured, and for the past one month, birds such as munias and parakeets have been coming to feed on the grains. They have feasted almost on the entire crop by now,” Murugan said. The farmer is actively involved in ecology and environmental issues, and believes that birds and animals need to survive to ensure biodiversity. “We talk of tigers and elephants starving in forests. But birds too need food. We use excessive insecticides which kill even those insects which become food for birds. So we decided to sow this portion of our field just for our winged visitors,” he said. While Murugan concedes that all farmers would not have the heart or the wherewithal to earmark a portion of their field for birds, he says if grain crops for birds are sown in a distributed fashion across fields, birds would spread out and would not concentrate on one single field and damage it. In the rest of his field, Murugan said he has sown forage crops. “We used to cultivate tomato, brinjal, gourds, and horsegram. As I don’t use chemicals, at times I have faced heavy losses. But those who have tasted vegetables from my field have comeback asking for more.” Varun Alagar Surendran, a wildlife photographer who spent time on Murugan’s field last week, clicking birds, said he spotted white-rumped munias and scaly-breasted munias feeding on the grain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmer-shares-harvest-with-starving-birds/articleshow/77580347.cms||Vishnu Swaroop
August 17, 2020||Kochi||Air crash at Karipur: No initial probe report yet||MUMBAI: Though a week has passed since the air crash at the Karipur that left 18 dead, there has been no official word yet on the initial probe findings that would benefit the pilots landing on these table top runways. Since the tragedy, over a dozen flights have flown in about 2,000 passengers to the airport. As per the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) statement on Thursday, the stakeholders will have to wait till January for any information. ‘Let’s wait for the accident report’, is the usual bureaucratic approach to accident prevention, said Wing Commander (Wg Cdr) K Dinesh, an ex-IAF officer and aviation safety consultant who has been part of IAF’s ‘Go Team’ that rushes to accident sites to make a first assessment of what went wrong. “Unlike accidents in remote areas or over the sea, those at airports leave several clues. The Go Team can make an assessment within a day or two, based on evidence collected from the scene, speaking to air traffic control, first responders etc. It is usually 99% correct,” he said. “Waiting longer than required to learn lessons from a crash is akin to pushing aviation safety out of the window,” he said. Keeping the public informed in the initial days following the crash is also an aspect followed in civil aviation accidents. US National Transportation Safety Board’s (NTSB) note about its investigation process says: “At least once daily during the on-scene phase of an investigation, one of the five members of the safety board itself, who accompanies the Go-Team, briefs the media on the latest factual information developed by the team…” Another important step is releasing a preliminary report to learn the initial lessons following a crash. Under International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) Annex 13 norms, a preliminary report should preferably be released in a month’s time, it may or may not be made public. Pakistan made public its preliminary investigation report about four weeks after the May 22 PIA crash. But the AAIB order issued on August 13 says nothing about submission of a preliminary investigation report for Calicut crash. Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert, said that the Indian Procedure Manual of Accident investigation, 2012 (6.1.1) says that a preliminary investigation report should be submitted preferably within 10 days of the accident. “The fact that Indian authorities want us to wait until the final report publication indicates that we do not have the practice of initial assessment by a Go Team,” said Wg Cdr Dinesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/air-crash-no-initial-probe-report-yet/articleshow/77578035.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||14th century hero stone found in Tirupur village||Coimbatore: Archaeological enthusiasts and researchers from Tirupur have identified a hero stone belonging to the Vijayanagar period at Pongupalayam village in Tirupur.Members of the Virarajendran Archaeological and Historical Research Centre, Tirupur, said in one of their recent field studies, they had identified the hero stone. Based on the style of the sculpting, they said the stone could be dated to late 14th century or earlier 15th century, which falls in the Vijayanagar period.S Ravikumar, director of the forum, said the stone has two human figures, a male and a female. “The man is seen holding up a sword in his right hand and his left hand is placed on his hip. This is the typical posture of a warrior going to war. The female figure is holding a lotus in her right hand. The object in her left hand is unidentifiable as it has worn off due to time,” he said. “Figures of later Nayaka period, 16th century, would have big paunches. But those in the stone we have identified don’t have such features. So it can be surmised that they belong to an earlier period,” he said.The chief occupation of people in the region was rearing cattle, storing grains and developing waterbodies for irrigation, said Ravikumar. Due to their aspirations of adding cattle to their wealth and expanding their agricultural and pastoral lands, there were frequent clashes between different ethnic groups, he said. People erected memorial stones for martyrs of such wars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/14th-century-hero-stone-found-in-tirupur-village/articleshow/77580318.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Metro rolls out app to recharge smart cards||Kolkata: Metro Railway users can now download an app on their smart phones to recharge their smart cards or check the existing balance. The app is also useful for others like vendors, who can check the status of tenders floated by Metro Railway. This has made the process more transparent. Once services resume, commuters can also get real-time information of trains by using this app while waiting at stations. “Commuters will get to know if there is any disruption in services. They can plan accordingly. We had already launched online recharge facilities for smart cards. This can be done by logging into the Metro Railway website. The launch of the app has taken things a step further. This is a much smarter approach, not only for commuters but also for others. There is also information about local tourist spots. This is also a great opportunity for advertisement from business houses,” said Indrani Banerjee, CPRO, Metro Railway. While Metro stopped commercial services from March 25, the period during the lockdown has been utilised to upgrade facilities. One of the measures was to allow online recharge of smart cards to reduce the number of people standing in queue at ticket counters. If restricted Metro services do start in the near future, tokens won’t be issued and only smart card users are likely to be allowed to travel. The app will come in handy then. “Metro has always encouraged the use of smart cards by commuters as it is more convenient,” Banerjee added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-rolls-out-app-to-recharge-smart-cards/articleshow/77580375.cms||Jayanta Gupta
August 17, 2020||Kochi||‘Kerala Model’ animal husbandry sector remains resilient from Covid impact||THRISSUR: Though lockdowns had crippled the state’s animal husbandry sector in the initial days, both the demand and production seem to be picking up at rates probably faster than projected by some experts. Milk production has increased by over 1 lakh litres per day now in the Malabar region alone compared to pre-lockdown months. An official with the animal husbandry department said from June, production and demand for eggs and chicks have also been picking up after the lull between March and May, this year. On an average, 2 lakh eggs were produced in government farms a month. It has increased to 2,47,654 in July. The presence of a strong cooperative network, sustained efforts for disease control and innovative mechanization, coupled with value addition, have been driving the sector’s growth. Mini Raveendradas, director of dairy development department, said Kerala has nearly achieved self-sufficiency in milk production and supply from other states account for only a small share of its requirement. The cooperative movement has played a critical role in retaining the vibrancy of the animal husbandry sector as a whole, and in milk production in particular, said chairman of Kerala Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (Milma), PA Balan Master. "The milk cooperatives ensured that the farmers get an assured market and a good price." The farmers have also launched their own marketing networks through WhatsApp groups and other social media platforms, which also fetch them higher price for ‘fresh warm milk’, pointed out Dr Ani S Das, executive director of the Centre for Bio Resources and Agriculture Services. The vice chancellor of Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Dr M R Saseendranath said vaccination programmes conducted for the past two and half decades had reduced the disease load among cattle population. The extension activities of the animal husbandrydepartment and the university are also contributing to the awareness level of the farmers. Economists said the animal husbandry sector has always been a low risk management enterprise, which provides sustained income to farmers, though not at high levels.Nearly 97% of the value of production was being contributed by women, said agriculture economist P Indira Devi. Of late, youngsters have been warming up to the idea of starting small animal and poultry farms, said economist K K George. Many Gulf returnees have also been exploring the possibilities of starting such farms. "We expect 10,000 small-scale dairy farms to be set up in the state even amidst Covid situation," said Prakash M, deputy director in the dairy department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-model-animal-husbandry-sector-remains-resilient-from-covid-impact/articleshow/77579152.cms||T Ramavarman
August 17, 2020||Madurai||Tough for courts to enforce orderly behaviour, says HC||Madurai: Disposing of a petition which sought to prevent vehicles being parked on a street in Madurai, Madras high court observed that adherence to the rule of law and orderly behaviour should come from within and it is extremely difficult to enforce these kinds of discipline through court orders. The court was hearing the petition filed by S M Ramasamy who sought to remove the illegal and unlawful parking of four-wheelers and autorickshaws by residents of Lourdhu Nagar West Second Cross Street at K Pudur which blocked access to the street. Madurai Corporation standing counsel submitted that under the Madurai City Municipal Corporation Act, they have powers only to remove encroachments and projections on public streets. However, it was open to the petitioner to approach the jurisdictional police in which case the corporation authorities would also extend their maximum cooperation. A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam observed that they can take judicial notice of the fact that citizens nowadays lack civic sense to act in a responsible and orderly manner. The court has also come across many incidents where even the affluent and educated are not willing to adhere to the law and discipline. Due to this, many incidents of unauthorised parkings on public roads were causing utmost inconvenience to pedestrians and road users. The judges said that it was also open to the petitioner to submit a representation along with photographs to the police, who is expected to take immediate and appropriate action in accordance with law. The judges observed that a perusal of the photographs would reveal that there are many projections on the public street and therefore it is open to the corporation to inspect and find out whether the constructions were authorized or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tough-for-courts-to-enforce-orderly-behaviour-says-hc/articleshow/77580307.cms||Kaushik Kannan
August 17, 2020||Salem||5 enter sump, 2 asphyxiated to death, 3 battling for life||Two men, who got down into an under-construction sump, were asphyxiated to death in Namakkal district on Sunday. Three others, who ventured into the sump to rescue the two, have been admitted to hospital in critical condition. Police identified the deceased as Murugesan, 45 and Sanjay, 22, of Indira Nagar in Pattanam Muniayampalayam near Rasipuram. According to police, all the five were working for Senthil Kumar, a resident of Pattanam Muniyampalayam, who was constructing a house in the locality. As part of the house, he had dug a huge pit for the sump and erected poles inside it for covering it with concrete slabs. On Sunday morning, a police officer said, the two, along with Dhavamurugan, 19, Chiranjeevi, 24 and Arumugam, came for the construction work. When Murugesan and Sanjay got into the pit to remove the wooden poles, they swooned and collapsed. The remaining three then got into the sump to rescue the two. However, they too collapsed and fell unconscious, the officer said. Other residents in the locality, covering their faces to protect them from the toxic gas, brought out the five from the sump and rushed them to the government hospital in Namakkal, where Murugesan and Sanjay were pronounced dead. The remaining three were referred to the Salem government hospital, where doctors said their condition was critical. State social welfare minister V Saroja, Namakkal collector K Megraj and Namakkal MP A K P Chinraj, along with other officials, visited the spot. They later met the family members of the deceased and consoled them. Saroja gave them a solatium of Rs 50,000 each. Police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/5-enter-sump-2-asphyxiated-to-death-3-battling-for-life/articleshow/77580360.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Bareilly||Part of Pilibhit collectorate flooded; alert in villages||Pilibhit: The swollen Khakra river, a tributary of river Devha, on Saturday night flooded a part of the collectorate campus and the road leading to the district jail here in Pilibhit district headquarters. With water levels rising in all rivers in the district due to heavy rainfall in the catchment areas, the authorities on Sunday sounded the flood alert in more than 24 villages situated along or near river Sharda in Kalinagar and Puranpur tehsils and river Devha in Pilibhit sadar, Amaria and Bisalpur tehsils.Their water levels have risen due to intermittent release of water from Banvasa barrage into Sharda and from Deuni dam into Devha.The two rivers have inundated over 500 acres of agricultural land in Puranpur and Kalinagar tehsils in a span of seven days.Amid the threat of floods posed by the swollen rivers, people of Rahul Nagar village, in Kalinagar tehsil, continued with their hunger strike for the 28th day on Sunday. They have been pressing for flood control measures for a long time. “We have alerted the villagers. We are keeping a close watch on the situation and will immediately evacuate people to safe places in case of floods. Preparation are in place to distribute essential food material to them when needed,” said Saurabh Dubey, SDM, Amaria. Similar views were expressed by other officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/part-of-pilibhit-collectorate-flooded-alert-in-villages/articleshow/77578057.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||People living on forest fringes don’t come out at night: Govt||Coimbatore: The forest department has requested farmers living off forest fringes not to venture out and roam at night in order to prevent man-animal conflict. The decision comes a day after a lone tusker was found roaming at Kuppepalayam at Boluvampatti forest range on Saturday evening. Frontline staff managed to send back the elephant to the reserve forest. Another wild elephant damaged a cattle shed at an agricultural field at Narasipuram Pirivu near Devarayapuram, but was chased back into the forest by staff.On Saturday night, a herd of 12 elephants came out of the reserve forest at Thudiyalur Pirivu, but was chased away by forest staff to Thadagam beat of the reserve forest. In another case, a wild elephant ventured out of the forest at Thadagam south beat, but was sent back. There have been several other instances where elephant herds have been chased back to the forests. The forest department request applies to vulnerable populace of Kuppepalayam, Devarayapuram, Aathinarayanan temple in Boluvampatti range, Thekkampatti, Odanthurai in Mettupalayam forest range, Uliyur, Kandavayal in Sirumugai forest range, Thadagam and Anaikatti in Coimbatore forest range. Labourers working at Thadagam brick kiln units have also been advised not to sleep infront of their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/people-living-on-forest-fringes-dont-come-out-at-night-govt/articleshow/77580353.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Actor Sivakumar’s kin assaulted with sickle||Coimbatore: The rural police arrested a murder case accused for attempting to murder actor Sivakumar's cousin and his son-in-law in Sulur on Sunday night.The injured were identified as K Kumaresan, 80, of AK Ramasamy Thevar Street in Sulur and his son-in-law N Kumarasamy, 61, of Natarajapuram in Sulur. Kumaresan and Kumarasamy suffered injuries on their heads and were admitted at a private hospital in Sulur. Kumaresan is a cousin of actor Sivakumar.The arrested person was identified as P Sathish Kumar, 26, of AK Ramasamy Thevar Street in Sulur. He was an auto rickshaw driver. He was booked under section 307 (attempt to murder) of the Indian Penal Code. Already, he was facing a murder case in 2018 and came out on bail. Police said Kumarasamy and his son Akilesh had gone to Ramasamy’s house in car on Sunday evening. Around 7.30pm, Akilesh was returning home in the car and a motorcycle coming from opposite direction was about to hit the car. Akilesh stopped the car and argued with the motorcycle rider, Sathish Kumar, who was under the influence of alcohol. Immediately, Akilesh contacted Ramasamy and Kumaresan over phone, who reached the spot and argued with Sathish Kumar. Later, they returned home.Later, Sathish Kumar came to Kumaresan's house with a sickle. He assaulted Kumarasamy and Kumaresan using the sickle and managed to escape. The injured were admitted at a private hospital in Sulur.“We have registered a case against Sathish Kumar for attempting to murder and arrested him. He will be remanded in judicial custody on Monday,” said Ara Arularasu, superintendent of police, Coimbatore district. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/actor-sivakumars-kin-assaulted-with-sickle/articleshow/77580382.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Plastic surgeons set pandemic rules||LUCKNOW: Categorising patients requiring plastic surgery into four types based on apparent need for the medical service in the times of corona, reputed plastic surgeons from across the country have now come up with a specially curated guideline for treatment of such patients while keeping both the patients and the medical team away from novel coronavirus infection. The guidelines have been framed by head of plastic surgery and burns department of SGPGI, Prof Rajiv Agarwal, department head at AIIMS Delhi, Prof Maneesh Singhal; department head, Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai, Prof Vinay Kant Shankhdhar; JIPMER, Pondicherry, head of plastic surgery department Prof Ravi Kumar Chittoria, AIIMS, Jodhpur faculty, Dr Ranjit Kumar Sahu, AIIMS, Patna, departmental head Dr Veena Singh, and former principal of KGMU and head of plastic surgery department Dr Ramesh Chandra. “The guidelines are based on scientific evidence in consonance with experts from across the country so that practices best suit needs of patients while being mindful of resource limitations and infection risk,” said Prof Rajiv Agarwal. The patients requiring plastic surgery service have been categorized into four groups of acute, subacute, chronic and late category. Acute cases are the ones which require intervention within 24-48 hours. Subacute cases are the ones which require intervention in the next 3-10 days while chronic are the ones which need plastic surgery preferably within a month. The late category are the ones which need surgery within the next six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/plastic-surgeons-set-pandemic-rules/articleshow/77581112.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Stuck in Kolkata, 87-year-old from UK feeds relief workers||KOLKATA: An 87-year-old woman who lives in the UK and travels to India in the winter to meet her daughters — her elder daughter lives in Kolkata and the younger in Chennai — finally set off for London via Delhi on Sunday after being stranded here for five months. But she hadn’t been idle all this while. Confined to her Alipore apartment due to reduced mobility, Kanta Devi Karnani cooked meals for lockdown relief workers. Born in Ferozepur and married in Kolkata, Karnani migrated to London with her husband Viswanath in 1962. She now resides on Holders Hill Road in London’s Hendon with her sons. She was in Kolkata visiting her daughter when the pandemic struck and India was locked down just two days before she was to fly back. But even after the unlock was announced and bubble flights to the UK resumed, she could not fly home as flights between Kolkata and Delhi were discontinued. On Sunday, she finally boarded a Vistara flight from Kolkata airport at noon to reach Delhi. She is booked on the British Airways flight to London at 1.50am on Monday. Over the past four months, Karnani cooked pakoras, kabuli chana, kaali daal, aloo dum, paran puri rolls, paneer wrap, vegetable biryani, pita bread, pasta, lasagne and desserts, like badam halwa and mango kheer, for relief workers who provided aid during the lockdown and Amphan. She even made a handsome monetary contribution to the cause. “The pandemic affected so many lives and livelihoods. I wanted to be of use and reached out to those I knew. One among them had started relief work in the city and the Sunderbans. That’s when the idea of doing something for those who were helping others came to my mind,” she said. “There were times when we would be tempted to cut the trip short due to sheer exhaustion. Then her meals would inspire us to brave the odds. If an 87-year-old displayed such energy, how could we give up?” asked Jaydeep Mukherjee, whose team will miss Karnani’s cooking now that she is headed back to England. Karnani dismissed her contribution, however. “I wish I could have been in the field with the lads. I’ve been a bit selfish, cooking kept me engaged. Otherwise, I may have died of boredom,” she said before bidding the city goodbye. Karnani may not be back this winter, but she is determined to return in the next one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stuck-in-kol-87-yr-old-from-uk-feeds-relief-workers/articleshow/77580423.cms||Subhro Niyogi
August 17, 2020||Madurai||Make Madurai Tamil Nadu’s second capital: AIADMK||MADURAI: The AIADMK’s Madurai west district wing has urged chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam to make Madurai the second capital of Tamil Nadu. This would not only ensure the rapid development of the southern districts and generate employment, but also decongest Chennai, it said. A resolution in this regard was passed at a meeting of the wing held at Thirumangalam on Sunday presided over by minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udayakumar. It said the chief minister and his deputy had given numerous welfare schemes to the southern districts in the last four years, but now they should fulfill the dream of the people and declare Madurai as the second capital of the state following the examples of states like Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh as well as many countries. Madurai had all the infrastructure in place for becoming a capital — airport, high court bench, proposed AIIMS and a harbour just 150 km away. Land required for the infrastructure, about 10,000 acres, was also available on the outskirts, the resolution said. DMK district secretary P Moorthy said he would be happy if this becomes a reality. “As the elections are round the corner it should not be another poll gimmick,’’ he added. AIIMS for Madurai had not become a reality even after a year and a half of the foundation stone being laid. Hence, this too looks like a far-fetched dream, he said. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan said that Madurai had all that it takes to be declared the cultural capital of Tamil Nadu and this is something that should be done in the interest of the 10 crore Tamil-speaking population across the globe, he said. President of the TN Chamber of Commerce and Industry N Jegatheesan says this is the need of the hour. “We are not asking for the state to be bifurcated, but for the departments to be decentralised, and about 30 to 40 government departments to move to Madurai for the convenience of the public from the southern districts,” he said. He said Madurai-Chennai airfares were the highest in the domestic sector, sometimes as high as Rs 13,000 for immediate bookings. Trains had to be booked weeks in advance due to people travelling to Chennai for official work. Madurai as second capital would also pave the way for the industrial growth of the region as there was good manpower in the districts. It could also prevent migration to overcrowded Chennai, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/make-madurai-tamil-nadus-second-capital-aiadmk/articleshow/77580325.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Madurai||Government will help get refund from hospitals charging exorbitantly: Tamil Nadu Health secretary||MADURAI: Strict action will be taken against private hospitals in the district involved in fleecing Covid-19 patients, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan has said. During an interaction with reporters, he said that instructions have been given to health officials in Madurai to take stringent action against private hospitals charging an exorbitant cost for Covid-19 treatment. Health officials will intervene and help the affected patients get back their money if unjustified billing is found to have been done, he said. Radhakrishnan conducted inspections at a fever camp in Mudakusalai on Sunday and government Rajaji hospital. District collector T G Vinay and corporation commissioner S Visakan also took part. He said that there are 1,057 active positive cases in the district, which includes 719 patients in hospitals and 367 patients in Covid health centres. Positive cases reported in Madurai have been on the decline compared to six weeks back. Fever camps have helped bring down the numbers. Around 300 fever camps are conducted in a day in the district on an average. Infection is under control in the state on the whole as active cases have not exceeded 55,000 for the past six weeks. ‘The number of deaths due to Covid-19 alone in a day is less than 10, but a higher number of deaths are reported since people who died of other problems including accident and suicide are considered to be Covid-19 deaths, if they tested positive, as per the WHO guidelines,” he said. The overall positive rate in Tamil Nadu is around 8.5%. Only Cuddalore, Tenkasi, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Theni, Virudhunagar and Kanyakumari districts have more than 10% positivity rate. “All these areas are monitored on a regular basis to make sure fever camps and micro-management plans are followed. Results for most of the tests are given within 24 hours and only in a few districts it takes 48 hours.” As per the instructions from the chief minister, discharged patients are being monitored after 7, 14 and 25 days to make sure they are cured completely, he added Although Covid-19 infection is coming down, he urged people not to lower their guard and insisted them to continue to wear masks, follow distance norms and avoid leaving houses unnecessarily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-will-help-get-refund-from-hosps-charging-exorbitantly-health-secy/articleshow/77580348.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Salem||2 farmers killed in elephant attack||Two farmers were killed in elephant attack on Sunday morning in Krishnagiri district, sparking a protest by villagers against the alleged inaction of forest officials. Officials identified the deceased as Muniraj, 28, and Rajendran, 41, from a village abutting the forests of Puliyarasi near Shoolagiri. According to the villagers, the incident took place when the two were working on their agricultural fields. “Suddenly, a lone elephant strayed into the farmland and attacked the duo before they could take refuge in safer places. The elephant lifted the two in its trunk and flung them to the ground, killing them on the spot. The animal then returned to the jungle,” one of them said. As soon as the news of elephant attack spread, the villagers gathered on Shoolagiri Road and staged a protest. Pointing out that the area has been seeing elephant movement for more than six months, spreading fear, they said forest officials hadn’t done anything to chase the animals back into the forests. The villagers said they used to inform forest officials whenever elephants came close to human habitations or farms and seek their help to chase the animals away. “But they do not respond at all,” another protesting villager said. The protestors said forest staff were asking them to buy firecrackers to scare the elephants away. “Forest staff are refusing to come and chase elephants, unless we provide them firecrackers,” a protesting youth said. Police and forest officials tried to pacify the villagers to give up the protest, but in vain. Following this, Veppanahalli MLA P Murugan visited the spot and held talks with them. The MLA and officials visited the place of elephant attack and inspected the routes used by elephants in the locality. The MLA assured that the families of the deceased would be given due compensation and their complaints would be addressed. Subsequently, the villagers withdrew the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/2-farmers-killed-in-elephant-attack/articleshow/77580385.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Madurai||HC gives time to petitioner to remove religious structure||Madurai: The Madras high court granted time to a petitioner to remove a religious structure, which is encroaching upon the road margin of a state highway in Dindigul district.The court was hearing the petition filed by N Sathyaraj, who is an archakar seeking to forbear the authorities from demolishing Sri Karuppanasamy temple, Shivan temple and Vinayagar temple constructed at Thottanuthu village in Dindigul district.The counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that the highways authorities under the erroneous impression that the temple has encroached upon a public land, has issued a notice under the Tamil Nadu highways Act, 2001. He submitted that the petitioner had submitted his response pointing out that the temple was situated away from the road margin and cannot be termed as an encroachment.The additional government pleader appearing for the authorities submitted that since the temple has been constructed without any authority by encroaching upon the road margin, steps have been taken to remove the encroachment under the provisions of the Act.A division bench of Justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam observed that the petitioner has no legal or vested right to construct the structure without any authority, that too, on the road margin. Hence, the judges said that it is open to the authorities to initiate appropriate action in accordance with the Act.Since the counsel appearing for the petitioner sought time to remove the structures, the judges granted time to the petitioner till August 31 and dismissed the petition.The judges further observed that the photographs produced by the petitioner would disclose that there are other structures existing on the road margin and therefore, the authorities shall carry out inspection on the stretch of the road to ascertain whether the structures are authorized. The judges directed the authorities to submit a status report in this regard on September 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-gives-time-to-petitioner-to-remove-religious-structure/articleshow/77580316.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Video of thief tied to tree goes viral||Coimbatore: A video of a thief lying on ground with both his legs and hands tied with a rope and the same person later tied to a tree went viral on social media on Sunday. Investigation by the Thudiyalur police revealed that the incident took at Nallampalayam near Kavundampalayam on July 25. The youth had stolen a motorcycle parked near a temple at Nallampalayam on July 20. Arun, the owner of the motorbike, lodged a complaint with the police. On July 25, the thief drove the motorcycle in the same place and was found lying on the ground in an inebriated condition. Locals informed Arun who rushed to the spot and recovered his motorcycle. However, a group of youths tied the thief’s hands and legs with a rope and latched it to a goods autorickshaw. Later, the youths had removed the shirt of the thief and tied him onto a tree. Meanwhile, the Thudiyalur police visited the spot on Sunday. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/video-of-thief-tied-to-tree-goes-viral/articleshow/77580383.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: This woman lost 20kg in seven months for sister||AHMEDABAD: Renu Singh, 44, a resident of Mumbai, is living in an one-room lodging right outside Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad, for the past one year. Singh, who weighed 96 kg in October last year, has shed 20-odd kilograms in a matter of seven months. No, she’s not on a self-improvement spree, she’s shed her flab to give her younger sister a second lease of life! Renu’s sister Rani, 32, is a kidney disease patient and on dialysis for close to three years. Rani is awaiting kidney transplant. She and her husband Pankaj, residents of Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh, are hopeful that their ordeal would soon end after a cross-transplant. Renu will donate her kidney to a youth from Rajasthan whereas his father will be donating a kidney to Rani at IKDRC in Civil Hospital campus. “Rani started developing complications in June 2017. After treatment in Varanasi and Lucknow, we were advised to come to IKDRC for a quicker procedure,” Renu said. The couple came to Ahmedabad one and a half years ago, with Rani’s mother as a donor in tow. She was deemed unfit to donate due to age and medical condition. It was then that Renu came to Rani’s rescue. Renu says she has always treated Rani like a daughter and would go to any lengths to help her. Upon check-up, doctors found Renu’s obesity an impediment to organ donation as it could cause health complications for her. When she was asked if she could knock off 20 kg, Renu accepted the challenge “Right from rigorous exercises to strict diet regime, slowly but surely, I lost weight and gained hope,” said Renu whose family was extremely supportive of her decision. “My mother-in-law’s brother was a donor himself. My son read up everything on organ donation and promised to support me lead a healthy life post donation,” she added. But for Singhs, the transplant was not going to be this easy. The transplant committee at IKDRC carried out rigorous scrutiny of the case, including asking the sisters for their DNA test, to verify every aspect. The committee that met in February, finally gave its nod in mid-March. Meanwhile, a computerized cross-match for the donors and recipients matched Renu and Rani Singh with father-son duo of Parsa Ram and Munna Ram from Rajasthan as a better match and it was decided that Renu would donate a kidney to Munna and Rani would get a kidney from Parsa. The lockdown however put organ donations on hold forcing the couple and Renu to stay put in Ahmedabad. “Rani’s blood pressure shoots up to 200 sometimes and she requires dialysis two to three times a week,” said Pankaj. “We have got support from IKDRC and support from CM and PM funds for treatment. But living in Ahmedabad for one and a half years dried up our finances. We hope and pray the procedure takes place soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/she-lost-20kg-in-7-months-for-sister/articleshow/77579140.cms||Parth Shastri
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Carrot units in Nilgiris to get benefits from Centre||Udhagamandalam: With carrot being selected for the Nilgiris under the ‘one district one product’ scheme, the district administration has asked the food processing units to avail the benefits under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan Yojana scheme. The scheme aims to strengthen the food processing units in the country with a five-year plan. Those who have carrot processing units or want to start one can approach the agri-marketing department in the district to avail the benefits.Financial assistance will be given up to 35% of their investment or Rs 10 lakh for individuals, groups, self-help groups (SHGs) and cooperative societies to strengthen their business or to start a new one to enhance their infrastructural facilities, marketing techniques and for training purposes.For the purpose, a committee headed by the district collector has been formed.Stating that arrangements to avail bank loans can also be made under the scheme, Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya said, “Interested farmers or SHGs or cooperative societies can approach the assistant director of agri-marketing for details.”The central government contributes 60% of the scheme, while the state government gives the rest.Carrot is grown on 6,500 hectares in the Nilgiris a year. Around 30,000 tonnes of carrots are produced yearly. Around 20,000 small farmers cultivate hill vegetables in an extent of over 10,000 hectares in a year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/carrot-units-in-nilgiris-to-get-benefits-from-centre/articleshow/77580387.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris logs 24 cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nigiris district reported 24 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the count to 1,057, of which 121 are active cases.At least 18 patients were cured and discharged in the day. With this, 933 patients have recovered from the virus attack in the district.Eleven cases were reported from Karikalvalai in Nanjanadu panchayat, five from Kappachi village and one each from Yellanhalli and Kerada villages.The remaining cases were spread across Ooty, Kotagiri, Coonoor and Wellington.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-logs-24-cases/articleshow/77580418.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Make Madurai Tamil Nadu’s second capital: AIADMK||MADURAI: The AIADMK’s Madurai west district wing has urged chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam to make Madurai the second capital of Tamil Nadu. This would not only ensure the rapid development of the southern districts and generate employment, but also decongest Chennai, it said. A resolution in this regard was passed at a meeting of the wing held at Thirumangalam on Sunday presided over by minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udayakumar. It said the chief minister and his deputy had given numerous welfare schemes to the southern districts in the last four years, but now they should fulfill the dream of the people and declare Madurai as the second capital of the state following the examples of states like Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh as well as many countries. Madurai had all the infrastructure in place for becoming a capital — airport, high court bench, proposed AIIMS and a harbour just 150 km away. Land required for the infrastructure, about 10,000 acres, was also available on the outskirts, the resolution said. DMK district secretary P Moorthy said he would be happy if this becomes a reality. “As the elections are round the corner it should not be another poll gimmick,’’ he added. AIIMS for Madurai had not become a reality even after a year and a half of the foundation stone being laid. Hence, this too looks like a far-fetched dream, he said. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan said that Madurai had all that it takes to be declared the cultural capital of Tamil Nadu and this is something that should be done in the interest of the 10 crore Tamil-speaking population across the globe, he said. President of the TN Chamber of Commerce and Industry N Jegatheesan says this is the need of the hour. “We are not asking for the state to be bifurcated, but for the departments to be decentralised, and about 30 to 40 government departments to move to Madurai for the convenience of the public from the southern districts,” he said. He said Madurai-Chennai airfares were the highest in the domestic sector, sometimes as high as Rs 13,000 for immediate bookings. Trains had to be booked weeks in advance due to people travelling to Chennai for official work. Madurai as second capital would also pave the way for the industrial growth of the region as there was good manpower in the districts. It could also prevent migration to overcrowded Chennai, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/make-madurai-tamil-nadus-second-capital-aiadmk/articleshow/77584378.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kochi||NRK cousins die in Bahrain||THRISSUR: Police in the Kingdom of Bahrain have launched a probe into the mysterious death of two men from Thrissur, Kerala, on Saturday. Three friends of the deceased men were found unconscious, and were shifted to a hospital. Rejeeb Ashokan, 39, of Chenthrappinni here was found dead in a car parked in a garage at Hajiyat, where he had been working. The incident came to light when people noticed New Sunlight Garage closed on Saturday morning. “People found it unusual that the garage was not open in the morning,” a source said. “They informed police who came and opened the garage.” Police found Ashokan dead in the car, with its air-conditioner running, had its windows rolled up, giving rise to suspicion that the man had died of asphyxiation caused by toxic fumes. On further inspection, police found four others lying unconscious in a room above the garage. They were shifted to Salmaniya Hospital, where Ashokan’s 30-year-old cousin Jilsu Sarasan—also an employee of the garage—was declared ‘dead on arrival.’ Two of those who have been admitted to the hospital are in a critical state. The fifth person has been discharged from hospital. Three of them, including the two deceased, were employed at the garage. Police said the friends might have gathered at the garage for a Friday night party. Ashokan is survived by wife Maya and a daughter. Both are in Kerala. Rejin, brother of Rejeeb who had died in the mishap, said efforts were on to bring back the bodies of the deceased persons together.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nrk-cousins-die-in-bahrain/articleshow/77578063.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Meerut||Death of US scholar on Bulandshahr road: Bike rider involved in accident arrested||MEERUT: A three-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the death of US scholar Sudeeksha Bhati on the Bulandshahr road on Sunday arrested the Bullet rider whose "rash and negligent" driving allegedly led to the mishap on August 10. The man riding the pillion has also been arrested. Soon after the accident they had fled the spot and also modified the motorcycle to evade police. Sudeeksha (19) was pursuing BBA from a prestigious US university on a scholarship and had come home in Gautam Buddh Nagar in March. She was going to her uncle’s home in Bulandshahr on a motorcycle when it collided with the Bullet and she sustained the fatal head injury. Her cousin, who was riding the two-wheeler, survived with minor scratches. The family said that the rider harassed Sudeeksha, an allegation trashed by police. For SIT, the “breakthrough” was not easy to achieve. The three-member probe team scanned over 10,700 Royal Enfield motorcycles registered in Bulandshahr to finally arrive at the one which was in the area at the time of the accident. The main accused, Chaudhary Deepak Solanki, told police after the arrest, “I had to suddenly apply brakes after a tempo suddenly came in front of us. The motorcycle coming from behind rammed into my Bullet.” Solanki, 25, works with a local architect. The man on the pillion, Raju Kumar, 56, is a mason. Soon after the accident, Solanki got his Bullet modified in a bid to give police the slip. He got the tyres and registration plate changed and put camouflage stickers on it to give the black motorcycle a totally different look. But the footage of CCTV cameras gave them away. Both the accused were on the way to a construction site at the time of the accident near Bulandshahr’s Aurangabad area. The SIT has ruled out the harassment allegation. According to officials, footage from 12 CCTV cameras between a toll plaza and the accident spot were analyzed to arrive at the conclusion that the two Bullet riders were not harassing Sudeekhsa. “In all the footage, the Bullet is ahead of the motorcycle and the distance between them varies between 1km and 300metres. We didn’t get any evidence corroborating claims of harassment. It is clearly a road accident,” said Santosh Kumar Singh, Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police (SSP). Earlier, Bulandshahr police had registered a case under section 304-A (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 279 (rash driving) and relevant sections of Motor Vehicle Act against unidentified suspects at Aurangabad police station. The SIT was formed under circle officer Diksha Singh after family’s allegations of harassment and eve-teasing. Sudeeksha, the daughter of a tea shop owner, secured a full scholarship to an undergraduate business programme at Babson College in Massachusetts two years ago. She had come home in March after her college was closed because of the pandemic. She was supposed to return on August 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/death-of-us-scholar-after-scanning-over-10k-bullets-sit-finally-nails-the-one-involved-in-mishap-2-held/articleshow/77578058.cms||Piyush Rai
August 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat, Delhi cops team up to shut down cyber crooks||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Police and Delhi Police have for the first time formed an informal task force to flush out cyber crooks from Jharkhand, Bihar, and West Bengal. The development follows the arrest last Wednesday of two Ahmedabad men, Mohsinkhan Pathan and Sohailkhan Pathan. Interrogations carried out over the days since the Rakhial duo’s arrest revealed that they provided people’s data to the e-scammers. The most notorious cyber crooks operate from Giridih, Deoghar, and Jamtara of Jharkhand. A top official of Gujarat Police said that the cyber crooks from these areas and Delhi have their agents in Gujarat, Punjab, Maharashtra, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan. The agents supply people’s data including phone numbers. “The cyber crooks call people with various ruses, the most common these days is the ostensibly urgent need to update the KYC (know your customer) details,” the official said. According to police, e-transactions have surged during the Covid pandemic. So cyber crooks have begun to target bank accounts and e-wallets. “In Ahmedabad’s cyber cell alone, we receive about 30 to 40 applications of complaint about cheating every day, leave aside the police stations,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-delhi-cops-team-up-to-shut-down-cyber-crooks/articleshow/77579147.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
August 17, 2020||Madurai||Sign campaign on to disburse aid to the marginalised||Madurai: Comprehensive Society for Community Development Organisation (Cosco) has started a signature campaign seeking a direct cash assistance of Rs 6,000 for the marginalised sections which have been badly affected by the lockdown.Society president P Duraipandi said in a statement that crores of migrant workers, unorganized workers, street vendors and self-employed small business communities have lost their livelihood and are struggling to make ends meet since March. Over 12.2 crore workers lost their jobs due to the lockdown and its extension has made it impossible for them to earn even a small income.But these people are forced to meet their expenses such as medical bills, food, house rent and other supplementary expenses. If this continues, it would lead to human trafficking, bonded labour, child marriage and child labour increasing manifold. Children and women would be the most affected.In many countries, governments have been directly transferring money to those who lost employment. In dollar terms, Canada transferred 1,400 a month, Hong Kong 1,280, Japan 931, South Korea 820 and Singapore 422 while in the US, it was $1,200 dollars one time. It is time that India followed this example and transferred Rs 6,000 to the accounts of the affected workers, Cosco demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sign-campaign-on-to-disburse-aid-to-the-marginalised/articleshow/77580355.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Madurai||South TN sees dip in cases, but 32 deaths||Madurai/Trichy: The southern region registered 1,067 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday, the lowest in the past one week, while the active cases came down to 11,845 and the total touched 74,883. In all, 32 people died in the region with Tirunelveli recording the highest of seven. The central region recorded 695 fresh cases taking its total tally to 22,563 and active cases to 5,413, while 14 deaths took the toll to 302. Theni once again topped the southern districts recording 205 new cases with as many as 13 children among them. Sources said the sample size went down during the weekends, but it may be increased if required. Madurai recorded 121 new cases and six deaths and it now has 1,039 active cases. Dindigul had 110 cases, Kanyakumari 133, Tirunelveli 130, Ramanathapuram 58, Sivaganga 54, Tenkasi 86 and Tuticorin 94. Virudhunagar’s active cases dipped to 963 while 76 tested positive on Sunday. Five deaths took the death toll in Virudhunagar to 157. The other deaths were in Kanyakumari (3), Tenkasi (2) and Ramanathapuram one. Tirunelveli district collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish said they are holding at least 150 fever camps a day and trying to identify cases early. “We are also trying our best to support Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital with more resources and manpower. Death audits are being regularly done to improve treatment in every way possible from even diet and psychological support,” she said. Meanwhile, in the central region, Pudukottai district saw a total of 187 Covid-19 positive cases on Sunday, its highest single-day spike in cases. They included 74 local cases, 40 contacts and 20 influenza like illness cases. So far, 4,177 cases have been reported across the district out of which 1,363 are undergoing treatment. With six deaths on Sunday, the death tally in the district went up to 60. Thanjavur recorded five deaths and 124 fresh cases taking the district’s case tally to 4,888. Trichy district registered 104 new positive cases taking its total recorded so far to 5,867. A 72-year-old man died while 51 patients were discharged from MGMGH and Covid-19 centers after they tested negative. Nagapattinam recorded 66 and Tiruvarur registered 65 cases. The total count in the districts was 1,570 and 2,319 respectively. Tiruvarur recorded one death too. Ariyalur district reported 77 positive cases while Perambalur reported 42. There are 584 and 205 active cases in Ariyalur and Perambalur districts respectively. In Ariyalur, a majority of the fresh cases were reported in Ariyalur urban and Jayankondam. The district administration collected 220 swabs on Sunday. In Perambalur, a majority of fresh cases were reported in Perambalur urban followed by Veppur block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-sees-dip-in-cases-but-32-deaths/articleshow/77580380.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP’s first plasma bank to fight Covid comes up at KGMU||LUCKNOW: UP’s first plasma bank got functional at King George’s Medical University in the city on Saturday. The move will aid the ongoing battle against the coronavirus pandemic. In northern India, this is the fifth plasma bank. States of Delhi and Punjab have two each. The bank will also extend services to patients in need anywhere in UP. The facility was inaugurated by governor Anandiben Patel in a virtual ceremony. Though not a definitive treatment, plasma therapy has helped in saving many lives. In this, the plasma of a Covid-19 recovered person – which contains the antibodies against the virus -- is collected and transfused into the patient under treatment. Urging people who have recovered from Covid-19 to come forward and donate plasma, vice-chancellor, KGMU Prof (Lt Gen retd) Vipin Puri said: “The vaccine for coronavirus infection is not available while plasma therapy is a ray of hope for many. Donors have the opportunity to save a life without losing anything.” He added that the bank has been made under the supervision of the best agencies in the country and was state of the art in quality. KGMU has five machines for extraction of plasma from eligible donors. Head of transfusion medicine department, Prof Tulika Chandra said: “The bank will provide a platform where the willing to donate besides serving as a collection point for those in need.” Dr Chandra said that not everyone is eligible to donate plasma. “Every recovered patient is screened for the required antibodies. Then the sample is tested against a host of parameters like HCV, HIV, basic blood profile among other things. Thereafter, the plasma is drawn from the person,” she said. She said that a person can donate upto 500 ml of plasma which is saved in 200 ml units at a temperature of minus 80 degree Celsius. She underscored that a patient does not lose on red blood cells or platelets or the Covid fighting antibodies in the process. Those willing may contact the WhatsApp helpline number 9415761773 started for the purpose||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ups-first-plasma-bank-to-fight-covid-comes-up-at-kgmu/articleshow/77581116.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 17, 2020||Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case: Sivasankar quizzed by ED for second time||KOCHI: Enforcement Directorate (ED), probing the money trail in Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, questioned M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, for over five hours on Saturday. This is the second time the agency has questioned the suspended IAS officer. According to sources, ED had insisted on questioning Sivasankar on Saturday itself before the custody period of the other prime accused in the case, Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and Sarith PS, ends on Monday. It has been learnt that as they were in its custody, the ED was able to cross question the bureaucrat to find out if he had any knowledge of the racket’s illegal activities. Sivasankar arrived at the zonal office in Kochi on Saturday afternoon and was let off by late evening. “If the need arises, he would be summoned again for questioning,” said an ED official. The application filed by ED on Friday at the special court for Prevention of Money-Laundering Act (PMLA) cases, seeking the extension of custody period of prime accused Swapna Suresh, had hinted at their line of questioning. The report had said that former the secretary to the chief minister was ‘fully aware that her integrity is dubious.’ ED had said that Swapna had revealed about her closeness to the secretary a day before her custody period ended on Friday and the agency needed to probe the angle further. "The secretary was fully aware that her integrity is dubious. This is leading to a situation for further questioning Shri Sivasankar, the secretary of the chief minister," ED had said in its application. Sources said Sivasankar was also questioned about Swapna’s claim that she met the bureaucrat in UAE. The custody application of ED had referred to the said meetings when the state machinery was in UAE from October 17 to October 21, 2018, seeking assistance of Indians there for flood relief. Swapna, Sarith and Sandeep would be presented before the court on Monday at 12pm. The accused were initially sent in ED custody for seven days, which was later extended for four more days. On Friday, the court gave an extension of two more days to question them. Sivasankar was earlier questioned by the National Investigation Agency and the customs, multiple times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-quizzed-by-ed-for-second-time/articleshow/77579176.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: ‘Securing elephant corridor vital for habitat connectivity’||KOCHI: Securing the Thirunelli-Kudrakote elephant corridor which connects the Brahmagiri Wildlife Sanctuary, Karnataka, with the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary, Kerala, will turn out to be vital for habitat connectivity and survival of about 6,500 Asian elephants, according to a report by the Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) released on Tuesday. Using one of the four corridor securement models —private purchase model— WTI worked the Kerala forest department to secure an elephant corridor area that housed five villages covering about 37.3 acre. A Bengaluru-based Asian nature conservation foundation purchased 12 acres and handed it over to the state forest department. There was financial support from Elephant Family, World Land Trust and IUCN-Netherlands. WTI, with support of its donors, managed voluntary relocation of 37 families from four other settlements covering 25.3 acre in this corridor. These families were provided housing and, in some cases, facilitated with alternative livelihoods and government schemes. For locals residents, it was a relief from living in fear of wild elephant attacks. The conservation action report which was released online on Tuesday showed that all corridor resident families faced regular conflicts with wildlife (elephant, wild pig, deer and bonnet macaque). Of the 14,612 elephants reported from south India, the Brahmagiri-Nilgiri eastern ghats sub-population is estimated to host over 6,500 elephants. This landscape requires constant protection and habitat contiguity to prevent the elephants from becoming geographically isolated. The Thirunelli-Kudrakote corridor is located at the tri-junction of Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. It is recognized as one of the 28 elephant corridors of south India, that are essential for movement of the large pachyderms between protected areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/securing-elephant-corridor-vital-for-habitat-connectivity/articleshow/77578074.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
August 17, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor-Haridwar road closed for 7 hrs due to flooded bridge||Bijnor: Traffic on the Bijnor-Haridwar highway was closed for seven hours on Sunday as the Kotawali river rose in the early hours, submerging a small bridge over it As a result of the sudden closure, vehicles queued up on both ends of the route. Water level in all the rivers in Bijnor district has been rising due to incessant rainfall in the hills of Uttarakhand, said Sandeep Tyagi, SHO of Mandawali police station. The road was opened to traffic in the afternoon after the water receded from the bridge, he added. Two years ago, two pillars of the main bridge over Kotawali river had cracked under pressure of the swift current. Traffic on the main bridge was diverted to a small bridge, which was submerged on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-haridwar-road-closed-for-7-hrs-due-to-flooded-bridge/articleshow/77578076.cms||Harveer Dabas
August 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CDR row: Police contradicting norms set by SC and Centre||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Police have come up with justification for retrieving call detail records (CDRs) of Covid-19-affected citizens quoting laws and judgments. However, the justification squarely contradicts Union home ministry’s answer provided in the Lok Sabha last year, on a question on illegal access of CDRs of individuals. The official statement of the state police has now openly challenged the stand held by both the Centre and the latest judgments of the Supreme Court. “The contents of telephone calls are not being collected as part of the CDR collection. For the same reason, the section 5 (2) of the Indian Telegraph act is not applicable here,” the statement issued by the state police, justifying the retrieval of CDRs for preparing route maps of Covid-19-affected citizens, said. However, this has turned out to be in complete contravention to rules that govern retrieval of CDRs issued by the Centre. In a reply by the then Union minister of state for home affairs (in reply to an un-starred question number 1447 by Santhosh Ahlawat) Hansraj Gangaram Ahir in Lok Sabha on February 12, 2019, the Centre said that “ministry of home affairs has issued guidelines in 2016 for seeking CDRs under the statutory provisions contained in section 92 of the CrPC 1973, or the section 5 (2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, read with rule 419A of the Indian Telegraph Amendment Rules, 2007,” thereby clarifying that the CDRs are not only retrieved under section 5 (2) of the act, but should also be read with rule 419A of the rules framed in 2007. According to section 5(2) of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, the central or state governments can retrieve CDRs of an individual only in the interest of maintaining the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the state, affecting friendly relations with foreign states or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of an offence. Also, if CDRs are retrieved under section 92 of the CrPC, there should be a directive from the court to do so. Neither is applicable in the present case of CDR retrieval by the state police. If CDRs are to be retrieved under both these sections, the police will have to follow the procedure laid out in rule 419A, under which permission can be given only by Union home secretary or the state home secretary. In exceptional circumstances, the order can be given by an officer not below the rank of joint secretary (or a police officer equal to the rank of IG). But the competent higher authority should be informed within three days of such interception and clearance has to be obtained from the authority within seven days, failing which the activity —message interception or CDR retrieval— will be invalid. “Even in matter of laws relating to criminal justice administration, there is a statutorily-maintained institutional mistrust about the police which successive law commissions have refused to alter. It is not that CDRs cannot be retrieved at all, but it can be done only in cases stipulated by law and by following laid out procedures,” former law secretary B G Harindranath said. The defense by police also claims that Puttaswamy judgment of Supreme Court itself says that measures taken to prevent an epidemic, like Covid-19, cannot be considered as a violation of privacy. The judgment in K S Puttaswamy versus Union of India ruled on the contrary, and insisted on procedures to be followed while declaring right to privacy as a fundamental right. Supreme Court had earlier, in Vinit Kumar versus CBI case, said that procedure under section 5(2) of the telegraph act is sinequanon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cdr-row-police-contradicting-norms-set-by-sc-and-centre/articleshow/77578109.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Meerut||Two die, one critical after speeding truck rams into car in Shamli||Muzaffarnagar: Two youth, aged 17 and 18 years, died, while another is battling for life after a speeding truck rammed into their car on Meerut-Karnal highway in Shamli's Taprana village, under Jhinjhana police station, on Saturday evening. The truck driver abandoned the vehicle and fled the spot. Police said the three youth hail from Taprana village. The deceased were identified as Rihan and Shokeen.Witnesses said the accident took place when the truck tried to overtake the car.On being informed, police rushed to the spot and shifted the trio to the district hospital. Two of them were declared brought dead while the third one was sent to a higher centre in Meerut. A case has been registered against the truck driver, said PK Sharma, SHO ofJhinjhana police station. "The truck has been seized and a team pressed into service to nab the driver," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-die-one-critical-after-speeding-truck-rams-into-car-in-shamli/articleshow/77578070.cms||Mohd Dilshad
August 17, 2020||Pune||Crooks use KYC ploy to prey on people||PUNE: The cybercrime police have registered 721 cases since January this year in which fraudsters used the ‘KYC update’ trick and siphoned off money from people. Recently, a 25-year-old software engineer from Aundh received an SMS with a link that said his app would be blocked if he did not update his KYC details. “I rely so much on payment apps these days that I panicked and clicked the link. Later, a man posing as an employee of the UPI service provider called me to complete a few formalities. Within minutes of making a Rs10 token transaction, I lost Rs42,000 from my account,” the techie said. In another instance, a 68-year-old retired schoolteacher lost Rs89,000 after she shared her banking details with a telecaller to update her KYC details. Police said most of those cases remain unsolved for various reasons, chief among them being that the suspects are from outside the state. “Most fraudsters are from Delhi, Noida, Kolkata and places in Haryana,” deputy commissioner of police (cyber) Sambhaji Kadam told TOI. The fraudsters call their targets, identifying themselves as representatives of various banks or payment service providers. “They scare their targets by saying the UPI/e-wallet account will be blocked if KYC details are not updated,” Kadam further said. The victims usually end up sharing the information the fraudsters want. Cybercrime police inspector Jayram Paygude cautioned citizens against falling for such “mind games”. The prevalence of such cases has increased as people are wary of stepping out to go to the bank. DCP Kadam said, “People must visit banks for such work and not share their credentials with anyone.” Cyber expert Sandip Gadiya observed that fraudsters often use official looking SMS IDs to send remote access links disguised as payment links. “Once the software is downloaded, it grants the fraudster access to the victim’s phone,” he said, adding that QR codes too were used for this purpose. In most cases, police said, the target share their banking details and one-time passwords, making it easy for the fraudsters. “People should not share UPI or debit card details and OTPs with anyone,” cyber law expert Gaurav Jachak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crooks-use-kyc-ploy-to-prey-on-people/articleshow/77580415.cms||Gitesh Shelke
August 17, 2020||Nashik||Man arrested for assaulting traffic cop||Nashik: Police have arrested one Sunil Salunke (31) on the charges of allegedly assaulting a traffic constable in the Adgaon area on Saturday morning. As per the complaint lodged by police constable Sandeep Sonawane, he and one more constable were on duty on Saturday morning. They asked the fruit sellers and the roadside vendors selling small articles on the service road along the Mumbai-Agra highway to clear the road as they were compounding the traffic problem. During this time, Salunke arrived at the scene and started abusing the two constables. He also slapped Sonawane and heckled him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-arrested-for-assaulting-traffic-cop/articleshow/77708300.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||94-year-old priest wins corona battle||Kolkata: In the fourth such instance in Bengal, a nonagenarian has beaten Covid to go back home from hospital. The Don Bosco priest, 94-year-old Peter Vincent Lourdes, even hoisted the Tricolour on Saturday before leaving the hospital. Lourdes was diagnosed with Covid-19 in July-end. He was put in home isolation on oxygen support for a day before Fortis Hospital could offer him a bed. “Though he had only hypertension as a co-morbid condition, age was against him. The Covid pneumonia was so bad that his oxygen requirement kept increasing. Since all ICU beds were occupied, we kept managing him with medication and oxygen support in the Covid ward,” said Basab Bijoy Sarkar, consultant, internal medicine at Fortis Anandapur, under whose supervision the patient was treated. Lourdes started improving after nine days. After testing negative twice on the 14th and 16th day, he was shifted out of the Covid ward. But he was put under intensive rehabilitation, including physiotherapy, due to being extremely frail. “He must lead a disciplined lifestyle because of which he had only one significant co-morbidity. He is a fighter. It is so heart-warming that he won the battle and went home in good health,” added Sarkar. Earlier, a few other priests from the same order had been treated at the hospital. Though 73-year-old Jospeh Aymanathil succumbed to the infection in July, the rest recovered. “We are putting in our best effort to fight the Covid battle. It is encouraging to see the team work tirelessly towards recovery of each patient. It was humbling to hear from Fr Peter’s associates who felt like he has been given a new life,” said Richa Singh Debgupta, senior VP, Fortis Healthcare Ltd. Earlier, a 94-year-old and a 95-year-old had been cured from Medical Hospital Kolkata and Sanjiban Hospital Howrah. The third, a 99-year-old, is Bengal’s oldest Covid survivor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/94-year-old-priest-wins-corona-battle/articleshow/77580483.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 17, 2020||Madurai||Activists tag placards to felled tree trunks in Madurai as mark of protest||Madurai: Environmental activists have tagged placards to the trunks of the trees felled alongside the New Jail Road in Madurai as a mark of protest against officials for the indiscriminate felling of trees.The New Jail road opposite to the Madurai central prison had around 30 trees of indigenous varieties. Some of them were more than 10 years old. Prison authorities said that an electrical line which was going through the middle of the busy road was recently shifted to the roadside as the electrical poles on the middle of the road caused accidents frequently. The electricity department, which took up the shifting of the line, cut down the roadside trees.While most of the trees were cut close to the ground level, some of them had their branches chopped off. Members of the Mannin Marangal Pathugappu Iyakkam tagged the placards to create awareness of the need to conserve trees and to question the authorities over the indiscriminate felling of trees.Sridhar Nedunchezhiyan of Mannin Marangal Pathugappu Iyakkam said that they did not object to the shifting of the line, since it was taken up to ensure road safety, but the problem was with the indiscriminate felling of trees. He questioned the need to cut down the trees at the ground level. He said that just the branches obstructing the electrical line could have been cut down.Sridhar said that the electricity department has been felling trees frequently in the recent years. The district administration should ensure that no tree is cut down without permission from revenue division official, who is the competent authority to give permission, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/activists-tag-placards-to-felled-tree-trunks-in-madurai-as-mark-of-protest/articleshow/77580386.cms||V Devanathan
August 17, 2020||Madurai||Schools to schedule admissions to classes I, VI & IX from today||Madurai: Admissions for Classes I, VI and IX are set to begin from Monday in government schools across the district. The students who join will be provided with the free textbooks, school bag and uniform. Madurai district Chief Educational Officer (CEO) R Swaminathan said that all schools have already been issued guidelines for conducting admissions. “All precautions for Covid-19 like wearing masks, social distancing, hand sanitisation and disinfection of premises is to be strictly followed. Not more than 20 students are permitted to be in the campus in an hour to avoid crowding. If there are more students, separate rooms need to be arranged. Accordingly, schools should schedule and hold admissions over the course of the week,” he said. Though the admissions begin on Monday, a cut-off date has not been announced so far. In the case of government higher secondary schools, which have all three classes, schools have been instructed to hold admissions for the different classes in different blocks or schedule it for separate dates. “We also instructed feeder schools belonging to a particular school to send their students to the respective school for admission on a selected date to ensure there is no crowding,” added the CEO. For distribution of textbooks, school bags and uniform, separate staff should be put in charge. “Only for Class I students, parents alone can come for admission with all necessary records and documents,” said Swaminathan. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-to-schedule-admissions-to-classes-i-vi-ix-from-today/articleshow/77580410.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman files complaint against in-laws, father||AHMEDABAD: A woman from the Bodakdev area of city filed a complaint of assault along with charges of domestic violence against her husband and in-laws on Sunday alleging they had been provoked by her own father. The omplainant’s in-laws are owner sof a city-based realty firm. In her FIR with Vastrapur police, the woman states that she wed a man from Prahladnagar area in 2011. She states that her family members and her in-laws gathered on August 1 to celebrate her daughter’s birthday. At that time, her mother-in-law began alleging that the complainant and her mother was looting them. When she objected, her father-in-law provoked her husband to beat her and push her out of their house. Meanwhile, complainant’s father, who took divorce from her mother, also provoked her in-laws, she alleges in the FIR. “My father, who already held a grudge against me and my mother, told my husband and in-laws to beat me and my mother,” she stated. She alleged that her husband slapped her and punched her on face due to which she began bleeding from her nose and a tooth broke. She went half-conscious and managed to call police to save herself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-files-plaint-against-in-laws-father/articleshow/77579153.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Encouraged by week-long ‘trial’, more gyms plan to open for business in Kolkata||KOLKATA: With the steady increase in footfall at several city gyms over the past week boosting their confidence, more gymnasiums and yoga centres have now decided to reopen their doors. “We had started with barely 20% of patrons returning to gyms. By this week, it has shot up to around 35%-40%. It is extremely encouraging, especially given the fact that every member has had to change his/her workout style to adjust to the pandemic situation. But no one is complaining. The steady growth in numbers is encouraging other gyms to open up following the new-normal protocols too,” said Gagan Sachdev, the owner of Karma Fitness Studio and a representative of the West Bengal Gym Owners’ Forum. A sizeable number of gyms in the city reopened on August 6 after guidelines were issued by the ministry of health and family welfare last month. The guidelines called for spacing of equipment and individuals in gyms at least six feet apart, a no-touch policy for trainers, division of patrons into smaller slots and redesigning of the floor area to reserve 4sqm for each client. While several gyms reopened and followed these rules, many waited to assess the response of members in the first week before resuming business. “We were wary about the safety and comfort of our patrons and hence waited for a week to see how others were performing and ensure there was no fresh contamination after people started to train at the gyms. We also took the period to properly sanitize and redesign the floor plan according to the guidelines. We have reopened our doors from this week,” said Amit Katkoria of Spartan Elite Fitness Arena in Jodhpur Park. Neeraj Surana, the operational head of Rush Fitness, too, said they finished a complete sanitization and restructuring of their entire workout floor based on the Centre-issued recommendations. They will restart operation from August 17. Abhishek Jaiswal of Kick Fitness Gym that runs three branches in the city said they have opened two of their branches — on Park Street and Little Russell Street — but are yet to reopen their Prince Anwar Shah Road branch. “We are still looking into the number of patrons returning to the gyms and will open up accordingly. We took our time to sanitize and restructure the Prince Anwar Shah Road branch properly. We are in the midst of a pandemic and I believe there is no reason to take hasty decisions at the cost of someone’s health,” said Jaiswal. Meanwhile, authorities at gyms that have been open for a week said members have adjusted to the new normal and have embraced the new workout rules. “The number of patrons returning to the gym has doubled in the past seven days. There have also been fresh registrations daily, especially from young and middle-aged women. According to the patrons, they have gotten used to working out in face shields and maintaining social distance and personal hygiene protocols inside the gym,” said Souvik Banerjee, premium trainer at Core Gym. Watch Kolkata: More gyms plan to open for business, encouraged by week-long ‘trial’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/encouraged-by-week-long-trial-more-gyms-plan-to-open-for-biz/articleshow/77580511.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 17, 2020||Madurai||Meet slams NEP over lack of discussion||Madurai: An online conference was organised by Federation of Protection of Education – Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Sunday opposing National Education Policy (NEP) 2020. As many as 15 student welfare associations, 25 education associations, teachers’ associations, human rights and welfare association, and several political leaders took part in the day-long conference. The federation observed in a statement that the Centre has come up with NEP without proper discussion despite opposition. There was strong opposition to the three-language system proposed in the policy, stressing that it was against Tamil Nadu and its people. The policy was also said to be promoting education as a business rather than a necessity for the basic rights and welfare of children. During the inaugural session, V Vasanthi Devi, former vice-chancellor, Manonmaniam Sundaranar University (MSU), pointed out that NEP 2020 was not in favour of the welfare of the poor. “The NEP 2020 can be said to be promoting three C’s, centralisation, commercialisation and communalisation. Increased centralisation with no or little power to the state is dangerous. Such centralisation, especially with national-level examinations for higher studies conducted through National Testing Agency (NTA), can make higher education inaccessible to students of weaker economic sections. We have seen how Neet has become a controversy in Tamil Nadu,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/meet-slams-nep-over-lack-of-discussion/articleshow/77580446.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Escaped accused nabbed again||Ludhiana: Ludhiana police on Sunday arrested a thief who was held by the Division number 8 police in a theft case after he had escaped from police custody. Police officials said Division number 8 police had arrested Gagandeep Singh of Rishi Nagar but he had run away from police custody when he was being taken for Covid test. They added that the accused was arrested by police on August 12 under section 379 IPC (theft) for stealing a motorcycle. According to the police, as constable Buta Singh was signing documents at the corona centre, accused pushed him away, scaled the wall and run away. Station house officer of Division Number 8 police station, inspector Jarnail Singh said on a tip-off, the accused was arrested again from fields in PAU university on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/escaped-accused-nabbed-again/articleshow/77580509.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||SC man beaten for ‘staring’||AHMEDABAD: A man from a scheduled caste (SC) community, Nilesh Rawat, 21, resident of Advance Mill Chawl, filed a complaint of assault against two men, Vicky Thakor and his friend, belonging to an OBC community. Rawat alleged that he was beaten near his house in the Madhavpura area as the duo thought he was staring at them. They also hurled caste-based abuses, he alleged. Rawat called up police control room and filed a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-man-beaten-for-staring/articleshow/77579166.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kochi||NRKs provide 1,000 radios to tribespeople||KOZHIKODE: US-based NRK’s are helping the tribespeople living in remote colonies of Wayanad by sponsoring around 1,000 radio sets so that they can get regular flow of information in the backdrop of Covid-19 outbreak. The radio sets will ensure that these tribespeople get critical Covid information and other alerts, mainly through the special programmes that are broadcasted in the district through Radio Mattoli, the first community radio station in Kerala. Also, it would also help them get necessary info during natural calamities. Collector Adeela Abdulla said that the initiative was taken up to ensure that remote tribal villages aren’t cut off during power outage in monsoon. “Radio Mattoli had been airing Covid-related programmes in tribal dialects. On knowing about our need, expat organizations based in USA came forward to sponsor the sets,” she said adding that the sets are being provided to the most-remote of the 3,000 tribal colonies in the district. The over a decade old community radio under Wayanad Social Service Society has a listenership of around 3.5 lakh and district has the highest tribal population in Kerala at over 1.5 lakh. It has emerged as a crucial communication channel to reach out to remote colonies during pandemic and the station had suspended many of its usual programmes to focus on the pandemic. Radio Mattoli station director Fr Bijo Thomas Karukappally said radio sets were provided by Dallas-based Stand With Kerala, Dallas ACE Lions Club and Chicago-based Care and Share. He added that Radio Mattoli has been broadcasting Covid-based programmes which included interviews with doctors and other officials that are translated into tribal Paniya dialect, apart from jingles, short audios and programmes on the need of social distancing. Community radio broadcasts have become all the more relevant as remote tribal colonies often miss mainstream awareness programmes carried out by authorities due to their socio-economic circumstances and the language barrier. National Rural Health Mission district programme manager, Dr B Abhilash said that ASHA workers have been told to ensure, during their visits to tribal colonies, that rechargeable batteries of the radio sets are fully charged. Large parts of the tribal belts are prone to power disruptions for days in the hill district, making radio the most dependable mass media platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nrks-provide-1k-radios-to-tribespeople/articleshow/77578090.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Madurai||Demand rises for Covid-19 counselling, but lack of access, awareness still a concern||Madurai: With free helplines and counselling for Covid-19 patients at government hospitals being provided, psychologists said that it is still a challenge to make ‘Covid-19 counselling’ more accessible for those in need across Tamil Nadu. From the start of July, the Institute of Mental Health (IMH) and Tamil Nadu association of clinical psychologists (TNACP) collaborated to provide tele-counselling free of cost for all Covid-19 patients at Rajiv Gandhi government general hospital (RGGGH). So far, as many as 3,384 patients had been reached through the programme by 29 volunteers. “It was a unique experience for us as well since this is the first time we are dealing with Covid-19. Fear and anxiety is common especially when the patients don’t understand the illness. Some patients also get depressed with the guilt they feel of infecting others or concerns about how their family are doing,” said Dr Nithya H M, a clinical psychologist and co-ordinator from TNACP for the program. When it comes to suicidal tendencies in Covid-19 patients, IMH director Dr Poorna Chandrika said that often the cause of taking the extreme step is not due to Covid-19 alone. “Only less than 1% of patients show suicidal thoughts. Often, there are other reasons that had been affecting their mental health and contracting Covid-19 only amplifies their anxiety and depression,” she said. The program has so far received positive feedback. The Tamil Nadu Covid-19 helpline 104 connects those in need to qualified counsellors. Though efforts are on at all government hospitals in the city to provide psychological counselling for Covid patients, it has not been able to comprehensively cover all patients.  “This programme was for only Covid-19 patients for one hospital. The need for counselling for Covid-19 patients has definitely increased and will increase further as the pandemic continues. But, there is also lack of awareness among the public. Not all districts in the state have clinical psychologists enough in number to be accessible to the public. In case of private psychologists, affordability is also an issue,” said Dr N Suresh Kumar, secretary, TNACP. As a start, the TNACP is looking to train more volunteers for Covid-19 counselling by conducting a basic counselling programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/demand-rises-for-covid-19-counselling-but-lack-of-access-awareness-still-a-concern/articleshow/77580421.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Irked over delay, patients’ kin get tested at private labs||LUCKNOW: Delay in contact tracing and sampling by the district administration is forcing families of Covid-19 patients to get themselves tested at private labs, a TOI reality check revealed on Sunday. Navin Kumar Srivastava from Indiranagar tested positive on Thursday and opted for home quarantine. “As nobody came to our house for sampling, three members of my family also developed fever and got themselves tested at a private lab on Friday. Their reports were negative. The health department team came on Saturday and took samples of remaining family members,” he said. Lalit Kashyap from Bhawaniganj, who is also under home-quarantine after testing positive, said: “When nobody from the administration called, my father got himself tested at a private lab. My mother, who had to be hospitalized was tested at Balrampur hospital. To our relief, both tested negative .” A family in Dalibagh also got themselves tested at a private lab when nobody from the health department contacted them even 11 days after a family member tested positive. The reality check also found drug 'Ivermectin', a dose given to close contacts of a patient two days prior to testing, was also not provided to families and contacts. The drug prevents severity of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/irked-over-delay-patients-kin-get-tested-at-pvt-labs/articleshow/77581123.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Ex-caretaker held on charge of robbing elderly woman||PUNE: The Nigdi police on Sunday claimed to have detected Rs4.3 lakh worth armed robbery at an elderly woman’s house on August 10 following the arrest of two suspects, including a former caretaker of the 76-year-old woman, and recovery of stolen property worth Rs1.2 lakh from them. Senior inspector Ganesh Jawadwad and his team took the suspects, Deepak Sugave (20) of Talegaon Dabhade and Sandip Hande (24) of Chinchwadgaon, into custody. “Sugave had worked as a caretaker at the complainant’s house just for two days in June. Hande, too, worked as a caretaker with some other senior citizens. Both were working for separate agencies that provide caretakers to senior citizens. We have recovered stolen booty worth Rs1.2 lakh, along with a motorcycle, from the duo,” Jawadwad said. Three police teams were working on different leads relating to the robbery. Nigdi police’s assistant inspector Laxman Sonawane told TOI, “Our team was collecting information about the people who came in contact with the woman in the past few months. The woman, while telling us details about some visitors, recalled that she had appointed a caretaker for her bed-ridden husband in June. She also told us that the man worked only for two days before leaving the job.” “We then contacted the agency which had supplied the caretaker and the agency gave us Sugave’s contact number but that turned out to be a fake number. Around this time, our constable Satish Dhole got a tip-off that Sugave would be coming at Thermax Chowk for selling some robbed items. We laid a trap and took Sugave into custody on Friday,” Sonawane said. “We recovered two cameras Sugave had robbed on August 10. During his questioning, Sugave revealed Hande’s name as his accomplice and the latter, too, was arrested,” the officer said. The planningSonawane said that while working in the woman’s house, Sugave had collected all the information and decided to rob the woman. “He also knew that the woman never goes to sleep early and always keeps the garden door open till she is awake,” Sonawane said. He said that Sugave left the job immediately. “On August 10, after confirming that the woman was now alone, Sugave scaled the building wall from the garden side and got into the flat. Hande followed suit and the two attacked the woman and fled with the booty,” Sonawane said The probe also revealed that Sugave and Hande were in preparation of a second strike at the same flat. “They had also started collecting sharp weapons for it,” Sonawane added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/former-caretaker-held-for-attacking-robbing-elderly-woman-in-nigdi/articleshow/77580424.cms||Mihir Tanksale
August 17, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Man tells cops he killed pregnant live-in partner||PUNE: A 28-year-old man walked into the Ranjangaon police station, about 65km from Pune, off the Ahmednagar highway, on Friday evening and told the police personnel that he had killed his 24-year-old pregnant live-in partner following a spat. The police had no idea what they were in for when the man, who appeared to be disturbed and panicky, walked into the police station. They made him sit on a bench and gave him some water. He sought a pen and paper and wrote a note which he handed over the duty officer. “Sir, I have killed my livein partner. Her body is lying in our room. Please hang me,” the note read. Police sub-inspector Shubhangi Kute and her team went to the address mentioned by the man, Kiran Funde, in the note and found a woman’s body inside. “We suspect that Funde throttled her on Friday afternoon,” Kute told TOI. “We have taken him into custody for an offence under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC,” she added. Kute said Funde and the woman worked in a private company in Ranjangaon MIDC and were in a live-in relationship for the past six months and were staying in a rented accommodation at Karegaon near Ranjangaon. “They told the landlord and their neighbours that they were married,” Kute said. After the incident, Funde locked their room and walked to the police station. “In his note, he also wrote that he was under tension and would never consume liquor and sought forgiveness,” Kute said. Funde gave the keys of his locked room to the police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-confesses-to-killing-pregnant-live-in-partner/articleshow/77580453.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: 2 hurt in suspected honour killing bid||HYDERABAD: Upset with their teenage daughter’s love affair with a boy from a different caste, her parents allegedly set the girl ablaze at Mogiligidda village, Shadnagar mandal, on Saturday. The girl’s mother also caught fire accidentally. The mother and daughter are battling for their lives at Osmania General Hospital (OGH). According to Shadnagar sub-inspector (SI) P Suresh Yadav, the 17-year-old girl, studying in Intermediate, fell in love with a boy from the same village. The girl’s parents objected to their relationship as the boy didn’t belong to their caste. “Several arguments took place on this issue between the girl and her parents. A heated discussion on Saturday evening led to the incident,” the SI said. While the girl and her mother Chandrakala were arguing, her father Pandu, who got angry, brought kerosene and poured it on the girl. As Chandrakala was next to her, she was also soaked in kerosene accidentally. In fact, it was the mother who lit the match stick and threw it on her daughter. The fire immediately spread from daughter to mother. “As the girl is in a critical condition, a dying declaration was taken from her. Her mother suffered 50% burn injuries. Both are undergoing treatment. An attempt to murder case was registered against the parents of the girl,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-hurt-in-suspected-honour-killing-bid/articleshow/77580546.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Surat||Couple held for Rs 16 lakh cyber fraud||SURAT: The cyber-crime sleuths of Surat police arrested a mobile accessories businessman and his wife from Patan on Saturday for allegedly duping a 28-year-old engineer from the city. The accused woman had created her fake Facebook accounts and duped the Katargam resident of Rs 16.44 lakh after developing an online friendship with him. Police arrested Naresh Patel (40), a mobile accessories shop owner, and his wife Hansa (40), both residents of Patan, for the alleged fraud with an engineer currently employed with a private firm in Bharuch. The accused were booked for cheating, criminal breach of trust and cheating by personation. After developing friendship in October 2019, the accused collected money from the complainant in multiple transactions. The police investigation revealed that the accused created multiple fake Facebook accounts and sent friend requests to the complainant. The complainant did not know her. However, after multiple requests he accepted her friend request and started chatting. After winning her trust through chat messages the accused initially started demanding money in small amounts. The complainant initially refused it, but after few requests he agreed to pay. The complainant transferred the money through bank transactions. The accused continued demanding the money claiming that her mother was sick. Ultimately, the accused claimed that her mother had died and demanded more money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/couple-held-for-rs-16l-cyber-fraud/articleshow/77579230.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||Less testing on Aug 15 leads to fewer cases in Vidarbha||Nagpur: For the first time in last 10 days, Vidarbha reported less than 1,000 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. With highest 499 in Nagpur district, total 866 cases were reported from 11 districts of the region. However, this is not a sign of Covid-19 receding. In fact, less number of people came forward for tests on Independence Day holiday and fewer tests were conducted in all 11 districts. Nagpur’s 499 cases include 464 from NMC region, 33 from rural and two from other districts. Buldhana reported 105 cases in two days (August 15 and 16). Single day tally of other districts in Vidarbha on Sunday was Amravati (79), Washim (36), Chandrapur (35), Bhandara (30), Yavatmal (30), Gondia (26), Akola (15), Gadchiroli (6), and Wardha (5). The total reached 32,188. Deaths continued to remain a major challenge for Vidarbha region. Total 55 deaths happened due to Covid-19 on August 15 and 16. Covid-19 toll reached 872 with 485 of them occurring in August. Reduced number of cases gave a boost to recovery rate of Vidarbha. The recovery rate which was less than 54% on August 14 increased to 55.5% on August 16. This is because 1,605 patients recovered in these two days. Highest ever 992 recovered on August 15 while 613 recovered on August 16. Still, Vidarbha’s recovery rate is less than Maharashtra’s 70% and national average which is above 70%. AMRAVATI: The district on Sunday reported 79 new cases that took its count to 3,766. With no death reported for the second successive day, the toll remained still at 95. Eighty-seven patients got discharge today that took the number of recovered patients to 2,583, leaving 1088 active cases. The rural belt reported 17 cases taking its count to 978. The highest six cases came from Chandur Bazar tehsil. Nandgaon Peth and Daryapur reported two cases each while seven cases came from seven other rural places. A case was also reported from Karanja Lad in Washim district. In city, Badnera reported five cases to take its count to 260 while Belpura reported four to take its count to 36. YAVATMAL: Yavatmal recorded two deaths each on August 15 and 16. On Sunday, both deceased were women. One is 60-year-old from the GMCH locality while the other is a 62-year-old from Seva Nagar. There are 30 new positive patients of whom 16 are men and 14 women. There have been 61 deaths while active positive patients are 677. Currently, 135 persons are admitted in the GMC isolation wards while 63 swab samples have been sent for testing. AKOLA: District has reported 20 cases on August 15 and 15 cases on August 16 taking total number in Akola to 3,242. Four deaths have been reported in last two days taking toll to 135. Deceased on August 15 include a 55-year-old man from Murtizapur who was admitted since August 9, a 64-year-old man from New Radhakishan plot who was admitted since August 5, and a 60-year-old man from Akot who got admitted on August 14. On August 16, a 50-year-old woman from Shiv Sena Colony, old city Akola died. She was admitted since August 10. Now, the district has 451 patients under treatment. BULDHANA: The district has been reporting 50 cases a day on average now. On August 15 and 16 together – Buldhana added 105 new cases into its tally and two deaths. Now, the district has 2,231 cases, 1,353 recoveries and 40 deaths. Total 838 patients are under treatment in Buldhana. CHANDRAPUR: Covid-19 toll in Chandrapur rose to nine as yet another death was registered in city, while district added 35 new patients to take the total caseload to 1,105 on Sunday. The day also saw the discharge of 48 patients taking the total of cured patients to 718, leaving 376 active patients. The 54-year-old deceased belonged to Nagina Baugh locality. He was suffering from pneumonia and was admitted to hospital on August 14. He succumbed to the ailment on Sunday. Meanwhile district guardian minister Vijay Wadettiwar has directed officials to prepare a proposal for a 400-bed temporary Covid hospital to deal with emergency situation anticipating further surge in cases. He asked the PWD officials to choose one of the sites at medical college premises, police ground or Chanda club ground. He also underlined the need of an oxygen plant in Chandrapur city anticipating necessity of large quantity of medical oxygen if emergency situation arises, during the meeting held with officials. BHANDARA: A 65-year-old woman from Bhandara who was admitted to Nagpur’s Covid Hospital for treatment on August 13 died on August 14. With this, Bhandara now has five deaths. The total number of cases reached 542 on August 16. Total 36 patients tested positive on August 15 and 30 on August 16. In all, 334 have recovered. At present, 203 patients are under treatment. GONDIA: Total 26 new Covid-19 positive cases were detected on Sunday while 28 patients were discharged. On Saturday, total 20 new cases had detected and 29 patients had recovered. With this, Gondia’s cases now total 801, including 494 recoveries and nine deaths so far. Total 298 patients are under treatment. GADCHIROLI: Six persons tested positive in Gadchiroli. These include two close contacts of an Etapalli-based patient and two persons coming back to district from Gujarat and Aurangabad respectively. Now, there are 823 cases in Gadchiroli. These include 671 recovered, and 151 under treatment. WARDHA: Five persons tested positive on Sunday and the total count of active patients reached 107, after 15 were discharged from hospital. Till date 286 people have defeated Covid and have been discharged. In all 403 have tested positive so far and 267 test reports are pending. On Sunday, only 46 reports came. WASHIM: Cases in Washim reached 1,186 on August 16. These include 770 discharged and 20 deaths. At present, 396 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-testing-on-aug-15-leads-to-fewer-cases-in-vidarbha/articleshow/77580553.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||Giant uplift: Sanitary worker hoists Tricolour in Lucknow University faculty||LUCKNOW: The pictures of Independence Day celebrations at the law faculty of Lucknow University, in which a sanitary worker is seen hoisting the Tricolour instead of dean Prof CP Singh, has gone viral on social media. Posting the photckograph on Facebook, Prof Singh wrote, “This year’s Independence Day flag hoisting was special as it was done by the most hardworking, dedicated and honest employee of the department ‘Bahadur’.” Bahadur, a sanitary worker employed through outsourcing, is deployed at law department on the second campus. He is struggling to make his both ends meet but is famous among faculty members for his never say die attitude. “I don’t have words to explain my feelings. For a moment, I felt as if all my hardwork has paid off. Since childhood, I was taught by my parents to be honest and find a solution in every problem and face hardships with a smile,” Bahadur said. A faculty member, Prof Anurag Srivastava, said, “Bahadur got nervous when the dean called him. He later shared with me that he thought that there was some problem with the rope. But when he was asked to hoist the flag, he was extremely happy.” He said Bahadur deserved the honour as being an outsourcing employee he didn’t get his salary from the employing agency for five months but still he didn’t discontinue work. “The best thing about him that he never refuses to do any work. Even when non-teaching employees ask him to do their work, he does it with a smile,” said Prof Singh. He has been doing the work of a dozen non-teaching employees all alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/giant-uplift-sanitary-worker-hoists-tricolour-in-lu-faculty/articleshow/77581128.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||Bengaluru man dupes Pune-based person of Rs 5 lakh||PUNE: A person from Bengaluru cheated a city-based man of Rs 5 lakh by promising the latter a post-graduate seat in a medical college located in Gulbarga for his relative. The 40-year-old complainant from Pashan had transferred the money to the suspect in April this year, after the suspect had promised to secure a seat for the man’s relative. The complainant had got in touch with the suspect via his friend, also based out of Bengaluru, in April, police said. The Pashan-based man on Saturday approached the Chatushrungi police and lodged a complaint in this regard. Assistant police inspector Vishal Pawar of the Chatushrungi police station told TOI, “The complainant was talking to one of his friend based out of Bengaluru in April and informed him that his relative, who had recently completed his Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS), wanted to pursue further education in the field of medicine. Following this, the friend promised the complainant that he would look into the issue and come up with a solution.” The officer said the complainant received a call from his friend a few days later. “The friend informed the Pashan-based man that his friend’s father was a principal of a medical college located at Gulbarga and therefore, he could help the complainant’s relative secure admission there,” Pawar said. The officer said the friend then shared the suspect’s contact details with the complainant. “After this, the complainant and the suspect had a long discussion over the cellphone, following which the Pashan-based man transferred a sum of Rs 5 lakh to the suspect’s bank account,” Pawar said. “However, when the complainant’s relative recently visited the Gulbarga college, he realized that his name was not in the of students for PG medicine course,” the officer said. The officer added the complainant then attempted to contact the suspect for his money, but the suspect gave refused to refund the amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bengaluru-man-dupes-city-based-person-of-rs-5l/articleshow/77580481.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Goa||Tense last rites in Guirdolim over deceased’s Covid status||MARGAO: Anxious moments were witnessed at Guirdolim, Salcete on Sunday over the cremation of a body in the village crematorium as the deceased’s Covid-19 status was not known. Sources said that the person, a migrant labourer, was admitted in the Hospicio hospital, Margao, on Thursday, but died on Sunday. Sensing trouble, police intervened and facilitated his cremation at the Margao crematorium. Meanwhile, cases continued to spike in Margao with 12 more cases detected from areas under the jurisdiction of the Margao urban health centre, taking the tally to 425. Cansaulim and Ponda have also turned out to be areas of concern for the health authorities following a spurt in cases there. With 11 cases detected in areas coming under the jurisdiction of the Ponda PHC, the tally has gone up to 195, while in case of Cansaulim PHC, total number of active cases have risen to 98 with seven more cases detected on Sunday. Of the altogether 169 cases reported in Cuncolim till date, 128 have recovered with 41 cases still active. Verna reported 150 cases altogether, of which 87 recovered, leaving 63 cases active. Data compiled by authorities till August 9 revealed that of the 1,719 Covid-19 cases detected from various parts of Salcete, 11 persons succumbed to the infection, while 847 recovered. Of the 11 deaths, 3 each are from Margao, Gogol and Fatorda, and one each from Chandor and Navelim. Margao topped the list with 348 cases found positive, out of which 122 recovered, leaving 223 active cases. Fatorda, Cuncolim and Verna also recorded a spurt in cases in that order. In Fatorda, altogether 264 people were infected by the virus, of which 100 recovered and three died, with records showing 161 cases active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tense-last-rites-in-guirdolim-over-deceaseds-covid-status/articleshow/77581134.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tour agents cheat Ahmedabad scientist’s wife||AHMEDABAD: A city-based scientist’s wife, from Satellite, filed a complaint of cheating on Sunday against six persons of a tour operator firm in Vastrapur area as they took Rs 1.15 lakh from her and several others with promise of providing them a lucrative tour package, but didn’t deliver. Aamya Shukla, 34, who does IT related work from home, said that she got a call from an unknown number on October 2, 2019 and a person, who introduced himself as a caller from Shekhar tourism, told her that she has been selected for a special tour package. Later, another person named Taufiq called her up and told her to come to their office in Sunrise Park on Gurukul Road in Vastrapur to learn about the package. As Shukla and her husband went to their office, Taufiq met them there and asked them to pay Rs 1.15 lakh so that their family can get the special package for ten years. Taufiq told them that they will get free stay for a week in hotels and resort affiliated with them. He also told the couple that their family will also get free event passes during the Navratri festival and will get free meals at a hotel in Ahmedabad once a year. He told them that the cost of package was Rs 1.50 lakh but as Shukla’s number got selected for the special offer, the same package will be offered in reduced rate. Shukla paid the amount through EMI facility on credit card and then they went for a tour in Gir forests and Somnath temple but they were not given any facility by the tour operator. On return, they demanded their money back. Persons working with the firm passed the buck to their colleagues and gave one or another excuse when Shukla demanded her money. Apart from the Shukla family, at least three other families were cheated by the same tour operator firm which shut shop in Ahmedabad before the lockdown. Vastrapur police registered a case of breach of trust, cheating and abetment and began an investigation into the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tour-agents-cheat-scientists-wife/articleshow/77579179.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||In Ahmedabad, BMW buyer cheats sellers||AHMEDABAD: A resident of Naranpura, Archana Sanghvi, 46, filed a complaint of cheating on Sunday against one Tejas Shah from Navrangpura, who had bought a BMW car from her husband. The buyer did not pay pending instalments on the car and mortgaged it to someone else. Sanghvi stated in her FIR that Shah had agreed to pay Rs 8.25 lakh to her husband and rest 17 instalments of Rs 54,000 for the car. Shah initially paid five instalments but later did not continue, when her husband died in June, 2019. After this, people from bank began harassing Sanghvi, and she went to cops, and filed a complaint of breach of trust and cheating against Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bmw-buyer-cheats-sellers/articleshow/77579204.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||25-yr-old veggie vendor dies after balcony slip||Hyderabad: A 25-year-old vegetable vendor died after he slipped and fell from his home’s balcony in Shamshabad on Sunday. The victim, Srikanth Reddy, from Kapugadda Shamshabad, stood on the first floor of his building’s balcony while it was raining. As there was water on the floor, he accidentally slipped and fell. According to cops, he died on the spot after sustaining a severe head injury. A suspicious death case was registered. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/25-yr-old-veggie-vendor-dies-after-balcony-slip/articleshow/77580581.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||Booty of Rs 17 lakh stolen in 3 separate burglaries||PUNE: In separate cases of house break-ins, cash and gold ornaments — collectively worth Rs 17 lakh — were stolen between August 13 and August 14 from Lohegaon, Bibvewadi and Somwar Peth. Burglars burgled Rs5,000 in cash and gold and silver ornaments, collectively worth Rs6.9 lakh, from Madhuri Tambe’s house (40) at Santnagar in Lohegaon early on Friday, according to the FIR that Tambe lodged with the Airport police. Suspects stole gold and silver ornaments worth Rs7.8 lakh from Ashwini Parab’s (72) flat in Bibvewadi. Parab lodged an FIR with the Bibvewadi police. The Samarth police is looking into a complaint that Madhubala Udgir (69) lodged regarding the theft of cash and gold ornaments worth Rs2.4 lakh from her house in Somwar Peth. Thieves break into 5 shops, steal nominal cashThieves broke into five shops in Raviwar Peth and Bhavani Peth early on Sunday. “Barring some cash, nothing else was stolen from these shops,” said an officer from the Khadak police. The officer said two shops were in the jurisdiction of the Khadak police while the remaining three were under the Samarth police. An owner of a household items shop at Govind Halwai Chowk in Raviwar Peth told TOI, “Nothing was stolen from the shop except a sum of Rs800. The thieves however damaged the shutter. We will have to bear its repairing cost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-break-into-5-shops-steal-nominal-cash/articleshow/77580501.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Prisoner dies of Covid, infection source not traced||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The first Covid-19 death among prisoners was reported in the state on Sunday when a 72-year-old man, who was under treatment for the past one week, died at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital. Manikandan alias Yathiraj of Kilimanoor is the deceased. He was an under-trial prisoner facing murder charges. According to Poojappura Central Jail authorities, Manikandan was tested positive last Monday. He displayed symptoms of fever, following which the prison chief medical officer referred him to the medical college hospital. He was declared Covid-19 positive following a test conducted at the hospital. Meanwhile, how Manikandan contracted the disease remains a mystery. He was brought to Poojappura jail in August 2016 after being arrested by Kilimanoor police in connection with a murder case. Since then he had been in the prison as he was never granted bail. Even though the prison granted emergency paroles and bails to several prisoners – both convicts and under-trials – he did not feature in that list too. Jail joint superintendent N Sathyaraj said that while the release of the body will be handled by the district medical officials as per Covid-19 protocol, the prison authorities will be initiating steps to conduct procedures, including inquest, postmortem and magisterial inquiry as per norms stipulated by human rights commission in the event of custodial deaths. Besides Manikandan, another 45-year-old inmate who shared the same prison block had also tested positive. However, he was sent back to the prison as his condition was not bad. Following this, the district medical office began antigen tests among the inmates from Wednesday. So far, they have covered 730 inmates in seven prison blocks, out of which 36 have tested positive. Three assistant prison officers (APO) and the chief medical officer (CMO) have also tested positive. While one APO was tested positive on Thursday, another one along with the CMO turned positive in the tests conducted on Saturday. The third assistant prison officer turned positive in the tests done on Sunday. The central prison has 970 inmates housed in 11 blocks. “The doctor turned positive in his second test. He had taken the first test on Wednesday in which he was declared negative,” the joint superintendent said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/prisoner-dies-of-covid-infection-source-not-traced/articleshow/77578161.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||20 tonnes daily: In 5 months, medical oxygen demand has surged four-fold in Pune||PUNE: Oxygen therapy, for Covid-19 patients suffering from breathlessness, is fast emerging as one of the most important medical procedures during the pandemic. The treatment has also led to an unprecedented demand for medical oxygen. Before the outbreak in March, hospitals within the Pune Metropolitan Region were consuming about 3,000 metric tonnes of it every month. That number today stands at 11,000 metric tonnes. Experts said a supply shortage of oxygen will most definitely hit small and medium-sized hospitals the hardest. This shortage, they said, has turned particularly acute since July, when there was a sharp increase in the number of positive cases. Officials said much of PMR's supply is currently coming in from manufacturing plants in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) - they have been able to spare resources because of the drop in the state capital's patient count. SB Patil, the joint commissioner (drugs), Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said, "There are a total of 10 plants in the PMR with a total monthly capacity of about 8,500 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen. But their collective efforts have not been able to meet the demand here, which has shot up to about 11,000-12,000 metric tonnes per month." He added, "This surge is unprecedented. Before the pandemic broke, hospitals in all of PMR were consuming only about 3,000 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen per month." A new plant is now being set up in the Chakan industrial belt. "We have expedited the plant's permissions to operate. But there are a few technical components that need sorting out before it can really start. That process will take some time." The plant in Chakan, officials said, will have the capacity to add another 3,000 metric tonnes in supply every month. Sanjay Patil, chairman of the Indian Medical Association (IMA)'s Hospital Board of India (HBI), Pune chapter, confirmed there is currently a shortage of medical oxygen. "It's mainly the small and medium-sized hospitals that are facing supply problems," he said. Among the big units, Sassoon Hospital remains the perfect example that illustrates how reliant hospitals have become on medical oxygen. The hospital, before Covid-19, used to consume about five tonnes of liquid oxygen every day. It now requires a daily supply of 20 tonnes. "The requirement has gone up because there has been a rise in the number of patients who need oxygen in some or the other form," one doctor at Sassoon told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/punes-medical-oxygen-need-shoots-through-the-roof-four-fold-increase-in-five-months/articleshow/77580518.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Jumbo Covid units will help Sassoon doctors, says top official||PUNE: The upcoming three jumbo facilities in the Pune Metropolitan Region, with ICUs and oxygen-supported beds, will take the pressure off doctors at Sassoon General Hospital, state Settlement commissioner S Chockalingam has told TOI. Chockalingam was in May appointed the administrative controller at Sassoon, which has had over 500 Covid-19 deaths since March — from over 9,000 hospitalised cases. Chockalingam said the high death count was mainly because the hospital has the highest number of ICU beds for critical patients. “Think of it like this: Sassoon has the highest number of ICU beds at 120. And they are still not enough. One jumbo facility will add 200 ICU beds immediately and about 600 with oxygen support. Of course, the jumbo units will ease the burden on us,” he said. On treatment challenges, he said, “Our role is vital for patients who need oxygen or ventilator support, considering the number of beds we have. But our main problem is the number of emergency, critical patients. People do not reach the hospital on time. And when they arrive, their oxygen levels are already below 80. It becomes very difficult to operate.” Chockalingam added that soon after his appointment, he was faced with manpower and resource hurdles at the hospital. “We made some small changes in its overall functioning. We now have more options in terms of available resources. Increasing manpower, getting work done with available finances and faster testing were some of the areas were focused on at Sassoon,” he said. The top official said the new jumbo facilities, which are essentially giant makeshift hospitals, will also boost morale among healthcare professionals and citizens. "They will provide a psychological boost to the society. People tend to acquire and store resources whenever there is a scarcity. So if we have a low number of ICU beds, there will always be concern among the public. Morale to fight the pandemic, however, will be high if we have an adequate number of beds with oxygen and ventilator support," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jumbo-covid-19-facilities-will-ease-burden-off-sassoon-says-chockalingam/articleshow/77580548.cms||Piyush Bhusari
August 17, 2020||Goa||15 mysterious dog deaths reported in a week in Goa||PANAJI: Stray dogs in coastal areas like Arambol, Anjuna, Candolim and Benaulim are mysteriously dropping dead. Animal lovers from these areas, who so far have received reports of at least 15 dead dogs in a span of a week, suspect poisoning to be the reason for the animals’ death. “The dead animals do not look starved nor have any external wounds. They have been found dead on beaches, fields and near residential areas,” Divya Sharma, a resident of Nerul, said. “Not only is it extremely cruel and dastardly… it is also illegal as per the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960,” she added. Sharma took to social media to share the discovery and was alarmed to find other sporadically occurring cases. A foreign national residing in Goa has been feeding some of her furry buddies during the lockdown to ensure that they don’t go hungry besides rescuing some of them during the pandemic. After discovering carcasses of some stray dogs in her area, she alerted Sharma about the same. After receiving more such complaints, Sharma claims to have been informed of seven dead dogs in Benaulim, nine in Arambol and a few others in Anjuna and Candolim, so far. “On behalf of the animal volunteers who work against all odds to look after these animals, the dog deaths must stop. It is a very serious issue and we seek punishment for the culprits,” Sharma said. Mission Rabies which has been actively carrying out dog rescues and vaccination of stray dogs in the state said that no such report has come to them in this regard, so far. They however said that if true, such incidents are illegal, against animal welfare laws and shall hurt all animal lovers. “Around two months ago, there was a complaint about killing dogs at Arambol. I deputed my officers and conducted an education session to the beach cleaning agency employees about how to handle the dogs and how to avoid bite and manage bites,” said Mission Rabies education director Murugan Appupillai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/15-mysterious-dog-deaths-reported-in-a-week-in-state/articleshow/77581614.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Early signs of stabilisation in infection numbers visible||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh seems to be witnessing some early signs of stabilisation in new Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks. The state reported over 10,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for the first time on July 29 and continued to see over 10,000 daily cases for a string of consecutive days. However, since the state recorded its highest daily spike nearly 20 days ago, the daily number of fresh cases has hovered around the 8,000 to 10,000-mark. Meanwhile, recoveries have outnumbered the number of fresh daily cases on several days during the same period, resulting in some degree of plateauing in the number of active cases. The doubling time, that is the amount of time taken for the number of cases to double, has also improved. In the first week of July, Andhra Pradesh was reporting around 600 to 900 daily cases. But by the second week, the number of daily fresh cases shot up to 2,000. Subsequently, the state witnessed a major spike logging 5,000 cases daily in the third week of July and 10,000 daily infections by the fourth week. Even though there hasn’t been a consistent decline over the last 20 days, the daily Covid-19 caseload has remained around the 10,000-mark. Health officials anticipate that infections may dip from September when districts such as East Godavari and Kurnool witness a drop in caseload after reaching their peak curves. Areas which were once Covid-19 hotbeds such as Prakasam, Guntur and Krishna have already started experiencing a turnaround with a significant drop in cases compared to a few weeks ago. The state has also improved its testing capacity over the months. While initially, Andhra Pradesh could test 90 samples a day, the state is testing 70,000 samples daily at the moment. Aggressive testing has helped the state in early identification of cases and breaking the chain of transmission. Dr C Prabhakara Reddy, special officer of the state Covid control centre, said that the Covid-19 situation is pretty much under control in Andhra Pradesh. “It will improve further in coming months. I suggest that mild and asymptomatic patients opt for home isolation after undergoing swab tests,” he added. Dr Reddy further said, “Suspected cases should remain in isolation until the arrival of test results. Only those individuals who develop breathlessness and whose oxygen saturation levels drop below 93% should seek hospitalisation. Private hospitals should offer treatment under Aarogyasri scheme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/early-signs-of-stabilisation-in-infection-numbers-visible/articleshow/77578146.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Two patient care centres to give PCMC 600 more beds||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Two Covid-19 facilities — one at Balnagari (with 400 beds) and another at Autocluster (200 beds) — are likely to start operations this week within Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits. Santosh Patil, PCMC additional commissioner, said, “With the Balnagari facility, we are adding 400 beds. We were going to turn the unit into a dedicated health centre (for the moderately sick) but considering underutilised resources at two of our major Covid Care Centres (for the mildly ill) in Gharkul society and Mhalunge, we decided to turn it into another care centre.” Patil added that the Autocluster facility would increase bed strength in the region by 200: 150 with oxygen support and 50 ICUs. He said work on the jumbo Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Annasaheb Magar stadium, with a capacity of 800 beds, was also underway. “It’s projected that we will have around 50,000 positive cases by end of August, but there will be enough beds,” he said. On Saturday (August 15), the number of cases within PCMC limits had gone past the 34,000-mark. The number of active cases recovering at hospitals was at 5,094. There have been 24,377 recoveries too. Officials from the civic body said most of the patients have been allowed to isolate and recover at home. The move, they said, had taken pressure off dedicated Covid-19 hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-covid-facilties-with-600-bed-capacity-to-start-functioning-this-week-in-pcmc-limits/articleshow/77580565.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Showers likely to continue till August 20 in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: Intermittent spells of light to medium showers amid overcast conditions will continue in Aurangabad and many parts of the region for at least the next 72 hours till August 20, as per the India Meteorological Department’s (IMD) forecast. Meanwhile, among different dams, the live storage of the Jayakwadi major irrigation project has surged to 62% as the reservoir has started receiving inflows from upstream dams. The dam was receiving inflows at the rate of 17,648 cusec by Sunday afternoon. Dam authorities said the inflows could increase depending upon heavy rainfall in upstream areas located in Nashik and Ahmednagar districts. As per the official data, Aurangabad and the outskirts have reported nine rainy days during August, which include the past seven consecutive days. The city and fringe areas reported 27 mm rainfall on August 11, followed by largely cloudy skies and drizzle in between varying intensity till Sunday evening. Aurangabad reported over 30 mm showers in the 24 hours ended by 8.30 am on Sunday, followed by sustained spells of drizzle for the next 12 hours. Weather expert Kirankumar Johare said Marathwada and other parts of the state could witness floods during the remaining rainy season. “Rainfall is not going to subside but likely to increase over the next few days. The remaining season is also likely to produce considerable showers which would result into the overflow of dams and flooding in possible areas,” he said, appealing for necessary preparedness for disaster management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/showers-likely-to-continue-till-aug-20-in-aurangabad/articleshow/77578139.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||Former Congress corporator hacked to death over property dispute||Nagpur: Deva Usre, 54, a former Congress corporator, was killed by a neighbour and his accomplice over a property dispute in front of Bharat Talkies, Kamptee Road, Mohan Nagar, on Sunday. Usre was axed and stabbed to death near a tea kiosk thereby sending shock waves across the locality. Usre, too, had crime records but he later reformed to join politics. In 2012, he was elected corporator and had made a name for himself by helping residents. Usre’s murder was the second in a span of 24 hours after 27-year-old Chetan Metangale’s near Uday Nagar garden. Metangale was stabbed to death by an alleged bootlegger’s teenage son and his friends, Nilesh Gedam, Roshan Dhurve, Ashwin and Lokesh Wankhede after a parking row turned ugly. The bootlegger’s son, too, had a crime record. It’s learnt that Metangale and Netam’s son had a heated wordy duel a day ago over parking. Metangale is learnt to have visited the alleged bootlegger’s place in Jammudeep Nagar on Independence Day questioning the surveillance of the cops. The manner in which Metangale had parked his bike was creating a hindrance to passers-by. The bootlegger’s son had pointed out the same to Metangale following which they had a heated exchange. The bootlegger’s son is learnt to have expressed his desire to eliminate Metangale before Wankhede who is a common friend. Wankhede leaked the bootlegger’s son’s intension to Metangale who too vowed to teach his rival a lesson. After the bootlegger’s son and his close aides spotted Metangale near Uday Nagar garden, they zeroed in and eliminated him following which Hudkeshwar police registered an offence against the five accused and also rounded them up. Following Metangale’s murder, the city police’s role in curbing crime came under the scanner once again as Usre was murdered in a cold-blooded manner by Jerome Nicholas alias Bunty and Jatin Jangam. City police also had opened an intelligence unit at every police station after a spate of murders in June. Police said Usre’s younger brother Kisan had purchased a property owned by Bunty’s family in the vicinity in 2009. Bunty’s family was not willing to vacate the place and hand it over to Kisan which led to a prolonged dispute. As Kisan was helped by his brother, it’s learnt that the latter earned the wrath of the assailants. According to an eyewitness, Usre was followed by the two assailants who were also on a bike before the attack. As soon as Usre parked his bike and was heading to the tea kiosk, Bunty and Jangam pinned him. Apart from retrieving the CCTV footage, the Sadar police team under Zonal DCP Vinita Shahu, senior inspector Mahesh Bansode, Asst PI Vilas Mote, head constable Vinod Tiwari and others managed to corner the assailants following an input.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/former-congress-corporator-hacked-to-death-over-property-dispute/articleshow/77580643.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Early signs of stabilisation in infection numbers visible||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh seems to be witnessing some early signs of stabilisation in new Covid-19 cases over the last few weeks. The state reported over 10,000 fresh Covid-19 cases for the first time on July 29 and continued to see over 10,000 daily cases for a string of consecutive days. However, since the state recorded its highest daily spike nearly 20 days ago, the daily number of fresh cases has hovered around the 8,000 to 10,000-mark. Meanwhile, recoveries have outnumbered the number of fresh daily cases on several days during the same period, resulting in some degree of plateauing in the number of active cases. The doubling time, that is the amount of time taken for the number of cases to double, has also improved. In the first week of July, Andhra Pradesh was reporting around 600 to 900 daily cases. But by the second week, the number of daily fresh cases shot up to 2,000. Subsequently, the state witnessed a major spike logging 5,000 cases daily in the third week of July and 10,000 daily infections by the fourth week. Even though there hasn’t been a consistent decline over the last 20 days, the daily Covid-19 caseload has remained around the 10,000-mark. Health officials anticipate that infections may dip from September when districts such as East Godavari and Kurnool witness a drop in caseload after reaching their peak curves. Areas which were once Covid-19 hotbeds such as Prakasam, Guntur and Krishna have already started experiencing a turnaround with a significant drop in cases compared to a few weeks ago. The state has also improved its testing capacity over the months. While initially, Andhra Pradesh could test 90 samples a day, the state is testing 70,000 samples daily at the moment. Aggressive testing has helped the state in early identification of cases and breaking the chain of transmission. Dr C Prabhakara Reddy, special officer of the state Covid control centre, said that the Covid-19 situation is pretty much under control in Andhra Pradesh. “It will improve further in coming months. I suggest that mild and asymptomatic patients opt for home isolation after undergoing swab tests,” he added. Dr Reddy further said, “Suspected cases should remain in isolation until the arrival of test results. Only those individuals who develop breathlessness and whose oxygen saturation levels drop below 93% should seek hospitalisation. Private hospitals should offer treatment under Aarogyasri scheme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/early-signs-of-stabilisation-in-infection-numbers-visible/articleshow/77584377.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Petition seeks appointment of chairperson for women’s body||Hyderabad: Irked by the fact that the state doesn’t have a functional women’s commission since two years, Spruthi Kolipaka, an activist from the city, has started a petition on Change.org seeking the appointment of a chairperson for the women’s commission. Earlier too, she had started a similar petition which was signed by over 20,000 people. In her new petition, she wrote to the state’s chief minister, “A lot of us want to help achieve gender equality and volunteering with Telangana State Women’s Commission would be a start. But, to my surprise, there is no website! No access to information!” In the petition, Kolipaka asked the government to appoint a chairperson and make Telangana State Commission for Women fully-functional and publish an online portal for the State Commission for Women. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/petition-seeks-appointment-of-chairperson-for-womens-body/articleshow/77580639.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: 2,800 cases take PMR's tally past 1.25 lakh||PUNE: The Covid-19 case tally for Pune Metropolitan Region crossed 1.25 lakh on Saturday, with 2,800 fresh positive cases. The new cases — recorded in a 24-hour period — pushed the tally to 1,25,197. Also on Sunday, 65 people succumbed to the contagion, taking the death toll for the region to 3,022. Further, 2,300 people were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of recoveries in the region to 95,865. Of the 2,800 fresh cases, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas added 1,412 cases. Pimpri Chinchwad recorded 613 fresh nCoV cases, the rural areas had 176 people test positive, while cantonments (46) and municipal councils (53) made up the rest, according to the daily update released by district heath officer Bhagwan Pawar. PMC limits had the most fatalities, at 29, followed by 25 in PCMC areas, nine in rural parts and 2 in the other areas. A PMC report stated that 2,458 patients are being treated on oxygenated beds. In the entire region, 15,619 patients are being treated at hospitals, while 10,827 people are under home quarantine. PMC’s daily report further stated that there are currently 760 patients in a critical condition, of whom 462 are on ventilator support. Officials said the cause of death in majority of the fatalities on Sunday was due to underlying health problems — included respiratory diseases, heart problems, hypertension and diabetes. The DHO’s report showed that a total of 5,57,225 samples have been tested in the Pune Metropolitan Region so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-8k-new-cases-push-pmr-tally-past-1-25l/articleshow/77580580.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana districts suffer due to lack of oxygen plants||HYDERABAD: Even as the state government is planning to increase the ICU and oxygen beds at the district health facilities in view of the rising critical Covid-19 cases in the districts, insiders feel that it’s easier said than done as oxygen supply is solely done from Hyderabad. The districts have to depend on Hyderabad as the companies that supply oxygen are primarily located in Kukatpally and Balanagar. While this was manageable in the pre pandemic scenario when critical patients travelled to Hyderabad, the need of the hour is to have an oxygen generation plants within a radius of 100 kms from the districts. “On certain days there may be a delay in the transportation vehicle to reach the hospital which creates a panic situation as we are totally dependent on transportation. Even if there is delay of 15-20 minutes, it could mean loss of life. While earlier critical patients were referred to tertiary centres but now the whole push from the higher ups is to treat patients locally. Travelling to Hyderabad is especially not encouraged as it would cause more spread of the virus,” said a source at MGM hospital, Warangal. In fact, with the unfolding of the pandemic, state health authorities have announced that they would increase oxygen beds in districts. But as oxygen generation plans are located in Hyderabad the districts have to dependent on Hyderabad. “Although, it’s easy to plug in oxygen ports and put up beds, the problem is that there has to be proper supply of oxygen. Without having local supply, even if Hyderabad has a supply stock for years to come, districts will remain gasping. While private hospitals have their own supply networks and have oxygen banks, the government’s network needs to be upgraded. With the current supply of oxygen, there is no chance of catering to more ICU and oxygen patients,” said an official at the Nizamabad Government Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dists-suffer-due-to-lack-of-oxygen-plants/articleshow/77580667.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Heavy rain in ghats fills up dams, sparks fear of floods||Kolhapur: Heavy rainfall in the ghat sections of Kolhapur, Sangli and Satara districts on Sunday filled up the reservoirs in western Maharashtra, igniting fear of floods. Minister of state Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar apprised Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholli about the rainfall and the river water levels in Kolhapur and Sangli districts, prompting the latter to order discharge of 1.8 lakh cusec water from the Almatti dam along Krishna river. The catchment area of Koyna dam in Satara district received 42mm rainfall. The water discharge rate from the dam increased from 11,000 cusec on Sunday morning to 52,000 cusec in the evening, leading to the rise in the Krishna river water leve. In Sangli district, the discharge from the Warna dam, which recorded 30mm rain, was at the rate of around 12,000 cusec in the evening. Water was being discharged at the rate of 8,000 cusec from the four automatic gates of the Radhanagari dam following heavy rainfall. The water level of Panchaganga river, which was 28ft a day ago, rose to 35ft by Sunday evening. If heavy rain continues along with discharge from dams, the river may breach the alert mark of 39ft by early Monday morning. The danger level of the river is 43ft. Around 74 barrages in Kolhapur district are submerged. A man drowned at the Nandni barrage in Shirol tehsil and a rescue team of the disaster management department was rushed to the spot. Officials could not verify the name of the deceased and whether he drowned or died by suicide. Several roads in the district are also submerged. The three major entry points of Kolhapur city are still open to vehicular movement. The administration, however, has started advising commuters to take a different route. The IMD on Sunday issued a red alert of extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places in Pune and Satara district on Monday. “Districts in western Maharashtra, including Pune, Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli, are expected to receive strong spells of showers in the week beginning Monday (August 17),” said an IMD official adding that the intensity of rain would reduce from Tuesday. The IMD classifies minimum 204.5mm rainfall in 24 hours as extremely heavy. “Parts of Maharashtra, including north, Madhya and Vidarbha regions, are expected to receive heavy to very heavy showers till Thursday,” said the official. (With inputs from PTI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/heavy-rain-in-ghats-fills-up-dams-sparks-fear-of-floods/articleshow/77578156.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||ICMR’s 2nd pan-India sero survey this week||Pune: The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will conduct a second nationwide serological survey this week to assess the actual extent of Covid-19 spread. The previous survey, in May, covered 71 districts in 21 states. An ICMR official said the sample size would remain the same this time as well, with samples drawn from individuals over 18 years of age. The sero survey tests blood samples from random individuals to check for antibodies against the SARS-CoV-2 — which confirms that they have been infected in the recent past. Sources said the fresh survey was formally approved on July 11, after which members of an expert group on surveillance and epidemiology under ICMR worked to develop the study’s technical and implementation design. This time, ICMR said, the 21 states will be divided into three categories — high, medium, and low caseload. “We would require almost 21 days for the results to come in, as this survey would be more comprehensive and detailed. This will require more resources, both in terms of manpower and finances and also support from the state governments,” a member of the expert group said, on the condition of anonymity. The last survey — conducted in two phases in May — had touched 71 districts chosen with high, medium, low, and zero Covid-19 caseloads in 21 states in the first phase and containment areas in 10 hotspot districts in the second. Another senior member of the ICMR task force said most cities/states, including Mumbai, Pune, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Bihar and Jharkhand, have initiated their own sero surveys independent of the pan-India study. The last nationwide survey — conducted in two parts in May — had touched 71 districts with high, medium, low, and zero Covid-19 caseloads in 21 states in the first part and containment areas in 10 hotspot districts in the second part. The study had covered 28,595 households and 26,400 individuals. According to the findings, 0.73% of the test subjects showed evidence of past exposure to SARS-CoV-2. ICMR has calculated that compared to rural areas, risk of spread is 1.09 times higher in urban areas and 1.89 times higher in urban slums. The infection fatality rate is very low at 0.08% which means that a large portion of the population must continue following safety guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/icmrs-2nd-pan-india-sero-survey-this-week/articleshow/77580612.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Aggressive testing, tracing yield results as cases dip in Guntur||GUNTUR: Covid-19 cases have dipped in Guntur city over the last few days. The city has been reporting around 100 positive cases per day for the past few days, bringing some relief to citizens and the civic administration. So far, more than 5,000 cases have been reported in the city with more than 600-800 cases being registered each day in the last one month. The city had emerged as a major Covid-19 hotspot in the last four months, accounting for around 20%-25% of the total Covid-19 cases in the district. Stumped by the growing numbers, the Guntur Municipal Corporation (GMC) authorities swung into action and started screening all high-risk categories. GMC commissioner C Anuradha deployed additional teams to test and trace high-risk category people. The measures started yielding results within a few days as seen in the steep drop in positive cases by the second week of August. “We will continue tracing and testing vulnerable people with the support of ward secretariat staff. We are physically testing the oxygen levels of all those above 60 years with oxymeters even before screening them for Covid-19,” the commissioner said. The commissioner held a special review meeting with nodal officers on Sunday and directed them to continue screening vulnerable people and upload the data to a mobile app developed to track health details. “The people with below required oxygen levels will be moved to the nearest Covid Care Centres as we do not want to wait till their results are out as the health of many in such cases deteriorate,” said the commissioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/aggressive-testing-tracing-yield-results-as-cases-dip-in-guntur/articleshow/77578168.cms||Samdani MN
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||WWF India, BNHS come together to host ‘Dragonfly Festival 2020’||Nagpur: World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF India), in collaboration with Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), launched the 3rd edition of ‘Dragonfly Festival’ 2020. The pan-India festival dedicated to dragonflies aims to create awareness for the conservation of these insects. The festival started in 2018 is a way to educate and inform the public about the integral role that dragonflies, and their lesser known siblings damselflies, play in our environment. The aim of the festival has always been to create a connection between the common man and these beautiful creatures. Through the two years of this festival numerous field visits with experts have been organized. In 2018, dragonfly count was conducted by WWF India and BNHS and total of 27 species were recorded in Delhi, five of which were rare sightings. Radhika Suri, director Environment Education, WWF India, says, “It gives me immense happiness to see the reach of the festival in 9 different states this year and I am sure it will reach many corners of our country. I strongly believe that this festival will inspire younger generation to study odonates and help build awareness in their role as critical bio-indicators. Discussions and advocacy for conservation of these insects in India is the need of the hour.” Due to the current pandemic situation, WWF India, BNHS, and Indian Dragonfly Society (IDS) along with UNEP, UNDP, NBA and IUCN decided to conduct this year’s Dragonfly Festival virtually. The Dragonfly Festival 2020 aims at building awareness about the importance of these insects and the need to conserve them. WWF India, BNHS, and IDS will be training a group of volunteers to lead awareness programmes which will sensitize people about the importance of dragonflies and damselflies. These volunteer-led programmes will be conducted across the country and done through the year. Elaborating on benefits of dragonflies, Sohail Madan, centre manager, BNHS, said, “Dragonflies are some of the best predators to keep mosquito populations low. Not only do they scavenge the skies in adulthood, but they eat a large number of mosquito larvae in their larval form. Dragonflies can be the answer to the mosquito problem in India.” The Dragonfly Festival 2020 was virtually launched by Ravi Singh, CEO, WWF India. Dr Subramaniam, scientist, Southern Regional Centre, Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) delivered an expert talk on importance of dragonflies and the role of citizens in their conservation. Dr Subramaniam emphasized that societal participation for mass data generation on dragonflies is imperative to understanding their lives, habitats and protection. Free and easy accessibility of this data for the public is key, and hence must be put on common platforms. The year-long festival will include a number of fun wildlife activities involving sessions with dragonfly experts, interactive webinars, prize winning competitions on photography, art, storytelling, quizzes, and much more. The festival will also provide an opportunity to people to undertake citizen science projects on backyards counts, exploring the dragonflies across India and documenting their unique behaviour. The festival continues to be a success in the conservation of these beautiful creatures and their habitats. Both WWF India and BNHS aim that by next year, the festival will build a team of amateur conservationists in India that will document the process of understanding dragonflies and monitoring the rise of species. This also ensures a systematic process of meeting and discussing lesser known dragonfly species. Citizens can log on to https://standwithnature.org/ to check upcoming webinars and participate in the various competitions. This website will offer educational content and online learning tool kits on dragonflies and damselflies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wwf-india-bnhs-come-together-to-host-dragonfly-festival-2020/articleshow/77599200.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 17, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Samples of woman test Covid positive after death||THRISSUR: The samples collected from a 78-year-old woman hailing from Eriyad near Kodungallur, who had died on Saturday, have tested positive for Covid-19. The deceased has been identified as Sharada, wife of late Kandamparambath Paravichira Prabhakaran. She was also undergoing treatment for cancer at Amala Hospital, which has now become a Covid cluster. As many as 30 people, including a one-month-old baby from Mankara near Irinjalakuda, tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Sunday. In another development, two accused nabbed in connection with a flesh trade case have tested positive. Subsequently, the CI and nine other officials at Kodakara police station have been asked to be in quarantine. Among those tested positive in the district, 27 people have contracted the infection through social contacts. According to an official release, eight people have acquired infection from Amala hospital cluster, and six from Chalakudy cluster. As many as 63 people tested negative in the district on Sunday. The release said that the total number of people who tested positive in the district have now touched 2,390.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/samples-of-woman-test-ve-after-death/articleshow/77578193.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Goa||Goa’s Covid casualty crosses century mark, Vasco tops mortality list at 45%||PANAJI: The state’s Covid-19 death toll breached the 100-mark on Sunday after five more deaths took the total toll to 104. Also, Goa’s active caseload rose to 3,760 after 300 new infections were detected. One of the day’s deaths was reported from SMRC, Vasco, where a 60-year-old man from Panaji succumbed to the virus. Two others — a 36-year-old man from Chimbel and a 70-year-old woman from Ponda — died at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. The other two fatalities died at the ESI-Covid hospital in Margao — a 39-year-old man from Davorlim and a 66-year-old man from Gogol-Margao. All five of the day’s fatalities had comorbid conditions. An area-wise analysis of the state’s Covid deaths put Vasco and its surrounding areas at the top of the list followed by Margao, Mapusa and Bicholim. Interestingly, even as 45% of the overall mortalities were cases from Vasco (including Chicalim), Mangor Hill — Goa’s first containment zone with over 300 cases — reported only three deaths. Most of the port town’s Covid deaths were from New Vaddem, Vasco town, Sada and Baina. Margao comes right behind Vasco with 16 deaths. The Margao urban health centre overtook the Vasco urban health centre only last week with over 400 active positive cases. Most of the deaths in Margao have been from the town area, Aquem, Fatorda and Gogol. Mapusa and Bicholim were next on the list with five Covid deaths each. The rest of the deceased are from other parts of the state. The capital city of Panaji has reported two deaths till date. The youngest to have died till date is a 14-year-old female from. Interestingly, several 90-year-olds have been cured of the virus. Goa saw its first Covid death on June 22, and touched the century mark on Sunday, in a period of 56 days. Four deaths were reported in June, 41 in July. August has been the worst month till date with 59 deaths in 16 days accounting for more than half — 57% — of the total mortalities since June. Not a single day has gone by in August without a Covid death reported with up to seven reported on a single day. This was seen on August 4 and on August 15. Meanwhile, Panaji’s Covid tally inched towards the 200-mark after nine more persons tested positive. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said that fresh cases were found in residential complexes in St Inez, Caranzalem and Miramar. One of the day’s positives works at GMC. The mayor said that CCP employees sanitises several parts of the city. “They have been working like real Covid warriors,” he said. “They worked even on their off day. I thank them for their service.” Other health centres in North Goa that are consistently witnessing a rise in cases are Mayem, Porvorim and Chimbel. The Candolim PHC reported 12 more cases, pushing its tally to 89. In Betki, meanwhile, total active case count reached 66. In Margao, over a dozen new cases were detected on Sunday, taking its tally to 435. The town has by far the highest number of active cases in the state. Meanwhile, Ponda too closed in on the 200-mark after a slew of new cases took its total to 195.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goas-covid-casualty-crosses-century-mark-vasco-tops-mortality-list-at-45/articleshow/77581156.cms||---
August 17, 2020||India||When to resume SC physical hearings? CJI leaves it to panel||NEW DELHI: CJI S A Bobde has left it to the seven-judge committee to decide the date for resumption of physical hearings in the Supreme Court within days of the panel recommending start of limited physical hearings on a trial basis in two weeks with adequate precautions to guard against coronavirus. The committee, comprising Justices N V Ramana, Arun Mishra, R F Nariman, U U Lalit, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and L N Rao, had held extensive consultations with medical experts, who had advised against resumption of physical hearing before September 1, and bar leaders Dushyant Dave and Shivaji Jadav, who had pressed for immediate start of physical hearings. It had also said that hearing of most cases through video-conferencing would continue as is being done since March 25. The recommendation of the committee was believed to serve as a cue for high courts to decide on resumption of physical hearing in HCs and trial courts, which provide nearly 15 lakh advocates across the country their sole avenue of earnings. After considering the views of all concerned, the committee had recommended to CJI Bobde that limited physical hearings in three SC courtrooms could resume only for old matters requiring long hearing. It had suggested entry of only arguing counsel. The committee had said the CJI could fix a date for resumption of physical hearing as a pilot project on trial basis. But the CJI has now asked the committee to decide when to resume physical hearing. If the committee agrees with the CJI’s request to decide the date, it has to again consult medical experts as well as bar leaders. More than 200 Advocates on Record have come together to request deferment of physical hearing till the pandemic situation eases. Watch Supreme Court to resume physical hearing of cases in 2 weeks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/when-to-resume-sc-physical-hearings-cji-leaves-it-to-panel/articleshow/77581908.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||All 55 participants given second dose of Covaxin||NAGPUR: The Covaxin phase I trial entered its second leg on Sunday with all 55 participants in Nagpur city given the second 0.6ml dose of the vaccine. None of the first 55 persons to get the vaccine have experienced any health complications in the 14 days after being administered the first dose. This could be taken as a sign that the vaccine is safe and has no side effects. Now, blood samples of all 55 participants have been taken and sent for testing. Whether the vaccine has resulted in development of antibodies will be checked through the blood test. Results of these blood tests will be declared only when tests on all 375 participants of this nationwide trial are complete. The registrations for the second phase, in which 750 participants between 15 to 65 years are to be enrolled, will not start before the 28th day test of the first phase patients, informed Dr Chandrashekhar Gillurkar, director of Gillurkar Hospital and Research Institute. It is one of the 12 sites in India where human trials of the made-in-India Covaxin are under way. This Nagpur-based hospital is the only institute in Maharashtra where these trials are under way. “All 55 participants have completed 14-day period since they were administered first dose of vaccine. They reported on the 14th day and we collected their blood samples. All were administered second dose of vaccine, as all of them were doing well and had no symptoms of any distress,” said Dr Gillurkar. From August 11 onwards, the 55 participants started reporting on the 14th day after their first dose. These participants include 42 men and 13 women aged between 30 and 50 years. In second phase, participants from 15 to 65 years of age will be enrolled. If second phase proves successful, thousands will be administered the vaccine in the third phase. Nagpur has been playing an important role in Covaxin human trials so far. Total 55 out of the 375 participants for phase I trials are from Nagpur city. Highest 30 of them are young Nagpurians between age groups of 20 to 30. Most of them are college going students and some are professionals. They enrolled themselves for this trial with proper knowledge of the trial. TOI has spoken to many of them, and all of them were excited to be a part of the trials. Their identity cannot be revealed as part of the confidentiality terms of the trial. However, all of them wished that this vaccine should become a success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-55-participants-given-second-dose-of-covaxin/articleshow/77580673.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 17, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur Municipal Corporation starts screening vendors in market areas||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has started screening of vendors in markets across the city. Those registering high temperature and low blood oxygen levels are being referred for Covid testing. Recently, district collector Daulat Desai had asked the local bodies to carry out antigen testings of the vendors and traders who fall under the super spreader category as they come in contact with many people every day and mass transmission of Covid can take place if any one of them is infected. The estate department staff of the KMC has been provided thermal scanners and oximeters to carry out the screening of the vendors. “The number of vendors have increased due to lockdown. The suspected cases are being referred to Isolation Hospital and CPR Hospital for further testing. Those who do not have any symptom have also been asked to get tested within six days,” Sachin Jadhav, chief estate officer of KMC, said. Civic chief Mallinath Kalshetti has asked the doctors from local urban health centres to accompany the screening team and provide necessary reference certificates to the vendors for getting tested for Covod-19. Kalshetti has also ordered to not to let any vendor above the age of 60 years to carry out business. Also, he has asked staff to ensure that the children below the age of 10 do not come to the market. Meanwhile, in order to carry out door-to-door survey of the citizens in Rajarampuri and Shivaji Peth areas, around 1,000 rapid antigen test kits have been provided to the civic body. During the survey, the localities will be completely sealed and the tests will be carried out in an ambulance to be deployed for each locality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-starts-screening-vendors-in-market-areas/articleshow/77578182.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Lucknow||CDR use for Covid contact tracing on for months in Uttar Pradesh||NOIDA/LUCKNOW: Kerala Police’s decision to trace contacts of Covid patients with their call detail records (CDR) has attracted widespread criticism, with many saying that the procedure amounts to breach of privacy. But cops in Uttar Pradesh have for months been relying on CDRs to strengthen the health department’s contact-tracing measures. Described as a “secondary” tool, officials say that the CDRs help the authorities narrow down on a concrete set of people that a Covid-19 patient might have come in contact with. The procedure, they say, comes in handy when a patient is missing or has filled in a wrong address and phone number. Additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar told TOI all district police chiefs had been instructed to help health teams in contact tracing and use all viable means as required. Following that, police in some districts have been using CDRs. Among the major districts where CDRs are being used are Noida and Ghaziabad in NCR, Kanpur and state capital Lucknow. A senior officer at the office of the DGP headquarters said CDRs were used extensively when migrant labourers were returning from Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat to Uttar Pradesh. “We used to receive hundreds of calls from gram pradhans that labourers have come from other states but are concealing their travel history for fear of being quarantined. We instructed district police chiefs to use electronic and surveillance methods to trace them,” the officer said. Another instance of wide use of call records through April-May was when Covid-19 cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin were under investigation. Sriparna Gongulee, additional commissioner of police (HQ) in Noida, said the police’s role was limited to digging out the list of persons that a patient has contacted and not examining the content of their conversations. “It is a tool for aiding the health department in finding the contacts of a Covid patient. It is not being used for every patient. It aims at verifying whether the person had come into contact with the patient physically or telephonically,” she added. According to officials, the need to trace CDRs was felt when Covid cases in Noida and Ghaziabad started surging by leaps and bounds — both districts have breached the 6,000 mark. The officials, however, sought to clarify that physical verification of patients’ families by the health department still formed the primary mode of tracing contacts. In Ghaziabad, three-member teams have been formed in all 19 police stations of the district to help the health department in tracing contacts. “Right now, we have a list of more than 50 patients who could not be located as they provided wrong addresses or incorrect phone numbers. We will take the help of electronic surveillance in tracing them. Legal action will be initiated against them for hiding their health status,” said Gyanendra Singh, SP (crime). Noida police has formed five teams under the DCP (headquarters) for electronic surveillance. In case a patient has given wrong information or is missing, CDRs for the past 10-14 days are scanned. Ghaziabad, on the other hand, limits it to 10 days. “The basic intention is to trace the places that the infected person had visited. The CDRs are used to prepare the route map of the patient,” an official said. Normally, CDRs are sought after the district surveillance team shares a list of Covid patients with the local police headquarters, which asks telecom service providers for that information. Specific telecom officers with each service provider are tasked with attending to requests. The Lucknow commissionerate used CDRs on the request of the chief medical officer and district administration and traced as many as 1,171 people through electronic surveillance. “It was used only after 2,290 people, who tested positive for Covid-19 in Lucknow last month, had given false information about themselves (wrong phone numbers, addresses and names),” said a Lucknow police officer. “We have issued strict guidelines to all hospitals, private and government, and labs to verify mobile numbers before taking samples of people. Officials should immediately inform the police control room if anyone is found giving false information,” Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey told TOI. CDRs have also been used in districts with lower Covid case numbers. In Barabanki, police have traced 174 people, who subsequently tested positive, using call records. An officer with the Covid-19 cell in the district said on condition of anonymity, “We track 10-day call details of a patient who tests positive and then each of those numbers who got in touch with the patient is called.” Bahraich has been using call data too. “Only as per need, we take out call detail records of a person when asked by the district administration and the health department,” said SP Vipin Mishra In Kanpur, which currently has the most active cases after Lucknow, DIG Preetinder Singh told TOI, “CDR is a viable option and is used only in cases where a patient who tests positive is involved in a a type of job that requires moving around,” he said. Dr Bharat Bhushan, in-charge of the 13-member contact tracing teams in Noida, insisted that using CDRs was never the primary mode of tracing contacts. “Since antigen tests are being widely used and they give results in minutes, contact tracing first happens in the hospitals and community health centres, where the patient’s details and his family members are taken soon after the tests are conducted,” he added. Watch CDR in use for months by UP cops for Covid contact tracing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cdr-use-for-covid-contact-tracing-on-for-months-in-up/articleshow/77581947.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 17, 2020||Ghaziabad||CDR use for Covid contact tracing on for months in Uttar Pradesh||NOIDA/LUCKNOW: Kerala Police’s decision to trace contacts of Covid patients with their call detail records (CDR) has attracted widespread criticism, with many saying that the procedure amounts to breach of privacy. But cops in Uttar Pradesh have for months been relying on CDRs to strengthen the health department’s contact-tracing measures. Described as a “secondary” tool, officials say that the CDRs help the authorities narrow down on a concrete set of people that a Covid-19 patient might have come in contact with. The procedure, they say, comes in handy when a patient is missing or has filled in a wrong address and phone number. Additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar told TOI all district police chiefs had been instructed to help health teams in contact tracing and use all viable means as required. Following that, police in some districts have been using CDRs. Among the major districts where CDRs are being used are Noida and Ghaziabad in NCR, Kanpur and state capital Lucknow. A senior officer at the office of the DGP headquarters said CDRs were used extensively when migrant labourers were returning from Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat to Uttar Pradesh. “We used to receive hundreds of calls from gram pradhans that labourers have come from other states but are concealing their travel history for fear of being quarantined. We instructed district police chiefs to use electronic and surveillance methods to trace them,” the officer said. Another instance of wide use of call records through April-May was when Covid-19 cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin were under investigation. Sriparna Gongulee, additional commissioner of police (HQ) in Noida, said the police’s role was limited to digging out the list of persons that a patient has contacted and not examining the content of their conversations. “It is a tool for aiding the health department in finding the contacts of a Covid patient. It is not being used for every patient. It aims at verifying whether the person had come into contact with the patient physically or telephonically,” she added. According to officials, the need to trace CDRs was felt when Covid cases in Noida and Ghaziabad started surging by leaps and bounds — both districts have breached the 6,000 mark. The officials, however, sought to clarify that physical verification of patients’ families by the health department still formed the primary mode of tracing contacts. In Ghaziabad, three-member teams have been formed in all 19 police stations of the district to help the health department in tracing contacts. “Right now, we have a list of more than 50 patients who could not be located as they provided wrong addresses or incorrect phone numbers. We will take the help of electronic surveillance in tracing them. Legal action will be initiated against them for hiding their health status,” said Gyanendra Singh, SP (crime). Noida police has formed five teams under the DCP (headquarters) for electronic surveillance. In case a patient has given wrong information or is missing, CDRs for the past 10-14 days are scanned. Ghaziabad, on the other hand, limits it to 10 days. “The basic intention is to trace the places that the infected person had visited. The CDRs are used to prepare the route map of the patient,” an official said. Normally, CDRs are sought after the district surveillance team shares a list of Covid patients with the local police headquarters, which asks telecom service providers for that information. Specific telecom officers with each service provider are tasked with attending to requests. The Lucknow commissionerate used CDRs on the request of the chief medical officer and district administration and traced as many as 1,171 people through electronic surveillance. “It was used only after 2,290 people, who tested positive for Covid-19 in Lucknow last month, had given false information about themselves (wrong phone numbers, addresses and names),” said a Lucknow police officer. “We have issued strict guidelines to all hospitals, private and government, and labs to verify mobile numbers before taking samples of people. Officials should immediately inform the police control room if anyone is found giving false information,” Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey told TOI. CDRs have also been used in districts with lower Covid case numbers. In Barabanki, police have traced 174 people, who subsequently tested positive, using call records. An officer with the Covid-19 cell in the district said on condition of anonymity, “We track 10-day call details of a patient who tests positive and then each of those numbers who got in touch with the patient is called.” Bahraich has been using call data too. “Only as per need, we take out call detail records of a person when asked by the district administration and the health department,” said SP Vipin Mishra In Kanpur, which currently has the most active cases after Lucknow, DIG Preetinder Singh told TOI, “CDR is a viable option and is used only in cases where a patient who tests positive is involved in a a type of job that requires moving around,” he said. Dr Bharat Bhushan, in-charge of the 13-member contact tracing teams in Noida, insisted that using CDRs was never the primary mode of tracing contacts. “Since antigen tests are being widely used and they give results in minutes, contact tracing first happens in the hospitals and community health centres, where the patient’s details and his family members are taken soon after the tests are conducted,” he added. Watch CDR in use for months by UP cops for Covid contact tracing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/cdr-use-for-covid-contact-tracing-on-for-months-in-up/articleshow/77581948.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 17, 2020||Hubballi||SR Hiremath urges Supreme Court to reconsider order against Prashant Bhushan||Dharwad: Chief of Samaj Parivartan Samudaya (SPS), S R Hiremath, has urged the Supreme Court to reconsider its verdict holding advocate-activist Prashant Bhushan guilty of contempt of court. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday, Hiremath said the SC’s verdict is a blow to the freedom of speech, and instead of taking up the hearing of the case urgently, the SC could have waited till the physical hearing was resumed. Hiremath said that SPS and other like-minded organisations will observe August 20 as Conscience Day in support of Bhushan. On this day, the supporters of Bhushan will hold a candle-light march in over 100 places across the country, he said. Hiremath said these organisations, as part of the Azaadi Se Swaraj campaign, have sent letters to the President, the Prime Minister and others urging them to release the academicians and writers who have been arrested in connection with Bhima Koregaon violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sr-hiremath-urges-supreme-court-to-reconsider-order-against-prashant-bhushan/articleshow/77578250.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Man pees on friend seeing movie on phone, kills him||VADODARA: In yet another ugly fallout of a fight due to cellphone activity, a man watching a movie on the mobile was killed by his 22-year-old friend who had urinated on him. The incident happened in Lasundra village of Savli taluka near Vadodara. Victim Rakesh Rathodiya and his two friends were watching a movie on the former’s mobile phone sitting under a water tank of a farm on August 13. The accused Kalidas Rathodiya, a casual labourer, who was standing on water tank, started urinating on the three and started hurling abuses at them. An enraged Rakesh asked Kalidas to leave from there immediately. But Kalidas continued his barrage of expletives and kept misbehaving, leading to a fight between them. During the altercation, Kalidas tried to strangulate Rakesh. He even managed to push the other two friends away when they tried to free Rakesh from his stranglehold. The two friends then shouted for help and Kalidas fled from there. Meanwhile, Rakesh fell unconscious on the ground and his friends rushed him home. When the family members realized that Rakesh was dead, they informed the sarpanch of the village and lodged a murder case at Bhadarwa police station on August 14. Police said that Kalidas, who is still on the run, is a trouble-maker who is notorious for picking up fights with people in his locality. “Kalidas is ruffian and has harassed many people in the past as well. He just wanted to trouble the victim and therefore got into an altercation with him”, said sub-inspector BD Jadeja of Bhadarwa police station. Earlier on August 11, a 21-year-old man Jayesh Patanwadia was booked for murder after he pushed his friend Satish Patanwadiya into a seven foot deep pit after a fight over the former making continuous blank calls to the victim. Satish, who died of brain haemorrhage, was irked as Jayesh’s blank calls disturbed him while playing games on mobile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ruffian-pees-on-friend-watching-movie-on-cellphone-kills-him/articleshow/77578612.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Noida||CDR use for Covid contact tracing on for months in Uttar Pradesh||NOIDA/LUCKNOW: Kerala Police’s decision to trace contacts of Covid patients with their call detail records (CDR) has attracted widespread criticism, with many saying that the procedure amounts to breach of privacy. But cops in Uttar Pradesh have for months been relying on CDRs to strengthen the health department’s contact-tracing measures. Described as a “secondary” tool, officials say that the CDRs help the authorities narrow down on a concrete set of people that a Covid-19 patient might have come in contact with. The procedure, they say, comes in handy when a patient is missing or has filled in a wrong address and phone number. Additional director general of police (law and order) Prashant Kumar told TOI all district police chiefs had been instructed to help health teams in contact tracing and use all viable means as required. Following that, police in some districts have been using CDRs. Among the major districts where CDRs are being used are Noida and Ghaziabad in NCR, Kanpur and state capital Lucknow. A senior officer at the office of the DGP headquarters said CDRs were used extensively when migrant labourers were returning from Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat to Uttar Pradesh. “We used to receive hundreds of calls from gram pradhans that labourers have come from other states but are concealing their travel history for fear of being quarantined. We instructed district police chiefs to use electronic and surveillance methods to trace them,” the officer said. Another instance of wide use of call records through April-May was when Covid-19 cases linked to the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin were under investigation. Sriparna Gongulee, additional commissioner of police (HQ) in Noida, said the police’s role was limited to digging out the list of persons that a patient has contacted and not examining the content of their conversations. “It is a tool for aiding the health department in finding the contacts of a Covid patient. It is not being used for every patient. It aims at verifying whether the person had come into contact with the patient physically or telephonically,” she added. According to officials, the need to trace CDRs was felt when Covid cases in Noida and Ghaziabad started surging by leaps and bounds — both districts have breached the 6,000 mark. The officials, however, sought to clarify that physical verification of patients’ families by the health department still formed the primary mode of tracing contacts. In Ghaziabad, three-member teams have been formed in all 19 police stations of the district to help the health department in tracing contacts. “Right now, we have a list of more than 50 patients who could not be located as they provided wrong addresses or incorrect phone numbers. We will take the help of electronic surveillance in tracing them. Legal action will be initiated against them for hiding their health status,” said Gyanendra Singh, SP (crime). Noida police has formed five teams under the DCP (headquarters) for electronic surveillance. In case a patient has given wrong information or is missing, CDRs for the past 10-14 days are scanned. Ghaziabad, on the other hand, limits it to 10 days. “The basic intention is to trace the places that the infected person had visited. The CDRs are used to prepare the route map of the patient,” an official said. Normally, CDRs are sought after the district surveillance team shares a list of Covid patients with the local police headquarters, which asks telecom service providers for that information. Specific telecom officers with each service provider are tasked with attending to requests. The Lucknow commissionerate used CDRs on the request of the chief medical officer and district administration and traced as many as 1,171 people through electronic surveillance. “It was used only after 2,290 people, who tested positive for Covid-19 in Lucknow last month, had given false information about themselves (wrong phone numbers, addresses and names),” said a Lucknow police officer. “We have issued strict guidelines to all hospitals, private and government, and labs to verify mobile numbers before taking samples of people. Officials should immediately inform the police control room if anyone is found giving false information,” Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey told TOI. CDRs have also been used in districts with lower Covid case numbers. In Barabanki, police have traced 174 people, who subsequently tested positive, using call records. An officer with the Covid-19 cell in the district said on condition of anonymity, “We track 10-day call details of a patient who tests positive and then each of those numbers who got in touch with the patient is called.” Bahraich has been using call data too. “Only as per need, we take out call detail records of a person when asked by the district administration and the health department,” said SP Vipin Mishra In Kanpur, which currently has the most active cases after Lucknow, DIG Preetinder Singh told TOI, “CDR is a viable option and is used only in cases where a patient who tests positive is involved in a a type of job that requires moving around,” he said. Dr Bharat Bhushan, in-charge of the 13-member contact tracing teams in Noida, insisted that using CDRs was never the primary mode of tracing contacts. “Since antigen tests are being widely used and they give results in minutes, contact tracing first happens in the hospitals and community health centres, where the patient’s details and his family members are taken soon after the tests are conducted,” he added. Watch CDR in use for months by UP cops for Covid contact tracing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/cdr-use-for-covid-contact-tracing-on-for-months-in-up/articleshow/77581170.cms||Shikha Salaria
August 17, 2020||Mysuru||Buffer zone around Bhadra Tiger Reserve likely to be declared an eco-sensitive zone||Mysuru: The Union ministry of environment and forest has issued a draft notification to declare the buffer zone around Bhadra Tiger Reserve as an eco-sensitive zone. As per the notification, the buffer zone is spread over two districts of Chikkamagalur and Shivamogga covering about 740.56 square kilometres. The move follows widespread concerns about the depleting forest cover in the area, which is the natural habitat to several wildlife animals including many species that face extinction. As per the draft notification, a 14-member monitoring committee led by regional commissioner, Mysuru will monitor the activities in this zone. Bhadra Tiger Reserve is situated in Chikkamagaluru, Tarikere and Narsimha Raja Pura talukas of Chikkamagaluru district and Shivamogga and Bhadravthi talukas of Shivamogga district. Initially the area was declared as Jagara Valley Sanctuary in 1951. Later, the area was re-constituted as Bhadra Wildlife Sanctuary (Tiger Reserve) in the year 1974. The current area of the sanctuary is 500.16 square kilometres including 87 square kilometres of backwaters of the Bhadra reservoir. The sanctuary is home to over 42 large mammal species, including Rare, Endangered and Threatened (RET) tigers, leopards, wild dogs, sloth bears, elephants, gaurs, sambars, mouse deer, flying squirrel and otters among others. It also has about 264 species of birds. The avifauna found in the sanctuary include Malabar pied hornbill, Great pied hornbill, Malabar grey hornbill which is endemic to the Western Ghats and other species. King cobra, marsh crocodile and other reptiles are also found in Bhadra Tiger Reserve. According to the authorities in the forest department, Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change has invited the public to file objections to the move. “Several locals have raised objection to the move and a final decision on the boundary of this eco-sensitive zone will be taken after considering the objections,” explained sources in the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/buffer-zone-around-bhadra-tiger-reserve-likely-to-be-declared-an-eco-sensitive-zone/articleshow/77581102.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Antigen tests to dominate, RT-PCR only for three groups||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state health department has decided to go for more antigen tests and limit RT-PCR tests (to three categories) only for the most important symptomatic cases. There will be no more RT-PCR tests to reconfirm if you are tested positive through antigen test. A revised testing guideline in this regard has been issued by the health department. As per the revised guideline, now RT-PCR will be done only for patients with severe acute respiratory infection and symptomatic international or interstate traveller within 14 days of arrival. Healthcare workers and the frontline workers will also be subjected to RT-PCR tests. If influenza-like illness persists even after the recovery of Covid-19, then RT-PCR will be done on them again. “The respective expert groups are studying the progression of the epidemic and giving suggestions for changes in testing guidelines and management protocols. Accordingly, the revised testing guidelines are issued,” said Rajan N Khobragade, principal secretary (health) in his order. Rapid antigen test is going to dominate testing in the state in all other categories. This will include all asymptomatic vulnerable persons in large community clusters, including senior citizens of above 60 years of age, antenatal and immediate postnatal women, and persons with comorbidity. Even if people are having influenza-like illness and belong to clusters, rapid antigen test will be done to confirm. For asymptomatic high-risk primary contacts of confirmed cases, and symptomatic persons who are contacts of international or interstate travellers, only rapid antigen tests will be done. For discharging patients, one negative result of antigen test will be sufficient, which is already being followed. As per guidelines, for conducting emergency surgeries True Nat of Xpert tests can be conducted and before elective surgeries True Nat or Pooled RT-PCR tests can be done. For all prisoners or persons before or after parole or convicts, antigen tests will be conducted. For all brought-in dead bodies, the first sample has to be tested by Xpert test and if positive then it will have to be reconfirmed using RT-PCR test, which will be done at NIV, Alappuzha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/antigen-tests-to-dominate-rt-pcr-only-for-3-groups/articleshow/77578220.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Aurangabad||Pune couple among 3 to get life term in woman’s murder||AURANGABAD: Additional sessions judge of Osmanabad N H Makhare has sentenced a couple from Alandi in Pune district along with another man to life imprisonment on charges of murder, criminal conspiracy and destruction of evidence. The murder was committed in December 2015 and the identity of the deceased was not known for around six months. However, investigating officer Raj Tilak Roushan managed to crack the case and was awarded with Union home minister’s medal in 2018 for excellence in investigation. Using the tag of the deceased’s kurti, Roushan managed to identify her as Kanchan Pardeshi (26) from Pune. The probe revealed that while working in Pune, she came in contact with Prakash Suryuakant Chapekar (36) and the two got into a relationship. Chapekar was already married to Pratibha (28) and the couple had three children. After Chapekar’s wife learnt about his extra marital affair, he decided to end the affair and took a job in Nagpur and relocated. However, Pardeshi followed him to Nagpur and the duo started living together. When Chapekar’s wife got to know about this, she along with her brother Datta Lohar and husband conspired to kill Pardeshi. Accordingly, in December 2015, Chapekar took Pardeshi on a long drive to Osmanabad, where the suspect trio murdered her and dumped the body in a well in Wagholi village. Roushan, who is currently the Osmanabad district superintendent of police, told TOI, “We had to scan the data of 18,000 customers to identify the deceased. The case was very difficult to explain in the court as it involved detection based on circumstantial evidences and they were also very technology-intensive in nature.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/couple-among-3-to-get-life-term-in-womans-murder/articleshow/77578198.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Rangareddy district heading towards 20K Covid cases||HYDERABAD: Rangareddy is inching towards 20,000 Covid-19 cases as the district administration has started mobile pooling testing in a big way. Six mobile testing labs have been pressed into service to collect samples, with each vehicle logging over 200 samples a day. The district recorded 131 cases, according to an official bulletin release on Saturday. Though being part of GHMC and located in the suburbs of the city is one of the main reasons for the large number of cases, Rangareddy district’s rural areas too have recorded over 6,000 cases. During the lockdown, the interaction between Covid hotspots in the city like Jiaguda led to spread of the virus in rural areas of the district. “People attending mass events, including funerals and birthdays, were the main reasons for initial spread and later to the surge. With effective testing and awareness programmes, we are able to bring down the virus spread , things are under control now,” Rangareddy district medical and health officer Dr KV Swarjya Lakshmi said. The mobile testing vehicles have been introduced in areas where more cases were reported like Jalpally, Saroonnagar, Mansurabad, Hafizpet, Serilingampally and Rajendranagar. They could collect over 1,000 samples a day, including ones for RT-PCR. Apart from two area hospitals at Kondapur and Vanasthalipuram, admissions have now started at Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS). “We have set up on e-call centre to tackle 2,000 patients a day who are under home isolation” another official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rangareddy-dist-heading-towards-20k-covid-cases/articleshow/77580686.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||32 test positive in Wardha||Wardha: 32 persons, including 21 men and 11 women, tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday while 17 were discharged after recovering from Covid-19. The most positive were detected in Wardha (13), in Hinganghat (7), five positive each in Arvi and Selu, while one apiece from Samudrapur and Pulgaon. A 6-year-old boy from Walisaheb ward in Arvi was the youngest while a 72-year-old woman from Dayalnagar, Wardha, was the oldest among the positive on Tuesday. In all, 127 reports came on Tuesday and 32 of them were positive. Total 110 persons were released from Covid centres after they tested negative. The number of active positive patients reached 117. They are undergoing treatment at Kasturba Hospital, Sewagram, and Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital, Sawangi. The total count of positive patients in district reached 455 while 337 have been discharged after recovering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/32-test-positive-in-wardha/articleshow/77616941.cms||Balwant Dhage
August 17, 2020||Goa||Velingkar demands scrapping of Iffi||Subhash Velingkar, who contested the last Panaji bypolls for GSM, has demanded that the state government scrap its plans to host the Iffi this year in Panajiamidst the pandemic. Blaming the state government for the high proportion of Covid-19 deaths in Vasco, Velingkar said the CM Pramod Sawant will be responsible for replicating the tragedy in Panaji if he agrees to hosting Iffi. Velingkar’s statement comes after Sawant said recently that Iffi will be hosted in Goa this year as scheduled.“Because the state administration refused to declare an extended lockdown in the Vasco area at the right time, there have been more than 50 Covid deaths there till date. By hosting Iffi during a pandemic, we could see a repeat of the same in Panaji. The hosting of the festival in Panaji should be called off immediately,” he said. GSM also criticised statements by health minister Vishwajit Rane where he suggested that Goans can consider putting off the Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations by a few months due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/velingkar-demands-scrapping-of-iffi/articleshow/77581181.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three-year-old from Ahmedabad can identify flags of 230 countries||AHMEDABAD: He is just three years old, but can rattle off the names of the capitals of 235 countries and territories and can accurately identify the flags of 230 countries. The talent of the little boy, who studies in nursery grade, has been recognized by the Asia Book of Records and the India Book of Records, bestowing him with medals and certificates for his feat.  Residing at Maninagar area of the city, Aarush Kalburgi not only knows the names of country capitals and can identify their flags, he is able to recite religious verses like Guru Brahma, Saraswati Vandana, Shantakaram, Sri Ram Stuti and Shubham Karoti.  Born on April 17, 2017, the little boy was just over a year old when he began identifying pictures of fruits, vegetables, vehicles and the like from charts although he could not speak then. Spotting the boy’s extraordinary grasping capabilities, his father Bhagyesh Kalburgi, who works with a multi-national company in the UAE, got flash cards on various topics for the little boy, who took huge interest in them and even began to recognize and name flags of various countries along with the names of capitals of countries. “Even as the lockdown was in force, we checked websites of institutes which enlist records. We got to know that a child held the record of recognising flags of 215 countries. With a little extra work, Aarush was quickly able to name capitals of 235 countries and also identify flags of 230 countries,” said his mother Khyati Kalburgi. The India Book of Records and Asia Book of Records require unedited videos of the feat to be uplinked. After stringent verification, the India Book of Records listed Aarush as a whiz kid in the last week of June, while last week, the Asia Book of Records listed him as a grandmaster for the same feat. He has been presented with medals and certificates by both agencies.  Asked what plans he has chalked out for Aarush, fhis ather Bhagyesh said they have not yet finalised plans for his future yet. “He is very young still. We are not giving him too much burden. We are still in the process of identifying which of his skills should be nurtured further,” the proud father said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-yr-old-can-identify-flags-of-230-countries/articleshow/77579376.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana reports nine deaths, 1,100 Covid-19 positive cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Sunday recorded nine deaths and 1,102 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total count to 91,361 since the pandemic broke in March this year. While the total number of deaths reported across the state reached 693 on Sunday, the government said 68,126 patients have recovered from the virus, with more than 2,000 released on Sunday. On Sunday, 12,120 samples were tested for coronavirus across the state, taking the total number of tests done so far to 7.44 lakh. With this, the sample testing rate is now at 20,054 samples per million population tested in the state. However, 22,542 patients continue to be categorised under active cases and are undergoing treatment at various hospitals. The case fatality rate in the state is now at 0.75% as against the country average of 1.94%, while the recovery rate is now at 74.56% as against the country average of 71.6%. In both the parameters, Telangana is faring better than many other states, claimed officials. Most new cases were recorded in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area with 234 new cases. This was followed by Karimnagar district where 101 cases were recorded, whereas Rangareddy reported 81 cases, Warangal Urban had 70 cases and Sangareddy had 66 cases. The bed availability status showed that the district hospital at Kothagudem, district hospital at Gadwal and the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital, Warangal had zero beds available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-reports-nine-deaths-1100-covid-19-positive-cases/articleshow/77580688.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cops raid SDPI office, arrest 8||Sleuths from Central Crime Branch (CCB) police arrested eight persons from a house above the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) office in RK Hegde Nagar, north Bengaluru, and seized iron rods and cricket bats from them late on Saturday. Confirming the development, home minister Basvaraj Bommai also said police raided the SDPI office. “Stringent action against the SDPI will continue,” Bommai said. CCB officers said they have, in all, arrested 30 including the eight from RK Hegde Nagar, till Sunday evening, in connection with the August 11 violence. “Of the 30, a few are members of SDPI. The raids were conducted on their residences in Hegde Nagar, Nagawara, Govindapura and other surrounding areas,” an officer said. Watch Bengaluru riots: SDPI office in Hegde Nagar raided, 8 arrested||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cops-raid-sdpi-office-arrest-8/articleshow/77579182.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nashik||Parcel train extended till Muzaffarpur||Nashik: The Kisan Vishesh, a parcel van train for the transportation of perishable goods from Nashik district, started by the Bhusawal division of Central Railway, has been extended till Muzaffarpur in the interest of farmers and traders. The first weekly parcel van ran from the various parts of Nashik, Jalgaon and Dhule district to Danapur in Bihar on August 7. In the inaugural run, the railways received many requests of train’s extension to Muzaffarpur for the direct transportation of agriculture produce from Nashik in minimal time.  A senior railway officer said the parcel van transported 49 tonne of goods in the first run. “The Kisan Vishesh has the specific target of ensuring delivery of perishable goods in the shortest time possible. The railway has been successful in providing services at fairly cheaper price when compared to the road transportation,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/parcel-train-extended-till-muzaffarpur/articleshow/77578218.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Water board faces uphill task in collecting dues||HYDERABAD: Even after the launch of the ‘one time settlement’ (OTS) scheme, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is facing an uphill task of collecting nearly Rs 300 crore water dues from non-domestic consumers. Several business establishments and industries, which fall under the category of non-domestic consumers, are claiming that they are unable to pay the dues as they suffered losses due to the lockdown. The board hoped that consumers would come forward to clear the dues after the launch of OTS scheme as interest was waived off under this scheme. “Some establishments like lodges, hotels, shopping malls and hostels have expressed their inability to pay the dues as their business was hit hard due to the pandemic,” a water board official told TOI. Government departments owe about Rs 350 crore to the board. “We have written to the HoDs concerned. We plan to clear Rs 1,200 crore power dues,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-faces-uphill-task-in-collecting-dues/articleshow/77580712.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 17, 2020||Kolhapur||On I-Day, NGOs & forums donate medical equipment||Kolhapur: Kolhapur: The Indian Tricolour was hoisted at district collector’s office on Independence Day. Several organisations and individuals were felicitated for their social contributions. Most schools also held flag hoisting ceremonies but without the presence of students. The ceremony was streamed live on social media accounts instead. After hoisting the Tricolour on Saturday, district guardian minister Satej Patil requested various mandals and NGOs to hold plasma donation camps to save the lives of more Covid-19 patients. He said so far, 25 critical patients have been treated successfully with the help of plasma donated by 60 cured Covid-19 patients. Patil also inaugurated the renovated Dwarkanath Kotnis Isolation Hospital. He said Rs 59 lakh have been spent on the renovation and more oxygen and ICU beds have been made available. On the occasion of Independence Day, many NGOs and associations came forward to donate beds and ventilators to the Covid care centres. A forum donated billboards to be installed at various places in Kolhapur city. The boards have the details of dos and don’ts to avoid the spread of coronavirus. The Ghatge Group donated an ambulance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/on-i-day-ngos-forums-donate-medical-equipment/articleshow/77578236.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Wayanad: Police paste stickers on contacts’ houses of Covid-19 patients||KOZHIKODE: Police have decided to affix stickers on houses of all primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients in Wayanad to ensure strict enforcement of quarantine rules in the district. The sticker designed by the police contains information on the date of completion of quarantine, the total number of residents in the house, emergency contact numbers, including that of home delivery and telemedicine services. "Normally residents have information about people who have returned from foreign countries and other states and undergoing quarantine in their locality and they don't have much difficulty to know if a returnee violates quarantine. But information on primary and secondary contacts of Covid-19 patients is not easily available in public and affixing stickers in the houses of such contacts would enable the public to take necessary precautions and also monitor if people under quarantine are violating the rules," said district police chief R Ilango. He said that they hope to increase the community vigil on quarantine violations and also enlist the participation of the public in Covid-19 preventive measures. Meanwhile, 49 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Wayanad on Sunday, of which 35 contracted the infection through contact. Eight fresh cases from Chooralmala are the contacts of the rescue workers of the Mundakkai landslide who tested positive after the rescue operation on August 7. Also, two tested positive in the Valad cluster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wayanad-police-paste-stickers-on-contacts-houses/articleshow/77578246.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Agra||UP extends paediatrician Kafeel Khan’s detention for another 3 months, 3rd time this year||Agra: For the third time in a year, the detention of Gorakhpur paediatrician Dr Kafeel Khan under the stringent National Security Act (NSA) was extended for another three months by the Uttar Pradesh government. It comes against the backdrop of several social media campaigns seeking his release, and days before the hearing on habeas corpus petition filed by Khan’s mother in Allahabad high court. The petition was filed in Supreme Court on February 28. It was later transferred to the high court which has been hearing it since then. Recently, the apex court had directed the high court to dispose of the habeas corpus plea within 15 days. The court will now hear the petition on August 19. Meanwhile, the order to extend the detention came straight from the UP’s home department. It said that Khan’s detention has been extended till November 13. He is currently lodged in Mathura jail. Khan has been behind the bars since January 29 after a speech he had delivered at Aligarh Muslim University against the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act was deemed “provocative” by the UP government. He was later booked under the NSA hours before he was about to come out on bail on February 10. Detention under NSA allows the state to detain a person for up to 12 months, which can be extended if the state finds “fresh evidence”. Several appeals for Khan’s release have been made by his family members on social media platforms. Khan was in the news recently after a letter he wrote about the condition of the prison in Mathura was shared on social media. The four-page letter, purportedly written by him in June, spoke of the “hellish” conditions of his barracks, where 150 inmates were sharing just one toilet. In 2017, soon after chief minister Yogi Adityanath took over the reins of the state, over 60 children had died in a government hospital in his bastion Gorakhpur due to alleged oxygen shortage. Khan was charged with medical negligence and dereliction of duty and suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-extends-paediatrician-kafeel-khans-detention-for-another-3-months-3rd-time-this-year/articleshow/77578247.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||Green activist sends legal notice to DM Almora over relief camps inside reserve forest area||Dehradun: Environmental activists in Uttarakhand are up in arms against Almora district magistrate (DM) Nitin Bhadauria’s order to use rest houses in reserved forest areas as relief camps. A legal notice has now been sent to the DM in this regard by Amit Kholia, an environmental activist, who claims that the order is a violation of the Supreme Court direction (of July 5, 2019) which states that the district administration and the government cannot take charge of forest rest houses (FRHs) and inspection bungalows (IBs) inside forests. Earlier, on June 27, the DM had issued an order through which all the FRHs and IBs of the Almora district were acquired by the local administration for an indefinite time period for use as calamity relief camps. The control of these rest houses was granted to the respective sub-divisional magistrates. However, activist Kholia, in his legal notice, has dubbed the move “wilful and deliberate violation and disobedience of the order of the Supreme Court” and a “violation of Section 26 of the Indian Forest Act of 1927”, which prohibits entry into reserved forests. The legal notice reads, “The district administration has sufficient resources for establishment of calamity relief camps. There is no logical basis behind establishment of relief camps inside the reserved forest area in FRHs, especially in a situation when the state government officers already have sufficient resources for establishment of such camps in their respective jurisdiction.” Local activists are concerned that the move will turn the sensitive areas of reserved forests into public places and it will pose threat to the safety and the security of rich forest resources of Almora. The district has a rich presence of timber, medicinal herbs, and wild animals such as tigers, leopards and other animals. The activists have also alleged that this move will hinder the conservation works related to the forest and the wildlife of Almora Forest Division. The legal notice asks the district magistrate to revoke the order at the earliest. When queried on the issue, DM Bhadauria told TOI, “All the legal options are being explored and all the facilities are being taken up to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.” Meanwhile, a copy of the legal notice has also been sent to state chief secretary Om Prakash and to Anand Vardhan, principal secretary of the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/green-activist-sends-legal-notice-to-dm-almora-over-relief-camps-inside-reserve-forest-area/articleshow/77578262.cms||Shivani Azad
August 17, 2020||Agra||119 new Covid +ve cases in Bareilly, 54 in Meerut||Bareilly/Meerut/Agra: At least 119 new Covid-19 cases were reported from Bareilly district, taking the active cases to 2,114. Also, 95 deaths have been reported here, so far. In Shahjahanpur, 78 people were found positive while 24 have succumbed to the virus. In Meerut district, at least 54 cases tested positive on Sunday, taking the tally to 2,831. Also, one new death took the toll to 103, according to Meerut's chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar. Moreover, one Covid death was reported in Agra district on Sunday. A 54-year-old man died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Delhi. The resident of Awas Vikas Colony had a renal failure. His renal transplant had failed after he was tested Covid-19 positive. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to co-morbid condition. So far, 102 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. As many as 28 new Covid-19 cases also surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 2,318. Meanwhile, 43 Covid-19 patients were discharged. Of the 2,318 cases reported in the district, 81.6% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are 323 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/119-new-covid-ve-cases-in-bareilly-54-in-meerut/articleshow/77578253.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Home chefs back in business as WFHers crave for healthy fare||BENGALURU: It’s 10am. Aanchal Suri is in the kitchen, slicing vegetables, boiling pulses, kneading dough and making accompaniments like chutneys. She’s not expecting guests. The homemaker is preparing a variety of delicacies — from chicken curry with ghee-smeared parathas and sarson ka saag to makki di roti — to satiate the taste buds of her time-starved neighbours. Aanchal, 37, is among the growing breed of women catering to a demand for home-cooked meals among apartment dwellers, especially professionals who may not have the time, energy or inclination to cook before or after a gruelling work day. ‘WFHers’, people logging in remotely and often putting in longer hours, is another segment that prefers a supply of home-made meals amid uncertainty about the availability of cooks and domestic help. Pursuing their passion of cooking, home chefs are discovering their entrepreneurial side in the bargain. They were forced to suspend operations during the March-April lockdown, but many have started taking orders again. With health, hygiene and immunity becoming buzzwords amid a pandemic, they are exercising utmost caution while readying and dispatching food. Aanchal, who lives in Raindrops complex in Ambalipura, dishes out everything from ‘bhaturas to brownies’, which also happens to be the name of her venture. “I communicate on a WhatsApp group, where I post what I intend to cook the next day. Customers collect the food from my house in their own vessels,” she says, adding that some things may have changed from in the Covid era, but she still has a loyal customer base. “I don’t get party orders anymore and accept only digital payments. I Dunzo the meals to some clients living in a 3-km radius. Everyone is glad to savour a change of taste since dining out may not be their first option now,” says Aanchal. In Shafina Shahid’s kitchen, frequent sanitisation of cooktops has become the order of the day. “I ensure the help maintains hygiene and the delivery person (one of us) wears a mask and gloves,” says the 52-year-old who specialises in Kerala cuisine and finds many takers for pothichoru, idiyappam, chemmeen fry and varutharacha fish curry. “I have inherited my mother’s traditional recipes and have learned the art of making puddings from my mom-in-law. My family and friends encouraged me to try my hand at entrepreneurship. That’s how Amraa Foods was born,” says Bengalurean Shafina, who takes 40-50 orders a day from residents of Nikoo Homes 1, Bhartiya City, Hegde Nagar. For Padmaja Govindan, it began with a Republic Day food stall at her apartment complex in Hoodi, Gopalan Grandeur. “My daughter had been prodding me to start catering, saying working professionals who are pressed for time miss home food. I decided to give it a go. The stall received a phenomenal response and there’s been no looking back,” says the 58-year-old Kerala native, who lives with her daughter, son-in-law and grandkids. “I love experimenting and have never got a complaint,” says Padmaja, whose vast culinary repertoire ranges from Kerala dishes and North Indian fare to Chinese. Positive feedback from patrons and encouragement from family are a big boost for these home chefs. “I’ve been told my food transports people to their childhood and brings back memories of time spent with extended families, cousins and friends. Such compliments keep me going,” says Aanchal. SALAD SISTERSChop, toss, mix, garnish. Kiran Harjani, 42, and Monica Porwal, 50, can whip up a salad with anything from fresh greens and seasonal fruits to superfoods like coconuts, cranberries, avocados and almonds. The sisters run a venture called Healthylicious and operate through two WhatsApp groups, one for residents of Adarsh Palm Retreat in Bellandur and another for those living in and around Cunningham Road. “Since we resumed operations post lockdown, we’ve added new salads and immunity-boosting herbal tea to our product line. Sourcing raw materials was a struggle initially with markets closed, so we tied up with some entrepreneurs and farmers. Though the number of orders has fallen, the response has been positive. From packaging to delivery, we adhere to all norms to keep our customers safe,” says Kiran. Their journey began when they catered for a friend’s party and were encouraged to take their food to a larger clientele. “There’s no greater satisfaction than a delighted mother leaving us a message saying her child devoured the salad and there was none left for her,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/home-chefs-back-in-business-as-wfhers-crave-for-healthy-fare/articleshow/77588179.cms||Shubhi Mehrotra
August 17, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Covid hits Attapadi tribal lands, 1 dead, 23 positive||PALAKKAD: The Covid-19 pandemic has penetrated the tribal heartland of Attpadi where a first case was reported Friday, first death on Saturday and a total of 23 positive cases have been reported till Sunday. There are eight cases with unknown sources, including the Circle Inspector of Police and two constables of the Agali police station. According to nodal officer of tribal health, Dr Prabhudas, there are 121 under quarantine in Attapadi. For the last six months, till Friday, the tribal area had kept the virus at bay with stringent efforts by the Health Department and the cooperation of 40,000 members of the community. The 73-year-old tribal woman of the Kulappady tribal hamlet at Palur in Pudur Grama Panchayat who died on Saturday, was buried at Palur on Sunday following the Covid protocol, said Dr Prabhudas. The major problem faced by Attapadi is that its Covid First-Line Treatment Centre set up with 200 beds has not started functioning due to the non-appointment of doctors and other medical staff. As a result, the Covid positive patients had to be shifted to the Palakkad district hospital about 100km away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-hits-attapadi-tribal-lands-1-dead-23-positive/articleshow/77578277.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ahmedabad||Faith and festivities in time of Covid-19 in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: It was a confluence of faiths and festivities for Amdavadis on August 15 and 16. While the citizens celebrated Independence Day, members of Jain community marked the beginning of Paryushan. For Parsis in the city, Sunday was Navroz to usher in the New Year. With Agiaris closed due to Covid-19, Parsi families in the city ushered the new year at home offering prayers and drawing rangolis. Many families did not even order flowers and sweetmeats from outside to prevent Covid spread. At various city churches, August 16 was the first day after the unlock to perform Sunday mass and hold service. At Ranipur Church under CNI Gujarat diocese, it was the prayer meet with social distancing and protection against Covid-19. The volunteers checked temperature of all the attendees as wearing mask was mandatory. While the devotees celebrated Janmashtami last week, Monday on August 17 would be the last Monday of holy Shravan month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/faith-and-festivities-in-time-of-covid-19/articleshow/77579623.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Varanasi||Two cops suspended, one transferred in village head murder||VARANASI: Inspector Tarva and outpost in-charge had been suspended while CO Lalganj was transferred on Sunday following violence at Raseypur police outpost by a mob of villagers angered over the killing of head of Bansgao village of Tarva area in Azamgarh Satyamev Jayate alias Pappu Ram on Saturday late evening. The villagers had damaged many vehicles and also ransacked Raseypur police outpost and set it afire. SP Azamgarh Triveni Singh told TOI on Sunday that, “A named FIR has been lodged in the killing of the village head. We have taken 12 of their shelter providers under custody and efforts are on for their early arrest. All the accused have criminal history. Inspector Tarva and Raseypur outpost in-charge had been suspended on Saturday while CO Lalganj was also transferred in the same connection on Sunday. The situation is under control, however, the police force is still deployed in the village as a precautionary measure. According to reports, on August 14 late evening Pappu Ram was passing through a private school in village outskirts when the miscreants reached there and opened fire on him killing him on the spot. Later, they went to Pappu’s home to inform his family members that they had killed him and fled the scene. As soon as the news spread hundreds of natives of Bansgao village blocked the road outside the village and staged a massive demonstration. On getting information heavy police force reached the site. The angry mob of villagers damaged many vehicles and set them ablaze, and also raided Raseypur police outpost. After ransacking the outpost, they set it on fire. Police had to exercise hard till late night to pacify the situation. Official ensure financial assistance for Pappu Rams family. During the violence a 10-year-old boy was killed after being run over by some vehicle. SP Azamgarh said that special teams of police have been engaged for early arrest of the killers and a separate case has been registered regarding the death of the minor boy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/two-cops-suspended-one-transferred-in-village-head-murder/articleshow/77580747.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Delhi||Two many cooks? Education recipe fuels debate in Delhi||NEW DELHI: On August 10, Manish Sisodia, Delhi’s deputy chief minister and education minister, reacting strongly to reports of North Delhi Municipal Corporation’s inability to pay its teachers or provide textbooks to primary school students, declared that Delhi government was ready to take over corporation-run schools in case of such deficiencies. But the issue of who should run these schools is not new. The matter has even reached the courts, while separate education committees have suggested since 1993 that the capital’s schools should be run under one administration. In Delhi, the primary schools with classes from I to V are run mostly by the three municipal corporations, some by the New Delhi Municipal Council and the Cantonment Board. The secondary and senior secondary schools are run by Delhi government, though around 400 of them have primary sections too. Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957, obligates the civic bodies to run the primary schools. Till June 30, 1970, the erstwhile MCD also ran some 400 middle schools and 11 senior secondary schools. From July 1 that year, Delhi government took over these schools. The corporations say it is their prerogative under the DMC Act to run the primary schools. A miffed Jai Prakash, mayor of north corporation, retorted to Sisodia’s statement with, “What the deputy CM is saying is akin to the central government wanting to take over Delhi government functions.” He argued, “Delhi government has to pay Rs 590 crore to the corporation under the head of salaries for teachers, but has as yet released only Rs 245 crore. We are also supposed to get Rs 100 crore for furniture and as cash subsidy for uniforms, textbooks and stationery, but not one rupee has been given.” Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in the north civic body, added to the exchanges by asking why the problem of unpaid salaries and financing were never felt during the time of the Congress government led by Sheila Dikshit. “Why have these funding issues cropped up during the AAP government’s tenure?” said Chawla. Sisodia’s ready counter was that Delhi government had given Rs 853 crore to the three corporations for primary schools, Rs 393.3 crore to north corporation alone. In a letter to the Union urban development ministry, Sisodia alleged that the fund meant for education expenses was being diverted for other uses. While the clashing views have more to do with the politics of the city, education experts actually believe that bringing the schools under one administration offered many advantages. Advocate Ashok Agarwal pointed out that the A K Sharma Committee had recommended precisely this in 1993. “A K Sharma, who was then the NCERT director, recommended doing away with double-shift schools and bringing all institutions under one umbrella,” Agarwal noted. “In 2003-04, MCD opposed my court petition on this, citing the DMC Act. When I went to court again in 2018-19 to press for a single administration for schools, nothing could be done because of legal hurdles arising from the DMC Act.” In 2009, an NCERT panel, working out how to implement the Right to Education Act, came to the same conclusion as the AK Sharma Commission. Shailendra Sharma, adviser to the director of education, recalled a National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration study led by Professor Nalini Juneja in early 2000. In her report, she used the analogy of a “blocked chimney” for the “failing municipal schools”, and said that parents preferred a composite school where their children could study up to Class XII without having to change institutions midway. Having schools under one administration will also stem the falling transition rates, said Jennifer Spencer, project co-ordinator at Praja Foundation, which has regularly released study reports on the state of school education in Delhi. “The low transition rate is a major problem,” explained Spencer. “When students move from the corporation schools to secondary schools, there is a fall in enrolment, indicating a high drop-out rate.” A municipal official, however, said enrolment was on the wane even in Delhi government schools and insisted that corporation schools too had improved over the years. “We have smart classes and have roped in NGOs to create new education models,” he said. Sharma said an integrated school system was all the more important under the 15-year structure proposed by the new National Education Policy. “If a child joins a Delhi government school after spending almost eight years in a schooling system where the foundational and preparatory learning needs are not met, we will be back to square one. So, in the interest of children, this dual arrangement between municipal and Delhi government should cease to exist,” declared Sharma. While Anita Rampal, former faculty of education dean, Delhi University, felt quality could improve through a “collaborative arrangement” facilitated by the state government, Spencer injected a word of caution: “It is not about moving from one building to another. Do the corporation schools have the infrastructure for additional senior classes? It is also important to look at the teacher-student ratio.” Agarwal felt the primary institutions had the infrastructure and space that could help upgrade them into senior secondary schools. “There are close to 10 lakh children in Delhi who are out of school. So expansion is crucial in providing education to all,” he said. Meanwhile, wracked by non-payment of salaries, teachers are ready to work in any system so long as they, or their students, are not made to suffer in the tussle between agencies. Ramniwas Solanki, general secretary, Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh, said, “The 19,000 teachers of corporation schools are prepared for any system, but the salaries and funds meant for education must be released on time. Teachers and students are being made to suffer in this tussle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-many-cooks-education-recipe-fuels-debate/articleshow/77579493.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 17, 2020||Goa||‘Entries invited, but modalities to host Iffi not ready’||PANAJI: After inviting entries under the Indian Panorama section for the 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (Iffi), entries have now also been called from filmmakers for screening under the international section. While calling entries, it has been said that Iffi 2020 is expected to be a ‘hybrid festival’ and filmmakers’ consent has been sought on whether they would agree to screening of their film only in theatres, only on the virtual platform or to both. Sources in the state, however, said that no concrete decision has been taken yet on organisation of the film festival and in what manner the festival will be hosted this year. Annually, the festival is held in Goa from November 20 to 28. “Everything depends on the situation of Covid-19 cases in the country in a month or so. It is difficult to say at present and so no decision has been taken yet on how we can go about hosting the festival this year, the DFF has conveyed. The film entries have been called because it is not possible to complete this process later at a short notice,” said a source. While chief minister Pramod Sawant had earlier said that the Iffi would be held this year as scheduled, the source said that a festival screening committee meeting has been planned in Delhi with officials of the directorate of film festivals to take a call on hosting of Iffi. “The CM and select officials from the state will be called to Delhi for the meeting, where it will be discussed how the festival can be held based on the scenario of Covid at the time. The meeting date has not been fixed. It will have to take place after some time to be able to get a realistic picture then,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/entries-invited-but-modalities-to-host-iffi-not-ready/articleshow/77581189.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||No water crisis in Nagpur as Pench dams full||NAGPUR: Totladoh and Kamptee Khairi dams of Pench River, main source of city’s water supply, have filled upto brim leading to opening of their gates. It also means there will be no raw drinking water shortage for the city and sufficient water will be available for for irrigation in Nagpur and Bhandara districts. Koradi and Khaparkheda thermal power stations will also have sufficient water. Jayant Gavli, superintending engineer of Water Resources Department (WRD) told TOI, “10 of 14 gates of Totladoh reservoir and 12 of 16 gates of Kamptee Khairi were opened on Sunday. The dams were filled upto 95% with rains received in their own catchment. On Saturday, four gates of Totladoh were opened. We got alert that Madhya Pradesh (MP) government had opened gates of Chaurai dam upstream of Totladoh. Hence, we opened more gates on Sunday.” Gavli added there would be sufficient raw drinking water for the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), irrigation and other consumers for one year, especially next summer. “Still, over 45 days of monsoon is left which means more rains,” he said. The live storage capacity of Totladoh reservoir is 1,017 million metre cube (MMC) and that of Kamptee Khairi reservoir is 142 MMC for a total of 1,159 MMC. The city had to face water cuts for three days in a week in summer of 2019. The live storage of Pench dams was nil forcing WRD to give use dead storage. Then rains played truant in early part of monsoon in 2019 and the dams did not get sufficient water creating panic. Irrigation for kharif crop was affected to a great extent. Then, good rainfall occurred in catchment area of Chaurai dam in Chhindwara district of MP which led to opening of its gates in October and filling up of Totladoh and Kamptee Khairi as well. This ensured there was no shortage of water for irrigation in rabi season last year and no crisis for city’s drinking water supply in summer this year. Pench dams were left with around 55% storage at the end of summer. This and timely rainfall this season led to early filling up of dams. The chances of opening of all gates of Totladoh and Kamptee Khairi, respectively, in next few days cannot be ruled out. If that happens and rains continue in region, it will lead to full storage in Gosikhurd dam and opening of its gates too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-water-crisis-in-city-as-pench-dams-full/articleshow/77581011.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 17, 2020||Mangaluru||Marginal dip in Covid cases on coast||MANGALURU/UDUPI: There was a marginal dip in Covid-19 cases in Dakshina Kannada (DK) and Udupi on Sunday. The combined tally of the districts was 466 cases on the day, against 512 cases on Saturday. While Udupi accounted for 239 out of 466 cases, DK that also reported seven Covid-related deaths, reported 229 cases. With this, the total Covid-19 related fatalities in DK rose to 269 while it remained at 77 in Udupi. A majority of the cases—107 in all in Udupi—were primary contacts of previously infected patients, and the source of infection in 84 people is being traced, said deputy commissioner G Jagadeesha, adding that 45 patients were categorised as suffering from influenza like illness (ILI) and one was diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI). In a reversal from Saturday, 170 patients including 87 men were found to be asymptomatic, the DC said. In Dakshina Kannada, 123 patients who tested positive were categorised as those suffering from ILI, the source of infection in 78 patients is being traced, 22 are primary contacts of existing patients and six patients had SARI. A majority of the 229 patients, that is 131, including 45 women were symptomatic, DC Dr K V Rajendra said. There were no instances of either domestic or international travellers testing positive during the day, Dr Rajendra said. A total 260 patients were discharged in Udupi on Saturday, taking its total tally of discharged patients to 5,361, and thereby pared its active cases to 2,537, against total positive cases of 7,975. Health authorities in Dakshina Kannada discharged 128 patients during the day, bringing down its active cases to 2,164 against total positive cases of 8,878. The district as on date has seen 6,445 patients discharged after being treated, the respective DCs stated in their district bulletins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/marginal-dip-in-covid-cases-on-coast/articleshow/77577436.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Agra||Dhoni ‘the paratrooper’ knew how to land smoothly||AGRA: After over 16 years of cricket, Indian team's former caption, Mahendra Singh Dhoni's decision to hang up his pads remained a subject of discussion among the people of Agra on Sunday. Many recalled when Dhoni came to the city in August 2015, to undergo rigerous training at the Paratrooper Training School (PTS) to become a paratrooper. He was conferred with the hononary rank of Lieutenant Colonel in the Territorial Army in November, 2011. Dhoni demonstrated that he was "Captain Cool* not just on the cricket field but beyond when he undertook jumps from 10,000 feet in the sky, say those in the know. He successfully completed five jumps, including one at night, at Malpura dropping zone before qualifying to wear the coveted Para Wings insignia on August 21, 2015. According to a source, in his first jump on August 19, Dhoni was the first among a group of five troopers to jump from a height of 1,250 feet and made a smooth landing in 65 seconds. Using the static line parachute, he completed five jumps from an AN-32 transport aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) within 72 hours. Amid the training, Dhoni managed to find time to oblige his fans in the Army and IAF and also interact with students. He never said no to any request for an autograph or a selfie. Last year, Dhoni had served the Army in Kashmir and undertook the duties of patrolling, guard and post duty for about 15 days till August 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dhoni-the-paratrooper-knew-how-to-land-smoothly/articleshow/77578267.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Online interviews hit MHRD hurdle||KOZHIKODE: The directive by the Ministry of Human Resources and Development (MHRD) against conducting online interviews for teacher appointments could affect the plans of varsities in the state. The Kannur University has conducted several teacher appointments after holding online interviews while the shortlisting of applications for as many as 116 teacher appointments is underway at the Calicut University and Cusat conducted online interviews for faculty appointments to two posts last week. The MHRD has in a letter to the vice-chancellor of the Central University of Rajasthan directed that it is not advisable to conduct online interviews for selection of teaching faculty. "Moreover a policy decision on the online recruitment of teaching faculties is yet to be taken in the Ministry. I would, therefore, request you to call off the online recruitment process with immediate effect and cancel the online selection meetings held so far," Bharat Bhushan Bhagat, deputy secretary of MHRD, said in a letter dated July 29. Following the issuance of the directive by the MHRD, various organisations in the state have come out against the varsities' moves. In a letter to MHRD, the Save University Campaign Committee said that the interview conducted by Kannur University through Skype was unprecedented, irregular, and contrary to the approved time-honoured rules for appointment of teaching faculties in universities. "It is understood that rules are set aside or violated to suit video conferencing and Skype interviews are carried out using the pandemic exigency as a shield. However, the appointment of teachers in the University can never be in the exigent priority list in the face of an unprecedented pandemic," said R S Sasikumar and M Shajir Khan, chairman, and secretary respectively of the committee. They have demanded that necessary direction should be issued to the vice-chancellor of Kannur University to cancel all the interviews held so far and withhold online interviews until proper guidelines are formulated. Kerala Higher Education Forum has also said that online interview would lead to corruption in the recruitment process and could even lead to impersonation during interviews. Meanwhile, Calicut University syndicate member K K Haneefa said: “If we are holding the interviews in the online mode, the varsity would prepare guidelines beforehand to ensure that the process is foolproof, transparent, and confidentiality." However, UDF affiliated syndicate member, Rasheed Ahammed said that the online interviews for faculty appointments have not been prescribed or approved by the UGC and could lead to candidates resorting to unfair means to gain an advantage. “Also UGC stipulates that candidates should exhibit his/ her teaching prowess by giving classroom lecture. If Calicut University conducts an online interview, we will challenge it legally," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/online-interviews-hit-mhrd-hurdle/articleshow/77585954.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Agra||When Dhoni was captivated by a bike modified by an Agra resident||Agra: Everyone knows of Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s love of fast bikes. But few know of the time the former captain of the Indian cricket team was captivated by a modified thumper in Agra. Dhoni had discussed in detail about the specification of a 2005 Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycle modified by Baluganj resident Firoz Khan, owner of Firoz Motorcycle House. Firoz has not forgotten August 10, 2015, when he had met Dhoni on his visit to Agra for training at the Paratroopers Training School as a lieutenant colonel in the Territorial Army. Firoz Ali (49) has been repairing and modifying bikes for Army personnel for years. On August 10, he received a call from a senior Army officer, who asked him to bring his modified 550cc Bullet to his residence in the cantonment area in the evening. Firoz was surprised when the officer introduced him to M S Dhoni. Firoz said, “Dhoni couldn’t keep his eyes away from my bike. Like a teen, he enquired about its specifications, checked its exhaust system and engine. He liked the bike’s music system feature and tri-colour lighting. After he took a test drive, we interacted about motorcycles for over 30 minutes. He has deep knowledge of bikes. I was awestruck by his humility.” Later, Dhoni took the bike belonging to an Army officer and went on a ride wearing a black helmet to avoid being recognised. He spent around 20 minutes riding it in Sadar Bazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/when-dhoni-was-captivated-by-a-bike-modified-by-an-agra-resident/articleshow/77578290.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Bareilly||73 women inmates test Covid +ve at shelter home in Bareilly||Bareilly: At least 73 inmates of a women shelter home were found positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly district over a period of two days. All the inmates are asymptomatic and they have been quarantined at the two-storey home. The health department is now trying to identify the source of the infection and has quarantined all those who were tested positive along with the inmates. Earlier, a support staff member had tested positive for the virus.On Sunday, district probation officer Neeta Ahirwar told TOI, “There are around 200 inmates at the shelter home. All of them were tested for Covid-19 where 73 have been found positive. Since all of them are asymptomatic, we have isolated them at the shelter home. A team of doctors is regularly visiting the place and providing medicine.”Additional CMO Dr Ashok Kumar said, “We have sanitised the shelter home. As of now, we have not shifted any inmate to the hospital because all of them are asymptomatic. Emergency services are also available.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/73-women-inmates-test-covid-ve-at-shelter-home-in-bareilly/articleshow/77576111.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 17, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Online interviews hit MHRD hurdle||KOZHIKODE: The directive by the Ministry of Human Resources and Development (MHRD) against conducting online interviews for teacher appointments could affect the plans of varsities in the state. The Kannur University has conducted several teacher appointments after holding online interviews while the shortlisting of applications for as many as 116 teacher appointments is underway at the Calicut University and Cusat conducted online interviews for faculty appointments to two posts last week. The MHRD has in a letter to the vice-chancellor of the Central University of Rajasthan directed that it is not advisable to conduct online interviews for selection of teaching faculty. "Moreover a policy decision on the online recruitment of teaching faculties is yet to be taken in the Ministry. I would, therefore, request you to call off the online recruitment process with immediate effect and cancel the online selection meetings held so far," Bharat Bhushan Bhagat, deputy secretary of MHRD, said in a letter dated July 29. Following the issuance of the directive by the MHRD, various organisations in the state have come out against the varsities' moves. In a letter to MHRD, the Save University Campaign Committee said that the interview conducted by Kannur University through Skype was unprecedented, irregular, and contrary to the approved time-honoured rules for appointment of teaching faculties in universities. "It is understood that rules are set aside or violated to suit video conferencing and Skype interviews are carried out using the pandemic exigency as a shield. However, the appointment of teachers in the University can never be in the exigent priority list in the face of an unprecedented pandemic," said R S Sasikumar and M Shajir Khan, chairman, and secretary respectively of the committee. They have demanded that necessary direction should be issued to the vice-chancellor of Kannur University to cancel all the interviews held so far and withhold online interviews until proper guidelines are formulated. Kerala Higher Education Forum has also said that online interview would lead to corruption in the recruitment process and could even lead to impersonation during interviews. Meanwhile, Calicut University syndicate member K K Haneefa said: “If we are holding the interviews in the online mode, the varsity would prepare guidelines beforehand to ensure that the process is foolproof, transparent, and confidentiality." However, UDF affiliated syndicate member, Rasheed Ahammed said that the online interviews for faculty appointments have not been prescribed or approved by the UGC and could lead to candidates resorting to unfair means to gain an advantage. “Also UGC stipulates that candidates should exhibit his/ her teaching prowess by giving classroom lecture. If Calicut University conducts an online interview, we will challenge it legally," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/online-interviews-hit-mhrd-hurdle/articleshow/77585956.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Online interviews hit MHRD hurdle||KOZHIKODE: The directive by the Ministry of Human Resources and Development (MHRD) against conducting online interviews for teacher appointments could affect the plans of varsities in the state. The Kannur University has conducted several teacher appointments after holding online interviews while the shortlisting of applications for as many as 116 teacher appointments is underway at the Calicut University and Cusat conducted online interviews for faculty appointments to two posts last week. The MHRD has in a letter to the vice-chancellor of the Central University of Rajasthan directed that it is not advisable to conduct online interviews for selection of teaching faculty. "Moreover a policy decision on the online recruitment of teaching faculties is yet to be taken in the Ministry. I would, therefore, request you to call off the online recruitment process with immediate effect and cancel the online selection meetings held so far," Bharat Bhushan Bhagat, deputy secretary of MHRD, said in a letter dated July 29. Following the issuance of the directive by the MHRD, various organisations in the state have come out against the varsities' moves. In a letter to MHRD, the Save University Campaign Committee said that the interview conducted by Kannur University through Skype was unprecedented, irregular, and contrary to the approved time-honoured rules for appointment of teaching faculties in universities. "It is understood that rules are set aside or violated to suit video conferencing and Skype interviews are carried out using the pandemic exigency as a shield. However, the appointment of teachers in the University can never be in the exigent priority list in the face of an unprecedented pandemic," said R S Sasikumar and M Shajir Khan, chairman, and secretary respectively of the committee. They have demanded that necessary direction should be issued to the vice-chancellor of Kannur University to cancel all the interviews held so far and withhold online interviews until proper guidelines are formulated. Kerala Higher Education Forum has also said that online interview would lead to corruption in the recruitment process and could even lead to impersonation during interviews. Meanwhile, Calicut University syndicate member K K Haneefa said: “If we are holding the interviews in the online mode, the varsity would prepare guidelines beforehand to ensure that the process is foolproof, transparent, and confidentiality." However, UDF affiliated syndicate member, Rasheed Ahammed said that the online interviews for faculty appointments have not been prescribed or approved by the UGC and could lead to candidates resorting to unfair means to gain an advantage. “Also UGC stipulates that candidates should exhibit his/ her teaching prowess by giving classroom lecture. If Calicut University conducts an online interview, we will challenge it legally," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/online-interviews-hit-mhrd-hurdle/articleshow/77578307.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Bareilly||Cane admin to promote crop residue mulching to raise humus & improve soil fertility||Pilibhit: The state sugarcane administration has issued an advisory to farmers to prioritise formation of humus in sugarcane fields, thereby drastically cutting down use of chemical fertilisers and letting soil fertility rise naturally, after UP Council of Sugarcane Research (UPCSR) filed an evaluation report on soil health. The UPCSR report is based on testing of soil samples collected from all 44 sugarcane dominant districts in the state.According to UP principal secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry, Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, testing of soil samples was carried out by UPCSR to find out effects of fertilisers on soil, given to them by the department in accordance with soil health cards.“The evaluation report has revealed lower than normal level of organic carbons in the soil, in addition to deficiency of nitrogen, phosphorus and manganese in most of the samples, which can adversely affect soil health and growth of sugarcane crop,” Bhoosreddy said.Talking to TOI, UPCSR director Jai Singh said the soil needs at least 0.65% organic carbon for proper chemical composition and biological productivity, including fertility and nutrient holding capacity.The Ph (potential of hydrogen) level, a unit for measuring acidity or alkalinity in soil, was found between 6.5 and 7.5 (almost normal), which is generally required for healthy growth of sugarcane, as well as other crops sowed along with cane under the intercropping method. The ideal Ph range could, however, vary from crop to crop, Singh said.“Soil Ph plays a crucial role in solubility of minerals and nutrients, as until they are properly dissolved in soil solution, they can’t be absorbed by crops,” he added.Bhoosreddy said district cane officers across the state have been directed to promote mulching of crop residue among farmers, to convert it into organic matter, in addition to using vermicompost and bio-fertilisers like cow dung and green manure, which is helpful in naturally improving soil health and fertility.“Sugarcane crop produces 8 tonnes of dry leaves per hectare, as well as 22-27 tonnes of underground roots and stumps. If this quantum of residue is utilised for humus formation, it will not only enhance fertility but also strengthen moisture retaining capacity of the soil. As a result, sugarcane growers can easily make considerable savings on reduced irrigation and fertilization,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cane-admin-to-promote-crop-residue-mulching-to-raise-humus-improve-soil-fertility/articleshow/77576117.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Presidency University online admission process for BA, BSc courses starts tomorrow||KOLKATA: Presidency University is set to start the online application process for admission to the three-year (six semesters) full-time undergraduate BA and BSc courses (major/ honours) for 2020-21 at 4pm on Tuesday. The aspirants will be able to submit their applications till noon, September 1. The tentative date for publishing the first merit list is September 5. The general merit list (GMR) will be prepared based on the academic score. A candidate may apply for not more than two subjects. In case of a tie, the candidates will be judged considering their percentage of aggregate marks obtained in HS or twelfth standard examination in the first instance. The candidate obtaining more aggregate marks will have better rank. “If it’s still a tie, the process will be repeated, taking into consideration the marks obtained by them in Madhyamik or equivalent 10th standard examination. “Even after that there is a tie, the candidates will be placed in the same rank and will be considered for admission with ‘bunching effect’,” said registrar Debajyoti Konar. Candidates with International ‘A’ level or International Baccalaureate qualifications must have at least three subjects at the IGCSE (International General Certificate of Secondary Education) level and three subjects at the ‘A’ level, with English in either of the two levels. Presidency University has discontinued its traditional policy of holding entrance tests that started in the 1970s. The university admissions committee has included the Madhyamik or Class-X scores this year to judge the excellence of an aspirant as it gives an understanding of the overall merit of a candidate. “In the absence of the actual evaluation in some important subjects due to the suspended exams, only those who have been consistent in their performance will be able to find a seat,” pointed out a teacher. Jadavpur University has already included a similar requirement for applicants where many science and even a few humanities departments had sought to include Madhyamik marks based on only the HS score.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/presi-online-admission-process-for-ba-bsc-courses-starts-tomorrow/articleshow/77580835.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 17, 2020||Goa||Vasco tops mortality list at 45%||PANAJI: An area-wise analysis of the state’s Covid deaths put Vasco and its surrounding areas at the top of the list followed by Margao, Mapusa and Bicholim. Goa’s Covid deaths hit the century mark on Sunday with 104 deaths. Interestingly, even as 45% of the mortalities were cases from Vasco (including Chicalim), Mangor Hill — Goa’s first containment zone with over 300 cases — reported only three deaths. Most of the port town’s Covid deaths were from New Vaddem, Vasco town, Sada and Baina. Margao came right behind Vasco with 16 deaths. The Margao urban health centre overtook the Vasco urban health centre only last week with over 400 active positive cases. Most of the deaths in Margao have been from the town area, Aquem, Fatorda and Gogol. Mapusa and Bicholim were next on the list with five Covid deaths each. The rest of the deceased are from other parts of the state. The capital city of Panaji has reported two deaths till date. The youngest to have died till date is a 14-year-old female from Vasco and an 89-year-old from Margao who died on Saturday. Interestingly several 90-year-olds have been cured. Goa saw its first Covid death on June 22, and touched the century mark on Sunday, in a period of 56 days. Four deaths were reported in June, 41 in July. August has been the worst month till date with 59 deaths in 16 days accounting for more than half — 57% — of the total mortalities since June. Not a single day has gone by in August without a Covid death reported with up to seven reported on a single day. This was seen on August 4 and on Independence Day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-tops-mortality-list-at-45/articleshow/77581233.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||An inclusive move: Reserved seats for transgenders in Kolkata buses||KOLKATA: Kolkata’s transgender commuters will now have designated seats in some of the city’s public buses. The movement to reserve at least one bus seat for the third gender was officially launched on Sunday. The person behind the idea is 23-year-old Sobhan Mukherjee, who was nicknamed “Kolkata’s padman” two years ago for setting up sanitary napkin vending boxes in public toilets. He has also been instrumental in installing transgender toilets in the city. Demanding seats for transgender people in public transport is his latest project. Supporting Mukherjee in this endeavour is the Joint Council of Bus Syndicates (JCBS), the umbrella organization for 42,000-odd privately owned public buses in the city. The process to reserve the seats in 36 buses on 205 and 205A routes, which ply between Bansdroni in south Kolkata and Babughat in the central business district, started on Friday. The seats are being called “Tridhara”. The seats have stickers and signs pasted over them, indicating that they are meant for transgender people. Tapan Banerjee, secretary, JCBS, told TOI: “We are against reservation in any form. However, we are allowing this quota on the buses because this is the only way we can send across the message of including this marginalized and much-abused community in the mainstream.” Banerjee is corresponding with the transport department to introduce similar reservations in buses across the state. “Our project, ‘Tridhara’, referring to the third gender, seeks to apprise transporters that transmen and transwomen are an integral part of our society,” said Mukherjee, who had been witness to the humiliation meted out to his transgender friend Ranjita Sinha, and decided to take up the matter with the policymakers. Four years ago, Sinha, who is an activist and a social worker, was asked to get off a Metro coach when she was trying to take a seat.  “We want to show everyone that trans people deserve as much respect as anybody else,” Mukherjee said. “We set aside only one seat near the driver’s cabin because we didn’t want to reduce too many general seats, which are few because of reserved ladies’ seats,” he said. Sinha, who has been a member of the state transgender board, pointed to March, 2020, Delhi HC order that directed DTC and DMRC to treat transgenders’ plea for reservation of seats in public buses and Metros as their representation to the public transporters. “The plea had also sought free-of-cost travels on DMRC trains for transgender passengers. Why can’t Kolkata Metro come up with similar policies?” Sinha asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/an-inclusive-move-reserved-seats-for-transgenders-in-city-buses/articleshow/77580856.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||‘MCI exam advisory may put students in jeopardy’||Kolkata: A Medical Council of India (MCI) advisory, which says no MBBS batch should move to the next level of the course without examination, may pose problems for the medical colleges in Bengal, fear educationists. The August 8 MCI advisory stated that medical colleges should aim to complete the first MBBS course — including labs and practical demonstrations — within two months of re-opening of colleges, after the Centre and the state allow, and that the examinations should be completed within a month. The three-month period, experts said, will create a lag, which will have an impact first on the new medical students and then pose a challenge for the senior MBBS students. This could even delay their examination schedule, they said. Amiya Kumar Maity, a former SSKM doctor who now heads an educational and medical research institute in south Kolkata, said, “Any such delay will have a devastating cascading effect on the subsequent medical batches and the interns. At a time when UGC is insisting only on terminal semester examinations, this MCI advisory appears contradictory.” “Moreover, the Central Council for Homeopathy, Indian Nursing Council and AIIMS, Patna, have decided to move the first-year students to next year, given the pandemic and the uncertainty,” he added. Maity and several other senior doctor-academics have also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to promote medical and dental students to their next academic years. The letter mentions that medical examinations are conducted based on an apex court order. Bengal has an intake capacity of around 4,000 MBBS students every year. A senior official of the West Bengal University of Health Sciences said the institute had been conducting the medical examinations as per schedule till now. In July, some medical students had moved Calcutta High Court pleading that their second and third MBBS examinations — from July 14 to 21 — be delayed. The students said that many of them were from outside Bengal and were unable to travel back in the absence of regular train and bus services. The high court, however, refused to delay it. It directed that WBUHS controller of examinations to consider rescheduling the examinations for students who fail to appear due to genuine reasons. “The next medical examinations in Bengal are in December,” an official said. However, sources pointed out that the MCI advisory can disrupt the first-year MBBS examination schedule in Bengal. The course was scheduled to be completed on August 31 and, as per the apex court mandate, the examinations were to start in September first week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mci-exam-advisory-may-put-students-in-jeopardy/articleshow/77580837.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Puja scaled down, some go online||NEW DELHI: The pandemic might have scaled down the celebration of festivals in the past few months, but the spirit among people is still quite high. A group from the city has come up with the innovative idea of organising Ganesh puja through Facebook Live for its over two lakh regular visitors who can’t be present at the pandal physically. Since the past 18 years, Ganesh Sewa Mandal from Laxmi Nagar has been organising “Delhi Ka Maharaja”, a Ganesh Mahotsav that lasts 10 days. However, this year they have limited the celebrations to just two days keeping in mind social distancing norms and government guidelines. During the celebrations, which would start on August 22, darshan slots of 30 minutes would be kept for the group’s members. A maximum of 20 people would be accommodated in each slot. Sanitisation of the premises would be carried out before the next group steps in. Mahendra Ladda, founder president of the group, said since times had changed, the celebrations were also altered. “We are following the government’s guidelines and have reduced the celebrations by eight days. For all members who cannot be accommodated for the physical darshan of Ganpati, a Facebook Live has been arranged so that nobody misses out on the puja,” he said. Another group, Lal Bagh ka Raja in Pitampura, has cancelled its event completely. Dilli ke Raja, a third group organising Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations, has not yet decided on setting up their pandal. However, its president, Mandeep Singh Malhotra, said they were planning to organise the event at a temple in Ramesh Nagar. “Our Ganeshji comes from Mumbai every year. This time, too, he has arrived. However, unlike the usual 12-foot idol, this time it is just four feet high. We have been in two minds about the place of celebrations. But we are likely to finalise on the temple,” said Malhotra. Vinod Deshmukh, founder of Ganesh Maratha Mandal Chandni Chowk, said they had cut their 11-day programme to just a day and a half to ensure a huge crowd doesn’t gather at their puja spot near the cycle market. “We are abiding by the guidelines and will ensure that social distancing norms are followed,” he added. Meanwhile, the same guidelines have been put in place for Muharram, another prominent day that sees heavy crowds on the city roads. Watch Delhi: Puja scaled down due to Covid-19, some go online||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/puja-scaled-down-some-go-online/articleshow/77579545.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 17, 2020||Pune||Nine-year-old talks of anger, time management||PUNE: Teeya Doshi (9), a student of Victorious Kidss Educares, recently wooed an audience of around 30 parents when she addressed them on the topic of ‘Adult Time and Anger Management’. Teeya displayed her skill of her powerful communication that she has progressively developed over the last four years. A statement issued by the school said, Teeya, a student of the fifth grade, awed and stunned the audience with her applied intelligence, understanding, knowledge and confidence. Teeya’s mother, Priyanka Doshi, said, “Where many adults fail to understand the concept of time and anger management, she has learnt and mastered these skills. She also displayed her stage management skill and kept the audience engrossed by playing instrumental songs and the national anthem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/9-yr-old-talks-of-anger-time-management/articleshow/77579578.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Trichy||Work begins for Trichy’s second multi-level car parking project||Trichy: Trichy Corporation has launched the work for the Multi-Level Car Parking (MLCP) cum vegetable market at Kaliammankoil street near Chathiram bus stand, a year after the proposal was mooted for it under the smart cities mission programme. This the city’s second MLCP project as another one has already begun on West Boulevard road. The projects are aimed at decongesting the narrow commercial streets.Kaliammankoil street is one of the gateways for the closely packed Rockfort vicinity to the rest of Trichy city. A vegetable market that was functioning in the corporation’s property on Kaliammankoil street. The parking of vehicles in a haphazard fashion near the market was causing frequent traffic congestion. The overcrowded market which was in a disarray added to the traffic woes, particularly between Chathiram bus stand and Butterworth road.As a solution, Trichy Corporation in July 2019 mooted a plan to demolish the vegetable market and raise the spacious two-storey complex under smart cities mission. The first and second floors will be utilised for car parking. A feasibility study by the civic body has identified the need for paid parking in adjoining localities including Andar streets.The vegetable market will function in the ground floor of the 4000 square metre MLCP, built at a cost of Rs 6 crore. “Apart from serving the locals, the civic body‘s revenue will improve once the project is completed. We are planning to complete the work in less than 8 months,” an official with Trichy Corporation said.A similar smart cities mission project for parking two-wheeler is also proposed at Nandhi Koil street situated within a kilometre. The space available in the existing maternity centre will be utilised for developing the two-wheeler stand cum commercial complex. Officials said that the design for the project is being finalised to commence the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/work-begins-for-trichys-second-multi-level-car-parking-project/articleshow/77581226.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 17, 2020||Agra||Man held for raping mentally and physically disabled woman in Aligarh||Agra: A 21-year-old mentally and physically disabled Dalit woman was allegedly raped by a local resident in Aligarh’s Hetalpur village on Saturday when all members of her family were out of the house. The suspect, Devendra Kumar, who was nabbed by local residents, was thrashed before being handed over to the police. The woman was alone at her house around 12 pm as her sister had gone to fetch water from outside and their parents went for work in the field. The woman’s sister caught the accused red-handed when she returned home. She raised an alarm and called her neighbours for help.They caught the suspect as he was trying to flee and thrashed him. They locked him in a room and informed the police about the incident. An FIR was registered under section 376 (rape), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of IPC and section 3 (2) (v) of The Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 at Tappal police station. The matter is being investigated, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-held-for-raping-mentally-and-physically-disabled-woman-in-aligarh/articleshow/77578295.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Will put Punjab's economy back on track, says CM Amarinder Singh||MOHALI: Vowing not to rest till he had put the economy of the state back on track, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced a slew of public welfare measures. These included facilitation of additional six lakh jobs for the youth over the next two years, of which one lakh would be in the government sector. During his Independence Day address, the chief minister announced that 50,000 government jobs would be provided to the youth in 2021 and another 50,000 in 2022. He announced that a “virtual mega job mela” would be held next month to secure private sector placements for 50,000 youth. The state government, he said, has helped 13.60 lakh youth get gainful employment/selfemployment under the flagship “Ghar Ghar Rozgar” scheme. Reiterating his government’s commitment to incentives for the industry, he said investment worth Rs 63,000 crore with the potential of creating two lakh jobs has been realised on the ground. Over the next few months, he said, the government would give debt relief amounting to Rs 520 crore to landless farmers and workers. He said that Rs 4,700 crore has been disbursed to 5.62 lakh farmers under the government’s debt waiver scheme. Also, the government will secure land ownership of farmers and rights of tenants on agriculture land by enacting a new land leasing law, he said. With the launch of the Smart Ration Card scheme, as many as 1.41 crore beneficiaries would become eligible to get ration from fair price shops, the CM announced. On infrastructure development, the chief minister announced construction of 1,300 kms of state and national highways with an investment of over Rs 12,000 crore in the course of the next two years. While 28,830 kms of rural link roads had been repaired over the last three years at an expenditure of Rs 3,278 crore, another 6,162 kms of link roads would be repaired over the next two years with an investment of Rs 834 crore. Patchwork of additional 17,000 kms of link roads will be undertaken at a cost of Rs 82 crore, he said. On sports infrastructure, the CM announced the construction of 750 rural sports stadiums across the state in the next two years. He also announced Rs 2,500 crore worth of investment over the next 2 years, in Phase II of the Smart Village Campaign (SVC). Phase I of the project, covering 19,132 rural works has been completed at a cost of Rs 835 crore, he said. All rural households of the state will have piped potable drinking water connections in the next two years with an expenditure of Rs 1,200 crore, he added. Funds worth Rs 1,046 crore will be spent under the Urban Environment Improvement Programme (UIEP) in the next two years, he said. Besides, all rural and urban households in the state will get health cover of Rs 5 lakh each under the Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojna, which will be made universal, he said. Amarinder observed that work on Mata Tripata Mahila Yojana and Mata Kasturba Manila Yojna were delayed due to the Covid-19 crisis and assured that they would be brought back on track. He announced that the government would also finalise a scheme for economic empowerment of persons with disabilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-not-rest-till-punjabs-economy-back-on-track-capt-amarinder/articleshow/77580861.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid positive woman skips hospital, leaves newborn behind||NEW DELHI: A Covid-positive woman ran away from Hindu Rao Hospital in the early hours of August 12 leaving behind her newborn who has tested negative. Police have registered a case under Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Disease Act, and are trying to trace the woman, who is originally from Aurangabad in Bihar. The authorities are worried about the patient spreading the viral infection, said a senior officer. Hospital staffers are currently taking care of the baby. A senior doctor said the girl was healthy and stable, and her first Covid test had come negative. “A second sample was sent on Sunday and if that too comes negative, the baby may be handed over to police as nobody has come forward for her custody,” the doctor said. Hindu Rao Hospital is run by North Delhi Municipal Corporation, which is managing a 304-bed Covid-19 facility on the premises. The pregnant woman was admitted to the north corporation-run Kasturba Gandhi Hospital on August 9. “She gave birth to a healthy girl child but her corona test report came positive. All necessary protocols were followed during the delivery and the patient was referred to Hindu Rao Covid-19 ward on August 11,” a doctor said. A senior corporation official said an FIR had been filed in the Sabzi Mandi police station. Police are trying to contact the woman’s relatives. She has mentioned an address in Bihar in hospital records during the admission, but the cops have not been able to verify the same yet. Her husband also is untraceable. “We have zeroed in on a probable address in Delhi and raids are being carried out,” said the police officer. A north corporation official said a request had been made to Delhi Police officers for the custody of the child. “The police were busy with security arrangements for Independence Day. No custodian has been found till now. The phone number provided by the patient is also not reachable,” the official said. “After the second result, the procedure of discharge will be followed as it is a medico legal case,” he added. A doctor who was on night duty on August 12 said the Sabzi Mandi police station was informed immediately after the incident. TOI has earlier reported that the hospital had witnessed multiple cases of Covid patients leaving against medical advice. Watch Delhi: Covid positive woman runs away from hospital, leaves newborn behind||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-ve-woman-skips-hosp-leaves-newborn-behind/articleshow/77579574.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||Institutes spend big on technology to roll out online classes for students||PUNE: Education institutes are going to great lengths to ensure that students are learning from home in a situation forced by the pandemic. Colleges are open to innovation and are re-imagining teaching and learning in a Covid-19 struck world. Colleges have been conducting training sessions, orientation programmes and workshops in association with Educational Multimedia Research Centre of Savitribai Phule Pune University to enable the faculty to comprehend all aspects of e-learning, from content creation, to teacher-student and peer interaction, and the process of student assessment and evaluation. Girija Shankar, principal of Ness Wadia College, said their staff has designed sessions to give hands-on training to teachers to bring about effective teaching and learning efficiency. “For the implementation of online education, the college has initiated an e-content development project, whose objectives are to develop e-teaching materials creatively by making optimal use of available IT support with up-to-date ICT tools and maintain uniformity and follow appropriate standards of interoperability. Action committees chalk out a plan, co-ordinate, review and preserve e-content modules in tune with the guidelines issued by the SPPU and the changing needs of the college,” she said. The college has conceived a start-up plan with tasks to be completed and deadlines. The online teaching-learning devised by the college is based on the Four-Quadrant Approach stipulated by UGC. Meanwhile, as a pilot, lectures for some classes on Google Classroom have commenced, Shankar said. The new normal in education is technology enabled blended learning, multiskilling, technology readiness, creativity, innovation and an entrepreneurial mindset. At the Suryadatta Group of Institutes, a strong digital infrastructure, high-speed internet lease line, smartboard blended learning using digital platforms such as Google Classroom and Webex Microsoft Team have been set up. Founder president Sanjay Chordia said, “Recorded lectures are uploaded for students' reference, periodical training and guidance sessions are conducted while online courses are encouraged and conducted.” According to Anand Bhalerao, principal of Bharati Vidyapeeth deemed university's college of engineering, online education has become integral and will continue even after Covid-19. “The next version of curriculum delivery will be blended with 20-30% in online mode. We are prepared with the use of two technologies. Lectures for a few classes will be through a video lecture capturing system by Impartus which will make videos of senior professors available to students with a time lag. Live lectures will be delivered using Microsoft Teams facilitating run time discussions to clear doubts of students and interactions. We had a licensed version of it.” Principal of SNDT Muktaja Matkari said the university teachers underwent training in faculty development programs to impart knowledge and skills for online teaching, learning and evaluation. “We have smart classrooms where teachers can come and record online lectures. E-content has been developed by all teachers. Learning management systems are being used along with online meeting applications effectively. The knowledge resource centre (library) is assisting by providing online resources and scanned copies of reference material,” she added. Sharad Kunte, chairman of Deccan Education Society, said online lectures will go on for the entire year. “We have bought licenses to the tune of Rs 1 crore so that teachers can use them for online classes. They are doing it from the comfort of their homes as calling them to college is risky. We have about 60 institutes and are covered for a year,” he said. Shikshan Prasarak Mandali has purchased Microsoft licenses to the tune of Rs 88 lakh and will scale it up to Rs 1.5 crore once all classes begin functioning, said president S K Jain. “We have about 44 institutes and over 40,000 students. Even if by any chance classes start, it will be in batches with only certain students coming in a week. Others will continue with online lectures at home,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/institutes-spend-big-on-technology-to-roll-out-online-classes-for-pupils/articleshow/77579551.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
August 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Land pooling: Punjab to give additional plot, not cash compensation||CHANDIGARH: To ensure prompt land acquisition, the Punjab government has decided to give additional land as compensation to those giving up their property voluntarily for development projects. The Punjab housing and urban development department would soon issue a notification in this regard. To make it more attractive, the Punjab cabinet has already approved an amendment to the land pooling policy in respect of residential sector, and its extension to the industrial sector in the jurisdiction of the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (Gmada). The policy will reduce financial burden on Gmada as the land acquisition by was cash compensation involves risk of its enhancement by courts apart from being a cumbersome and time-consuming process. The move comes as Gmada gets ready to acquire 1,680 acres of land in the first phase for the development of the Aerotropolis estate. The policy change will also facilitate development of industrial estate in Sectors 101 and 103 in SAS Nagar (Mohali) by easing the land acquisition process for timely execution of development projects. Under the amended Land Pooling Policy of Gmada, 1,000 square yards of developed residential plots and 200 square yards of commercial plot, excluding parking, will be given in place of cash compensation for every acre of land to be acquired for the upcoming Aerotropolis Residential Estate. Introduced for industrial sector development for the first time, the policy will, in this case, provide that for every acre, land owners will get 1,100 square yards of industrial plots and 200 square yards of developed commercial plot, excluding parking, in place of cash compensation. As per the new policy, the validity of the ‘Sahuliyat Certificate’, given to land owners opting for land pooling policy and providing certain benefits to them during purchase of equivalent value of land, would be counted from the date of allotment of plot to the land owner. The earlier validity was 2 years from the date of announcement of award. The certificate entitles a land owner to get exemption from stamp duty, besides certain other benefits when he purchases agricultural land with the sale proceeds from the developed plots that he gets under land pooling. Gmada has acquired 4,484 acres of land from 2001 to 2017. Of this, 2,145 acres has been acquired till date through the land pooling policy which was introduced in the state in 2008 and amended from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/land-pooling-punjab-to-give-addl-plot-in-place-of-cash-compensation/articleshow/77580860.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||Digital module amiss for special needs children||PUNE: While many schools have adopted the online mode of education, in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, many children with special needs are left to fend for themselves. Many of these students, who were studying in trust-run residential schools, are back home where the economic condition is weak and they hardly have anyone to help them embrace the new teaching-learning process. Krishna Shewale, administrative officer at Poona School and Home for Blind, said majority of his students belong to the economically-disadvantaged category. “Most of the parents are from the low income group. Most do not have cellphones and even if the family has one, it is used by the head of the family. At a time when money is in short supply for running a household, spending on education, especially for a child with special needs acquires less priority,” he said. While the teachers are sending audio files of lessons to the students, not everyone is able to listen to them. “The government has also not come up with anything for these students,” Shevale added. MH Kamble, the principal of CR Rangnathan Residential School For Deaf, said, “Most of our children are from villages where there is no infrastructure available for their well-being. We would use sign language and lip reading to teach them. We used touch and feel vibrations to help them understand things. It can’t be done online,” Kamble said.  Dinkar Patil, the chairman of State Council of Education Research and Training, said they were yet to prepare a module for children with special needs. “We recently had a meeting with the education commissioner where we asked if we could get people from the social welfare department and other experts to help make modules for them. Integration of sign language in TV shows and other moves are being considered,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/digital-module-amiss-for-special-needs-children/articleshow/77579592.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence an atrocity on Dalit, says BJP legislator Aravind Limbavali||BENGALURU: Barely 24 hours after a Congress fact-finding committee led by former home minister G Parameshwara visited DJ Halli to take stock of the situation, a BJP delegation led by former minister and Mahadevapura MLA Aravind Limbavali followed suit, visiting the area and the gutted house of Pulakeshinagar MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy. Limbavali, while accusing the Congress of not siding with its own MLA, said the August 11 violence “may even be a result of internal politics within the party, and must be seen as an atrocity against a Dalit”. “It is clear the violence was not accidental or spontaneous, but an organised act,” Limbavali said. “I am not sure if this was internal politics of the Congress or atrocity against Dalits, but is unfortunate.” State unit president Naveen Kumar Kateel will lead another delegation on Monday. Agriculture minister BC Patil, in Haveri, alleged that the violence was planned. Patil alleged the miscreants were against Ram Mandir and had attempted to defame both the Union and state governments. “Such elements have been trying to create violence in the state as well as in the nation. This politically motivated violence was planned. None, arrested by police, is innocent. Congress failed to support its Dalit legislator in this incident.” https://t.co/dDtDHZfmsb— Aravind Limbavali (@ArvindLBJP) 1597586267000In Davanagere, state environment minister Anand Singh condemned the attack on the legislator's house in KG Halli and DJ Halli and said the violence was “inhuman and barbaric”. “Let the truth prevail after a detailed inquiry into the incident,” he said. “The real culprits should be punished, whomsoever they may be.” Meanwhile, Parameshwara said his panel will submit its report to party president DK Shivakumar in a week’s time. “We’ve looked at all possibilities, including local politics and involvement of criminal elements,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-violence-an-atrocity-on-dalit-says-bjp-legislator/articleshow/77578537.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||Pal, social worker, pallbearer: Doctors donning multiple hats||Nagpur: Being the only Covid-free person, Dr Danish Iqbal escorted his 14 team members to Lata Mangeshkar Hospital (LMH) at Hingna after all of them tested positive at their Covid Care Centre (CCC) running from VNIT. After completing all formalities at LMH — a task to be done by lower rung personnel like multipurpose workers — Dr Iqbal took medicines for fellow doctor deputy district health officer who is in home isolation after testing positive. Dr Iqbal, working for public health department, later crushed to one of the government hospitals to help someone find a bed in Covid ward. While Covid has put several doctors and paramedics off duty, rest of the doctors from public health department and medical colleges, NMC zonal medical officers (ZMOs) and doctors, private practitioners, staff nurses and Asha workers are shouldering added responsibilities. Some of them haven’t returned home since March so that their loved ones do not get infected, some are here by choice while, some celebrated their birthdays, marriage anniversaries and festivals during assignments. Though the list of Covid warriors is pretty long, TOI spoke to some of them about their workload. “Dr Narendra Bahirwar and Dr Govardhan Nawkhare are handling all Covid deaths in city,” said Pachpaoli CCC nodal officer Dr Meenakshi Singh. Private practitioner Dr Sarfaraz Ahmed is part of a group conducting Covid burials. He is also helping relatives in getting Covid patient admitted and creating awareness. “All ZMOs, Asha workers, medical staff are working hard during and even after duty hours. Right from contact tracing to handling bodies, they are playing a silent yet important role,” said Dr Singh. She celebrated her, daughter and husband’s birthdays and their wedding anniversaries at the centre. MLA Hostel CCC nodal officer Dr Nitin Gulhane many times played the role of a fatherly figure to kids, brother and son to suspects and patients. “People of all ages had to be counselled to overcome fear of quarantine,” he said. Dr Gulhane said doctors at GMCs too are doing multiple tasks beside providing treatment. Dentists Dr Sagar Naidu and Dr Shubham Munghate are assisting NMC in swab collection. “We have stopped keeping a count now,” they said. By mid-June, they had collected 2,000 swabs. Dr Naidu, Dr Munghate and Dr Iqbal are staying in a hotel. The medical teams have been led by deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, civil surgeon Dr Devendra Patturkar, GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra, IGGMCH dean Dr Ajay Keolia, DHO Dr Deepak Selukar, CMO Dr Yogendra Sawai, GMCH superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande and IGGMCH Dr Ravi Chauhan and Dr Sagar Pandey. “Doctors and nurses from Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram have done a great job,” said Dr Iqbal. A doctor said the multiple works indicate administrative failure. “Doctors had to go beyond the call of duty,” the doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pal-social-worker-pallbearer-doctors-donning-multiple-hats/articleshow/77580871.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Groom walks into station, seeks permission to head to wedding hall||Bengaluru: Police on duty at DJ Halli police station were taken aback when a bridegroom walked into the station on Sunday morning, demanding that his wedding proceed as planned. Curfew under section 144 of CrPC is in force in KG Halli and DJ Halli following the August 11 violence that claimed four lives. Syed Azaruddin, 28, the groom, told the station house officer, “My wedding was fixed for today at Goripalya, but police are not letting us venture out of our house in KG Halli. We have to go to a small hall at Goripalya for the rituals. Please allow the wedding party to proceed.” Azaruddin was accompanied by a few family members, all clad in traditional wedding attire. He was to wed Wasia Parvina of JJ Nagar. The SHO immediately got in touch with an inspector and the issue went up to deputy commissioner of police (east) SD Sharanappa, who instructed the force to allow the wedding party to travel to Goripalya. Azaruddin told reporters: “Police [RAF and KSRP personnel on duty] told me to get permission from the station for our families to travel. Hurdles were cleared and we are heading to Goripalya. My bride, Parvina, has already reached the place.” The wedding went ahead as planned later in the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/groom-walks-into-station-seeks-permission-to-head-to-wedding-hall/articleshow/77579168.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||Non-resident Rajasthanis return to city||Jaipur: At least 400 non-residents Rajasthanis landed at the Jaipur airport in four Vande Bharat Mission flights on Sunday. Those who had given their Covid-19 negative report prior to their journey were allowed to go home while others were asked to go for institutional quarantine. Many passengers were elated as they were allowed to go home since they had already uploaded their report of Covid-19 almost 92 hours prior to their journey. “The exact break-up of people sent to institutional quarantine and those allowed to go home is being calculated and will come by Monday,” said an officer. Coordinator, Air cell and additional chief secretary, mines and petroleum Subodh Agarwal said that at least 23,000 non-resident Rajasthanis have returned from various countries. “This all started on May 22 when the first flight from London brought non-resident Rajasthanis to Jaipur,” he added. On Sunday, Jaipur airport received two flights from Dubai and one flight each from Sharjah and Kuwait.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/non-resident-rajasthanis-return-to-city/articleshow/77580866.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Human skull found near house in Vizag creates furore, youth held||VISAKHAPATNAM: Police on Sunday took into custody a 20-year-old youth from Relli Veedhi in Vizag city after locals raised an alarm that he was carrying a human skull near his home. Locals also alleged that the youth had tried to consume the flesh off the skull. Police, however, dismissed allegations and said the youth, Ravulapudi Raju, was in a mentally disturbed state. It is also suspected that the youth is addicted to ganja and liquor. On Sunday morning, Raju’s neighbour found a skull wrapped in plastic lying near Raju’s. Residents of the area then started to question Raju and attempted to attack him. As Raju managed to escape into his house with the skull, locals alerted the police. By the time police arrived, Raju had left home. Police questioned a minor girl inside the house, who, it is suspected is a customer who bought ganja from Raju. Raju later returned and told the police, “don’t panic, my life is ruined.” Speaking to TOI, One Town inspector V Chandrasekhar said initial investigations point to Raju removing the skull from the anatomy department at Andhra Medical College (AMC). Relli Veedhi resident K Anil Kumar said Raju was depressed since his father’s death a few years ago. After his mother moved away, Raju’s mental health worsened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/20-yr-old-storing-human-skull-at-home-taken-into-custody/articleshow/77578322.cms||Nalla.Babu
August 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Drunk man tries to chop off wife’s arm in public||PATIALA: A drunkard created panic in Sunam town of Sangrur district on Sunday morning as he allegedly tried to chop off his wife’s arm with a sickle in full public view. But, he was eventually overpowered by the bystanders and handed over to the police. Ajaib Singh of Chhajli village, who reportedly did not have cordial relations with his wife, tied the arms and legs of Veerpal Kaur and threw her in a three-wheeler cart with a motorbike attached in front. He rode to Jakhal Road of Sunam, where he got out of the vehicle with a sickle in one hand and liquor bottle in the other. As he created a scene on the road, a number of passersby assembled there and tried to convince him to let the woman go. But, he held the wife by her hair and started attacking her with the sickle, trying to chop off her left arm. All this while, he kept threatening the bystanders to stay away. Even when the police arrived there, Ajaib Singh challenged them and warned not to come close. Finally, the bystanders attacked him with sticks and succeeded in saving the woman, who received several injuries on her body. The accused was then thrashed by the people, before the police took him into custody. Both man and wife were rushed to the Sunam civil hospital, from where Ajaib Singh had to be referred to the Government Rajindra Hospital, Patiala in view of his bad condition. The police said a case under sections 307 (attempt to murder) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the IPC has been registered against Ajaib Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-tries-to-chop-off-wifes-arm-in-full-public-view/articleshow/77580864.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||Over 250 major-minor choices at FLAME University||FLAME University is the pioneer of liberal education in India. From its inception, FLAME has been successful in setting benchmarks, including unparalleled education experience with its best faculty-student ratio, faculty with great global credentials, association with some of the top international universities, close industry connect and creating a strong alumni network. The university’s most popular undergraduate courses include BA courses in economics, psychology, literary & cultural studies, international studies, public policy, environmental studies, journalism, sociology, BSc courses in applied mathematics, BBA courses in finance, marketing,among others. The renowned postgraduate programmes include MBA in finance, marketing and communications, MBA (Communications Management) in advertising and branding, film and television, among others. InfrastructureThe campus is spread across 60 acres of green expanse and has dedicated and quiet spaces for learning, accommodation, sports, recreation, amenities and eateries. The learning spaces include lecture theatres, painting studio, sculpture studio, outdoor amphi- theatres, among others. What sets it apart “At FLAME University, by offering interdisciplinary courses, our liberal education programmes groom students to be future-ready and open doors to multiple career opportunities suited for students with diverse interests and aspirations. Over 250 major-minor choices are available for undergraduate students,” said Dishan Kamdar, the university’s vice-chancellor. Alumnae speak “The Bastion aims to publish research-driven independent journalism of high standard. The interdisciplinary classrooms and extra-curricular experiences at FLAME helped me develop these nascent perspectives, which have been of immense help in my career” said Aarathi Ganesan, editor of the Bastion. She majored in literal and cultural studies and minored in international studies at FLAME University. “FLAME opened up the world for me, while also helping me find my roots. The relationship with faculty members, the choice of subjects and focus on cultivating an ability to see the interconnections around us, set apart my time at FLAME,” Hemakshi Meghani, founder of the Indian School of Democracy. She majored in marketing and minored in literary and cultural studies at FLAME University. Websitewww.flame.edu.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-250-major-minor-choices-at-flame-univ/articleshow/77579598.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Agra||Bus hits divider, goes up in flames; one dead, 69 saved on Agra-Lucknow expressway||AGRA: A 30-year-old passenger charred while 69 others had a close shave when a Volvo bus they were travelling in from Bihar’s Supaul district to Mehsana in Gujarat went up in flames after hitting the median divider on the Agra-Lucknow expressway as the “exhausted driver dozed off at the wheel” early on Sunday. Seeing smoke and flames rising out of the burning bus near 54 milestone under Naseerpur police station of Firozabad district, locals rushed to the spot and helped passengers deboard the bus and alerted police. Three fire tenders were pressed into service and a police team led by superintendent of police (Firozabad rural) Rajesh Kumar safely rescued 69 passengers and two bus staffers in an hour-long operation. One passenger, however, charred as he could not come out of the bus, while the driver and the conductor who sustained serious injuries were admitted to a nearby hospital, said police. Police identified the victim as Vishnu Rishidev, a resident of Supaul, while the driver-conductor duo was identified as Babloo and Rawat Acharya. The SP told TOI that it appeared that "the exhausted driver dozed off at the wheel and the uncontrolled vehicle hit the median divider and caught fire". “The rescue operation lasted for nearly an hour and we saved 69 passengers, while one passenger died. The bus driver and the conductor, who sustained serious injuries, are undergoing treatment. Besides, we sent the rescued passengers to their destination in another vehicle and informed Supaul police about the accident. The traffic on the expressway was restored after the fire was put out,” added the SP. No FIR was filed till the time of going to the press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/one-dies-69-rescued-as-gujarat-bound-bus-goes-up-in-flames-after-hitting-divider-on-agra-lucknow-eway/articleshow/77578315.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi reports 652 Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours||NEW DELHI: While the total number of Covid cases in the capital climbed to 1,52,580 on Sunday with 652 fresh cases, the number of active cases saw a dip after witnessing a constant increase for the past four days. The number of people who have recovered from the virus stood at 1,37,561 on Sunday, putting the recovery rate at 90.1%. While the number of active cases on Saturday was 11,489 after seeing a constant rise for four consecutive days, it came down to 10,823 active cases on Sunday. Of the active cases, 5,762 are under home isolation. The number of Covid-19 deaths, meanwhile, increased to 4,196 with eight more fatalities being recorded in the past 24 hours. This was the second time in a week that the number of daily fatalities due to the virus has dropped below 10, according to Delhi government’s health bulletin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/652-cases-in-last-24-hours/articleshow/77579594.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 36 new sealed zones in three days, number up to 549||NEW DELHI: The number of containment zones in Delhi was less than 500 earlier this month, after seeing a major dip from more than 700 red zones in July. The number of such zones, however, is slowly on the rise and in the last three days, 36 new zones have been sealed. The number of containment zones in the capital on Thursday (August 13) was 513. On Sunday, Delhi had as many as 549 red zones. Out of the 36 new areas notified as containment zones, most have been added in Shahdara district (13), followed by Southwest (10) and North districts (9). Three districts, however, have seen a dip in the number of containment zones. These include South, East and New Delhi districts. The total number of containment zones created in the city till date is 1,276. Till Thursday, it stood at 1,189. Out of the 549 red zones on Sunday, 412 were active compared with 369 active red zones on Thursday. In many districts, a large number of containment zones ceased to exist after the union health ministry allowed these red zones to be de-contained 14 days after discharge of the last confirmed positive case instead of the 28 days norm earlier. Deepak Shinde, District Magistrate (North), said that the containment zone management strategy in the district has not been changed and strict perimeter control is being maintained. “Wherever there are clusters, containment zones are being created completely following the guidelines. The 14-day norm has been of some help,” Shinde said, adding that the date is extended if required. BM Mishra, District Magistrate (South), said that the reason containment zones have come down in the district is due to reduction of time period to 14 days. “The majority of containment zones were already ‘clean’ and we could easily scale down these zones. All the new containment zones are of August. We have maintained our containment zones diligently,” he added. “The number of active zones, 52, is not less but we are maintaining it well,” Mishra said, adding that the district administration has been able to contain a large area thanks to extensive testing, efficient management of containment zones and case management. He said that Delhi’s first serological survey had revealed that antibody level in the South District is one of the lowest. “Despite low herd immunity, clustering has been low, which suggests we have done a lot of hard work on our cases,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/36-new-sealed-zones-in-3-days-number-up-to-549/articleshow/77579583.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Project Dolphin: Punjab official buoyed by hope||CHANDIGARH: The Project Dolphin announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his address to the nation on 74th Independence Day has provided the much needed booster shot to the Punjab government for the conservation of Indus River Dolphin — one of the world’s rarest mammals. Of four species of freshwater dolphin in the world, two are found in India — the Ganges and Indus river dolphins. Beas conservation reserve in Punjab is home to the only population of Indus dolphins in the country. As per the official estimates, around 2,000 Indus river dolphins exist in India and Pakistan. The Indus river dolphin was first spotted in Harike wildlife sanctuary and Beas conservation reserve in 2007, and as per WWF India’s field surveys, the estimated population of dolphins is between 8 to 12 in the Beas. Indus dolphin is sharing common habitat with the reintroduced population of critically endangered Gharial since 2017. The dolphin habitat has long been facing an onslaught of human-induced environmental disturbances, both domestic and industrial; low dry season flows; illegal fishing; and river bed mining. In May 2018, around 75,000 kilolitres of molasses had spilled into the Beas which had a severe impact on more than 120km of the river stretch. The Project Dolphin will help the state government in taking corrective steps for protecting their habitat. The project will focus on conservation of dolphins and the aquatic habitat by using modern technology, especially in enumeration and anti-poaching activities. Besides, fishermen and other river dependent populations will be engaged for improving their livelihood. Terming it as a significant development, Punjab’s chief conservator of forests Basant Rajkumar said the project would help in getting funds, expertise and international cooperation, which was a must for conserving the rarest freshwater mammal. “It’s very important to ensure that the dolphins and its habitat is protected. They can be an aquatic flagship species of the state, if we manage to increase their population,” said Rajkumar, who had spotted dolphins in the Beas in 2007. WWF-India coordinator Gitanjali Kanwar said: “It’s heartening to hear about the project. Beas conservation reserve has a small, isolated, yet breeding population of Indus River Dolphin. We are hopeful that the project is going to bring the conservation of the state aquatic animal of Punjab into focus and ensure its long term survival.” According to experts, river dolphins act as umbrella species for rivers, like tigers do for forests. If freshwater dolphins are thriving in a river then the overall health of that ecosystem improves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/project-dolphin-shot-in-the-arm-for-punjabs-conservation-efforts/articleshow/77580863.cms||Vinod Kumar
August 17, 2020||Pune||Take a step towards a green future with course on environmental law||The urgent need of the hour calls for active participation of every citizen to protect our environment so that we may live a long and healthy life. It is the duty of every citizen to protect the environment for themselves, as well as their successive generations. Development is important for any country but one needs to maintain a fair balance so as to not expedite the environmental damage that has already been done. The aim should be sustainability. Citizens from all over the world should come together to ensure that basic necessities like clean air, water and others, do no become obsolete.For BA LL. B (a five-year-long course of Law), semester X (10) allows Law students to study International Environment Law to help safeguard our environment with the long-term goal of betterment of society. Course Name: International Environmental Law Offered by: Bharati Vidyapeeth Deemed University (BVDU), New Law College, Kothrud Pune.Course headed by: Incharge Principal Bhagyashree Deshpande, BVDU, New Law College, Jyoti Dharm, Jayashree KhandareBroad overview: International Environmental Law is extremely useful subject for those who want to be on the legal front of environmental preservation. Your Career: After getting a Law (LL. B) degree, a student can directly practice as a lawyer in the National Green Tribunal. This is a separate area of practice for new or emerging lawyers who have recently graduated and have got the Sanad from the Bar Council of India Entrance Examination: Candidates have to clear a Common Entrance Test of the BVDU, New Law College, and take admission for the five-year-long BA Law CourseContact Info: E-mail: newlawcollege@yahoo.co.in, Tel: (020) 25444616, 25455854||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/take-a-step-towards-a-green-future-with-course-on-environmental-law/articleshow/77579601.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Dehradun||Several Doon localities inundated after heavy downpour||Dehradun: Several low-lying areas in the city got inundated causing major inconvenience to locals and many roads were left waterlogged after intense rainfall battered Dehradun city and other parts of the district on Saturday night. The heavy rainfall caused damage to public and private properties in various parts of the city, including Premnagar locality, where a vacant house and three temporary shops collapsed, and Lakhibagh area, where a part of the road caved in after an electric pole got uprooted. The other affected areas were Clock Tower, Raipur, ISBT, Patel Nagar, Mothrowala, and Kargi Chowk. Rainwater entered homes in several colonies and also in Government Doon Medical College and Hospital, where Covid-19 patients are being treated. Miffed with waterlogging and other rain-related issues, the residents of Cantonment areas staged a protest against the civic bodies and the local MLA alleging that no action was taken by the concerned departments to fix issues. Manish Sonkar, a resident of Govindgarh area in Cantonment, said, “The waterlogging issue has become chronic in the area. Last week, a few houses got damaged due to rainfall and we were promised that the pushta (revetment wall) will be repaired soon but nothing of that sort has happened yet. Today, the residents staged a protest, following which, the MLA has initiated some repair work.” Meanwhile, Dehradun DM Ashish Kumar Srivastava inspected the control room of the disaster management authority and asked the department heads of irrigation department, municipal corporation, public works department, power department, and Jal Nigam to station one official from each department for better coordination in attending to complaints till September 15. On Sunday, the control room received over 25 complaints from various locations of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/several-doon-localities-inundated-after-heavy-downpour/articleshow/77578351.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Punjab always at forefront in fighting the enemy’||MOHALI: Warning of continued threat from Pakistan and China, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said the state will always be at the forefront in fighting the enemy at the borders. With tension at the borders continuing, India has to be prepared to deal with any eventuality, said the chief minister in his Independence Day address on Saturday, after hoisting the tricolour here to mark the historic occasion. While Pakistan continues to resort to firing every day, China, on the other hand, talks about friendship but remains a danger to our nation, said Captain Amarinder, recalling the recent barbaric attack on Indian soldiers by the Chinese forces. India has always given Pakistan a befitting reply, he said, adding that China also needs to be handled with the same iron hand. Recalling the contributions of the millions of Indians to the freedom struggle, the chief minister said Punjabis had always been at the forefront of every battle. The Cellular Jail in Kaala Paani (Andaman Islands) has the names of tens of hundreds of Punjabis etched in immortality, he said. Paying tributes to Punjab’s freedom fighters, Captain Amarinder reiterated his government’s commitment to extend all benefits of freedom fighters to their next generations. He also hailed the health workers and paramedics, who have been continuously fighting the invisible Covid enemy, along with the NGOs and religious organisations, which have worked tirelessly to provide free food and medicine during the lockdown. He also acknowledged the great work done by the farmers, who have produced the food that fed the nation during the lockdown period and government officials, who are serving the people in these difficult times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjabis-at-forefront-in-guarding-nations-borders-says-cm/articleshow/77580868.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
August 17, 2020||Goa||Parts of Bicholim, Sal, Sakhali remain inundated||BICHOLIM: Water from the Tillari dam was once again discharged into the Chapora river on Sunday, causing the river to swell. Low-lying areas in Sal, Sakhali and Bicholim remained submerged for the second day in a row. Since the river pours out into the Arabian Sea, people living along its banks fear that the water could enter their houses during the high tide. Meanwhile, two incidents of house damage due to heavy rain were reported in Bicholim on Sunday. In Khalchawada, Sal, the wall of the house belonging to Laxman Sitaram Dhargalkar collapsed, causing loss estimated at Rs 25,000. In Wadawal village, a portion of the house belonging to Sunil Parwar collapsed and the loss has been pegged at Rs 25,000. Stating that the situation is under control, Bicholim mamlatdar Pravinjay Pandit told TOI, “Since all three rivers – the Valvanti at Sakhali, the Bicholim river and the Chapora river - are flowing only a few metres below the danger level, the Bicholim disaster management cell is on high alert.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parts-of-bicholim-sal-sakhali-remain-inundated/articleshow/77581257.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Spike in five zones pushes Chennai's daily Covid-19 case count above 1,000||CHENNAI: After a week of seeing fresh Covid-19 cases in three digits, the city has been registering more than 1,000 cases everyday for the past three days. Data shows that five zones — Kodambakkam, Anna Nagar, Ambattur, Valasaravakkam and Adyar — have contributed to this spike. The zones recorded more than 100 cases a day for the past two days. Zone-wise figures for Sunday will be released only on Monday morning, but it is likely that a similar trend will be visible. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan told TOI that Anna Nagar, Kodambakkam, Ambattur and Adyar were the zones in focus now. “Greater Chennai Corporation is testing an average of 12,000 people everyday. We are now planning more aggressive but focussed testing,” he said. The aim was to ensure that testing is at least 10 times more than average number of positive cases, Radhakrishnan said. “As of now, the positivity rate is 10% and the aim is to bring it down to 5%. This will lead to a drop in active cases as well,” Radhakrishnan said. Chennai’s test positivity rate (TPR), which is the number of Covid-19 positive cases per every 100 tests, was around 8-9% last week. With the daily numbers going above 1,000, the TPR in the last two days has gone up to 10%. The city corporation aims to make it around 7% by August end. This, however, is a tough job as a single person could be a super-spreader but the civic body was taking efforts to prevent such a situation, he added. As for the high number of cases in Ambattur, Radhakrishnan said spill over cases from Chennai in these areas (which are under GCC limits but fall under Tiruvallur district) was contributing to an increase in Tiruvallur district. “In the southern part of the city, cases spill into Chengalpet. We are now developing micro plans to extend Chennai strategy of aggressive testing to neighbouring districts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/spike-in-5-zones-pushes-city-daily-case-count-above-1000/articleshow/77579602.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: ‘No skulls missing from AMC’||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Medical College (AMC) authorities have clarified that no skulls or bones have been stolen from their anatomy lab and will not be filing a police complaint against the youth found carrying a human skull at his Relli Veedhi home on Sunday morning. Speaking to TOI, principal of AMC and KGH superintendent Dr PV Sudhakar said, “Professors from anatomy department were sent to check the lab. The locks on the doors are intact and no object has been stolen. Usually, class-IV staff bury discarded skulls and bones near the anatomy lab after they are used by medical students. We are not sure if the buried skull was dug up by canines or found on the surface.” — Sulogna Mehta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-skulls-missing-from-amc/articleshow/77578344.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 17, 2020||Pune||Symbiosis students map retail outlets, provide solution to finding fuel station||Symbiosis Skill and Professional University achieved success in competition organized online by Smart India Hackathon by the ministry of education’s innovation cell, AICTE and Gujarat Forensic Sciences University. Pranjal Joshi, team leader from Team Tyche, Isra Jafri from the engineering department and Sahil Pansare, Yash Pathak, Manasvi Patil and Gritika Pardeshi, data science students, won the first place in the software edition category and bagged the first prize of Rs 1 lakh. Tell us about the competition and its formatThe event was held online from August 1 to August 4. It was a competition of 36 hours. Students developed codes and worked for 12 hours per day for three days to completely build the solution from scratch. There were 1,081 teams with over 10,000 students competing to solve 243 problem statements from government departments and industries. What was your team’s problem statement and what solution did you offer?The problem statement was from the ministry of petroleum and natural gas on “Technological advances for retail outlets’’. Our solution was to map all the retail outlets on Google Map and have an application connected to fuel tank sensor which will generate an automated message. A path may pop up regarding the nearest fuel station with details of fuel prices and the total fuel to be topped up for covering the remaining distance if the fuel level drops to a particular level. We designed an application to recommend when to fuel the vehicle and what petrol pump to use. We also provided the facility to provide ratings to the fuel station and recommend the fuel station based on the ratings. Why did the team select this problem?Many people travel on two-wheelers to home and offices, and they face low fuel in the vehicles. We designed an application which gives directions to the nearest fuel pump on your route. Also, it notifies you of your low fuel in your vehicle and gives you the choice to select your preferred fuel station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/symbiosis-students-map-retail-outlets-provide-solution-to-finding-fuel-station/articleshow/77579641.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||Highway jammed over gangster’s murder||Jaisalmer: In a dispute over sand mining in Luni River in Bhatala area of Gudamalani in Barmer district, a gang kidnapped member of a rival gang and murdered him. Deceased’s family members jammed the mega highway on Sunday demanding to arrest the accused. Balotara additional SP Narpat Singh persuaded the people and sent the SHO to lines Teams have been fanned out to catch the culprits. The deceased Rekharam was a history sheeter with more than 20 cases against him in many police stations. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that Rekharam Siyol and Dalu Ram gangs were having dispute over river sand mining. On Saturday, Dalu Ram called Rekharam to a tea stall and kidnapped him. They took him to an abandoned place where he was beaten with iron rods and then dumped near his house. Rekharam reached home and his family members took him to hospital in Barmer. Looking to his critical condition, he was referred to Sanchore Hospital but he died on the way. Rekharam’s brother informed police about the incident. Police have lodged murder and kidnapping cases against the accused. The family members refused to take the body. They were demanding arrest of culprits and removal of SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/highway-jammed-over-gangsters-murder/articleshow/77580878.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Tasmac outlets to reopen tomorrow after four months in Chennai||CHENNAI: Tipplers in the city may no longer have to travel to neighbouring districts to quench their thirst as Tasmac outlets in their neighbourhood will be open from Tuesday. The shops will be open from 10am to 7pm and tokens will be issued to a maximum of 500 customers a day, a government press release said on Sunday. Wearing a face mask is mandatory for buying liquor. More than 750 Tasmac outlets in and around the city, that fall under the Greater Chennai Police limits, will reopen on August 18. However, bars attached to Tasmac outlets will not function. The outlets have remained shut since March, when the lockdown first came into effect to contain the spread of Covid-19. Limiting the number of customers per outlet to 500 a day was a measure to control crowding and barricades will be erected before the liquor outlets. Similar restrictions on timing and issuing of tokens were followed when Tasmac outlets across the state (except Chennai and suburbs) were reopened in May. Elite shops selling premium and imported liquor, operating in shopping complexes and outside containment zones, will also be thrown open for the public. Those in malls will remain shut. The city has 31 elite Tasmac outlets, including one in each mall. According to official sources, Tasmac outlets in and around the city record an average daily sales of Rs 12 crore. This value is expected to be more than double for the first few days. “The shops in the city have a stock of Indian Made Foreign Liquor, but beer needs to be sourced from Tasmac depots. The crowd is expected to peak for three days from Tuesday and go down gradually thereafter,” a Tasmac source said. Of the 900 Tasmac outlets in the Chennai region, comprising the city, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, hardly 230 shops located in the three neighbouring districts are operating currently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tasmac-outlets-to-reopen-tomorrow-after-4-months/articleshow/77579749.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirupati eases lockdown restrictions||TIRUPATI: Tirupati Municipal Corporation on Sunday eased lockdown norms and allowed commercial establishments and offices to remain open from 6 am till 5 pm in the city till August 31. The authorities urged the public to remain indoors after 5 pm. PS Girisha, municipal commissioner, appealed to people to cooperate with the administration to enforce the extended lockdown in the city. Meanwhile, the number of urban health centres conducting screening for coronavirus has been increased to nine. While overall Covid-19 cases in the city have breached the 10,000-mark, active cases are around 5,000. Till August 14, 93 deaths were reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tirupati-eases-restrictions/articleshow/77578354.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka government explores new law to rein in social media||BENGALURU: With the clamour to regulate social media growing within the BJP, a fallout of the violence in parts of east Bengaluru, the government is exploring the idea of drafting a new set of laws to oversee content posted on digital platforms such as Facebook and Twitter. However, legal challenges abound. Officials cite a recent verdict in a case against a telecom company, where the Supreme Court said a service provider cannot be held responsible for crimes committed by an individual user. Yet, the government appears determined in its quest. Minister for law and parliamentary affairs JC Madhuswamy said the state government is looking at two possible means. One is to appeal to the Centre to draft new legislation to regulate social media platforms and the other is to formulate its own cybercrime rules, providing state enforcement agencies with more teeth. “We are considering state legislation with presidential assent as one option. I plan to convene a meeting of officials from both home and law departments to deliberate the issue,” said Madhuswamy. Home minister Basavaraj Bommai said the government wants to bring in a law to make it mandatory for social media platforms to install filters to prevent users from posting hate messages. “We want to take all stakeholders into confidence before figuring out means to ensure order on social media platforms. An effective system will be put in place shortly,” said Bommai. He said a meeting has been scheduled this week with representatives of social media companies and cybercrime police. Meanwhile, on the plan to ban the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), Madhuswamy admitted that unless there is a strong case against the party, the government cannot consider the ban. “The onus lies on the police department to provide evidence. Otherwise, it will only be political rhetoric,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-government-explores-new-law-to-rein-in-social-media/articleshow/77578558.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
August 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid centres at 2 more TTD resthouses||TIRUPATI: Following a steady spike in the number of Covid-19 cases across Chittoor district, authorities have converted two more TTD resthouses into Covid Care Centres to enhance bed-strength. The district administration had earlier resolved to take over TTD’s Madhavam resthouse in Tirupati, in addition to the Padmavathi Nilayam, Srinivasam and Vishnu Nivasam, which are already being utilised as Covid Care Centres. Now, the administration is said to be looking at TTD choultries, behind the railway station, to convert into Covid Care Centres. “August has recorded a significant number of deaths, especially in the age group of 60 and above. Hence, the collector directed us not to allow aged patients to be in home isolation and instructed us to enhance the bed capacity,” said a senior health official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-centres-at-2-more-ttd-resthouses/articleshow/77578362.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 17, 2020||Hubballi||Shortage in supply of antiviral drugs||Hubballi: It is been almost 10 days, since favipiravir tablets, one of the main anti-viral drugs which are given for mild to moderate Covid-19 patients, was available at the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) hospital, which is one of the biggest government hospitals treating Covid patients in North Karnataka. Remdesivir, an anti-viral injection for treating moderate to severe Covid patients is also low in supply. Though favipiravir is available in private hospitals, it is Remdesivir that patients’ relatives are searching for frantically. A patient from the district who is admitted at the KIMS Covid ward, was prescribed Remdesivir. He is from a poor family, and the entire family is dependent on agriculture-related activities to earn a livelihood. On the first day doctors prescribed him two vials of Remdesivir, and one vial each for the next four days, which the family struggled to get. Each vial costs Rs 7,000. Since the injections are in low supply, KIMS doctors are administering the injection to patients who are poor, and prescribing medicines for those who have the capacity to buy from medical stores outside. Some doctors told TOI that there is no supply of favipiravir, and that they are low on stocks of Remdesvir. “We are in the government set-up, and we should not prescribe medicines from outside, since these are lifesaving drugs and patients need it, we are forced to do it,” the doctors said. “Since the drugs are costly, many patients simply can’t afford it, each favipiravir tablet costs Rs 103. Some drug manufactures are selling it for Rs 75 to Rs 80 for each tablet. A seriously ill patient requires at least 68 tablets or up to 116 tablets of favipiravir, based on the severity, and at least six doses of Remdesivir,” said doctors. Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil said enough quantity of Remdesivir was available, and that 100 vials of Remdesivir was supplied on Friday and Saturday. On Sunday 100 Remdesivir vials were received . “We assure patients that they will not face any shortage of drugs. As of now, there is no shortage. The district administration and the government is with the patients,” he said. Dr S M Honakeri, a government doctor, who is looking after the supply of drugs, said, “We need at least 80 vials of Remdesivir, and every alternate day we send our vehicle to bring the drugs. So far, we have received 550 vials of Remdesivir, of which 60%-70% are supplied to KIMS, and the remaining is supplied to the Dharwad District Hospital. On Sunday we got 100 vials of Remdesivir.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/shortage-in-supply-of-antiviral-drugs/articleshow/77578369.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||BSF IG inaugurates Tanot Mata Temple gate||Jaisalmer: BSF IG Amit Lodha on Saturday inaugurated the entrance gate of Tanot Mata Temple in Jaisalmer. He also hoisted flags at border outposts and took stock of operation alert underway in the border areas and attended the big feast with jawans. He boosted their morale and took part in the 10km walk run. Sector north DIG Mukesh Kumar, 139 BN Commandant D S Ahlawat, 46 BN Commandant S K Shastri and other officers were also part of the programmes. According to BSF official sources, IG Lodha visited many border outposts and took stock of operation alert Garam Hawa going on at the Indo-Pak international border. At night, he reviewed deployment of personnel at the border. Every year, during independence day, BSF runs special campaign for maintaining vigilance at the Indo-Pak border by ensuring deploying a large number of senior officers and jawans at the border of Jaisalmer sector south, north, Bikaner, Ganganagar for the better border management, weapon training, etc. The IG hoisted flags at border outpost and laid wreath at Vijay Stambh at Tanot Mata Temple premises and paid tribute to the martyrs, extended wishes to officers and jawans on the Independence Day and offered sweets. Later, he dedicated the newly built temple gate to people and also planted a sampling at the temple premises. At Bikaner Sector DIG Pushpendra Singh Rathore hoisted flag at Satpal border outpost. The DIG walked for 10 km in freedom run under Fit India Campaign. Sector South DIG Rajesh Kumar and Commandant Arvind Ghidiyaal hoisted flags in Sector South. Sector North DIG Mukesh Kumar hoisted flag at Babliyaan. Sources said that IG Lodha gave necessary items to villagers and needy people under civic action programme at Kishangarh village and also inaugurated a skill development centre at the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bsf-ig-inaugurates-tanot-mata-temple-gate/articleshow/77580880.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Pune||Captain Cool a natural leader||Any guess on the biggest challenge Mahendra Singh Dhoni faced in his life? Well, it’s none of those steep run chases or outwitting batsmen on the other side. “Chasing big targets or defending modest totals was far easier for Captain Cool than checking tickets of thousands alighting from trains at Kharagpur railway station,” chuckled Mahi in one of the recent interactions with his off-the-field friends. Born and brought up in Jharkhand capital Ranchi, MSD grew as a cricketer in Bengal’s railway town Kharagpur and bloomed as “Captain Cool” across the globe. The most successful cricket skipper of India was a born leader despite never captaining any first-class sides. His Jharkhand teammate of yesteryears, Satyaprakash Krishna, saw glimpses of his natural leadership skill as early as 2002, in the final of a six-over-a-side tennis ball cricket tournament in Kharagpur. A ticket collector of Indian Railways then, Dhoni was playing for Durga Sporting with Satyaprakash. They were bowled out for just 30 runs. The opposition was cruising when one of the umpires’ decision over a boundary triggered a controversy. “We were about to walk out in disgust when Mahi urged us to not to leave the field, and channelise all our energies to bowling and fielding,” Satyaprakash recalled. Mahi, believe it or not, was the fastest bowler of the side then. “MSD bowled his heart out and the match ended in a tie. Durga Sporting went on to win the tie through the flip of a coin,” recalled Satyaprakash, instrumental in bringing him on board of South Eastern Railway, adding that skirmishes over the game stopped thereafter in Kharagpur. Kaushik Chakraborty, who captained Dhoni when he played for the South Eastern Railway, got a taste of the legend’s batting prowess way back in 2000. Playing for Central Coalfields Limited (CCL), Mahi had sent the railwaymen for a leather hunt. “Dhoni was ruthless that day. He hit me and Robin Kumar, then captain of the South Eastern Railway, around the park. I finally dismissed him, but he had taken away the match from us by then,” said Siddhartha Chatterjee, who played against and alongside Dhoni in quiet a few tournaments in early 2000. Chatterjee, the former captain of West Bengal Police team in CAB league, said, “Watching Mahi batting from the other side of the wicket was an experience. I was perhaps the first person to see the helicopter shot in the making while batting with him in a Twenty20 tournament in Digha in 2001.” Dhoni’s helicopter shot in the 2011 World Cup final mesmerised even batting legend Sunil Gavaskar. Chakraborty said, “Dhoni would hit the balls out of the ground from the word go. Once Satyaprakash had challenged him to hit the ball on to the road adjacent to SERSA stadium in Kharagpur with one hand in three chances. He sent the ball beyond the road in the first go. Losing the challenge, Satyaprakash had to treat Dhoni to eight glasses of lassi!” Greg Chappell, the former Team India coach, had said in an interaction in Kolkata in 2013 that Dhoni could easily score above 10 an over for a considerable period in ODIs and T20 matches because of his experience in playing six-over-a-side tournaments in the earlier part of his career. From a swashbuckling big-hitter, Dhoni became a gamechanger under Greg’s “processes”. Pune was witness to his transition in 2005 in the India vs Sri Lanka ODI. “Chasing 260, India lost a few wickets early. Dhoni steadied the ship playing shots along the ground and picking up quick singles or doubles. He hit the only six of his innings after India reached 256,” recalled techie Kaushal Kishore. Dhoni went on to become the fastest runner between the wickets of the Indian cricket team. It’s another matter, he was run out in his first ODI match against Bangladesh and the last one against New Zealand in the ICC World Cup semi-final in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/captain-cool-a-natural-leader/articleshow/77579895.cms||Chandan Chatterjee
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||Only a leader like Pilot can change fate of state: MLA||JAISALMER: Gudamalani MLA Hemaram Choudhary on Sunday ruffled feathers in the state Congress by saying that there is no leader like Sachin Pilot, not only in the state, but in the entire country. “Only a leader like Pilot can change fate of the state,” said Choudhary, who visited his constituency after 35 days. Replying to a query, he said what is Pilot’s fault if he knows to speak English better than me and CM Ashok Gehlot? The way allegations were levelled at Pilot and his group were shocking, whereas it was under Pilot’s leadership that the Congress returned to power in state, he said. “Rumours were spread that we were joining the BJP, whereas we are true Congressmen and can’t even think about leaving the party. We have got nothing to do with the BJP. I want to tell that Congress is our mother,” the MLA added. Choudhary said a lot of work has been done in the state under Pilot’s ministry in the last 18 months, but the government could not match people’s expectations. “We were forced to go to Delhi and raise the issues before the high command as the way the government functioned was way below people’s expectations. We tried our best, but nobody gave an ear to our grievances. I don't want any post. If people’s work is not done, then we will raise our voice,” Choudhary said. He alleged that in the last 18 months only works related to Pilot’s department were completed in his constituency, while other works were ignored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/only-a-leader-like-pilot-can-change-fate-of-state-mla/articleshow/77580895.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Puducherry||Edappadi K Palaniswami may be AIADMK CM choice for 2021 Tamil Nadu poll||CHENNAI: Notwithstanding the tough posturing by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, the ruling AIADMK is likely to name chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as the party’s CM candidate for the 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly election. Sources, including those close to EPS and OPS, confirmed to TOI that an announcement may be made within a fortnight once the glitches are ironed out. OPS has sought a few days’ time, but sources said he would relent and agree to the AIADMK’s general council being convened to announce the decision. With the assembly election scheduled in May next year, it’s a question that’s been bothering the EPS camp for a while, with his loyalists in a hurry to clear hurdles from the CM’s path. While EPS has his sights set on capturing power after the 2021 assembly election and returning as chief minister, OPS too has an agenda of his own. As ministers rushed back and forth on Saturday, it became clear that OPS was seeking more time while EPS was keen to get the matter settled and out of the way. The mediation exercise, sources said, was planned a few days ago. The EPS camp argued that such open debate and uncertainty over the CM candidate would only weaken the AIADMK and strengthen rival DMK’s hands. “OPS thinks BJP would come to his rescue. The BJP is only keen to ensure that the DMK, in the company of the Congress, is not allowed anywhere near the hot seat,” a senior minister close to EPS told TOI. “EPS has a fairly good record of governance, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, and with the backing of a majority of the ministers and party MLAs, there can be no doubt who is the ideal choice for CM candidate,” said the minister. Gradually coming around to EPS’s logic that the matter has to be settled early so that he could roll out the blueprint for a strong pre-poll strategy, OPS has now consented to back EPS’s candidature, a source said. On August 10, after a Tamil journal ‘spelt out’ EPS’s ‘game plan’, minister for cooperatives Sellur K Raju told reporters that the CM candidate would be decided after the election. At least 17 ministers called up EPS and said they would talk to journalists backing him. But the CM restrained them and said the matter could be discussed at a meeting on Independence Day, said a source. OPS, however, is firm that the long-promised steering committee be constituted before any important decision is taken. He is keen that he gets a good number of poll tickets for his supporters and some key portfolios for his loyalists if the AIADMK wins the election. “He is keen to get his younger son P Jaya Pradeep into the political mainstream. If these assurances are given to OPS, he is willing to give his consent for EPS being projected as CM candidate,” said a close OPS aide. The decision could get the temperature in the pre-poll arena soaring and pit the AIADMK and DMK in a tough battle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/ops-likely-to-agree-to-eps-standing-as-cm-candidate-for-2021-polls-soon/articleshow/77588293.cms||Jaya Menon
August 17, 2020||Salem||Edappadi K Palaniswami may be AIADMK CM choice for 2021 Tamil Nadu poll||CHENNAI: Notwithstanding the tough posturing by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, the ruling AIADMK is likely to name chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as the party’s CM candidate for the 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly election. Sources, including those close to EPS and OPS, confirmed to TOI that an announcement may be made within a fortnight once the glitches are ironed out. OPS has sought a few days’ time, but sources said he would relent and agree to the AIADMK’s general council being convened to announce the decision. With the assembly election scheduled in May next year, it’s a question that’s been bothering the EPS camp for a while, with his loyalists in a hurry to clear hurdles from the CM’s path. While EPS has his sights set on capturing power after the 2021 assembly election and returning as chief minister, OPS too has an agenda of his own. As ministers rushed back and forth on Saturday, it became clear that OPS was seeking more time while EPS was keen to get the matter settled and out of the way. The mediation exercise, sources said, was planned a few days ago. The EPS camp argued that such open debate and uncertainty over the CM candidate would only weaken the AIADMK and strengthen rival DMK’s hands. “OPS thinks BJP would come to his rescue. The BJP is only keen to ensure that the DMK, in the company of the Congress, is not allowed anywhere near the hot seat,” a senior minister close to EPS told TOI. “EPS has a fairly good record of governance, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, and with the backing of a majority of the ministers and party MLAs, there can be no doubt who is the ideal choice for CM candidate,” said the minister. Gradually coming around to EPS’s logic that the matter has to be settled early so that he could roll out the blueprint for a strong pre-poll strategy, OPS has now consented to back EPS’s candidature, a source said. On August 10, after a Tamil journal ‘spelt out’ EPS’s ‘game plan’, minister for cooperatives Sellur K Raju told reporters that the CM candidate would be decided after the election. At least 17 ministers called up EPS and said they would talk to journalists backing him. But the CM restrained them and said the matter could be discussed at a meeting on Independence Day, said a source. OPS, however, is firm that the long-promised steering committee be constituted before any important decision is taken. He is keen that he gets a good number of poll tickets for his supporters and some key portfolios for his loyalists if the AIADMK wins the election. “He is keen to get his younger son P Jaya Pradeep into the political mainstream. If these assurances are given to OPS, he is willing to give his consent for EPS being projected as CM candidate,” said a close OPS aide. The decision could get the temperature in the pre-poll arena soaring and pit the AIADMK and DMK in a tough battle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/ops-likely-to-agree-to-eps-standing-as-cm-candidate-for-2021-polls-soon/articleshow/77588301.cms||Jaya Menon
August 17, 2020||Erode||Edappadi K Palaniswami may be AIADMK CM choice for 2021 Tamil Nadu poll||CHENNAI: Notwithstanding the tough posturing by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, the ruling AIADMK is likely to name chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as the party’s CM candidate for the 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly election. Sources, including those close to EPS and OPS, confirmed to TOI that an announcement may be made within a fortnight once the glitches are ironed out. OPS has sought a few days’ time, but sources said he would relent and agree to the AIADMK’s general council being convened to announce the decision. With the assembly election scheduled in May next year, it’s a question that’s been bothering the EPS camp for a while, with his loyalists in a hurry to clear hurdles from the CM’s path. While EPS has his sights set on capturing power after the 2021 assembly election and returning as chief minister, OPS too has an agenda of his own. As ministers rushed back and forth on Saturday, it became clear that OPS was seeking more time while EPS was keen to get the matter settled and out of the way. The mediation exercise, sources said, was planned a few days ago. The EPS camp argued that such open debate and uncertainty over the CM candidate would only weaken the AIADMK and strengthen rival DMK’s hands. “OPS thinks BJP would come to his rescue. The BJP is only keen to ensure that the DMK, in the company of the Congress, is not allowed anywhere near the hot seat,” a senior minister close to EPS told TOI. “EPS has a fairly good record of governance, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, and with the backing of a majority of the ministers and party MLAs, there can be no doubt who is the ideal choice for CM candidate,” said the minister. Gradually coming around to EPS’s logic that the matter has to be settled early so that he could roll out the blueprint for a strong pre-poll strategy, OPS has now consented to back EPS’s candidature, a source said. On August 10, after a Tamil journal ‘spelt out’ EPS’s ‘game plan’, minister for cooperatives Sellur K Raju told reporters that the CM candidate would be decided after the election. At least 17 ministers called up EPS and said they would talk to journalists backing him. But the CM restrained them and said the matter could be discussed at a meeting on Independence Day, said a source. OPS, however, is firm that the long-promised steering committee be constituted before any important decision is taken. He is keen that he gets a good number of poll tickets for his supporters and some key portfolios for his loyalists if the AIADMK wins the election. “He is keen to get his younger son P Jaya Pradeep into the political mainstream. If these assurances are given to OPS, he is willing to give his consent for EPS being projected as CM candidate,” said a close OPS aide. The decision could get the temperature in the pre-poll arena soaring and pit the AIADMK and DMK in a tough battle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/ops-likely-to-agree-to-eps-standing-as-cm-candidate-for-2021-polls-soon/articleshow/77588299.cms||Jaya Menon
August 17, 2020||Madurai||Edappadi K Palaniswami may be AIADMK CM choice for 2021 Tamil Nadu poll||CHENNAI: Notwithstanding the tough posturing by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, the ruling AIADMK is likely to name chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as the party’s CM candidate for the 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly election. Sources, including those close to EPS and OPS, confirmed to TOI that an announcement may be made within a fortnight once the glitches are ironed out. OPS has sought a few days’ time, but sources said he would relent and agree to the AIADMK’s general council being convened to announce the decision. With the assembly election scheduled in May next year, it’s a question that’s been bothering the EPS camp for a while, with his loyalists in a hurry to clear hurdles from the CM’s path. While EPS has his sights set on capturing power after the 2021 assembly election and returning as chief minister, OPS too has an agenda of his own. As ministers rushed back and forth on Saturday, it became clear that OPS was seeking more time while EPS was keen to get the matter settled and out of the way. The mediation exercise, sources said, was planned a few days ago. The EPS camp argued that such open debate and uncertainty over the CM candidate would only weaken the AIADMK and strengthen rival DMK’s hands. “OPS thinks BJP would come to his rescue. The BJP is only keen to ensure that the DMK, in the company of the Congress, is not allowed anywhere near the hot seat,” a senior minister close to EPS told TOI. “EPS has a fairly good record of governance, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, and with the backing of a majority of the ministers and party MLAs, there can be no doubt who is the ideal choice for CM candidate,” said the minister. Gradually coming around to EPS’s logic that the matter has to be settled early so that he could roll out the blueprint for a strong pre-poll strategy, OPS has now consented to back EPS’s candidature, a source said. On August 10, after a Tamil journal ‘spelt out’ EPS’s ‘game plan’, minister for cooperatives Sellur K Raju told reporters that the CM candidate would be decided after the election. At least 17 ministers called up EPS and said they would talk to journalists backing him. But the CM restrained them and said the matter could be discussed at a meeting on Independence Day, said a source. OPS, however, is firm that the long-promised steering committee be constituted before any important decision is taken. He is keen that he gets a good number of poll tickets for his supporters and some key portfolios for his loyalists if the AIADMK wins the election. “He is keen to get his younger son P Jaya Pradeep into the political mainstream. If these assurances are given to OPS, he is willing to give his consent for EPS being projected as CM candidate,” said a close OPS aide. The decision could get the temperature in the pre-poll arena soaring and pit the AIADMK and DMK in a tough battle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ops-likely-to-agree-to-eps-standing-as-cm-candidate-for-2021-polls-soon/articleshow/77588298.cms||Jaya Menon
August 17, 2020||Jaipur||Three chinkaras poached in Jaisalmer district||JAISALMER: Due to increase in the number of poaching incidents, the chinkara is on the verge of extinction. Unidentified poachers on Friday night killed three chinkaras in Fatehgarh sub-division of Jaisalmer district. The forest department and police team reached the spot on Saturday and recovered the remains of the dead chinkaras and buried them after postmortem. A hunt has been launched for the culprits. ACF Mangla Sharma said a shepherd, who was grazing goats at the border village of Bhiyansar in Fatehgarh sub-division, found the remains of the chinkaras on Saturday and informed police. On getting information, the ACF along with a team reached the spot and recovered the carcasses. Tyre marks of tractor and trolley were found at the spot. There is resentment among wildlife enthusiasts as incidents of poaching are increasing. Wildlife enthusiast Radheyshyam Pemani said the population of chinkaras is fast declining. He said many gangs are active in Jaisalmer which are involved in poaching deer and supplying its meat to hotels. Recently, a kingpin of a gang was caught at Ramdeora in a case related to poaching of four chinkaras. He admitted that the gag had poached many deer and supplied meat to hotels. The forest department and police recovered a weighing scale and weapons from his house. Pemani said the forest department has to take strict measures to stop such incidents. Apart from this, in summer, wild dogs and animals attack deer and kill them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-chinkaras-poached-in-jaisalmer-district/articleshow/77580922.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Motorists navigate potholes on Vijayawada’s rain-battered roads||VIJAYAWADA: Large potholes have formed on Chanumolu Venkata Rao flyover and Inner Ring Road (IRR) from Milk Project to Ramavarappadu junction following Friday’s downpour. IRR plays a significant role in reducing traffic. Vehicles travelling from Hyderabad to Kolkata are diverted through this road to reduce traffic congestion. The then TDP-led state government had completed Ramavarappadu flyover in 2017 and given APCRDA the responsibility of maintaining the road. However, a portion of the road between Paipula Road to Chanumolu flyover and Kandrika to Gunadala has been damaged for a while now. Motorists are afraid of using the stretch, riddled with potholes, each about a foot deep. While minor road mishaps are common on the road, K Bapuji, a mechanic told TOI, “I use the road regularly to reach Jawahar Autonagar from Kothuru Tadepalli. My vehicle was damaged owing to the potholes. It has been almost three years and no maintenance work has been taken up.” Meanwhile, activists staged a protest at Chanumolu Venkata Rao flyover. “The state government is neglecting Vijayawada city. The top layer of Chanumolu flyover has been damaged and and iron bars can be seen. The R&B department or VMC should immediately respond,” said U Srinivas, district secretary of Marxist Communist Party of India. Later, responding to the issue, collector A Mohammed Imtiaz directed officials to prepare an action plan to repair and restore the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/motorists-navigate-potholes-on-vijs-rain-battered-roads/articleshow/77578381.cms||Venu Lanka
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Business back on the table as customers return to restaurants in Chennai||CHENNAI: Restaurants are back in business as couples and families tired of being at home for close to four months have started to come out to dine in. Revenue has increased by as much as 40%, say industry insiders. Footfalls have been rising since the state government lifted the ban on dine-in services which came into force to prevent spread of Covid-19. There were few takers when dine-in services were allowed for 10 days in June, but people now seem to want to enjoy the experience of having a tea and snacks or lunch with friends and family. Restaurant owners say they are witnessing more dine-ins and takeaways over food delivery orders. Anna Nagar resident T K Pandian said there was a visible change in the past two weeks with regard to presence of families. “The primary reason is that all entertainment avenues such as malls, theatres and parks are shut. The only hang-out places for families are restaurants and they do not seem to be frightened by Coronavirus,” he said. Establishments in crowded neighbourhoods like Royapettah, which had been selling a few packets of food daily, are relieved to see customers come to eat. Pizza and burger joints mainly see young couples walking in, while formal restaurants have begun to host families coming with children. M Shyam, who used to meet friends in restaurants almost every week before the shutdown began, said he went to a restaurant in Mylapore on Friday with friends for lunch. “There were many youngsters having food. But, things had changed. Instead of six chairs, there were only four chairs for a large table to maintain social distancing.” The collective monthly revenue of eateries and restaurants in and around Chennai was Rs 1,250crore before the shutdown. It has now touched Rs 500 crore, with dine-ins and takeaways accounting for more than 60% of the revenue. K T Srinivasa Raja, managing director of the Adyar Ananda Bhavan chain of restaurants, said another 15 branches were set to open in the next few weeks increasing the total number of functional branches to 40. “Our chefs have returned by flights. Eateries will return to normal in two months,” he said. All is not rosy, however. M Ravi, president of The Chennai Hotels Association, said about 50% of the 8,000-odd eateries in the city and its suburbs continue to be shut due to a variety of reasons including disputes with landlords over rentals. “Another challenge is the shortage of workers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/business-back-on-the-table-as-customers-return-to-restaurants/articleshow/77579733.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
August 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru riots: Cases rise to 52, arrests swell to 309||Bengaluru: Five more cases pertaining to the August 11 violence in east Bengaluru were registered on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 52. In all, 309 persons have been arrested for rioting and police said the number will go up further. SD Sharanappa, deputy commissioner of police (east), said KG Halli police have registered 14 cases and DJ Halli police 38 cases. “In all, 52 cases have been registered,” he said. “Arrests are still under way.” A police officer who is part of the investigation team said many of those involved in the rioting have left the city. “We have information that these absconding suspects have taken shelter in residences of their relatives and friends in nearby towns and villages. We will nab them soon,” the officer said. A few suspects were feigning Covid-19 symptoms. “Till now, three accused have tested positive for Covid-19 and we are taking all precautions to avoid infections,” an officer said. Meanwhile, Bengaluru city police commissioner Kamal Pant has extended prohibitory orders in KG Halli and DJ Halli police station limits till 6am Tuesday.  Police have formed six teams exclusively to render technical analysis. These teams have cybercrime experts and forensic officials. These teams are analysing CCTV footage from various locations and are tracking suspects with the help of mobile tower locations and collecting scientific and technical evidence. The 38 cases registered with DJ Halli police include one based on a complaint filed by MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy and some others based on plaints filed by his close friends and neighbours. The mob had attacked Srinivasamurthy’s close friend Munegowda D of Kavalbyrasandra. According to Munegowda’s complaint, the mob vandalised his residence, cars, bikes and electrical gadgets and caused damages worth Rs 10 lakh. The mob torched vehicles worth Rs 5.7 lakh worth belonging to Srinivasamurthy’s neighbour J Raja. The mob also vandalized a bar and restaurant on the road leading to the MLA’s residence. Bar owner S Krishna alleged that he sustained a loss of Rs 60 lakh as the mob ransacked his bar and destroyed liquor. The mob attacked two residences located in the same building. The rioters allegedly looted Rs 40,000 in cash, 150 grams of gold and 100 grams of silver from the residence of Chandru Kumar in the same building. They vandalised Kumar’s vehicles and his neighbours MK Sri Ram Reddy and Prakash MN. Forensic experts and a dog squad visited Munegowda’s residence on Sunday and collected evidence from the spot. The technical team has collected CCTV footage from his residence and nearby buildings to identify rioters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-riots-cases-rise-to-52-arrests-swell-to-309/articleshow/77578610.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Mumbai||Child marriages in Maharashtra soar during lockdown||When Mitali Sathe stepped out of her home in Latur decked in a yellow sari, the mehendi and green glass bangles gave her away. A member of an adolescent girls' protection group spotted the 15-year-old before her marriage to a man four decades her senior. After her elder sister's death, Mitali was the sacrificial bride on offer to the 50-year-old widower: he needed her to care for the children. With their earnings as seasonal labourers cut off and the daughter out of school due to the pandemic, Mitali's parents saw this as a way out. However, timely intervention halted the wedding and led to the suitor's arrest. Times ViewThe phenomenon of increased child marriages is a classic example of the many ways in which prolonged paralysis of all economic activity can have serious effects on society’s well-being. Devastation of lives is caused not only by death but by these ways too. In what is a saving grace, many of these cases have been blocked by alert activists, officials and state-backed advocacy groups, but while the government machinery continues its fight against the pandemic, it must also now get back to paying close attention to such aspects of community life which can take the state and, broadly, Indian society backward.At least 92,203 interventions were made by Childline-a nodal government agency for children in distress -between May and July. Of these, 5,584 were related to child marriage. State saw over 200 child marriage cases in March-June: ActivistIn Mitali’s case, she was produced before the child welfare committee and counselled while her parents were made to sign a declaration that they would refrain from the illegal act of getting their underage daughter married. But Mitali’s escape from the scourge of “bal-vivaah” or child marriage was an exception. During the pandemic, a large number of underage girls have been coerced straight from childhood into marriage. With the protective shield of a school gone, job loss rampant among daily wagers and reduced surveillance of district machinery currently focused on Covid-19 management, many families in rural areas are stealthily marrying their minor daughters off as a survival strategy — to reduce the number of children to support and the chance to make the affair less expensive and concealed. “More than 200 cases of child marriage have been reported between March and June out of which 90 per cent were averted with help of authorities and vigilant locals,” says child rights activist Santosh Shinde, former member of Maharashtra’s State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. “Marathwada, Latur and Osmanabad continue to be the source for child brides while sugarcane-producing districts like Kolhapur, Solapur, Satara and Sangli are destinations.” “Many parents feel the lockdown is a good opportunity to get their daughters married at a lower cost. Instead of feeding over 200 guests and running up a debt of about Rs 2 lakh, they can get everything done for Rs 20,000,” says Sandhya Rani, 16, who heads the Savitribai Phule adolescent group in Latur where 16 child marriages have been reported between April and June compared to 19 cases over the previous nine months. A key driver has been the respite from heavy dowry. “Higher caste communities like Maratha, Yedam and Lingayat that would demand close to Rs 5 lakh from the bride’s family are ready to settle for Rs 1 lakh while dowry of Rs 1 lakh for daily wagers has come down to Rs 20,000. People need additional helping hands at home or to labour,” she says. “It feels like we’ve gone back ten years in terms of progress that we had made,” rues Jayvant Jangapalle, coordinator for Kala Pandhari Magaswargiya and Adivasi Gramin Vikas Sanstha, a project partner of Child Rights and You (CRY) in the Latur and Nanded districts of Maharashtra. “After the launch of Integrated Child Protection Scheme in 2010, adolescent girl groups were activated which helped us monitor and nip child marriages in the area, members of the Village Child Protection Committee upheld basic rights and we were able to keep girls in school or in seasonal hostels to stem the practice of migrant parents taking along their daughters and marrying them off,” says Jangapalle. In some cases, girls themselves have put a stop to their own marriage. In the Pangaon village of Latur, Muskaan Syed, 16 refused to marry when her parents received a proposal and promptly fixed a date. “They did not ask me nor tell me who I was marrying. Because I was part of an adolescent girls group, I knew the implications and argued with my parents until they agreed to call it off,” she says. Unfortunately the lockdown has upended girl group meetings or home visits that were therapeutic as much as empowering. “We learnt how to conduct ourselves confidently and discuss issues that we couldn’t with our parents. We have no opportunity to talk about our challenges or find solutions now,” says Meenal Rathod, 15 from Latur adding that almost every household in her village has been discussing marriage. The approaching sugarcane harvesting season starting September when the banjara community migrates to districts across western Maharashtra for six months, activists fear, will render girls more vulnerable to early marriage. “Due to koyta padhati (sickle system) of hiring couples; parents prefer to marry off boys so that he and his bride can rake in an income which they can’t as a single cane cutter,” says Raju Sathe, a community organiser for CRY in Marathwada’s Parbhani district that has reported 16 cases between March and June as opposed to their past average of seven cases in a year. With the criminality in child marriages yet to sink in, the pandemic has exposed the kind of work that still remains to be done. As a start, CRY along with NGO Vidhayak Bharti released a handbook last month on roles and responsibilities of Bal Sanrakshan Samitis and ways to tackle child protection at the community level. (Some of the girls' names have been changed for privacy)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/child-marriages-in-maharashtra-soar-during-lockdown/articleshow/77581915.cms||Mohua Das
August 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Edappadi K Palaniswami may be AIADMK CM choice for 2021 Tamil Nadu poll||CHENNAI: Notwithstanding the tough posturing by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, the ruling AIADMK is likely to name chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as the party’s CM candidate for the 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly election. Sources, including those close to EPS and OPS, confirmed to TOI that an announcement may be made within a fortnight once the glitches are ironed out. OPS has sought a few days’ time, but sources said he would relent and agree to the AIADMK’s general council being convened to announce the decision. With the assembly election scheduled in May next year, it’s a question that’s been bothering the EPS camp for a while, with his loyalists in a hurry to clear hurdles from the CM’s path. While EPS has his sights set on capturing power after the 2021 assembly election and returning as chief minister, OPS too has an agenda of his own. As ministers rushed back and forth on Saturday, it became clear that OPS was seeking more time while EPS was keen to get the matter settled and out of the way. The mediation exercise, sources said, was planned a few days ago. The EPS camp argued that such open debate and uncertainty over the CM candidate would only weaken the AIADMK and strengthen rival DMK’s hands. “OPS thinks BJP would come to his rescue. The BJP is only keen to ensure that the DMK, in the company of the Congress, is not allowed anywhere near the hot seat,” a senior minister close to EPS told TOI. “EPS has a fairly good record of governance, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, and with the backing of a majority of the ministers and party MLAs, there can be no doubt who is the ideal choice for CM candidate,” said the minister. Gradually coming around to EPS’s logic that the matter has to be settled early so that he could roll out the blueprint for a strong pre-poll strategy, OPS has now consented to back EPS’s candidature, a source said. On August 10, after a Tamil journal ‘spelt out’ EPS’s ‘game plan’, minister for cooperatives Sellur K Raju told reporters that the CM candidate would be decided after the election. At least 17 ministers called up EPS and said they would talk to journalists backing him. But the CM restrained them and said the matter could be discussed at a meeting on Independence Day, said a source. OPS, however, is firm that the long-promised steering committee be constituted before any important decision is taken. He is keen that he gets a good number of poll tickets for his supporters and some key portfolios for his loyalists if the AIADMK wins the election. “He is keen to get his younger son P Jaya Pradeep into the political mainstream. If these assurances are given to OPS, he is willing to give his consent for EPS being projected as CM candidate,” said a close OPS aide. The decision could get the temperature in the pre-poll arena soaring and pit the AIADMK and DMK in a tough battle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ops-likely-to-agree-to-eps-standing-as-cm-candidate-for-2021-polls-soon/articleshow/77588295.cms||Jaya Menon
August 17, 2020||Chennai||Edappadi K Palaniswami may be AIADMK CM choice for 2021 Tamil Nadu poll||CHENNAI: Notwithstanding the tough posturing by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, the ruling AIADMK is likely to name chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami as the party’s CM candidate for the 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly election. Sources, including those close to EPS and OPS, confirmed to TOI that an announcement may be made within a fortnight once the glitches are ironed out. OPS has sought a few days’ time, but sources said he would relent and agree to the AIADMK’s general council being convened to announce the decision. With the assembly election scheduled in May next year, it’s a question that’s been bothering the EPS camp for a while, with his loyalists in a hurry to clear hurdles from the CM’s path. While EPS has his sights set on capturing power after the 2021 assembly election and returning as chief minister, OPS too has an agenda of his own. As ministers rushed back and forth on Saturday, it became clear that OPS was seeking more time while EPS was keen to get the matter settled and out of the way. The mediation exercise, sources said, was planned a few days ago. The EPS camp argued that such open debate and uncertainty over the CM candidate would only weaken the AIADMK and strengthen rival DMK’s hands. “OPS thinks BJP would come to his rescue. The BJP is only keen to ensure that the DMK, in the company of the Congress, is not allowed anywhere near the hot seat,” a senior minister close to EPS told TOI. “EPS has a fairly good record of governance, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic, and with the backing of a majority of the ministers and party MLAs, there can be no doubt who is the ideal choice for CM candidate,” said the minister. Gradually coming around to EPS’s logic that the matter has to be settled early so that he could roll out the blueprint for a strong pre-poll strategy, OPS has now consented to back EPS’s candidature, a source said. On August 10, after a Tamil journal ‘spelt out’ EPS’s ‘game plan’, minister for cooperatives Sellur K Raju told reporters that the CM candidate would be decided after the election. At least 17 ministers called up EPS and said they would talk to journalists backing him. But the CM restrained them and said the matter could be discussed at a meeting on Independence Day, said a source. OPS, however, is firm that the long-promised steering committee be constituted before any important decision is taken. He is keen that he gets a good number of poll tickets for his supporters and some key portfolios for his loyalists if the AIADMK wins the election. “He is keen to get his younger son P Jaya Pradeep into the political mainstream. If these assurances are given to OPS, he is willing to give his consent for EPS being projected as CM candidate,” said a close OPS aide. The decision could get the temperature in the pre-poll arena soaring and pit the AIADMK and DMK in a tough battle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ops-likely-to-agree-to-eps-standing-as-cm-candidate-for-2021-polls-soon/articleshow/77579736.cms||Jaya Menon
August 17, 2020||Bareilly||30,000 fish ‘missing’ from U’khand minister’s farmhouse in UP’s Bareilly||Bareilly: About 30,000 fish went missing from the farmhouse of Uttarakhand’s state minister Rekha Arya in UP's Bareilly district. Police have launched an investigation after an FIR was registered on the complaint of the minister's manager Madanlal Sahu against the former caretaker (manager). Sub-inspector Siddhartha Goswami is now probing the matter and has detained a suspect for questioning. The main suspect - said to be the former manager Vishram Singh - is still at large. The farmhouse of Rekha Arya is situated near Tulip ground in Lalpur village of Izzatnagar where farming of fish or pisciculture is usually done by the caretaker and other staff. Rekha and her husband Girdhari Lal Sahu occasionally visit the place. Also, recently the former caretaker had left work and Madan Lal had started looking after the farm activities. On August 13, Madan reportedly observed that the pond was empty. All the fish had gone missing. He immediately alerted the minister and lodged a police complaint. Vishram - the main suspect along with his unidentified aides - was often seen near the farmhouse. And he still has access into the area. “We have registered an FIR under IPC section 380 [robbery] but the complainant has not been able to provide the date when the fish were stolen from the farmhouse. Vishram is absconding and we are trying to trace him through his mobile number and location. We are also enquiring into the market to know if any non-dealer had recently sold a large stock of fish,” investigating officer Goswami told TOI on Sunday. The minister, though, was unavailable for any comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/30000-fish-missing-from-ukhand-ministers-farmhouse-in-ups-bareilly/articleshow/77577503.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 17, 2020||Jamshedpur||Tata hospital adds two drugs to treat Covid patients||JAMSHEDPUR: Tata Main Hospital (TMH) has added special medicines Ivermectin and Doxycycline to its Covid treatment protocol, said officials of the hospital. TMH general manager Ranjan Chaudhry said, “While Remdesivir and Favipiravir is already in use, we have added Ivermectin and Doxycycline to the treatment protocol.” “Considering limited treatment modalities available for corona-infected patients, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation and Indian Council for Medical Research approved off-label use of some special medicines,” Chaudhry said. He added, “Tocilizumab, which is a costly drug, will be added to the treatment protocol soon after the consignment arrives.” Notably, TMH has 1,087 beds of which 661 are for positive patients, 112 for routine isolation beds, 18 ICU isolation beds and 36 ICU Covid beds. The hospital is equipped with 83 ventilators for critical patients. At TMH, a total of 350 doctors and 2,000 paramedical staff are looking after Covid patients, officials said. In response to a query pertaining to Covid-related mortalities at the hospital, Chaudhry said it will be unfair to say that the deaths are purely due to the virus. “Several deaths of Covid patients are due to the critical condition of the other diseases such as lung cancer, some kidney ailment or cardiac complications,” he said. He also noted that TMH is the only Covid hospital in the state where close to 70 critical patients are under treatment at one place. Incidentally, 90 Covid patients have died at the hospital in the last 40 days. Noting that TMH receives Covid patients from the three districts of Kolhan division besides nearby districts like Dhanbad and Ramgarh, the GM said the hospital is providing support to Tinplate Hospital and Jamshedpur Eye for Covid management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/tata-hosp-adds-2-drugs-to-treat-covid-patients/articleshow/77581120.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ranchi||19 deaths, more than 1,000 fresh Covid cases in Jharkhand since I-Day||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported 14 Covid-19 casualties on Sunday along with five more deaths on Saturday. In the last 48 hours, the state also reported 1,032 fresh cases. Sunday's casualty figures were the highest after the state reported 15 deaths on Friday. On August 8, the state also reported 14 deaths. Among the 19 casualties in the last 48 hours, East Singhbhum alone accounted for nine deaths with Ranchi reporting three. West Singhbhum reported two deaths, Koderma, Gumla, Dhanbad, Ramgarh and Palamu had one each. “All casualties reported in the last 48 hours passed away during the course of treatment and more than 90% of them were suffering from co-morbidities,” a health department official said. On Saturday, 486 new infections were detected and 546 on Sunday. Of 546 fresh cases reported on Sunday, Dhanbad topped the chart with 148 cases and Ranchi contributed 113 cases followed by Deoghar with 51 fresh cases. The state also reported 566 recoveries on Sunday and the capital district saw an increase in the number of recoveries with 207 patients being declared cured. The cumulative caseload in the state has risen to 22,125, of which 8,223 are active, 14,747 have recovered and 244 have succumbed to the viral infection. Meanwhile, the state recorded a steep decline in the number of testing samples. In the last 48 hours, Jharkhand tested a total of 12,591 samples which is less than 50% of Friday's figures when 30,000 samples, the highest single-day tests so far. With 546 out of total 7,040 samples testing positive on Sunday, the positive percentage of the samples stood at 7.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/19-deaths-more-than-1000-fresh-covid-cases-in-state-since-i-day/articleshow/77581069.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Sanitiser consumption high in 1,000 spots in Andhra Pradesh: SEB||VIJAYAWADA: Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) continued its raids across the state on belt shops, sanitiser manufacturing units, unauthorised sales and sale of arrack on Sunday. SEB officials have so far identified 1,039 vulnerable points where sanitiser consumption is high and 597 vulnerable people and initiated action against them. The raids came in the wake of 16 deaths reported in Prakasam district due to consumption of hand sanitiser. Since then SEB officials have been tracking all the stakeholders involved from manufacturing to sale. The teams are checking whether the sanitiser are being made by unlicensed manufacturers and whether they are being adulterated after coming out of the manufacturing units. The SEB is also collecting details of distilleries, spirit making and storage units across the state to keep a check on uncontrolled sale of sanitisers and arrack brewing rackets. Though no license needed for selling sanitisers, it was made mandatory to maintain transaction details on procurement and selling. Cases are being filed against those flouting norms. The SEB officials have directed sellers to maintain a logbook with names and phone numbers of sanitiser purchasers and giving proper bills to the purchasers. Cases have been booked against vendors for not maintaining proper records of such transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sanitiser-consumption-high-in-1000-spots-seb/articleshow/77578396.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ranchi||Mahi’s friends, coach recall ‘Dhoni moments’||RANCHI: After Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s sudden announcement of retirement from International cricket on Saturday, his friends, coach and others speak of their favourite matches where ‘Captain Cool’ made them proud. Ranchi, Mahi’s hometown, has not always been kind to the former captain of the Indian cricket team. While it celebrated victories such as the World Cup 2011 and the 2007 T20 World Cup, people have also burnt his effigies and vandalised his under-construction house after his poor performances. For Chanchal Bhattacharjee, one of Dhoni’s coaches when he was young, the 39-year-old cricketer’s 148 runs against Pakistan in 2005 will be his ultimate ‘Dhoni moment’. Taking to TOI he said, “That performance was Dhoni’s signature to the world of cricket. I still recall former Pakistan president comment about his mane (Dhoni’s hairstyle). That day I knew this Ranchi boy is unstoppable.” Former university player and a functionary of JSCA, J KSinha, who remained closely associated with the player agreed with Bhattacharjee. He said, “The world’s coolest captain’s every performance will always be special for me, but his century against Pakistan in Vishakapatnam will be my all time favourite.”  According to Sinha, the world’s best finisher also turned out to be the coolest finisher while announcing his retirement. “Unlike many top cricketers who retired from team India in recent years, Dhoni didn’t look for a farewell match for him. That was so typical of his personality, who never claimed credit after winning any match and pushed team mates to hog limelight. He ended his career in style too with just a video message,” he said, adding that the state’s cricketing fraternity will now hope to have the world’s greatest captain as a mentor for budding players. A CCL employee, Adil Hussain, who captained Dhoni in the late 90s being a part of the CCL cricket team said the match against Sri Lanka during the 2011 world cup final will remain to be his Dhoni moment. “A six in the final over to seal the victory will only be the hallmark of the great,” he remarked, adding that the nail-biting finish is still fresh in his memory. BJP spokesperson and an avid cricket fan, Pratul Shahdeo echoed, saying, “For crores of Indian cricket fans, the final world cup over will remain to be a treasure.” After Mahi’s dismal show in a crucial match against Bangladesh in the 2007 World Cup in which India later faced an early exit from the tournament, his fans went maniac in Ranchi and burnt his posters and vandalised his under-construction house in Harmu. The same fans later silently repaired one of the broken boundary walls of his home, which Mahi later named Shauriya. In 2010, a couple of CCTV cameras of his house were stolen by unidentified criminals. In 2011, the city hailed him as a god when he led the India team to bring home the coveted world cup ending a close to three-decade wait. But two years later, his irate fans again pelted stones at his house in Harmu after the India-Asutralia test match in Ranchi’s JSCA stadium in Dhurwa suffered a washout because of the rain, with many upset with Dhoni's decision to field first robbing spectators to watch India bat. On the contrary, there have also been instances of pujas and hawans before big games. One of the pandas of Deori temple in Tamar, which Dhoni never missed to visit whenever he is in Ranchi, said, “While gods make any people famous, this temple earned its fame because of Dhoni as he revers Maa Deori so much so that he never misses an opportunity to pay darshan whenever he comes or goes out of Ranchi, mostly before any tournament.” The panda, however, wished that the son of the soil would contribute with donations to revamp the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/mahis-friends-coach-recall-dhoni-moments/articleshow/77581101.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 17, 2020||Ranchi||Hemant urges BCCI to host farewell match for Dhoni in Ranchi||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren urged the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) to organise a farewell match for former captain of the Indian cricket team Mahendra Singh Dhoni in the state so that the cricketer can be given a grand send-off. While ‘Captain Cool’ announced his retirement through an Instagram post on Independence Day, it was heartbreak for Dhoni’s fans, mates, budding sportsperson and politicians, who poured their emotions on social media. हम सबके चहेते झारखण्ड का लाल माही को नीली जर्सी पहने अब नहीं देख पायेंगे। लेकिन देशवासियों का दिल अभी भरा नहीं। मैं… https://t.co/H92MSfFUsA— Office of Chief Minister, Jharkhand (@JharkhandCMO) 1597508099000Hemant’s tweet summed up the overall mood of Jharkhand. “We cannot see our beloved Mahi in the blue jersey again. The country still wants to see more of him. I believe there should be a farewell match for our Mahi which will be witnessed by the whole world. I urge BCCI to organize a farewell match which will be hosted by Jharkhand,” Hemant tweeted. Like the CM, prominent politicians of the state, including former CM Raghubar Das, Union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda and former CM Babulal Marandi showered accolades on the cricketer on social media. Many in Dhoni’s close quarters and in Jharkhand’s cricketing fraternity did not see the announcement coming. “I had met him at the JSCA International Stadium less than a week ago. He looked fitter than ever. When I asked Dhoni about it, he disclosed that he was working out at home,” Jharkhand State Cricket Association’s (JSCA) vice president Ajay Nath Shahdeo said. Shahdeo, who felt there was a lot of cricket left in Dhoni, said, “We at the JSCA are heartbroken after hearing his announcement. But we respect it.” JSCA will soon huddle itself to plan a grand felicitation for Dhoni after he returns from Dubai in November, Shahdeo added. Keshav Ranjan Banerjee, the former school coach of JVM-Shyamli who coaxed Dhoni to become a keeper-batsman from a goalie, told journalists, “It was his own decision and we have to respect it, but BCCI will have a tough time in finding a replacement.” The state’s former deputy chief minister Sudesh Mahto, who is a close friend of the cricketer, said, “There will not be another MS Dhoni again.” Dhoni is a regular at Mahto’s sports academy in Silli, where the two play football together. Mahto was among the select few who was invited to Dhoni’s wedding. Seemant Lohani, one of Dhoni’s closest friends, said he was completely unaware about his move. “August 15 is also his mother’s birthday. Such a thing can be done by Dhoni only. He did not disclose anything during our conversations. When I heard the news, I was stunned.” Sources close to the former Indian captain said Dhoni contemplated retirement after the T20 World Cup in November this year. “With that in mind, he had started full fledged practice for IPL in February because he wanted to get selected through a robust performance. He was hitting the nets at JSCA daily for five hours to get back in the groove. But the Covid-19 pandemic jeopardised his plans as the T20 World Cup was postponed indefinitely. Then, he took a call,” a source in know of things said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hemant-urges-bcci-to-host-farewell-match-for-dhoni-in-ranchi/articleshow/77581103.cms||Dhritiman Ray
August 17, 2020||Ranchi||Covid-19: Special drive to test 40,000 in 2 days across 4 districts||RANCHI: In order to identify the infected persons and as a result, contain the spread of the virus, the state health department has directed four districts with a high case load to conduct a special rapid antigen testing drive on Monday and Tuesday. All the four districts — Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Palamu and Dhanbad — will test 10,000 persons each as part of the drive. On Sunday, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “We have set a target of conducting 40,000 tests in the next two days across four districts which will be done by rapid antigen testing kits. Palamu and Dhanbad will be conduct the tests on Monday while Ranchi and East Singhbhum will do it on Tuesday.” A letter in this regard was issued by the health secretary on August 13, directing the deputy commissioners of all the four districts to come up with a meticulous plan for the effective execution of the testing drive so that the targets are achieved within the given time frame. The letter also provided guidelines for the effective use of the testing resources, directions on hygiene and safety protocols and the interpretation of results. The state head of Integrated Disease Surveillance Program, Dr Praveen Karn, said, “Densely populated areas like markets and slums, among others, will be given priority when conducting the tests. The drive will also cover the health workers, including the ambulance drivers, administrative staff at the hospitals, the municipality workers and those living in the containment zones.” The Ranchi district administration has released a list of 20 locations for conducting the drive, which include 14 rural areas and six urban locations. “We have included places with a high footfall like community health centres, jails, courts and market places, for the drive,” Ranchi PRO Ranchi Prabhat Shankar said. Palamu has made elaborate plans for conducting the special drive. “We have constituted 30 teams, with three members in each, and have categorised the section of people to be tested during the special drive. Health workers deployed on Covid-19 duty at the medical college and the community and primary health centres will be tested with the police personnel on Covid duty. While the advocates and their family members will be tested along with the traders,” deputy commissioner Shashi Ranjan said. He added, “We have set up a camp at the district border in Harharganj so that anyone entering Palamu can be immediately tested before being allowed in.” As of Sunday morning, Ranchi recorded a total of 4,272 cases, Palamu recorded 954 cases, East Singhbhum saw 3,668 cases and Dhanbad witnessed 1,478 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/special-drive-to-test-40000-in-2-days-across-4-districts/articleshow/77581095.cms||Gaurav Pandey
August 17, 2020||Ranchi||Battered Adityapur MSMEs hail ban on defence import||JAMSHEDPUR: The Union defence ministry’s announcement on August 9 of a negative arms imports list, under which acquisition of 101 weapon systems and platforms from abroad will be progressively banned from December 2020 to December 2025, has resonated with the MSMEs in Adityapur industrial area. Already battered owing to the lockdown, the Union ministry’s announcement has come at an opportune time and the automobile ancillaries industry is looking at the defence sector and the railways for new orders, the entrepreneurs said. “In the past few months, the Union government came out with several measures to ensure financial support to the MSME sector, when in reality we are looking for new markets to make fresh investments. The embargo on the import of 101 weapon systems and platforms comes at the right time as it will give manufacturing opportunities to the domestic SMEs,” Adityapur Small Industries Association (ASIA) president Inder Kumar Agarwal said on Friday. He added that about 30% of the items used in defence have the potential to be developed in Adityapur. The Adityapur entrepreneurs are expected to meet this month to work out the roadmap for consultation with the defence officials to generate new business orders, industry sources said. An ASIA functionary on condition of anonymity said, “We will soon write to chief minister Hemant Soren to hold dialogues with the defence minister and work out the modalities for business-to-business meet with the local vendors.” Industrialist Ashok Bihany said, “Presently, around 15 companies in Adityapur manufacture defence-related items but with the ban on the import of 101 weapon systems, the local industry is likely to flourish with the advent of new opportunities.” Bihany, who is also a consultant for the Rs 138-crore Electronic Manufacturing Cluster project of Jharkhand Infrastructure Development Authority, further said, “In 2018, a team of officials from the defence and railway ministries had visited Adityapur to meet the vendors for exploring new business opportunities which resulted in a breakthrough for some entrepreneurs who started manufacturing items for the railways and the defence sectors.” Entrepreneur Ashok Bhalotia, who is the president of Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry, also welcomed the move and said it will help in generating employment opportunities for the migrant returnees. “Along with new business opportunities, generating jobs is equally important for us to employ the large number of skilled migrants who have returned to their native places amid the lockdown,” he added. Entrepreneur Santosh Khetan said some of the equipment that are required in the defence such as early alarm system, body armour, ballistic panel, ballistic helmet and night vision goggles can be manufactured in Adityapur itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/battered-adityapur-msmes-hail-ban-on-defence-import/articleshow/77581079.cms||B Sridhar
August 17, 2020||Goa||Pratima Coutinho shares India map without POK, sparks debate||PANAJI: A glaring lapse by state Mahila Congress chief Pratima Coutinho kick started an online political storm with Congress and BJP supporters trading barbs. Coutinho, to mark Independence Day, shared a map of India without POK and Aksai Chin. This prompted BJP to demand a probe. “Shameful that president of Goa Congress mahila Pratima Coutinho puts up India map without Kashmir,” said BJP spokesperson and former Panaji MLA Sidharth Kuncalienkar. Coutinho blamed the graphic designer for the mistake. “I have expressed regrets for the error. The mistake was made by the designer and it was not intentional. I don’t have to prove my nationality to anyone,” Coutinho said. State Congress general secretary Amarnath Panjikar also jumped to her defence and tweeted a video of Amit Shah lowering the national flag instead of unfurling the flag in August 2018. “People who stay in glass houses should not throw stones on others,” said Panjikar. Author Shefali Vaidya said Coutinho had committed a criminal offence. “Chief minister Pramod Sawant, there should be a case filed against her,” said Vaidya. This however prompted many netizens to point out that BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje had used a poster with a map of India, that included Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir (PoK) in Pakistan’s territory. Coutinho already finds herself in a legal soup facing accusations and charges of hurting religious sentiments and for revealing the identity of a minor who was molested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pratima-shares-india-map-without-pok-sparks-debate/articleshow/77580930.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ranchi||Dhanbad sanitation workers oppose retrenchment, threaten to hit streets||DHANBAD: At a time when the city needs more sanitation workers for extensive sanitization and cleanliness due to Covid-19, the move to retrench employees by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) has not gone down well with the Bharatiya Karmachari Mazdoor Union which announced to hold a protest on August 20. They further said that if the issue is not solved, the protesters will sit on an indefinite strike. Around 100 sanitation workers, observing social distancing norms, held a meeting at Hatia Park on Sunday and announced their agitation to press for restoration of jobs of retrenched workers. The meeting, held under the chairmanship of the working president of the union, also decided to press for other demands like payment of the 7th pay commission, payment of arrears of more than one year of the assured career progression (ACP) scheme benefit, one time payment of all kinds of dues like provident fund, gratuity and leave encashment for retired employees. “We had been assured during the earlier meeting with the DMC administration that no sanitation worker would be retrenched, but recently several sanitation workers were retrenched, including eight in Wasseypur area. This comes at a time when the city requires intensive sanitation to be done,” the union leaders said, adding the assurances given by the DMC authorities to adjust the retrenched workers with Solid Waste Management agency has also been not fulfilled. “Retrenchment at a time when unemployment is forcing many people to commit suicides due to lack of income will only worsen the situation,” said state general secretary of BKMU, Anjani Kumar Singh. Notably, over 50 residents of ward 14 of Dhanbad led by councillor Nisar Ahmad also carried out a massive demonstration over the retrenchment of eight sanitation workers of ward Number 14 demanding restoration of jobs of retrenched workers. On August 7, over 100 workers held a day-long strike under the BKMU banner in support of their 18-point charter of demands including two months of pending payment and returned to work after talks with municipal commissioner Satyendra Kumar. The commissioner also ensured a month’s pending salary and assured to look into their demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhanbad-sanitation-workers-oppose-retrenchment-threaten-to-hit-streets/articleshow/77581135.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Ranchi||Will redefine local resident’s policy; 75% quota in pvt jobs: Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren has said his government will redefine the state residents’ policy, which was adopted by the earlier Raghubar Das government, and provide 75% reservation of jobs to permanent residents of Jharkhand in private sector firms operating in the state. Soren made the announcement during his Independence Day speech at the Morhabadi ground here in which he made a host of other promises. While parties in the ruling grand alliance lauded Soren and said the promises are part of the poll promises, the opposition, BJP, claimed the CM’s announcements as a mere eyewash. During his address at the Morhabadi ground, which was attended by only a handful of people because of the pandemic, Soren said, “During my previous tenure in 2013, we formed a committee for this job. However, it could not reach its logical conclusion then. With a clear mandate this time, our government will soon set up a committee to define the local residents (domicile) policy, which will be suitable to everyone and in the interest of the state.” He also said providing 75% reservation of jobs in the private sector to local residents was one of the pre-poll promises in the JMM manifesto. Paying tributes to the freedom fighters of the state in India’s Independence movement and all those who sacrificed their lives in protecting the borders of the country, the CM said four medical colleges in the state, including the three newly set up ones, will be renamed after the freedom fighters. He said, “Palamu Medical College will be known as Medinirai Medical College, Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital will be renamed as Shaheed Sheikh Bhikari Medical College and Hospital and the one in Dumka will be called Phulo-Jhano Medical College and Hospital. Patliputra Medical College (PMCH) in Dhanbad will be renamed as Shaheed Nirmal Mahto Medical College.” The medical colleges in Palamu, Hazaribag and Dumka were set up during Das’s tenure and became operational in 2019. He also highlighted the new sports policy for direct recruitment of players in government jobs and promised to upgrade 5,000 schools across the state. These schools will have all-around facilities and transform them into model institutes. To boost the rural economy, he announced the CM Pasudhan Yojana which will provide benefits to farmers and encourage them to take up activities of animal husbandry. Soren also announced plans to provide scholarships to help them pursue higher education overseas. On the long-pending demand of tribal academicians to promote indigenous languages, Soren said his government will send a proposal to the Centre for inclusion of Ho, Mundari and Kuduk in the VIII Schedule. The CM’s address also highlighted the state’s fight against the pandemic and his government’s commitment to the safety of its people. Altogether 10 Covid warriors were also felicitated on the occasion. Congress, an ally in Hemant Soren government, hailed his speech. The party’s spokesperson, Alok Dubey, said, “The coalition government will fulfil all its poll promises to take the state towards new heights. The CM’s speech reflects the government’s commitment.” BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said, “Speeches don’t lead to good governance unless they match with action on the ground. People are already fed up with the seven-month-old government over the way the state’s law and order has deteriorated leading to a sense of insecurity everywhere. The government has also failed miserably in curbing the Covid infection because of its shoddy management and vision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/will-redefine-local-residents-policy-75-quota-in-pvt-jobs-hemant/articleshow/77581111.cms||ASRP Mukesh
August 17, 2020||Ranchi||Over 1,000 committed suicide from March to July in Jharkhand: SCRB||SINDRI: As many as 1,010 have died by suicide in Jharkhand in just five months (from March to July), as per the records of the state crime records bureau (SCRB). According to SCRB, five persons committed suicide every day ever since the nationwide lockdown came into force from March 24. Attributing the surge in suicides to the prevailing situation where one is overwhelmed by the information explosion being disseminated from every media outlet on Covid-19, Dr Pramod Pathak, an expert at stress management in IIT (ISM), Dhanbad, said, “The barrage of information on coronavirus that is being broadcast on print, electronic and social media outlets is taking a toll on people’s mental health. It is leading to paranoia and anxiety among them and coupled with the inability to cope with the change in their daily lifestyles owing to the lockdown, those with a weak willpower are committing suicide.” His analysis may be correct when one compares the number of suicides to the ones that took place in the last two years. In 2019, 1,646 suicide cases were reported across the state while 1,317 people killed themselves in 2018. Interestingly, the urban centres of the state, like Dhanbad, East Singhbhum and Ranchi, have recorded the most number of suicides. For instance, from March to July, Dhanbad registered a total of 219 suicides which is about 20% percent of the total cases registered in the state so far. The total number of suicides registered in the district was 444 in 2019 and 457 in 2018. East Singhbhum recorded 93 suicides within the aforementioned time frame. The district recorded 159 and 154 suicides in 2019 and 2018 respectively. The state capital comes third with 115 cases, an increase from the last two years’ figures — 178 in 2019 and 80 in 2018. Godda, which has a relatively rural background, saw the least number of suicides. It registered eight cases this year and while in 2019 and in 2018, the district witnessed 13 and four suicides respectively. While a daily wager in Lodna area of Jharia committed suicide for not getting any work for nearly a week, a gram pradhan’s daughter in Ranchi killed herself for not getting a smartphone to attend her online classes. Dr Pathak, however, said that the triggering factor for committing suicide is individual-specific and cannot be generalised. “The increased use of social media and nucleated family systems are also acting as catalysts. We need to increase social interaction, besides developing a system of counselling in every part of the state to prevent suicides,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/over-1000-committed-suicide-from-march-to-july-in-jharkhand-scrb/articleshow/77581124.cms||Anil Ashutosh
August 17, 2020||Ranchi||Politicians support locals’ move against eviction notice||DHANBAD: Two days after Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) issued eviction notices to the residents of areas affected by underground fire in Dhanbad, political leaders and traders on Thursday condemned the coal company’s move and said they will not allow the eviction to take place. The BCCL notice had asked the residents of Kendua, Karkend Bazaar and Godhar, among others, to vacate their land and shift to safer places in view of an increased risk of land subsidence during monsoon. However, Mantu Mahto, who is the district president of All Jharkhand Students’ Union Party, on Thursday said the eviction notice is an attempt by BCCL to provide Karkend Bazar (considered to be the oldest wholesale market in the district) to some private companies, that work on behalf of BCCL, for carrying out coal excavation. “This will help BCCL in carrying out reckless mining and it will end up earning huge profits while the livelihood of more than 100 traders, who have been working in Karkend for decades, will go for a toss,” Mahto added. “BCCL, in connivance with the mines regulator, the directorate general of mines safety, has been trying to intimidate the residents in the name of underground fire for decades. But we will not allow the company to carry out the eviction,” Mahto further said. He added, “We have constituted a delegation which will submit a memorandum to Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh and the BCCL CMD, P M Prasad, seeking their intervention on the matter.” Similarly, the Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association, led by its general secretary Rajiv Sharma and secretary Umesh Heliwal, on Thursday met the shopkeepers in Karkend Bazar and took stock of the situation. “We will not allow the eviction to take place as the traders have worked here for decades,” Heliwal, who himself owns a garment wholesale shop in Karkend Bazar, said. “We have already launched a campaign on social media in this regard although we are not going to hit the streets in view of the pandemic. Having said that, we will not allow some BCCL officers to create panic among the common people to favour their contractors working in the area,” he added. The president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chetan Goenka, also condemned the eviction notices and said they will not allow to shift the 100-year-old Karkend Bazar elsewhere at any cost. “At a time when the traders are already under financial stress due to the lockdown, such an act by BCCL will only worsen the situation for them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/politicians-support-locals-move-against-eviction-notice/articleshow/77581143.cms||Praduman Choubey
August 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Babies exchanged, finds probe into child trafficking racket||VISAKHAPATNAM: Investigation into the child trafficking case involving Universal Srusti Hospital has found that the accused had exchanged babies and cheated ICDS, Childline and Child Welfare Committee officials when they returned a newborn. A few days ago, the city police arrested eight people for selling two babies. In the first case, a baby born of a widow from rural Visakhapatnam was sold to a Kolkata-based couple. DCP (law and order) Aishwarya Rastogi said that after the baby was sold, Childline personnel had initiated an investigation. While the probe was on, a person named Chandra Mohan— an associate of Dr Namrata— the main accused in the case, returned a child to Childline claiming that this was the same child that had been sold off to the Kolkata-based couple. However, investigation has revealed that it was not the same baby and the baby that was returned was born of a resident of Madhurawada. DCP Rastogi said that a woman from Madhurawada had come in contact with G Jhansi, another associate of Dr Namrata, who assured her that she could get her baby delivered for free and even be paid a sum. The woman gave birth to a baby boy. It was this baby that was returned by the hospital management to Childline officials claiming that it was baby that was sold to the Kolkata-based couple. When the Madhurawada-based woman asked for her baby, she was given a baby born of an unmarried woman. DCP Rastogi said that 14 people have been arrested in the case so far and further investigation is on. The DCP added that DNA tests may be performed on the babies if the court grants permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/babies-exchanged-finds-probe-into-child-trafficking-racket/articleshow/77578416.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Amaravati||Sanitiser consumption high in 1,000 spots in Andhra Pradesh: SEB||VIJAYAWADA: Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) continued its raids across the state on belt shops, sanitiser manufacturing units, unauthorised sales and sale of arrack on Sunday. SEB officials have so far identified 1,039 vulnerable points where sanitiser consumption is high and 597 vulnerable people and initiated action against them. The raids came in the wake of 16 deaths reported in Prakasam district due to consumption of hand sanitiser. Since then SEB officials have been tracking all the stakeholders involved from manufacturing to sale. The teams are checking whether the sanitiser are being made by unlicensed manufacturers and whether they are being adulterated after coming out of the manufacturing units. The SEB is also collecting details of distilleries, spirit making and storage units across the state to keep a check on uncontrolled sale of sanitisers and arrack brewing rackets. Though no license needed for selling sanitisers, it was made mandatory to maintain transaction details on procurement and selling. Cases are being filed against those flouting norms. The SEB officials have directed sellers to maintain a logbook with names and phone numbers of sanitiser purchasers and giving proper bills to the purchasers. Cases have been booked against vendors for not maintaining proper records of such transactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/sanitiser-consumption-high-in-1000-spots-seb/articleshow/77585591.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vijayawada||MLA warns of action on land grab cases||Tirupati: Tirupati MLA and former Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams trust board chairman Bhumana Karunakar Reddy on Sunday warned land sharks of tough action. In a press release, the MLA warned that the district police and the government will initiate tough action in cases relating to land grabbing. “We will not tolerate land grabbing or any unlawful activities by misusing my name or by posing as an affiliate of the YSRC. In fact, we will extend all support to the concerned law enforcement agencies to act tough against such miscreants. I appeal to the police department to not spare any such miscreant who targets properties of the vulnerable”, appealed Karunakar Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mla-warns-of-action-on-land-grab-cases/articleshow/77578427.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 17, 2020||Goa||Davorlim man files complaint against Congress Mahila chief||MARGAO: Davorlim resident Manoj Solanki of the Hindu Janajagruti Samiti (HJS) has lodged a complaint with the Maina Curtorim police against president of Goa Pradesh Mahila Congress Pratima Coutinho and president of Goa Pradesh Youth Congress Varod Mardolkar accusing them of hurting national sentiments by distorting the Indian map. In his complaint, Solanki pointed out that in Independence Day greetings posted by Coutinho and Mardolkar on social media, the map of India did not show Kashmir. “This is not in accordance with the official map of India (approved) by the government of India. This is a clear distortion of the map of India. I am an Indian citizen and this has hurt my national sentiments,” Solanki said in his complaint, even as he demanded an apology from the duo. Solanki also filed a separate complaint over similar charges against Bhopal-based Javed Habib hair studio. Pointing out to a greeting and advertisement of the hair studio posted on social media, Solanki said that the map of India shown in the post didn’t show Kashmir, and was therefore not in accordance with the official map of India. “Also, this can cause tension in the society and result in law and order situation,” Solanki said in his complaint. Fatorda police had recently filed a chargesheet against Coutinho for hurting religious sentiments of the Hindu community by depicting a funeral procession during a protest. The HJS member accused president of Goa Pradesh Mahila Congress Pratima Coutinho of hurting national sentiments by distorting the Indian map||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/davorlim-man-files-plaint-against-cong-mahila-chief/articleshow/77580935.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Five farmers stranded in flood rescued by NDRF||VIJAYAWADA: Swift response by the police and National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) saved the lives of five people stuck in the middle of a raging flood at Magallu village under Nandigama mandal in Krishna district on Sunday. As incessant rains continued to wreak havoc in Krishna district, P Nagaraju (45) along with his son Bhanu (15) and nephew Shyam (12) from Magallu village went to their field to pick vegetables. Nagaraju took the unfortunate decision after he learnt that Munneru river is in spate and would likely submerge the fields. He thought he would be able to pick the vegetables before the waters entered the fields. Unknown to Nagaraju the water level in another rivulet, which flows into Munneru, also rose hastening the flooding of the fields. And before they knew they were stranded in flood water. However, they managed to inform the police at around 5 am. Nandigama DSP G V Ramana Murthy swung into action immediately and alerted revenue and NDRF and sent a team to the spot. But by the time the NDRF team reached the spot, two local farmers, identified as Y Lakshmaiah (55) and Y Subbarao (25), tried to rescue the three people but got stuck in the flood along with them. The NDRF team sent in their specialised boats and rescued all five of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/five-farmers-stranded-in-flood-rescued-by-ndrf/articleshow/77578432.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Goa||Congress allege scam in beach cleaning contract||MARGAO: Alleging a scam in the beach cleaning contract, South Goa district Congress president Joseph Dias on Sunday demanded that the government instead give the beach cleaning task to local panchayats by availing services of local Goan contractors who were earlier doing the same work for hardly Rs 2 to 3 crore per annum. The very fact that a local panchayat member and a five star hotel had to clear the huge garbage piled up at the Fatrade beach smacked of a huge scam, Dias said in a pressnote. Stating that the Goa Lokayukta had ordered the government to conduct a CBI inquiry into the first beach cleaning contract, Dias rued the failure of the government in taking any action in the matter. “The second contract was given to M/s Drishti Lifesaving, a company that had no experience in the beach cleaning work, by manipulating (contract terms). They were paid a whopping Rs 67 crore by the government,” Dias said. Accusing the government of allowing the contractor to loot public money, Dias said, “No one knows who is monitoring the work carried out by the present contractor M/s Karnataka Industrial and Commercial. No one knows where the garbage is segregated and how the garbage is disposed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-allege-scam-in-beach-cleaning-contract/articleshow/77580942.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Pune hits 1.3 lakh, overtakes Mumbai in overall caseload||MUMBAI: Maharashtra has crossed 20,000 Covid deaths with one-fourth of the casualties being reported in the 16 days of August. With an addition of 288 on Sunday, the state's toll touched 20,037. Of these, 5,043 were reported in August, and Mumbai's share for the month was down to 15%. Mumbai's total is at 7,133 including the 47 reported on Sunday. When the state marked its first 10,000 deaths on July 11, Mumbai accounted for 52% of the deaths. But in a shift in mortality trends, Mumbai's share has dipped to 19%in the next 10,000 and mortalities have risen in Thane, Pune, Solapur, Nashik and Jalgaon. State-wide, while the first 10,000 deaths came in 108 days, the last 10,000 were added in 37 days. The case fatality rate hovers around 3.36% with no decline seen in months. Of 288 deaths reported on Sunday- a dip from the 300-plus deaths over the past four days- 233 were from the last 48 hours and 31 from last week. The remaining 24 were from weeks prior, which were added as part of reconciliation. In terms of cases, the daily addition dropped after touching over 12,000 for the last two days in a row. On Sunday, 11,111 new cases were registered, taking total caseload close to the 6-lakh mark - 5,95,865. Pune district's total count of 1,30,606 crossed Mumbai's overall figure of 1,28,726. Pune has 41,080 active cases, more than double, compared to Mumbai and suburban districts combined (17,581). Thane district too has more active cases (20,288) than Mumbai. Cases are also growing in smaller cities: Nashik (9,373 active), Kolhapur (7,109), Nagpur (7,539), Palghar (6,519), Aurangabad (5,822). Public health minister Rajesh Tope had last week expressed concern over the virus spreading in rural and semi-urban areas. In the MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli on Sunday reported 320 Covid-19 patients and 8 deaths, taking the total to 24,420, including 497 deaths. Ulhasnagar reported the highest recovery rate - 93.54%; now it has only 296 active patients. There were 351 positive cases from NMMC too, taking total Covid-19 count to 20,900, and three deaths which took the toll to 506. Meanwhile, ex-MP and former CM Narayan Rane's son Nilesh has tested positive for Covid-19. He tweeted about his condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/pune-hits-1-3-lakh-overtakes-mumbai-in-overall-caseload/articleshow/77582083.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 17, 2020||Thane||Pune hits 1.3 lakh, overtakes Mumbai in overall caseload||MUMBAI: Maharashtra has crossed 20,000 Covid deaths with one-fourth of the casualties being reported in the 16 days of August. With an addition of 288 on Sunday, the state's toll touched 20,037. Of these, 5,043 were reported in August, and Mumbai's share for the month was down to 15%. Mumbai's total is at 7,133 including the 47 reported on Sunday. When the state marked its first 10,000 deaths on July 11, Mumbai accounted for 52% of the deaths. But in a shift in mortality trends, Mumbai's share has dipped to 19%in the next 10,000 and mortalities have risen in Thane, Pune, Solapur, Nashik and Jalgaon. State-wide, while the first 10,000 deaths came in 108 days, the last 10,000 were added in 37 days. The case fatality rate hovers around 3.36% with no decline seen in months. Of 288 deaths reported on Sunday- a dip from the 300-plus deaths over the past four days- 233 were from the last 48 hours and 31 from last week. The remaining 24 were from weeks prior, which were added as part of reconciliation. In terms of cases, the daily addition dropped after touching over 12,000 for the last two days in a row. On Sunday, 11,111 new cases were registered, taking total caseload close to the 6-lakh mark - 5,95,865. Pune district's total count of 1,30,606 crossed Mumbai's overall figure of 1,28,726. Pune has 41,080 active cases, more than double, compared to Mumbai and suburban districts combined (17,581). Thane district too has more active cases (20,288) than Mumbai. Cases are also growing in smaller cities: Nashik (9,373 active), Kolhapur (7,109), Nagpur (7,539), Palghar (6,519), Aurangabad (5,822). Public health minister Rajesh Tope had last week expressed concern over the virus spreading in rural and semi-urban areas. In the MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli on Sunday reported 320 Covid-19 patients and 8 deaths, taking the total to 24,420, including 497 deaths. Ulhasnagar reported the highest recovery rate - 93.54%; now it has only 296 active patients. There were 351 positive cases from NMMC too, taking total Covid-19 count to 20,900, and three deaths which took the toll to 506. Meanwhile, ex-MP and former CM Narayan Rane's son Nilesh has tested positive for Covid-19. He tweeted about his condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/pune-hits-1-3-lakh-overtakes-mumbai-in-overall-caseload/articleshow/77582082.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 17, 2020||Pune||Pune hits 1.3 lakh, overtakes Mumbai in overall caseload||MUMBAI: Maharashtra has crossed 20,000 Covid deaths with one-fourth of the casualties being reported in the 16 days of August. With an addition of 288 on Sunday, the state's toll touched 20,037. Of these, 5,043 were reported in August, and Mumbai's share for the month was down to 15%. Mumbai's total is at 7,133 including the 47 reported on Sunday. When the state marked its first 10,000 deaths on July 11, Mumbai accounted for 52% of the deaths. But in a shift in mortality trends, Mumbai's share has dipped to 19%in the next 10,000 and mortalities have risen in Thane, Pune, Solapur, Nashik and Jalgaon. State-wide, while the first 10,000 deaths came in 108 days, the last 10,000 were added in 37 days. The case fatality rate hovers around 3.36% with no decline seen in months. Of 288 deaths reported on Sunday- a dip from the 300-plus deaths over the past four days- 233 were from the last 48 hours and 31 from last week. The remaining 24 were from weeks prior, which were added as part of reconciliation. In terms of cases, the daily addition dropped after touching over 12,000 for the last two days in a row. On Sunday, 11,111 new cases were registered, taking total caseload close to the 6-lakh mark - 5,95,865. Pune district's total count of 1,30,606 crossed Mumbai's overall figure of 1,28,726. Pune has 41,080 active cases, more than double, compared to Mumbai and suburban districts combined (17,581). Thane district too has more active cases (20,288) than Mumbai. Cases are also growing in smaller cities: Nashik (9,373 active), Kolhapur (7,109), Nagpur (7,539), Palghar (6,519), Aurangabad (5,822). Public health minister Rajesh Tope had last week expressed concern over the virus spreading in rural and semi-urban areas. In the MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli on Sunday reported 320 Covid-19 patients and 8 deaths, taking the total to 24,420, including 497 deaths. Ulhasnagar reported the highest recovery rate - 93.54%; now it has only 296 active patients. There were 351 positive cases from NMMC too, taking total Covid-19 count to 20,900, and three deaths which took the toll to 506. Meanwhile, ex-MP and former CM Narayan Rane's son Nilesh has tested positive for Covid-19. He tweeted about his condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-hits-1-3-lakh-overtakes-mumbai-in-overall-caseload/articleshow/77582081.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 17, 2020||Mumbai||Pune hits 1.3 lakh, overtakes Mumbai in overall caseload||MUMBAI: Maharashtra has crossed 20,000 Covid deaths with one-fourth of the casualties being reported in the 16 days of August. With an addition of 288 on Sunday, the state's toll touched 20,037. Of these, 5,043 were reported in August, and Mumbai's share for the month was down to 15%. Mumbai's total is at 7,133 including the 47 reported on Sunday. When the state marked its first 10,000 deaths on July 11, Mumbai accounted for 52% of the deaths. But in a shift in mortality trends, Mumbai's share has dipped to 19%in the next 10,000 and mortalities have risen in Thane, Pune, Solapur, Nashik and Jalgaon. State-wide, while the first 10,000 deaths came in 108 days, the last 10,000 were added in 37 days. The case fatality rate hovers around 3.36% with no decline seen in months. Of 288 deaths reported on Sunday- a dip from the 300-plus deaths over the past four days- 233 were from the last 48 hours and 31 from last week. The remaining 24 were from weeks prior, which were added as part of reconciliation. In terms of cases, the daily addition dropped after touching over 12,000 for the last two days in a row. On Sunday, 11,111 new cases were registered, taking total caseload close to the 6-lakh mark - 5,95,865. Pune district's total count of 1,30,606 crossed Mumbai's overall figure of 1,28,726. Pune has 41,080 active cases, more than double, compared to Mumbai and suburban districts combined (17,581). Thane district too has more active cases (20,288) than Mumbai. Cases are also growing in smaller cities: Nashik (9,373 active), Kolhapur (7,109), Nagpur (7,539), Palghar (6,519), Aurangabad (5,822). Public health minister Rajesh Tope had last week expressed concern over the virus spreading in rural and semi-urban areas. In the MMR, Kalyan-Dombivli on Sunday reported 320 Covid-19 patients and 8 deaths, taking the total to 24,420, including 497 deaths. Ulhasnagar reported the highest recovery rate - 93.54%; now it has only 296 active patients. There were 351 positive cases from NMMC too, taking total Covid-19 count to 20,900, and three deaths which took the toll to 506. Meanwhile, ex-MP and former CM Narayan Rane's son Nilesh has tested positive for Covid-19. He tweeted about his condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pune-hits-1-3-lakh-overtakes-mumbai-in-overall-caseload/articleshow/77581919.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: 2 held for running fake dating platform||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizianagaram police arrested two people, a man and a woman, for cheating people by taking money in lieu of offering sexual favours over the phone on Sunday. The accused, identified as Ashwini Kumar Raja and Sindhu, created a fake dating platform and employed girls to make calls seeking money in exchange of sexual favours. Once the money was deposited in their accounts, they would switch off the phones. Investigation revealed that they have made Rs 60 lakh over the last three years this way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/2-held-for-running-fake-dating-platform/articleshow/77578477.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||Traders threaten stir as NMC issues notices for Covid test||Nagpur: Traders have threatened to take to the streets against Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) threats to seal shops whose owners do not get themselves and their staff tested for Covid. NMC has started issuing notices to individual shops. Dipen Agrawal, president of Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT), said that NMC notices were illegal as so far no notification had been issued asking traders to get tested for Covid. “The notices mention verbal communication between traders’ representatives and the municipal commissioner. Since when has verbal communication become an official document,” he added. “When NMC is not testing us for free how can it compel us to get tested by paying thousands of rupees? In any case private laboratories and hospitals do not have the capacity to test thousands of shopkeepers and their employees,” said Agrawal. He has asked his members not to get tested for Covid unless they have some symptoms. Slamming municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe, Agrawal said that the officer was responsible for spurt in cases in Nagpur. “First he said that Nagpur would be Covid free by August 15. So people took it easy. Then he said that he would impose a fifteen-day lockdown so people rushed to the market to stock goods,” he added. Ashwin Mehadia, president of Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), also said that shopkeepers were not getting tested for Covid as NMC was not doing it for free. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi admitted that a written order had not been issued asking shopkeepers to get tested for Covid. “The market department has only issued notices to shopkeepers, who are NMC lessees,” he told TOI. Mayor Sandip Joshi termed the notices as illegal. “When NMC has not issued a written order in this regard, then how can it issue notices to individual shopkeepers? Secondly, why does NMC want RT-PCR test only which costs Rs1,900 and not antigen, which costs Rs700 per person. This is nothing but a racket to benefit private laboratories and hospitals. I will meet traders on Monday evening and try to find a way out,” he told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/traders-threaten-stir-as-nmc-issues-notices-for-covid-test/articleshow/77580952.cms||Ashish Roy
August 17, 2020||Goa||Indian Coast Guard sends team to Mauritius to tackle oil spill||VASCO: The Indian Coast Guard team left for Mauritius to fight marine pollution on Sunday. The 10-member expert team took off from Mumbai on Sunday morning to go to Mauritius via Tamil Nadu. The various pollution response equipment’s such as ocean and river booms, skimmers, salvage barge were dispatched to combat oil spill. “Consequent to high level decision by ministry of external affairs and ministry of defence, the Coast Guard has deputed a 10-member specialist pollution response team along with pollution response equipment to Mauritius for supplementing on-going efforts to contain an oil spill from bulk carrier MV Wakashio on its South Eastern Coastline,” the press note informed. The ten expert members are from different units of ICG across the country. The Coast Guard in coordination with Mauritius and other teams coming from various other countries and international experts will work in tandem to safeguard the pristine ecologically-sensitive environment and mitigate the effects of spilled oil as sea and shore. Mauritius has a very sensitive environment which consists of coral reef, mangroves and endangered marine species. The oil spillage in Mauritius had taken place on July 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/indian-coast-guard-sends-team-to-mauritius-to-tackle-oil-spill/articleshow/77580949.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Goa||50% comorbidity deaths in Goa due to hypertension, diabetes accounts for 40%||PANAJI: An analysis of the state’s first 50 deaths as per data from the directorate of health services puts hypertension and diabetes at the top of the list of comorbidities in patients succumbing to Covid. While half the deceased had hypertension as an underlying condition, more than 40% had diabetes and 30% had both hypertension and diabetes. A majority of them were in their 60s and 70s, with few in their 50s and 80s. “Having the primary infection with Covid predisposes to a secondary infection which is common in diabetes due to the high sugar level,” a doctor said. Stating that patients suffering from diabetes are at a higher risk of infections otherwise too, another doctor said, “It’s not that all patients with diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease will 100% die if they get Covid. They’re just at a higher risk. We have seen several recover and go home with the mildest of mild symptoms. Ninety year olds and those with cancer have also recovered from Covid.” According to the international diabetes federation it can be harder to treat such patients as the immune system is compromised making it harder to fight the virus and leading to a longer recovery period. “Secondly the virus may thrive in an environment of elevated blood glucose,” the federation stated. It’s not that Covid chooses to affect those with hypertension and diabetes, a doctor who treated Covid patients in Goa said. “It’s just that if they do get Covid they’re at a higher risk of morbidity ie sickness and mortality, which is death. It’s not that if you don’t have diabetes you won’t get Covid. It’s just that you will recover from it,” he said. “We have good health indicators when it comes to infant mortality rate and life expectancy, but we fare poorly where lifestyle diseases are concerned,” he added. Three out of the first 50 Covid positive patients who died also had obesity as a comorbidity. These were aged 50, 58 and 63 years. “The abdominal fat pushes the diaphragm up, compromising lung expansion and aeration of the lung. It is known that Covid lung lesions are usually at the peripheral parts of the lung,” a doctor said. Most of the patients who died have had the need for oxygen, which suggests lung involvement — Covid has progressed to the lungs, another doctor said. At the launch of a diabetes registry in the state in August last year, health minister Vishwajit Rane said diabetes was a silent killer and is on the rise in the state. He appealed to people to take precautions by following proper diet, exercise and availing of timely treatment to help control diabetes. Doctors say it is difficult to predict who will end up with problems and who won’t. “The bottom line is every single person has to be careful and take precautions — the young, old, fit and unfit. One cannot predict the chances of developing complications. Of course those with comorbidities are at a higher risk, but who is to say that you won’t fall into the small percentage of those without comorbidities who succumb,” another doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/50-comorbidity-deaths-in-state-due-to-hypertension-diabetes-accounts-for-40/articleshow/77580967.cms||Lisa Monteiro
August 17, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid-19 halts eye donation, pushes up transplant waitlist||MUMBAI: Two weeks ago, a family who had lost their 40-year-old son to suicide was keen on donating his eyes at Rajawadi Hospital, but cops, who were worried about his Covid status, discouraged it. In another instance, the sons of a 62-year-old Ghatkopar man couldn't fulfil his eye donation pledge made two decades ago. The pandemic, the ensuing lockdown and a bunch of dos and don'ts have halted the city's eye donation and cornea transplantation programme, forcing many without sight to anxiously wait for services to normalise. The impact is seen on the city's waitlist that has gone up to two months after decades of efforts had reduced it to 30 days from 11-12 months. Doctors fear the actual wait time for a viable cornea could be longer. On paper, nearly 800 people in Maharashtra, including over 100 from Mumbai Metropolitan Region, are awaiting transplant. A May 8 order banning cornea retrieval from home has particularly hurt the donations that used to be a minimum of 100 every month. Statistics from the city's biggest eye bank in Parel, Eye Bank Coordination and Research Centre, show that from an average of 300 corneas collected every quarter in the last two years, it has dropped to zero this year. Around 340 corneas were collected between April and July in 2018 and 311 in 2019 due to which the vision of 126 and 106 could be restored in the respective years. But, this year there have been zero collections since April. Compared to 194 and 206 people who had registered for a cornea in 2018 and 2019 respectively, merely 20 had registered this year with the Parel bank and that too mostly in July (11). Other city banks narrated a similar trend. "Corneal transplantation had to be stopped due to the Covid norms...In addition, transplants were deemed as an elective procedure. We are trying to get the programme back on its feet," said Dr Quresh Maskati, trustee of the Parel eye bank. Eye surgeon Dr TP Lahane, also chief advisor of Bombay Ophthalmologists Association, said donations were only allowed in non-Covid deaths. "Incidentally, such deaths too had reduced during the lockdown," he said, adding that a handful donations did take place, but numbers were less. NGO Tarun Mitra Mandal, that would facilitate up to 65 retrievals a month in pre-Covid times, said they are turning do-wn 15-20 calls every month. "We plan to start retrievals from the deceased in non-Covid hospitals from September 1. Home collections may not happen for now as technicians wouldn't know if the relatives are infected or not," said Vikas Vira, the NGO president. Dr Maskati said the wait list could grow when surgeons begin consultations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-halts-eye-donation-pushes-up-transplant-waitlist/articleshow/77581923.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Over 50% of total deaths in 16 days of August||PANAJI: From March till August 16 a total of 104 people have succumbed to Covid-19, but more than 50% of the deaths have occurred in the last 16 days. A total of 57 people died between August 1 and 16. As Goa witnessed a steep rise in infections and at places other than Vasco since mid-last month, the mortality count rose. The death rate is, however, less than 1%, the lowest in the country. June and July saw most mortalities reported from the port town, which had then turned out to be the hot spot with Mangor Hill, Zuarinagar, New Vaddem, Baina and Kharivaddo each having cases in the range of 200 to 300. Forty five per cent of the deaths have been reported from Vasco. Since last month the number of mortalities from Margao have risen, too. As many as 16 people from various parts of Margao have died. While cases have been reported from all over Margao, areas that have witnessed a sharp rise are Fatorda, Gogol, Gandhi market, Moti Dongor. On Sunday, Margao’s tally of active cases climbed to 425. A health official said the Covid scenario in Margao is similar to that seen in the port town in June-July. The rise in cases in certain pockets of Margao has been sharp, and three days ago, its single-day rise was over 90 cases. “So, the mortality count is also expected to rise,” he said. Dean of the Goa Medical College, Dr S M Bandekar, who was recently appointed in charge of the Covid hospital in Margao, said that except for two to three cases, all those who died had more than one comorbidity. Two male patients suffered from liver failure. “We are doing our best to bring down the mortality rate, nonetheless,” he said. The process to set up three wards in GMC to exclusively treat critically ill Covid patients is underway. Three wards will have a total of 85 beds comprising 25 ICU beds. The decision to treat serious patients at GMC was taken last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-sees/articleshow/77580972.cms||---
August 17, 2020||India||Corruption charge is not contempt: Bhushan||NEW DELHI: After being convicted of contempt of court for scandalising the Chief Justice Of India and the Supreme Court with his “false and malicious” tweets, activist- advocate Prashant Bhushan told the SC on Sunday that making corruption charges against the judges would not amount to contempt of court. In an elaborate defence to wriggle out of contempt proceedings initiated against him in 2009 for calling half of 16 former CJIs corrupt, Bhushan said mere utterance of corruption charge could not be contempt of court as a parliamentary committee as far back as 1964 had said, “Corruption exists in the lower ranks of the judiciary all over India and in some places, it has spread to the higher ranks also.” He said when even former CJI S P Bharucha had conceded that 20% of judges were corrupt and former CJI P Sathasivam said, “I should fairly admit that the judiciary is not untouched by corruption”, how could the court arrive at a conclusion that ‘corruption’ per se would be contempt. On August 10, a bench of Justice Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari had said, “Before reaching at any finding whether the statement (of Prashant Bhushan) made as to ‘corruption’ would per se amount to contempt of court, the matter is required to be heard.” Bhushan said he had clarified on August 4 that his remark that half of the 16 former CJIs were corrupt did not point towards financial corruption but impropriety and regretted if it was misinterpreted to cause grief to the former CJIs as well as their family members. In written submissions filed through advocate Kamini Jaiswal, Bhushan responded to the August 10 order of the Supreme Court saying he had used the word corruption in a wide sense to include any act of impropriety other than merely financial corruption. “Therefore, to examine whether imputing corruption to a judge would amount to per se contempt, one would first need to examine as to what the word corruption has been normally understood to include,” he said. Bhushan said the word ‘corruption’ had a wider meaning. “The word corruption has been defined, discussed and elaborated in several critical documents such as the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, the United Nations Convention Against Corruption, in various judgments of the Supreme Court as well as British and American courts, Law Commission reports etc,” he said. The advocate said discussing corruption among judges was important as only that could lead to inquiry against them and possible removal by Parliament. Bhushan also cited the cases of high court judges P D Dinakaran and Soumitra Sen, who had resigned following removal motions in Parliament after judges’ inquiry committee had found them guilty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/corruption-charge-is-not-contempt-bhushan/articleshow/77581920.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Stay at home for Ganesh Chaturthi, Muharram||NEW DELHI: Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has barred public celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi and Muharram processions, which are due this month, and appealed to people to observe the religious events at home. Following the Centre's directions related to religious gatherings during the Covid-19 pandemic, DDMA issued the prohibitory orders on idol immersions and large gatherings in public places on Sunday. The orders were issued with regard to prevention of public immersion of idols, celebrations and congregations. The order stated that during Ganesh Chaturthi, no idol of Lord Ganesha would be allowed to be set up in a pandal or public place. People would be encouraged and advised to celebrate the festival at home. Ganesh Chaturthi falls on August 22 this year. Similarly, permission would not be granted for processions and Tajiya during Muharram and the public has been advised to observe the same in their homes and not at public places. Many Durga Puja Samitis, including the ones that see footfall in lakhs at Chittaranjan Park and other places, have decided to just perform basic rituals and do a "ghat" or "Kalash" (holy vessel) puja instead of Pratima (idol) puja in October. The committees said it would be impossible to maintain social distancing during the five-day celebrations. They have now decided to do a one-day ritual in the presence of a handful of Samiti members. DDMA has asked district magistrates and DCPs to convene meetings with religious and community leaders before every such festival or occasion that has the possibility of large gatherings. All empowered authorities can impose fines for violating the directives or guidelines and offences pertaining to social distancing, wearing of face mask, spitting in public places, etc on the basis of the notification issued by the health and family welfare department. Arrangements would have to be made for deployment of dog squads, anti-terrorist squads and bomb disposal teams for intensive search and checking at religious and public places and Section 144 of CrPC could be imposed, wherever required, the order stated. Special attention must be paid to anti-social elements and rumour mongers and social media platforms would have to be monitored round the clock. Prompt action must be taken against all objectionable posts by first blocking it and then taking strict legal action, added the order. Watch DDMA bars public procession on Ganesh Chaturthi, Muharram in wake of COVID-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-stay-at-home-for-ganesh-chaturthi-muharram/articleshow/77581931.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 17, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Higher FYJC cut-offs? first minority lists at St Xavier's, St Andrew's see rise||MUMBAI: In an early indication that cut-offs for the junior college admissions could be higher vis-a-vis 2019, the first merit list for Christian minority in the arts stream at St Xavier's College in Fort closed at 85%, up from 84% last year. Cut-offs across streams in the first minority merit list at St Andrew's College in Bandra also saw an increase. St Xavier's College, on Saturday evening, had announced the first merit list for students from the Christian minority. As a minority institution, 50% of the 360 seats in both arts and science streams are reserved for students from the community. The top score on the arts merit list was 98%, while the lowest was 85%. The college's science stream cut-off for the first list was 76.2%, lower than last year's 77.2%. "The cut-offs don't drastically change in the minority list, but we expected them to be much higher in the general merit list," said principal Rajendra Shinde. Last year, St Xavier's first merit list for students from the open category in the arts stream had closed at 94%. At St Andrew's College, the arts stream cut-off for those applying under the minority quota was 78.8%, up from 75.8% last year. Similarly, the science stream cut-off of 80.4%, saw a jump up of 6% as compared to 2019. The commerce stream cut-off, however, saw only a marginal decrease from 75.8% last year to 75.4% this year. "We were pleasantly surprised that the arts cut-off is higher than commerce. We have seen many high scorers applying this year," said principal Marie Fernandes. This year, class X students across boards recorded a higher number of students scoring above 90% in the city. The two colleges are conducting the admission process online with students uploading the documents at the time of admission. St Xavier's College has provided the selected students with a Zoom link for a counselling session in case they are dissatisfied with the subjects allotted to them. The college has also uploaded a list of students who have scored above the cut-offs, but their documents were missing. These students will get a chance to upload the correct documents and participate in the second merit list. Other minority colleges, including N M College and Mithibai in Vile Parle and Sophia at Breach Candy, will announce their first merit list on Monday. Colleges are also holding counselling sessions before they begin admissions. "We hosted two online sessions to ensure students understand the process...The Sindhi Panchayat is also helping students certify the minority certificates since they can't visit the offices," said Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College, Churchgate. The Sindhi minority college will begin form-filling for quota seats on Monday. The first merit list for the open category will be announced by the education department on August 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-higher-fyjc-cut-offs-first-minority-lists-at-st-xaviers-st-andrews-see-rise/articleshow/77581930.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
August 17, 2020||Nagpur||44 new Covid +ves in Chanda||Chandrapur: The district registered a spike of 44 new cases as the Covid-19 total climbed up to 1165 on Tuesday. The day also witnessed the discharge of 35 patients taking the total of cured patients to 784. There are now 370 active patients being treated at Covid Care Centres and Covid Hospitals. No death was registered during the day. The newfound patients on Tuesday include 14 from Rajura, nine from Ballarpur, seven from Chandrapur city, five from Jiwti, three from Chimur, two from Warora and one each from Mul and Saoli tehsils.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/44-new-covid-ves-in-chanda/articleshow/77617404.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 17, 2020||Mumbai||Over 100 found partying at 3am in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Even as the government has been repeatedly asking people to stay indoors during the pandemic, over a 100 people were partying at a lounge in Oshiwara throughout Saturday night. A police team landed up at the lounge, Bombay Brute, in the wee hours of Sunday. Sixty-five male patrons were arrested besides a manager and three waiters. Twenty-eight female patrons were allowed to go home after being issued notices. Photos circulating on messaging apps indicated that the partying crowd included a police officer from the western suburbs, dressed in civvies. He featured in some photographs shot by onlookers at the lounge. But he wasn't among those arrested as he "was not present at the establishment when cops raided the place". Officials of Oshiwara police station acted on a tip-off that the lounge was violating lockdown guidelines. "Around 3.30 am, our team entered the premises. Some of the patrons were found dancing in an obscene manner. So, we have slapped charges of obscenity as well under the Indian Penal Code," said a senior officer. Patrons found smoking hookah illegally were booked. Some of the patrons told the police that they had received invites on WhatsApp about the lounge keeping its doors open throughout the night. The police will make inquiries with the owner of the establishment. "Patrons had come from all over the city. The crowd consisted of businessmen, professionals and students. Some had worn masks," said an officer. The 65 arrested customers were released on bail while the manager and waiters are still in police custody. "The female patrons weren't arrested as it was a late hour. They were issued notices and summoned to the police station later," an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/over-100-found-partying-at-3am-in-mumbai/articleshow/77581934.cms||---
August 17, 2020||World||Pelosi to call House back into session to vote on USPS bill||WASHINGTON: Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Sunday she is calling the House back into session over the crisis at the U.S. Postal Service, setting up a political showdown amid growing concerns that the Trump White House is trying to undermine the agency ahead of the election. Pelosi is cutting short lawmakers' summer recess with a vote expected the Saturday after the Democratic National Convention on legislation that would prohibit changes at the agency as tensions mount. President Donald Trump's new postmaster general, Louis DeJoy, has sparked nationwide outcry over delays, new prices and cutbacks just as millions of Americans will be trying to vote by mail to avoid polling places during the coronavirus outbreak. “In a time of a pandemic, the Postal Service is Election Central," Pelosi wrote Sunday in a letter to colleagues, who had been expected to be out of session until September. “Lives, livelihoods and the life of our American Democracy are under threat from the president.” The decision to recall the House, made after a weekend of high-level leadership discussions, carries a political punch. Voting in the House will highlight the issue after the weeklong convention nominating Joe Biden as the party's presidential pick and pressure the Republican-held Senate to respond. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell sent senators home for a summer recess. Earlier Sunday, Democratic lawmakers demanded that leaders of the Postal Service testify at an emergency oversight hearing Aug. 24 on mail delays. The House Oversight and Reform Committee said it wants to hear from DeJoy and from the chair of the Postal Service board of governors, Robert “Mike” Duncan. With heightened scrutiny of its operations, the Postal Service is now requesting a temporary preelection rate increase, from mid-October through Christmas, although not for first-class letters. The agency did not immediately respond to requests for comment about whether the two men would appear before the House committee. But it said Sunday it would stop removing its distinctive blue mailboxes through mid-November following complaints from customers and members of Congress that the collection boxes were being taken away. "Given the recent customer concerns the Postal Service will postpone removing boxes for a period of 90 days while we evaluate our customers' concerns,'' Postal Service spokeswoman Kimberly Frum said. House Democrats are expected to discuss the lawmakers' schedule details on a conference call on Monday and were likely to be in session next Saturday, a senior Democratic aide said on condition of anonymity because the plans were private. The legislation being prepared for the vote, the “Delivering for America Act,” would prohibits the Postal Service from implementing any changes to operations or level of service it had in place on Jan. 1. DeJoy, a major Republican donor and ally of the president who took control of the agency in June, has pledged to modernize the money-losing agency to make it more efficient, and has eliminated most overtime for postal workers, imposed restrictions on transportation and reduced of the quantity and use of mail-processing equipment. Trump said last week that he was blocking a $25 billion emergency injection sought by the Postal Service, as well as a Democratic proposal to provide $3.6 billion in additional election money to the states. The Republican president worries that mail-in voting could cost him reelection. The money for the post office is intended to help with processing an expected surge of mail-in ballots. Both funding requests have been tied up in congressional negotiations over a new coronavirus relief package. On Saturday, Trump tried to massage his message, saying he supports increasing money for the Postal Service. He said he was refusing to capitulate to Democrats on other parts of the relief package, including funding for states weighed down by debt accumulated before the pandemic. But the president's critics were not appeased, contending that Trump has made the calculation that a lower voter turnout would improve his chances of winning a second term. “What you are witnessing is a president of the United States who is doing everything he can to suppress the vote, make it harder for people to engage in mail-in balloting at a time when people will be putting their lives on the line by having to go out to a polling station and vote,” said Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt. In announcing the upcoming hearing, congressional Democrats said in a statement: “The postmaster general and top Postal Service leadership must answer to the Congress and the American people as to why they are pushing these dangerous new policies that threaten to silence the voices of millions, just months before the election.” The lawmakers included Pelosi of California and New York Rep. Carolyn Maloney, the committee chair, along with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York and Michigan Sen. Gary Peters, the top Democrat on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, which oversees the Postal Service. Earlier this month, Maloney's committee had invited DeJoy to appear September 17 at a hearing focusing on operational changes to the Postal Service that are causing delays in mail deliveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/pelosi-to-call-house-back-into-session-to-vote-on-usps-bill/articleshow/77581942.cms||---
August 17, 2020||World||Pelosi to call House back into session to vote on USPS bill||WASHINGTON: Speaker Nancy Pelosi said Sunday she is calling the House back into session over the crisis at the U.S. Postal Service, setting up a political showdown amid growing concerns that the Trump White House is trying to undermine the agency ahead of the election. Pelosi is cutting short lawmakers' summer recess with a vote expected the Saturday after the Democratic National Convention on legislation that would prohibit changes at the agency as tensions mount. President Donald Trump's new postmaster general, Louis DeJoy, has sparked nationwide outcry over delays, new prices and cutbacks just as millions of Americans will be trying to vote by mail to avoid polling places during the coronavirus outbreak. “In a time of a pandemic, the Postal Service is Election Central," Pelosi wrote Sunday in a letter to colleagues, who had been expected to be out of session until September. “Lives, livelihoods and the life of our American Democracy are under threat from the president.” The decision to recall the House, made after a weekend of high-level leadership discussions, carries a political punch. Voting in the House will highlight the issue after the weeklong convention nominating Joe Biden as the party's presidential pick and pressure the Republican-held Senate to respond. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell sent senators home for a summer recess. Earlier Sunday, Democratic lawmakers demanded that leaders of the Postal Service testify at an emergency oversight hearing Aug. 24 on mail delays. The House Oversight and Reform Committee said it wants to hear from DeJoy and from the chair of the Postal Service board of governors, Robert “Mike” Duncan. With heightened scrutiny of its operations, the Postal Service is now requesting a temporary preelection rate increase, from mid-October through Christmas, although not for first-class letters. The agency did not immediately respond to requests for comment about whether the two men would appear before the House committee. But it said Sunday it would stop removing its distinctive blue mailboxes through mid-November following complaints from customers and members of Congress that the collection boxes were being taken away. "Given the recent customer concerns the Postal Service will postpone removing boxes for a period of 90 days while we evaluate our customers' concerns,'' Postal Service spokeswoman Kimberly Frum said. House Democrats are expected to discuss the lawmakers' schedule details on a conference call on Monday and were likely to be in session next Saturday, a senior Democratic aide said on condition of anonymity because the plans were private. The legislation being prepared for the vote, the “Delivering for America Act,” would prohibits the Postal Service from implementing any changes to operations or level of service it had in place on Jan. 1. DeJoy, a major Republican donor and ally of the president who took control of the agency in June, has pledged to modernize the money-losing agency to make it more efficient, and has eliminated most overtime for postal workers, imposed restrictions on transportation and reduced of the quantity and use of mail-processing equipment. Trump said last week that he was blocking a $25 billion emergency injection sought by the Postal Service, as well as a Democratic proposal to provide $3.6 billion in additional election money to the states. The Republican president worries that mail-in voting could cost him reelection. The money for the post office is intended to help with processing an expected surge of mail-in ballots. Both funding requests have been tied up in congressional negotiations over a new coronavirus relief package. On Saturday, Trump tried to massage his message, saying he supports increasing money for the Postal Service. He said he was refusing to capitulate to Democrats on other parts of the relief package, including funding for states weighed down by debt accumulated before the pandemic. But the president's critics were not appeased, contending that Trump has made the calculation that a lower voter turnout would improve his chances of winning a second term. “What you are witnessing is a president of the United States who is doing everything he can to suppress the vote, make it harder for people to engage in mail-in balloting at a time when people will be putting their lives on the line by having to go out to a polling station and vote,” said Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt. In announcing the upcoming hearing, congressional Democrats said in a statement: “The postmaster general and top Postal Service leadership must answer to the Congress and the American people as to why they are pushing these dangerous new policies that threaten to silence the voices of millions, just months before the election.” The lawmakers included Pelosi of California and New York Rep. Carolyn Maloney, the committee chair, along with Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York and Michigan Sen. Gary Peters, the top Democrat on the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee, which oversees the Postal Service. Earlier this month, Maloney's committee had invited DeJoy to appear September 17 at a hearing focusing on operational changes to the Postal Service that are causing delays in mail deliveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/pelosi-to-call-house-back-into-session-to-vote-on-usps-bill/articleshow/77581941.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Districts face flood fury as rains batter Telangana, Met predicts more||HYDERABAD: Heavy rains triggered by the southwest monsoon in Telangana has led to some districts receiving two month’s rainfall quota in just 72 hours, with the weatherman warning of more heavy rains. An 80-year-old woman and her daughter, 50, were buried alive in Nagarkurnool district after their mud house collapsed on them shortly after midnight. On Sunday morning, their bodies were recovered after locals noticed that the house had fallen in a heap. Three consecutive days of rains across Telangana has led to flood-like situations in many districts and water levels has risen in various reservoirs. “Heavy rain is very likely to continue even on Monday. A fresh low-pressure area is likely to form over north Bay of Bengal around August 19, following which heavy rain will again continue from August 20,” said Raja Rao, meteorologist, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad. Districts receive 2 months rain in 72 hrs, floodgates open across TTelangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS) figures show that Wanaparthy, Mahabubnagar, Jogulamba Gadwal and Narayanpet received two months of rainfall in merely 72 hours. As per TSDPS figures, as against cumulative rainfall of 279.3 mm from June 1 to August 16, Wanaparthy received 675.8 mm. Similarly, Mahbubnagar received 628 mm rain as against cumulative figure of 309 mm; Jogulamba Gadwal received 553.4 mm rainfall as against 232 mm; and Narayanpet received 585 mm as against 284.6 mm. Most districts received up to 80 mm rains even on Sunday, resulting in a drop in mercury level by four to seven degrees. Due to huge inflow, seven gates of Musi reservoir were lifted in Nalgonda. After 15 years, gates of Sarala Sagar project in Wanaparthy district also opened automatically after it reached its maximum level. As per TSDPS, Hanamkonda in Warangal district received record rainfall of 201.6 mm on August 15, highest since 2004. Close to 3,500 people marooned in various villages in Mulugu and Warangal districts were evacuated and rehabilitated in government schools, and integrated tribal development agency buildings. As per IMD, Adilabad, Komarambheem, Nizamabad, Kamareddy, Jagtial, Rajanna Sircilla, Siddipet, Jayashankar Bhupalapally, Mulugu, Warangal (urban and rural), Karimnagar, Peddapalli and Mancherial will receive heavy rainfall on Monday. “Depending on the fall of low pressure areas over the north Bay of Bengal on August 19 we will be able to issue further warnings for specific districts. We are closely monitoring the situation,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, IMD Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/districts-face-flood-fury-as-rains-batter-telangana-met-predicts-more/articleshow/77581951.cms||Preeti Biswas
August 17, 2020||Mumbai||E-payment frauds in Mumbai up 70% in 5 months this year||MUMBAI: The police's cyber cell has registered a 70% rise in e-wallet fraud and related digital payment crimes in Mumbai during January-May 2020 over the same five-month period last year. The police attribute this to an increased reliance of the public on online money transfer platforms because of social distancing norms compelled by Covid-19. From March 25 onwards, when the national lockdown went into effect, the police have received 12 cybercrime complaints a day on an average. In the period under comparison, cybercrime under all heads, including credit and debit card fraud, rose by 19% in Mumbai and 51% in Maharashtra. But, in what is an indication of a shift in criminal focus away from old methods of cyber fraud, complaints of credit and debit card fraud decreased by 10%. Special inspector general (state cyber cell) Yashasvi Yadav has warned people to look out for signs of fraud. He says people should not divulge confidential information on phone or online (as genuine platforms do not seek such data) and they should not give strangers access to screen-sharing apps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/e-payment-frauds-in-mumbai-up-70-in-5-months-this-year/articleshow/77581954.cms||V Narayan
August 17, 2020||Mumbai||Online trends indicate 75% rise in demand for second-hand vehicles in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Demand for second-hand cars is rising in Mumbai, according to a report which estimates a 75% increase in demand for such cars between January and July this year. The study released by Quikr, an online marketplace, also indicated that in Delhi, "increased interest" in pre-owned two-wheelers was estimated at 183% in July over January, while in Mumbai the same was pegged at 81%. Transport expert Gaurang Vora said that the demand for new as well as second-hand vehicles was steadily rising post-lockdown due to lack of safe and sufficient public transport options. "We cannot get auto, taxi, Ola or Uber as easily as we would in pre-Covid times. So, many people prefer keeping a private vehicle for emergencies or personal use," he said. Among non-metros, Vizag (18%), Navi Mumbai (16%), and Thane (36%) searched the most for pre-owned cars in July. "Given the fact that local trains are not yet operational for everyone in Mumbai, consumers seem to opt for a two-wheeler rather than relying on shared/public transportation," said Vineet Sehgal, chief marketing officer, Quikr. Pre-owned cars in the "below Rs 2 lakh" range saw 66% increase in interest. Bangalore (71%), Hyderabad (93%), and Delhi (26%) saw the most interest in this category, the survey showed. Bikes priced below Rs 50,000 saw at least 71% increase, especially from Bangalore, Mumbai, Kolkata. "This reiterates the affordability factor especially since the pandemic and the economic slowdown that followed," Sehgal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/online-trends-indicate-75-rise-in-demand-for-second-hand-vehicles-in-mumbai/articleshow/77581958.cms||Somit Sen
August 17, 2020||Thane||Online trends indicate 75% rise in demand for second-hand vehicles in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Demand for second-hand cars is rising in Mumbai, according to a report which estimates a 75% increase in demand for such cars between January and July this year. The study released by Quikr, an online marketplace, also indicated that in Delhi, "increased interest" in pre-owned two-wheelers was estimated at 183% in July over January, while in Mumbai the same was pegged at 81%. Transport expert Gaurang Vora said that the demand for new as well as second-hand vehicles was steadily rising post-lockdown due to lack of safe and sufficient public transport options. "We cannot get auto, taxi, Ola or Uber as easily as we would in pre-Covid times. So, many people prefer keeping a private vehicle for emergencies or personal use," he said. Among non-metros, Vizag (18%), Navi Mumbai (16%), and Thane (36%) searched the most for pre-owned cars in July. "Given the fact that local trains are not yet operational for everyone in Mumbai, consumers seem to opt for a two-wheeler rather than relying on shared/public transportation," said Vineet Sehgal, chief marketing officer, Quikr. Pre-owned cars in the "below Rs 2 lakh" range saw 66% increase in interest. Bangalore (71%), Hyderabad (93%), and Delhi (26%) saw the most interest in this category, the survey showed. Bikes priced below Rs 50,000 saw at least 71% increase, especially from Bangalore, Mumbai, Kolkata. "This reiterates the affordability factor especially since the pandemic and the economic slowdown that followed," Sehgal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/online-trends-indicate-75-rise-in-demand-for-second-hand-vehicles-in-mumbai/articleshow/77581971.cms||Somit Sen
August 17, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Online trends indicate 75% rise in demand for second-hand vehicles in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Demand for second-hand cars is rising in Mumbai, according to a report which estimates a 75% increase in demand for such cars between January and July this year. The study released by Quikr, an online marketplace, also indicated that in Delhi, "increased interest" in pre-owned two-wheelers was estimated at 183% in July over January, while in Mumbai the same was pegged at 81%. Transport expert Gaurang Vora said that the demand for new as well as second-hand vehicles was steadily rising post-lockdown due to lack of safe and sufficient public transport options. "We cannot get auto, taxi, Ola or Uber as easily as we would in pre-Covid times. So, many people prefer keeping a private vehicle for emergencies or personal use," he said. Among non-metros, Vizag (18%), Navi Mumbai (16%), and Thane (36%) searched the most for pre-owned cars in July. "Given the fact that local trains are not yet operational for everyone in Mumbai, consumers seem to opt for a two-wheeler rather than relying on shared/public transportation," said Vineet Sehgal, chief marketing officer, Quikr. Pre-owned cars in the "below Rs 2 lakh" range saw 66% increase in interest. Bangalore (71%), Hyderabad (93%), and Delhi (26%) saw the most interest in this category, the survey showed. Bikes priced below Rs 50,000 saw at least 71% increase, especially from Bangalore, Mumbai, Kolkata. "This reiterates the affordability factor especially since the pandemic and the economic slowdown that followed," Sehgal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/online-trends-indicate-75-rise-in-demand-for-second-hand-vehicles-in-mumbai/articleshow/77581972.cms||Somit Sen
August 17, 2020||India||Ace cricketer Chauhan scored several tons on political pitch||LUCKNOW: He may not have scored a century in his 40 Tests, but there was no dearth of tons for Chetan Chauhan in his political innings which started a few years after he played his last Ranji Trophy match in 1985. Chauhan, 73, who passed away in Gurgaon due to multi-organ failure after testing positive for coronavirus, was a two-time MP from Amroha and now a cabinet minister in the UP government. Born in Bareilly, Chauhan made neighbouring Amroha his political karma-bhoomi and remained a loyal BJP worker throughout his political career spanning over three decades. He won the Amroha Lok Sabha seat for the first time 1991. He lost the seat in 1996, but won again in 1998. After a couple of losses from the same constituency, he concentrated on ‘cricket politics’ in Delhi and came back to contest from Naugawan Sadat seat of Amroha in 2017 UP polls. After his victory in assembly elections, he was made cabinet minister in the Yogi government and was given the charge of sports and youth welfare. In several interactions with TOI, Chauhan showed his determination to consolidate sports infrastructure in the state to lift it to the international standards. As sports minister, he toured the state extensively and had an elaborate plan to develop the infrastructure on public private partnership (PPP) model. Watch PM Narendra Modi mourns former cricketer Chetan Chauhan's death||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ace-cricketer-chauhan-scored-several-tons-on-political-pitch/articleshow/77581950.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 17, 2020||Mumbai||Couple parts ways, but shares custody of 2 dogs in Mumbai||MUMBAI: In a unique instance of taking care of pets after a divorce by mutual consent, a city couple chalked out how and when their two dogs would be shared and who would have dominant custody. Childless in an 18-year-long marriage, a banker and his homemaker wife had rescued and adopted two one-month-old Indie pups three years ago. They didn't want to separate the two siblings and put in place a detailed plan, including a heads up before taking them out of town on vacation. The couple had filed for a mutual consent divorce in February just before the Covid-19 outbreak. Both are in their early 40s. The couple said after marriage, their "habits, views, and lifestyles" did not match and their differences grew irreconcilable, prompting them to part ways. But they did not want their pets to be apart. The banker would have their primary custody with the homemaker getting them for "a continuous period of one month" thrice a year. But their plan could be paused and either "parent" could take custody of the dogs, with prior intimation, for two days in a week or on the weekends. The non-custodian pooch parent would have "visitation rights at convenient times with prior intimation". Travels outside the city can be longer than a month. Any travel plan of a week or more will need to be flagged by a two-week advance notice, and neither can stray away into a shorter travel without a two-day notice either. With the six-month cooling period over during the lockdown, the couple, separated since December 2018, had their court date on Friday, ahead of Independence Day. It was their last counselling to mark their plea as mutual. They also interacted with a family court judge in a virtual court proceeding. Their lawyers, Amarjeet Prasad and Payal Shethia, said it was a unique example of "a family treating every member humanely and separating with peace". The last celebrity battle for custody of a pet dog was during the Adnan Sami-Sabah Galadari divorce fight in 2009-10. Lawyers said that they do get queries on how to handle custody of their pets along with their children, but even veteran lawyers like Mrunalini Deshmukh said the last time she had a 'settlement' done on pet dogs in a divorce case was a decade ago. "As consent terms go, it is not very common to have a detailed joint parenting schedule drawn up for pets, but with more families having pets I do get queries in client conferences on how to implement custody and access of children and pet dogs and whether any breach would attract contempt," said Deshmukh. Advocate Anagha Nimbkar said she had one case where there was no detailed plan. "It was a divorce by mutual consent, but there was no actual parental plan as full custody of a five-year-old German Shepherd was given to one parent, with medical expenses to be shared." And last year she had a case where one parent had got custody of two dogs as the other estranged parent claimed no rights. Former president of the bar Sajan Oommen said that last year they had a case where a couple decided who their pet cat would stay with after separation. "It will be the future of matrimonial litigation soon," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/couple-parts-ways-but-shares-custody-of-2-dogs-in-mumbai/articleshow/77581964.cms||Swati Deshpande
August 17, 2020||India||Kids confined to homes, helpline sees drop in calls||NEW DELHI: Confined to their homes for five months now amid lockdowns, restrictions on movement and no school to go to, many children seem to be finding it difficult to share their anxieties, ask questions and seek help for issues affecting them. Data available with Childline, the 24x7 helpline (1098), for children shows that the number of calls requiring interventions crossed over 1.58 lakh cases between March to July this year. However, the call volumes registered a noticeable decline when compared to calls answered from April to July last year. A total of about 31 lakh calls were answered by the government supported helpline between March to July last year. The number of calls answered during the same period this year came down to 24 lakh. However, the number of calls requiring interventions rose from 1,40,149 last year to 1,58,745 between March to July this year. In terms of interventions from the time of the first lockdown in March, around 90,000 interventions involved assistance to children affected by the lockdown with food, ration and other essential supplies. Under the protection from abuse category between March 20 to August 11, 29,000 interventions were carried out. In this category child marriage related calls for intervention were the highest, accounting for a third (33%) of total interventions related to protection from abuse. According to Childline India officials, in recent weeks, interventions for child marriage have declined slightly, while interventions for child labour, beggary and trafficking have been rising. A significant number of interventions have been carried out in response to physical, emotional and sexual abuse as well. Meanwhile, taking note of the decline in calls answered Childline has carried out an assessment. Officials point that it could be due to children having limited access to call facilities, concerned adults and support systems since schools have not opened since the start of the lockdown. A very large number of callers to Childline happen to be children themselves. Now that they are at home accessing phones or seeking help might not be an easy option for many. A very large number of callers to Childline happen to be children themselves. Now that they are at home accessing phones or seeking help might not be an easy option for many. In the pre-Covid era children would normally call in the afternoon as that is the time when parents are not at home and they have access to devices. With no privacy amidst family members, children might also be feeling inhibited in calling the helpline to share their queries. Data on calls shows that in March this year 7, 82,607 calls were answered by Childline call centres as compared to 5,79,697 in March 2019. This reflects a 35% increase in calls over the last year. In April the number of calls answered remained high but declined sharply from March. The Childline call centres responded to 4,29,730 calls in April as against 6,25,215 calls in the same period last year reflecting a decline of 31%. In May, 4,11,101 calls were answered reflecting a decline of 38% over 2019 when 6,58,707 calls were answered. In June while 4,04,140 calls were answered they reflected a decline of 35% over last year when 6,17,801 calls were answered. The Childline team witnessed a further drop in calls in July as they responded to 3,63,166 calls reflecting a decline of 40% over last year’s 6,09,884 calls during the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kids-confined-to-homes-helpline-sees-drop-in-calls/articleshow/77581980.cms||Ambika Pandit
August 17, 2020||India||Cyberattack on NHAI traced to Taiwan and Hong Kong IP addresses||NEW DELHI: The government’s nodal cyber security agency, CERT-In, which assessed the recent cyberattack on NHAI, has flagged significant gaps in the highway authority’s cyber security measures. It found there were multiple attacks including some suspicious logins to NHAI's virtual private network (VPN) using unauthorised user names from IP addresses in Taiwan and Hong Kong. The CERT-In has said this activity doesn’t appear to be related to the Maze ransomware attack and it was possible that it could be a separate effort at compromising the network. The agency has said the analysis could not progress to determine the total extent of compromise as network firewall logs were not being maintained and there were no other perimeter security or security devices and event management system in place. CERT-In has flagged the significant cyber security gaps in the NHAI system and recommended the authority and the major IT service provider to take immediate measures to address the gaps and enhance security. NHAI officials claimed they have taken corrective measures as recommended by CERT-In. The cyberattack had infected multiple servers and PCs by Maze ransomware, which had resulted in complete shutdown of the systems for nearly 48 hours. The attackers had also compromised Windows Active Directory Server of NHAI network and subsequently compromised internal systems, mail server and anti-virus server. The NHAI was advised to replace active directory servers, disable suspicious VPN accounts and block malicious IPs as immediate measures. Sources said the CERT-In has said the cyber attackers had exfiltrated data and leaked sample data of two systems of NHAI in public domain. The released data included tax information, audit reports, passport copies, identity cards, assessment reports and other personally identifiable information and financial records of NHAI users.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cyberattack-on-nhai-traced-to-taiwan-and-hong-kong-ip-addresses/articleshow/77582005.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 17, 2020||Pune||Pune: Showers swell dam stock, alert given for ghats today||PUNE: Pune received 19.8mm rain in the 33 hours since 8.30am on Saturday, capping a week of good showers that have raised the collective storage in the four dams catering to the city to 23.98 TMC. The Met department has issued red and orange alerts for Monday for the ghat areas in Maval, Mulshi, Bhor and Velhe in Pune district, forecasting heavy to very heavy rains. The monsoon has been vigorous over Madhya Maharashtra, which includes Pune, since the start of the month and particularly during the last week. The city is expected to get moderate rains till August 21. The steady downpour has gladdened paddy and sugarcane farmers in the district, though it has damaged leafy vegetables. Meanwhile, the four dams added around 2.42 TMC water in the last 48 hours, bringing the collective storage to around 5 TMC short of the total 29.15 TMC. Last year, the dams were filled to capacity on August 12. The water discharge from the Khadakwasla dam was 9,350 cusecs till Sunday evening. Collective water storage rises by 2.4 TMC in four reservoirsThe collective storage in the four dams supplying drinking water to the city rose to 23.97 TMC. The dams added around 2.42 TMC water from August 14. On Sunday morning, the dams collectively had 23.97TMC of the total storage capacity of the dams, which is 29.15 TMC. The release of water from Khadakwasla into the Mutha river was at the rate of 9,350 cusecs till Sunday evening. “We have maintained the Khadakwasla dam water capacity up to 95% of its total capacity and we are releasing the water considering the rainfall scenario and water storage in other three dams,” Vijay Patil, executive engineer of the Khadakwasla irrigation circle, told TOI on Sunday. “We might have to release the water from Panshet also as the dam’s storage has increased up to 92% by Sunday evening. On Monday morning, we will take a decision on the release of water from Panshet,” he added. The Panshet dam catchment recorded 106mm of rain, Temghar received 102mm, Varasgaon 102mm and Khadakwasla 44mm till Sunday evening. “The India Meteorological Department has already predicted heavy rainfall in ghat areas, because of which we strongly feel water capacity of Temghar and Varasgaon reservoirs will increase in the coming days,” Patil added. Last year, all four dams had reached to its full capacity on August 12, Patil said “The rainfall in catchments of these dams are less than the rain in the corresponding period last year,” he said. The stock in Pavana dam that supplies water to Pimpri Chinchwad and industries belts in Maval, Mulshi and Khed tehsils had about 68% storage of its total capacity. The catchment of the dam got 65mm rainfall till Sunday evening. “There is no release of water from Pavana dam till date. Once it gets 90% stocks of the total capacity then only we will consider release of the water from it,” added Patil. On Sunday, the Kalmodi dam in Junnar and the Andra dam in Maval reached its full capacity for the first time in the season, an official from the irrigation department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-showers-swell-dam-stock-alert-given-for-ghats-today/articleshow/77582008.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 17, 2020||Goa||At 20%, Goa has fewest stunted kids: Report||PANAJI: Goa, along with Kerala, has the lowest percentage —20% — of stunted children in the country. However, the state needs to do more in utilising funds under the Central government’s Poshan Abhiyan as Goa and Karnataka are two states with zero utilisation of funds, states a report compiled in March this year by two researchers following a review of the programmes by the Union ministry women and child development. “The states of Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh had high rates of stunting prevalence ranging from 37 to 42 per cent; the lowest rates were recorded in Goa,” researchers Kriti Kapur and Shoba Suri have written in their report for the Observer Research Foundation ‘Towards a Malnutrition-Free India: Best Practices and Innovations from Poshan Abhiyaan’. India has the largest number of stunted children in the country and therefore the Poshan Abhiyan was introduced in 2017 to improve the nutritional status of children from 0-6 years, adolescent girls, pregnant women, and lactating mothers. “In terms of geographical regions, Bihar (48 percent), Uttar Pradesh (46 percent) and Jharkhand (45 percent) have very high rates of stunting; states with the lowest rates include Kerala and Goa (20 percent). While nutrition has improved across all states, inter-state variabilities remain extremely high,” reads the report. The report also states that Goa’s proportion of malnourished children stands at 23.4%, which is lower than most states, except Punjab and all North Eastern states. The Poshan Abhiyan scheme aims to achieve malnutrition free India by 2022. The report by Kapur and Suri also shows the prevalence of anemia in 20 to 39.9% of women and children for the state of Goa, with only the states of Kerala, Nagaland and Manipur in the country having a figure of less than 20%. Most of the data is based on that reported in the National Family Health Surveys over the years. “Malnutrition has received much-needed attention and has become, at least officially, a policy priority. Its implementation has been weak, however. As of March 2019, the states reported using only Rs 5.69 billion of the Rs 31.42 billion funds released to the states under the Poshan Abhiyaan. There are states like Karnataka and Goa that have had zero utilisation of funds,” states the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-20-goa-has-fewest-stunted-kids-report/articleshow/77580857.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Villagers, livestock evacuated as water levels rise in Krishna||VIJAYAWADA: With continuous rain upstream and steady inflow from Munneru rivulet, the Krishna waters rose on Sunday, pushing flood flow to Prakasam Barrage at 1.25 lakh cusecs. The administration released surplus water to Bay of Bengal by lifting 70 gates. The villages upstream and downstream of Prakasam Barrage have been put on high alert. As flood discharge is likely to touch 1.5 lakh cusecs by Monday, district collector A Md Imtiaz directed tahsildars to monitor relief measures. On Sunday, the Krishna received around 1.2 lakh cusecs water from Munneru. Munneru, which has a huge catchment area in West Krishna region and Khammam district in Telangana, has been flooding for the first time since 2008. As Munneru overflowed, there have been reports of damage to various crops at Penuganchiprolu in Krishna district. “We are cultivating cotton, tobacco, chilli and other commercial crops as we are witnessing scant rainfall in the last five years. But rains have ruined our crops this yea,” said Cheruku Satyanarayana, a farmer in Penuganchiprolu. Pamula Lanka, Thodella Dibba islands were marooned and the administration arranged boats for the locals to commute. “The government had promised to build a bridge after the floods in 2008 but nothing has happened. Every time water is released from Prakasam Barrage, we are worried,” said P Srinu Babu, a Pamula Lanka resident. Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and the Krishna district administration have set up special help lines for flood relief. Ward volunteers and secretaries in the villages downstream of Prakasam Barrage evacuated people and livestock. The VMC authorities said there was no chance of inundation of the city until outflow of surplus waters reaches five lakh cusecs at Prakasam Barrage. Meanwhile, people thronged Prakasam Barrage to watch water flowing to the downstream of the barrage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/villagers-livestock-evacuated-as-water-levels-rise-in-krishna/articleshow/77578314.cms||Venu Lanka
August 17, 2020||Pune||Covid claims 2 more Pune doctors||PUNE: An orthopaedic surgeon (74) and an eye surgeon (65) succumbed to Covid-19 complications in Pimpri and Pune respectively, taking the tally of doctors dying of the contagion to five in the Pune Metropolitan Region. The eye surgeon, who had diabetes and hypertension, developed pneumonia and suffered a stroke during his month-long stay in hospital. The orthopaedic surgeon had retired from a prominent hospital 10 years ago. Earlier, three doctors, two nurses and three attendants/ ward boys, all aged over 50, had succumbed to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-claims-2-more-pune-doctors/articleshow/77582013.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 17, 2020||Goa||Goan armyman awarded gallantry honour for role in capturing terrorist||PANAJI: Siolim resident Major Clifford Franco D’Souza has been awarded the Northern Command Army Commanders Commendations Card (Gallantry) for his role in an operation to uncover a terrorist hideout in the Kashmir valley. The operation also helped the Indian Army capture a terrorist. Maj D’Souza is an IT engineer by profession who later joined the Indian Army in 2010. He joined the Maratha Light Infantry regiment and was even posted as an instructor with 5 Marathan Light Infantry. Speaking to TOI, his mother Celeste D’Souza said that she is proud of her son’s achievements. “I have been receiving so many calls since morning, people wishing me and saying that they are proud of my son. It has been overwhelming.” “You are an inspiration to fellow Goans to join the defence and serve the country,” said minister of state for defence Shripad Naik. Naik, who is fighting Covid-19 from a private hospital, expressed his wishes on social media. Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat also took to social media to congratulate the major. “He is an inspiration to Goan youths to join the defence and serve Mother India,” said Kamat. Major Clifford Franco D’Souza is an IT engineer by profession who later joined the Indian Army in 2010. He joined the Maratha Light Infantry regiment and was even posted as an instructor with 5 Marathan Light Infantry||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-armyman-awarded-gallantry-honour-for-role-in-capturing-terrorist/articleshow/77580879.cms||Newton Sequeira
August 17, 2020||Vijayawada||CM Jaganmohan Reddy directs collectors to ensure relief measures||AMARAVATI: Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy reviewed the flood situation with senior officials and district collectors on Sunday and put them on high alert. The CM directed the collectors to evacuate people from low-lying areas. The collectors of East Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna were told to monitor the situation and take all precautions to prevent damage. He asked the collectors to provide all facilities to the evacuees in relief camps. “Take all measures to prevent loss of lives by shifting people from flood-prone areas. Take assistance from SDRF and NDRF wherever you needed,” said the CM. He directed East Godavari and West Godavari district collectors, Muralidhar Reddy and Mutyala Raju, to coordinate with the disaster management department to take preventive measures. The CM asked the collectors to send regular reports to him and. He also asked Krishna district collector A Md Intiaz to monitor water flow to Prakasam barrage. The collectors said they have already evacuated several hundreds of people from flood-prone areas to safe places. Meanwhile, disaster management commissioner Arja Srikanth said that the state is likely to witness heavy rains over the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-directs-collectors-to-ensure-relief-measures/articleshow/77578339.cms||Samdani MN
August 17, 2020||Vijayawada||My phones being tapped, alleges rebel YSRC MP||AMARAVATI: YSRC rebel MP Kanumuri Raghurama Krishnam Raju has alleged that his mobile phones are being tapped by the state intelligence wing. In a letter to the Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, the Lok Sabha member from Narsapuram requested a probe into the issue. He suspected that his both phone numbers are being tapped by Intelligence officials. “Tapping of telephones is a violation of Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Indian Constitution”, he said. “I have been noticing disturbance while speaking on phones for the past two months. Initially, I thought it could be due to some technical snag. But, now I have come to the conclusion that my phones are being tapped by intelligence officials,” alleged Krishnam Raju in his complaint. He further alleged that he had also been receiving threats on phones from local YSRC leaders. Krishnam Raju has been at loggerheads with the state government for the past two months. Following his complaint, Union home ministry recently provided him with CRPF personnel for security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/my-phones-being-tapped-alleges-rebel-ysrc-mp/articleshow/77578356.cms||Samdani MN
August 17, 2020||Goa||Centre gives Goa till March for Tuem EMC||PANAJI: The government of India has granted extension to operationalise the electronic manufacturing cluster (EMC) project under the ministry of electronics and information technology till March 2021. The Rs 161 crore project was proposed by former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar in 2016. While granting final approval for the EMC at Tuem, Pernem, on March 3, 2017, the Centre had said that the project has to be completed within 36 months of the final approval being granted. A meeting was held recently where state IT secretary Sanjay Kumar and IT director Ankita Anand briefed chief minister Pramod Sawant about the progress of the project. “Currently, the internal road work is about 85% finished,” Anand said. She said that the land allotment policy is in the final stage of approval. The Centre and state are contributing funds for the project, of which the Centre is contributing nearly Rs 74 crore. Based on Goa completing the formalities, the Centre will release the second instalment for the project. At the meeting, Sawant reviewed the project along with IT minister Jennifer Monserrate, Info Tech Corporation of Goa chairman Nilkanth Halarnkar, MLA Dayanand Sopte and officials from PWD, revenue and other departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-gives-goa-till-mar-for-tuem-emc/articleshow/77580894.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Bid for Rs 3,825cr Rayalaseema project today||AMARAVATI: Confident of clearing all hurdles including the National Green Tribunal (NGT) and apex council headed by Union Jal Shakti minister, the state government has decided to complete the tendering process for the controversial Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP). The government has scheduled to conduct financial bid and reverse tendering process on Monday. The government has estimated the cost of the lift scheme at Rs 3,825 crore. Interestingly, Navayuga Engineering Company Limited (NECL), which waged a bitter fight against the state government after getting removed from Polavaram project, is one of the three firms cleared in the technical bid. Sources said that three firms-SPML, Navayuga and Max Infrastructure--cleared the technical bids and will take part in financial bids and reverse tendering to be held on Monday. The state government is confident of getting all clearances to the project. In fact, the experts panel of the Union environment and forest ministry had already stamped its nod on the project saying that it does not require pre-environment clearances as it was part of the already existing schemes. The NGT southern bench had also relaxed the stay conditions and allowed the state government to go ahead with the tendering process. After seeing the Union environment ministry’s expert panel report, NGT had directed the Centre to respond on the issue and post the matter for final hearing. “We are hopeful of getting all the clearances as we are repeatedly saying that we will not draw even a drop of water in excess of the already allocated quota from Srisailam. The RLIP has been designed only to make use of our own quota,” said Adityanath Das, special chief secretary (irrigation). The state government is fully ready to place its arguments before the apex council to be chaired by the Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. The apex council is most likely to meet around August, 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bid-for-rs-3825cr-rseema-project-today/articleshow/77578367.cms||Samdani MN
August 17, 2020||World||New Zealand delays election after virus outbreak in Auckland||WELLINGTON: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Monday chose to delay New Zealand's national elections by four weeks as the country deals with a new coronavirus outbreak in its largest city, Auckland. The election had been scheduled for Sept. 19 but will now be held on Oct. 17. Under New Zealand law, Ardern had the option of delaying the election for up to about two months. Opposition parties had been requesting a delay after the virus outbreak in Auckland last week prompted the government to put the city into a two-week lockdown and halted election campaigning. Before the latest outbreak, New Zealand had gone 102 days without any known community transmission of the virus, and life had returned to normal for most people, who were going to restaurants, sports stadiums and schools without fear of getting infected. The only known cases during that time were returning travelers who were quarantined at the border. Officials believe the virus was reintroduced to New Zealand from abroad but haven't yet been able to figure out how it happened. The Auckland outbreak has grown to 49 infections, with health authorities saying they believe the cases are all connected, giving them hope the virus isn't spreading beyond the cluster. Ardern said in making her decision, she had first called the leaders of all the political parties represented in the parliament to get their views. ``Ultimately I want to ensure we have a well-run election that gives all voters the best chance to receive all the information they need about parties and candidates, and delivers certainty for the future,'' Ardern said. She said she wouldn't consider delaying the election again _ no matter what was happening with any virus outbreaks. ``Covid is continuing to disrupt life around the world,`` Ardern said. Other nations including South Korea and Singapore had nevertheless managed to hold elections during the pandemic, she added. Ardern also announced that lawmakers would be called back to parliament, which had finished sitting ahead of the election. The parliament will now continue operating through early September. Conservative opposition leader Judith Collins did not offer much of an opinion on the delay, saying only that her National Party ``acknowledge the new date'' while also saying there had been testing failures at the border. But the small opposition ACT party welcomed the delay. Leader David Seymour said the new outbreak had already forced him to cancel a dozen events, including debates and community meetings ``In order to have a free and fair election, candidates need to be out in the community listening to voters, and that's not possible while Aucklanders are housebound,`` he said in a statement. The delay will cause logistical problems, including re-booking voting venues and ensuring that the thousands of election workers needed for the poll are available on the new date. Ardern said she believed there was enough time to organize everything. Opinion polling indicates Ardern's liberal Labour Party is favored to win a second term in office. The party's popularity has jumped significantly since the pandemic, with Ardern winning international praise for the way she'd handled the crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/new-zealand-delays-election-after-virus-outbreak-in-auckland/articleshow/77582024.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Goa||Goa CM has no grip on law and order: Vinod Paliencar||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has failed to get a grip on the law and order situation in the state, said Goa Forward Party MLA Vinod Paliencar on Sunday even as he alleged that police personnel along the coastal belt are being bribed to look the other way when illegal parties are held and drugs are sold. Paliencar said Sawant has been unable to focus on the law and order situation and should instead hand over charge of the home department to Calangute BJP MLA Michael Lobo. “The state needs a full-time home minister as chief minister Pramod Sawant’s focus is on mining transportation,” he said. “Lobo can perform better as home minister.” Paliencar has repeatedly highlighted the illegal parties that are taking place in his constituency. “Local police stations are bribed. Its high time that the Anjuna police station staff is fully revamped including the police inspector,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-has-no-grip-on-law-and-order-paliencar/articleshow/77580925.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Over 15k village, ward secretariats to soon get access to digital payments||Amaravati: With an aim to promote financial inclusion and provide access to digital payments in the hinterlands, the state government in association with National Payment Corporation of India (NPCI) and Canara Bank, announced access to UPI payments in 15,004 village and ward secretariats. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy will launch the initiative, which will help people make easy, safe and instant payments on Monday. The introduction of QR-based UPI is set to provide a new level of convenience with respect to their regular payments. The chief minister called it a ‘landmark initiative’. “I am confident that UPI will enable numerous villagers to perform hassle-free cashless transactions. We look forward to launching digital payments in other regions and redefine digital payments in the state,” said CM Jagan. MD and CEO of Canara Bank LV Prabhakar said that Canara bank has always remained at the forefront of implementation of digital initiatives in tune with the ‘Digital India’ campaign. He said that AP in its visionary mission of digitising the government payments aimed to extend digital payment facility to the common man. NCPI MD and CEO, Dilip Asbe said they were happy to collaborate with the state government and Canara bank in furthering the technological innovations in the digital payments’ ecosystem. UPI has been the beacon of hope to promote financial inclusivity in the country and has garnered tremendous momentum, especially during the pandemic — 149 crore transactions, a record- breaking number, was undertaken in the month of July alone — he said. Asbe said they have recently launched UPI Autopay, a first-of-its-kind facility to provide an additional layer of convenience to the users. “This first-of-its-kind initiative will not only reduce the time spent by villagers waiting in queues but also ensure secure, instant and contactless payments, especially amid the Covid-19 outbreak,” said Asbe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-15k-village-ward-secretariats-to-soon-get-access-to-digital-payments/articleshow/77578384.cms||Samdani MN
August 17, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai-Goa highway shut for 18 hours as river swells||MUMBAI: The Mumbai-Goa highway was shut for over 18 hours after the Vashishti river started flowing over the danger mark. The highway was closed from 9pm on Saturday till 3pm on Sunday, at Chiplun in Ratnagiri district. Vashishti river water inundated a stretch of the highway and parts of Chiplun city. Light vehicles were diverted to a bypass after 3pm, but heavy vehicles were stopped for a longer period. Ratnagiri district information officer Prashant Daithankar said that incessant rain had caused the water level of Vashishti to rise, which compelled the authorities to close the highway for the safety of the travellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-goa-highway-shut-for-18-hours-as-river-swells/articleshow/77582026.cms||Umesh K Parida
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Mukul is and will be with BJP, says Dilip after meeting Nadda||Kolkata: Mukul Roy has been with BJP and will continue with it, Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh said on Sunday, trying to scotch speculations. Ghosh met BJP president J P Nadda in New Delhi on Sunday while the party’s Bengal observer, Kailash Vijayvargiya, reached out to Roy at his Salt Lake home in the afternoon. Ghosh, who has been trying to iron out differences over coordination between the organisation’s various wings, presented a detailed report to Nadda. He also discussed developments in North Bengal, where BJP wants to consolidate its base further. “I had sought time from Nadda-ji. They have not been to Kolkata for a few months, following the pandemic. A few days back, he called me up and asked me to come over to Delhi,” Ghosh said. BJP national general secretary Vijayvargiya had last month tried to put an end to speculations and alleged there was a concerted effort to tarnish Roy’s image. Following the media statement, Roy had held a press conference to clear the air. On Sunday, Vijayvargiya went straight to Roy’s home from Kolkata airport. He is likely to meet a few state leaders on Monday. Ghosh said: “Kailash-ji has met Mukul-da earlier as well after he went back to Kolkata following trouble with his eyes. It is quite natural Kailash-ji will meet him if he is in the city.” “I am nobody to certify Mukul-da. As far as I know, he is with BJP and will stay with the party in future,” he added. Asked about allegations of workers’ differences with some state leaders, Ghosh said those who were criticising should not forget the Lok Sabha poll performance. “I was elected president of the Bengal unit after Lok Sabha polls. I have tried to give importance to even those who have been inducted recently,” he said. BJP, meanwhile, is facing a delay in forming committees in different tiers. While office-bearers have been appointed, formation of mandal committees and booth committees is overdue. “We are delayed a bit in terms of forming committees... almost by four months. We will form these soon,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mukul-is-and-will-be-with-bjp-says-dilip-after-meeting-nadda/articleshow/77580997.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||B’luru Shramik Spl can’t let migrants get off in Bengal||Kolkata: West Bengal has refused a Shramik Special train from Bengaluru permission to de-board migrant workers at three stations in the state after Karnataka registered a single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Saturday. Eastern Railway on Friday informed Bengal transport secretary Prabhat Mishra that a Bengaluru-Guwahati Shramik Special would halt at Howrah, Malda and New Jalpaiguri on Monday and sought permission to de-board some passengers there. According to transport department sources, Bengaluru recorded its biggest 24-hour Covid count spike on Saturday with 3,495 cases. This prompted Bengal to deny permission to de-board. Bengal has received the third highest number of Shramik Specials, including 33 from Karnataka. “Trains have come from Karnataka in past couple of months. We have not allowed it this time, keeping surge of fresh cases in mind,” said a transport department official. The train will now stop at the three stations only for operational purposes. No embargo, however, exists on flights between Kolkata and Bengaluru. “Stations such as Kharagpur, Howrah, Dankuni, Malda and New Jalpaiguri have handled migrant workers. Apart from trains terminating in Bengal, some passengers have de-boarded from northeast-bound trains,” said Adhir Sharma, DG and IGP, West Bengal Railway Police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bluru-shramik-spl-cant-let-migrants-get-off-in-bengal/articleshow/77580965.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Khanakul tense over BJP worker’s death, 6 arrested||Khanakul (Keshpur): Fresh clashes, over hoisting the Tricolour on Independence Day, between Trinamool Congress and BJP workers over the past two days have resulted in the death of a BJP worker and left more than a dozen workers of both parties injured. Police have arrested six persons in connection to the case. BJP observed a 12-hour bandh at Khanakul, Hooghly, on Sunday after a 33-year-old worker was allegedly beaten to death on Saturday. Even as tension prevailed in the area, BJP alleged that TMC workers have killed Sudarshan Pramanik alias Sudam. Trinamool denied the allegations and pointed fingers at BJP’s internal feud. According to locals, both TMC and BJP workers gathered to hoist the Tricolour at Natibpur village. Trouble broke out and Sudarshan was allegedly hit with a weapon on his head. He succumbed after being taken to hospital. “It was pre-planned and TMC used a group of workers to launch the attack,” said Biman Ghosh, organisational secretary (Arambag) of BJP. Immediately after the incident, BJP MP from Purulia Jyotirmay Mahato and Saumitra Khan reached the spot and sat in a dharna demanding immediate arrest of the accused persons. “Politics of violence continues in West Bengal. Sudarshan Pramanik of Arambagh was brutally murdered,” tweeted Locket Chatterjee, MP from Hooghly. Nirmal Kumar Das, SDPO Arambag said all the six persons have been remanded in judicial custody. At Keshpur in West Midnapore, TMC and BJP workers clashed after the Tricolour was hoisted. Five BJP workers were injured and admitted to Midnapore Hospital. Six persons have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/khanakul-tense-over-bjp-workers-death-6-arrested/articleshow/77581012.cms||Falguni Banerjee
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||12 rescued, 3 missing after trawler capsize||Kakdwip (South 24 Parganas): Twelve fishermen were rescued after a trawler capsized 70km from Jambudwip in the Bay of Bengal on Saturday evening. Three persons are missing. Though the rescue operation was suspended on Saturday because of low light, the search team has been successful in identifying the trawler. “We were on the deck of FB Prasenjit when a huge wave hit us from the front around 4.30pm. It was followed by several waves on both sides as a result of which the trawler capsized. We jumped into the sea and were rescued by another trawler, the FB Mahabharat,” said Narayan Biswas, one of those rescued. “We sent seven trawlers in the morning and a search operation is on. The sea is rough and it is becoming difficult to continue with the search,” said Bijon Maity, secretary of the fishermen association which is assisting coastal police in the search. The missing fishermen have been identified as Krishna Das (48), Pradip Biswas (30) and Sibu Biswas (55). The fishermen had gone to sea a week back to catch Hilsa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/12-rescued-3-missing-after-trawler-capsize/articleshow/77581026.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool Congress rebuts WB governor’s ‘snooping’ charge: No one is interested||KOLKATA: West Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday alleged that Raj Bhavan was “under surveillance”, alleging a document had been leaked on Friday, drawing a sharp rebuttal from the Trinamool Congress, with a leader saying no one would be interested in keeping tabs on him. The allegation came after Trinamool MP Mahua Moitra released a two-page list on her Twitter handle, which mentioned 96 invitees to Raj Bhavan for an Independence Day reception. She posted it to counter Dhankhar’s tweet, where he had claimed that fewer than 35 people had been present, maintaining Covid protocol. The governor said that at 5.20pm on Friday, “a document was shared” electronically. “Your Raj Bhavan is under surveillance,” Dhankhar said on Sunday. “That should never happen. How can the office of the constitutional head be under surveillance?” No document could leave Raj Bhavan without his sanction, he added. Trinamool MP Saugata Roy said the document the governor was referring to was nothing but the guest list of the I-Day reception hosted by Dhankhar. “The guest list is nothing important,” he said. Moitra responded sharply. “Uncleji now claims he & WB Raj Bhavan premises are under surveillance. Believe me, that’s something your bosses from Gujarat do better than anyone else — any of us would be novices at it”, she tweeted. “The governor is proactive on social media. His activities are in the public domain. No one would be interested in keeping tabs on him,” she later told reporters. Dhankhar said the government was within its rights to seek any information from him, “and I would be happy to share any document with the government,” adding, “But if documents are procured by the executive contrary to law, it is a matter of concern for me. I have initiated a very serious critical probe into it. ... Those who have done it must pay the price according to rule of law. My internal enquiry will be completed soon enough.” On Saturday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had called on Dhankhar for an hour-long meeting after the flag-hoisting ceremony at Red Road. Banerjee, after meeting the governor, said she had gone over to Raj Bhavan along with chief secretary Rajiva Sinha, home secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, DGP Virendra and Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma to meet the governor, as she would be unable to attend the tea party hosted by him later in the day. The CM’s absence from the evening event at Raj Bhavan led to another set of allegations and counter-allegations between Dhankhar and Trinamool. “This has never happened anywhere in the country. I do not appreciate it,” he said. State minister Rajib Banerjee said Banerjee had met the governor before the reception to avoid crowding due to the Covid-19 situation. MP Saugata Roy said: “Banerjee skipped it to avoid overcrowding It is not written in the Constitution that the CM needs to attend all the programmes of the governor. She is conscious about the Covid-19 situation. She does not want much crowding in this situation.” “Uncle, please at least share the whole truth,” tweeted Moitra. “The Hon’ble CM visited you at Raj Bhavan before your tea party & spent an hour with you. Don’t think milling in a crowd at a tea party is wise for either her or you in the midst of Covid 19.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-rebuts-guvs-snooping-charge-no-one-is-interested/articleshow/77581291.cms||---
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Chocolates and flowers passé, gifting choices show new ‘pandemic trend’||KOLKATA: Chocolates and flowers are so 2019; oximeters and sanitizers are the ‘new normal’. The Covid pandemic has not only changed the way people celebrate festivals, birthdays and anniversaries but has also upended conventional ideas of gifting. Instead of sending traditional gifts, friends and family members are gifting each other colourful designer masks, packs of disinfectant wipes, automatic sanitizer dispensers, cellphone sanitisers, steam inhalers, small oxygen cans and even pulse oximeters. The reason is simple: many of these items come in handy as everyday safety measures, while others could be used if a person is diagnosed with Covid-19. “It would have been odd, presenting somebody with disinfectants, sanitizer dispensers and pulse oximeters, which are of no use in normal times. But, during this pandemic, these are the things one is most likely to use, so people have realised that these are better gift items for festivals and other occasions,” said Vikas Malani, who gifted a Covid-care hamper to his two sisters as a Rakhi gift. Even clothes, accessories and perfumes have taken a back seat from being the most preferred gift items, as people are hardly socialising outdoors these days, multiplexes, pubs and amusement parks being shut. As for weddings and other public functions, the government has fixed an upper limit for the number of guests. Girish Vasandani gifted a pulse oximeter to his 75-year old father-in-law on the latter’s birthday in the first half of July. “I thought it would be a useful gift. Another reason I gifted him one was because pulse oximeters were fast disappearing from the market, with people going for panic buying,” said Girish, a central Kolkata-based businessman. Within a few days, his father-in-law was diagnosed with Covid-19, and had to be rushed to hospital when he experienced shortness of breath and checked his oxygen saturation level using the device. “It really came in handy and we got time to shift him to hospital. He is cured and back home now,” Girish said. Simran Chopra and her sister gifted identical designer masks to all members of the family on their brother’s birthday in the latter part of July. “See, masks are mandatory and people must wear them. We thought it would be a good idea to gift pretty masks to everybody in the family,” said Chopra, a teacher at La Martiniere for Girls. And nobody is looking a gift horse in the mouth when it comes to Covid-care hampers. “Things like masks, sanitizers, disinfectant wipes, pen and mobile sanitizers and pulse oximeters are the most valuable currently because everybody requires these things. When my sister gifted me an automatic sanitizer dispenser and mobile and pen sanitizers on my birthday on August 1, it made me emotional because those are the things I need the most for my safety,” said Ankush Jaiswal, a chartered accountant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chocolates-flowers-pass-gifting-choices-show-new-pandemic-trend/articleshow/77581264.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Smuggler from B’desh killed in BSF Jalangi firing||Kolkata: A suspected Bangladeshi smuggler died after the Border Security Force (BSF) opened fire in self-defence during an operation along the Indo-Bangladesh border in Jalangi, Murshidabad, on Friday evening. The BSF troops seized 150 bottles of pesticide from the spot where the skirmish occurred. The criminals had cut the border fence and were smuggling the pesticide to India through jute fields. “There were 5-6 of them. Our small patrol party was attacked from both sides with dahs, daggers and bamboo poles. Some even attempted to snatch weapons from the troops. This was when one of our men was forced to fire a round from his pump-action gun (PAG). The immediate effect was unknown, but later, after the smugglers escaped towards Bangladesh, a search revealed an injured person and 150 bottles of pesticide. As this border is unfenced, we had erected an improvised cattle fence, 400 metres from the international border. The miscreants cut through this fence to smuggle in the contraband,” a senior BSF official said. The BSF first took the injured man to the Sadiq Khan Rural Hospital in Jalangi. After first aid, he was referred to Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital in Behrampore where doctors declared him dead on arrival. Bangladeshi officials have identified the dead youth as Kasem from Doulatpur. They have also acknowledged that he crossed the international border into India illegally and was shot dead. No complaint has been lodged, the Bangladeshi authorities stated. “A few days ago, smugglers attacked a BSF trooper in Jalangi and broke his finger. Over the last four months, smugglers have fired at BSF troops from improvised weapons on at least three occasions. The jute crops there are 8-10 feet high and the land is waterlogged. The area has no lights. The smugglers focus high-beam torches on the BSF personnel before attacking them with sharp weapons. That is what happened on Friday,” said S S Guleria, DIG, BSF (South Bengal Frontier). BSF personnel carry both lethal and non-lethal weapons. The non-lethal Pump Action Guns (PAGs) are normally used to scare away smugglers from a distance. However, at close proximity, when attempts are made to snatch weapons, a discharge from a PAG can be fatal as happened on Friday. Kasem suffered serious injuries to his chest and waist region. “This clearly indicates that he was not shot at while trying to escape but attempted to snatch the weapon from our personnel,” Guleria added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/smuggler-frombdesh-killed-in-bsf-jalangi-firing/articleshow/77580989.cms||Jayanta Gupta
August 17, 2020||Kolkata||Man falls to death from 11th floor of high-rise||Durgapur: A 64-year-old man fell to his death from the 11th floor of a high-rise at Tapoban City near Kanksa in West Burdwan on Sunday afternoon. The deceased was identified as Abhijit Ghosh, ex-deputy general manager of DSP Projects, Durgapur, residing at 17/1C Aryanyok, Tapoban City. He lived there with his family. It was not clear if the man fell by accident or had jumped off the building. Locals said the incident occurred between 1pm and 1.20pm. A security guard heard a loud thud and found the man bleeding on the ground. Police rushed to the spot and took Ghosh to Durgapur Sub-divisional Hospital where he was declared dead. Locals said he might have fallen while walking on the 11th-floor skywalk of the building. DCP Abhishek Gupta told TOI, “We have started a probe. The body has been sent for autopsy. We are waiting for the postmortem report.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-falls-to-death-from-11th-floor-of-high-rise/articleshow/77581039.cms||Mohammad Asif
