August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Workshop by ICSVS, Panjab University concludes||A three-day online workshop, titled 'Let us tinker', organized by the Interdisciplinary Centre for Swami Vivekananda Studies (ICSVS), Panjab University, ended on Monday. Various sessions of the workshop which covered diverse topics helped kids understand and learn basic concepts of science. Coordinated by Manu Sharma and Dr Amit Thakur of PU's University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), the session threw light on the life and teachings of Swami Vivekananda. Also, it was a special workshop aimed at school children focussing on bringing youngsters closer to the idea of basic electrical/electronic circuits and arduino programming. The participants were also introduced to various sensors available in the market such as photoelectric sensor, IR sensor, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/workshop-by-icsvs-panjab-university-concludes-at-pu/articleshow/77599712.cms||---
August 18, 2020||India||26/11 witnesses won't travel, Pakistan panel can come: India||NEW DELHI: After years of delay, the protracted stop-start trial of the Mumbai attacks accused in Pakistan may see some progress as India has offered to host a judicial commission after Islamabad sent a list of 27 witnesses the anti-terror court hearing the case wants to examine. While Islamabad reiterated its demand a few weeks ago that the witnesses based in India should travel to Pakistan for examination, India has said they will testify only to a visiting Pakistani judicial commission or through a video conference, TOI has learnt. Pakistan is also said to have conveyed to India that the witnesses have to testify within 90 days as per a court directive. For India, however, it’s important that witnesses record statements in an atmosphere free of fear or intimidation. The government, in any case, isn’t sure how serious Pakistan is about the exercise, given the inordinate delay on the part of local authorities in taking the trial to its logical conclusion. The trial has been marred by changes in judges and prosecution lawyers as well as release of suspects from detention. For now though, the government doesn’t want Pakistan to further delay the trial citing lack of support from India, especially when it continues to mount pressure on Pakistan diplomatically to move ahead with the trial. The need for Pakistan to bring the Mumbai attacks accused to justice has continued to figure in India’s engagements with all major powers. The India-US joint statement after the Modi-Trump summit earlier this year, while calling upon Pakistan to ensure no territory under its control was used to launch terrorist attacks, again asked Islamabad to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators of Mumbai and Pathankot attacks. A Pakistani judicial panel had visited Mumbai in 2013 to examine witnesses. However, the defence lawyers managed to get the trial court to quash the panel’s findings, as they claimed the witnesses were not allowed to be cross-examined. The Mumbai trial was initiated after Pakistan in 2009 arrested seven men directly involved in the terror attack, including Lashkar-e-Taiba commander Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi. Frequent transfer of judges who were apparently reluctant to hear the case, intimidated Pakistani witnesses and lack of cooperation from the Pakistan government are said to be some of the reasons for the trial dragging on for 11 years. While the anti-terrorism court hearing the case and the prosecution said in the past that Indian witnesses’ testimonies were essential to bring the trial to an end, India has remained sceptical about the outcome. This has mainly to do with Pakistan’s refusal to take serious action against Jamaat-ud-Dawa chief and UN-designated global terrorist Hafiz Saeed whom India describes as the mastermind of the Mumbai attacks. Lakhvi, too, managed to get bail in 2015. Pakistan claims there is not enough evidence to book Saeed in the Mumbai case. Indian officials felt vindicated again earlier this year after a US state department spokesperson was quoted as saying that Saeed had to be held accountable for his involvement in the planning of numerous acts of terrorism, “including 2008 Mumbai attacks” that killed 166 innocent people, including six Americans. Saeed was recently booked on charges of terror-financing as Pakistan apparently sought to avoid being blacklisted by the Financial Action Task Force. In fact, he was said to have been sentenced to 11 years in prison in February. India has repeatedly told Pakistan that all evidence against Saeed and others have already been provided to Pakistan and it’s for the government to work on it and bring the perpetrators to justice. Pakistan has usually stonewalled, claiming addresses and phone numbers were untraceable. Apart from Lakhvi, Abdul Wajid, Mazhar Iqbal, Hamad Amin Sadiq, Shahid Jameel Riaz, Jamil Ahmed and Younis Anjum are facing charges of abetment to murder, attempted murder, planning and executing the 2008 attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/26/11-witnesses-wont-travel-pakistan-panel-can-come-india/articleshow/77599837.cms||Sachin Parashar
August 18, 2020||Kolkata||How did Kolkata become Pandit Jasraj’s second home?||Kolkata: Pandit Jasraj’s bond with Kolkata was a special one that began in 1946 when he started living in the city with his brother and then, worked as an artiste at All India Radio. While the news of his demise in New Jersey added to the lockdown gloom of disciples and music connoisseurs from Kolkata, it also brought back memories of his association with the city he called his second home, where he had spent 13 long years.  Even in January this year, ahead of his performance before his 90th birthday, Jasraj had talked about his times in Kolkata, when he spent 14 hours a day on riyaaz as a 20-year-old. “Kolkata amake onek diyechhe (Kolkata has given me a lot),” he would always say in fluent Bengali. “I owe a lot to this city. Here, it is easy to build relationships. In this city lived someone I used to call Ammaji. Her name was Som Tiwari. She was a disciple of my guru, (my ‘bade bhaisaab’ Pt Maniram). She sang well and loved my singing too. She would always encourage me and say: Tumhare gaane mein ek bichitr cheez hai jo auro mein nahin hai (there is something in your singing that isn’t there in others). She would insist that I continue with my riyaaz.”  He was hardly 20 then. Often he would go and practice with Tiwari. Any mention of Kolkata would invariably bring up the names of his friends, Dr Mukund Lath and Ujjwal Roy. Back then, he used to play the tabla but Roy would “fight with everyone” and insist that he didn’t do so. “He would even tell my guru: ‘Oke tabla bajate bolben na. Aap chahe toh kisi aur tablawala ko bula lijiye. Nahi toh main baja deta hun… (Don’t ask him to play the tabla. Please ask someone else. If not, I will play…) I was so fortunate to have got such people around me. They protected me and were like a banyan tree,” he would say.  It was at Tiwari’s house that Pt Vijay Kichlu had first met him. “Pt Jasraj belonged to Kolkata. He was a very good singer but back then, it seemed he was shy of singing in public. Slowly from being a tabla player, he turned into a vocalist. His influence was from Ustad Amir Khan and his training from his brother. Yet, he created a niche for himself without following anyone blindly,” Kichlu said.  Pt Anindya Chatterjee, who had accompanied him in at least 15 concerts, described the legend whose rendition had a unique distinction of the Mewati gharana while reminding him of recitals of Pt Omkarnath Thakur and Ustad Amir Khan. "I have been listening to his performance from the 70s. Back then, his recital was different. Over the years, he changed his style, incorporating the uniqueness of the taan and bistar of the Mewati gharana. His rendition of ragas were steeped in the Mewati gharana that is very different from the Kirana Jaipur gharana," Chatterjee said.  During his various visits to the city for performances, Panditji’s car would sometimes cross Kabir Road flooding him with memories. His Kolkata address during his youth was 32 Kabir Road. Few steps away, on 27 Kabir Road, was the residence of Ustad Ali Akbar Khan. Both would often bump into each other. Their meetings were storehouse of memories. But they weren’t necessarily only about music. “Once when I was out on a stroll, I saw Dada wearing a vest and washing his Land Cruiser. When he found that I was out on a stroll, he said that I should hop into his car. And in 12 minutes flat, he drove me to Chowringhee and back!” he would laugh and say. Much later in life, once both of them had even turned on their VCR to watch Madhuri Dixit dance to ‘Ek do teen’ in a loop for over an hour.  It was perhaps that camaraderie which had made him promptly agree to singing at the inaugural edition of Kolkata’s Swara Samrat Festival that is dedicated to Ustad Ali Akbar Khan. “He was 83 then and went up on stage at four in the morning and sang for two hours fifty minutes. Listening to him was hypnotic,” remembered Pt Tejendra Narayan Majumdar.  Kolkata has welcomed him with open arms every time he returned to perform. According to the maestro, this ability to appreciate art and artistes has been in Kolkata’s DNA for ages. His eyes would twinkle with delight while recalling how he had witnessed some 10,000-odd people standing outside the Basusree theatre to get a glimpse of Pt Ravi Shankar. “The organiser suggested he leave through the backdoor. However, Motilal Ranga and I, who were there with him in the greenroom, suggested that he go down. Ranga had picked Dada up and placed him on his head. There he sat in the lotus pose and soon he was transported from one person’s head to that of another while moving in front of Basusree in a circle.”  Once during a walk past the Sangu Valley restaurant in Hazra when he had overheard the conversation of a few young women over cups of tea. “One of them had said: ‘Bade Ghulam Ali r gaan shunlam (I listened to Bade Ghulam Ali saab’s rendition)’. Another lady cut her short saying: ‘Tui Bagher gaan shunechis? Bagher gaan shonar pore ar... (Have you listened to the Tiger? After having listened to the Tiger, you can’t... ‘ Do you know who this tiger they were referring to? Well, it was none other than Ustad Faiyaz Khan saab!”  Overhearing such conversations regarding music was inspiring for him too. “Kolkata is a city that talks music all the time. On another occasion, I was walking down Hindustan Park when I chanced upon a group of young boys playing gully cricket. The moment one hit the ball hard, an onlooker said: ‘Dekhechis ball ta kikore marlo? Jeno mone holo Bhimsein er taan! (Have you seen how he struck the ball? It seemed as effortless as a Bhimsein Joshi taan)’,” he would often recall.  During those days, not every youngster had the money to afford concert tickets. There have been so many occasions when he, along with my friends, would simply listen to live concerts amplified by the loudspeakers. He would stand in front of the loudspeakers positioned strategically on the streets and listen to the recitals till the wee hours of the morning. “Sometimes, I would wait outside the concerts hoping that some listener would leave midway and be sweet enough to hand over his ticket so that I could enter the auditorium and listen to the last half of the concert. During those days, I had just started singing for the radio and sometimes the gate keepers would recognize me and let me in.”  If that didn’t work, he would go to the bus depots and try to sneak inside an empty bus and spend the night there listening to a concert on the loudspeaker in the vicinity. Back then, buses used to be parked at night near the Basusree theatre. “On the concert days, I would go to the depot and sneak into one of the buses. If luck favoured me, the conductor would allow me to lie down on one of the seats while I listened to music. That saved any strain on my poor legs too! On other occasions, I would simply stop by some roadside tea-seller and order for innumerable cups of tea and listen to musical conversations.”  Every time he visited Kolkata, such stories would spontaneously tumble out of his bag. Perhaps, in another world, he is busy once again, narrating all these stories and more to an audience comprising doyens including Pt Bhimsein Joshi, Pt Ravi Shankar, Ustad Ali Akbar Khan and Ustad Vilayat Khan. It isn’t too difficult to visualize him singing Govinda Damodar Madhaveti or a bandish in raag Malkauns, his vocal fireworks retaining their sublime and spiritual essence. Needless to say, the heavens are surely being regaled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/how-did-kolkata-become-pandit-jasrajs-second-home/articleshow/77599958.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Relevance of vitamin D and weight management in the fight against Covid-19||Panjab University's alumni association on Monday organised a webinar to cover the topic of vitamin D and weight management strategy to win against the coronavirus pandemic. The session saw Dr Sanjay Kumar Bhadada, professor at PGI's endocrinology department, talking about vital aspects of modern life, especially highlighting how avoiding hurry, worry and curry can build a healthier immune system besides boosting overall health. Dr Bhadada added that humour is best to avoid stress and anxiety. He also explained about vitamin D production and metabolism in human body. He took up topics like what affects vitamin D synthesis in skin, how much exposure to sun is sufficient, how to overcome its deficiency, etc. Dr Bhadada who has received various awards for his contribution in his field, talked to the participants and briefed them about lifestyle issues which can easily be corrected by changing eating or getting up habits. More than 100 people participated in the webinar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/relevance-of-vitamin-d-and-weight-management-in-the-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/77600286.cms||---
August 18, 2020||India||Instead of ‘low-ranking civil servants’, allow tech hands to run ops: Railway engineers||LUCKNOW: The simmering squabble between Indian Railways' officers from technical and non-technical backgrounds reached the ministry when general secretaries of five associations of engineers wrote a letter demanding that only officers with technical background be allowed to run the operations. To buttress their point in the letter, dated August 12, representatives of the engineering wing termed non-technical officers as “low-ranking civil servants who enter service after several attempts and at an old age”, and demanded that only officers with technical background should manage the railways. The development comes in the backdrop of the railway ministry’s plan to conduct a separate examination for Indian Railway Management Services (IRMS) to revamp railway bureaucracy and end the tussle between top rung officials from technical and non-technical backgrounds. At present, recruitments to Indian Railway Accounts Service (IRAS), Indian Railway Personnel Service (IRPS) and Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS) are made through UPSC civil services examination while those for technical services are done through UPSC’s Engineering Services Examination (ESE) The letter has five signatories at the level of general secretary of railway engineering associations like IRSEOA (Indian Railway Service of Engineers Officers Association), IRSEEOA (Indian Railway Service of Electrical Engineers Officers Association), IRSSOA (Indian Railway Store Service Officers Association) and IRSMEOA (Indian Railway Service of Mechanical Engineers Officers Association). According to sources, the letter is a counter-argument to a letter submitted by general secretaries of IRTS, IRAS and IRPS associations to the principal secretary to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). Non-technical officers have argued that merging or restructuring of all railway services into one service — Indian Railway Management Service (IRMS) — would be detrimental to the smooth operations of railways. They recommended dual structure of non-technical (IRTS, IRAS and IRPS) and technical services (engineering services). At present, out of 16 general managers of railway zones, only three are non-technical. In the Railway Board, out of nine, only three senior officers have non-technical background. “Railways is a technology-driven organisation and at present 72% of Group A organized services (IRSE, IRSME, IRSEE, IRSSE and IRSS) constitutes of core engineers recruited through Engineering Services Examination (ESE), while 28% officials of non-technical services (IRTS, IRAS and IRPS) are recruited through civil services examination out of whom 60% are also engineers,” the letter from technical officers said. The engineering association recommended that recruitments for the entire IRMS should be done through ESE in which only engineers are recruited. “UPSC may conduct separate examination for IRMS, on the lines of Indian Forest Services (IFS), where candidates may be asked to write the examination in their core competence. This will ensure that only those candidates enter the service who have consciously opted for IRMS. This will bring in willing officers rather than low-ranking candidates, who enter IRMS after several attempts and at an old age,” the letter added. A senior railway official, who did not wish to be named, said: “This year, not a single person was recruited for IRMS, thanks to the engineering association lobby. Engineers are recruited to ensure safety of railway operations, and if they occupy administrative posts, safety aspects will also get affected as there will be no check on them. Civil servants are trained to ensure good administration, while engineering service requires a different set of skills.” “Court cases and summons are increasing as more administrative posts are being given to officers with a technical background. There are separate HR, operations & accounts wings in organizations to maintain checks and balances. If all these are merged, the entire system will collapse,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/instead-of-low-ranking-civil-servants-allow-tech-hands-to-run-ops-railway-engineers/articleshow/77600240.cms||Arvind Chauhan
August 18, 2020||World||Trump-appointed postmaster general to testify to Congress as Democrats fear cuts could influence election||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump's appointed postmaster general on Monday agreed to testify before Congress next week on cuts in service that lawmakers fear could hamper the Postal Service's ability to handle a flood of mail-in ballots in November's election. US Postmaster General Louis DeJoy, a major Trump political donor, agreed to testify on Aug. 24 before a House of Representatives panel investigating whether service changes adopted in recent weeks have slowed mail deliveries, according to the committee, which called his appearance voluntary. Congressional Democrats have raised concerns that, in a pandemic that is expected to result in about twice as many Americans voting by mail as did so in 2016, cost cuts at the Postal Service could lead to missed or delayed ballots. They have pointed specifically to reductions in overtime, restrictions on extra mail transportation trips and new mail sorting and delivery policies as changes that threaten to slow mail delivery. Trump, who has repeatedly and without evidence claimed that mail balloting is vulnerable to fraud, denied trying to undermine the Postal Service's ability to handle a flood of ballots. "We want to make it run efficiently, run good," Trump said in an interview with Fox News amid an outcry from Democrats and other critics who accuse him of trying to hamstring the Postal Service to suppress mail-in voting as he trails Democratic presidential challenger Joe Biden in opinion polls. "We want to make it run for less money, much better, always taking care of our postal workers," the Republican president said, describing the Postal Service "one of the disasters of the world." Voting by mail is nothing new in the United States, and one in four voters cast ballots that way in 2016. Trump, who himself plans to cast an absentee ballot by mail in Florida, and many other Republicans have opposed an expansion of mail-in voting to accommodate people concerned about going to the polls to vote in-person due to fears amid the coronavirus pandemic. He also expressed support for expanded in-person voting including more voting booths, early voting and other efforts, while he reiterated his attacks on mail-in voting. Trump on Thursday said he was opposing Democratic efforts to include funds for the Postal Service and election infrastructure in coronavirus relief legislation, as he aims to block an expansion in mail-in voting during the pandemic. Trump said in March that with mail-in voting at levels that Democrats were seeking "you'd never have a Republican elected in this country again." The Democratic-led House will meet on Saturday to consider legislation prohibiting changes to Postal Service levels that were in place on Jan. 1, 2020, said the chamber's No. 2 Democrat, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer. Senate Democrats led by Senator Chuck Schumer urged the Postal Service board of governors to reverse a series of changes adopted by DeJoy that they said have led to mail service delays. CRIMINAL PROBE SOUGHT House Democratic Conference Chairman Hakeem Jeffries and Representative Ted Lieu also called on the FBI to open a criminal probe into DeJoy. "There is evidence that making mail-in balloting more difficult may be one of the motivations for the changes instituted at the Post Office," Jeffries and Lieu wrote in a Monday letter to FBI Director Christopher Wray. "There is also evidence that the Postmaster General has a financial stake in multiple financial entities that are either competitors to or contractors for the Post Office," the lawmakers added. Several Democratic state attorneys general also considering potential legal action to stop Postal Service changes that could affect the election outcome. Trump and a close Senate ally on Monday sought to portray the Democrats as at fault. Trump told reporters outside the White House that he wants to "make sure the election is not stolen." Republican Senator Tom Cotton defended the president by accusing Democrats of promoting "conspiracy" theories. "Their unfounded hysteria over the Postal Service may be the craziest one yet," Cotton said on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-appointed-postmaster-general-to-testify-to-congress-as-democrats-fear-cuts-could-influence-election/articleshow/77601131.cms||---
August 18, 2020||World||Trump-appointed postmaster general to testify to Congress as Democrats fear cuts could influence election||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump's appointed postmaster general on Monday agreed to testify before Congress next week on cuts in service that lawmakers fear could hamper the Postal Service's ability to handle a flood of mail-in ballots in November's election. US Postmaster General Louis DeJoy, a major Trump political donor, agreed to testify on Aug. 24 before a House of Representatives panel investigating whether service changes adopted in recent weeks have slowed mail deliveries, according to the committee, which called his appearance voluntary. Congressional Democrats have raised concerns that, in a pandemic that is expected to result in about twice as many Americans voting by mail as did so in 2016, cost cuts at the Postal Service could lead to missed or delayed ballots. They have pointed specifically to reductions in overtime, restrictions on extra mail transportation trips and new mail sorting and delivery policies as changes that threaten to slow mail delivery. Trump, who has repeatedly and without evidence claimed that mail balloting is vulnerable to fraud, denied trying to undermine the Postal Service's ability to handle a flood of ballots. "We want to make it run efficiently, run good," Trump said in an interview with Fox News amid an outcry from Democrats and other critics who accuse him of trying to hamstring the Postal Service to suppress mail-in voting as he trails Democratic presidential challenger Joe Biden in opinion polls. "We want to make it run for less money, much better, always taking care of our postal workers," the Republican president said, describing the Postal Service "one of the disasters of the world." Voting by mail is nothing new in the United States, and one in four voters cast ballots that way in 2016. Trump, who himself plans to cast an absentee ballot by mail in Florida, and many other Republicans have opposed an expansion of mail-in voting to accommodate people concerned about going to the polls to vote in-person due to fears amid the coronavirus pandemic. He also expressed support for expanded in-person voting including more voting booths, early voting and other efforts, while he reiterated his attacks on mail-in voting. Trump on Thursday said he was opposing Democratic efforts to include funds for the Postal Service and election infrastructure in coronavirus relief legislation, as he aims to block an expansion in mail-in voting during the pandemic. Trump said in March that with mail-in voting at levels that Democrats were seeking "you'd never have a Republican elected in this country again." The Democratic-led House will meet on Saturday to consider legislation prohibiting changes to Postal Service levels that were in place on Jan. 1, 2020, said the chamber's No. 2 Democrat, Majority Leader Steny Hoyer. Senate Democrats led by Senator Chuck Schumer urged the Postal Service board of governors to reverse a series of changes adopted by DeJoy that they said have led to mail service delays. CRIMINAL PROBE SOUGHT House Democratic Conference Chairman Hakeem Jeffries and Representative Ted Lieu also called on the FBI to open a criminal probe into DeJoy. "There is evidence that making mail-in balloting more difficult may be one of the motivations for the changes instituted at the Post Office," Jeffries and Lieu wrote in a Monday letter to FBI Director Christopher Wray. "There is also evidence that the Postmaster General has a financial stake in multiple financial entities that are either competitors to or contractors for the Post Office," the lawmakers added. Several Democratic state attorneys general also considering potential legal action to stop Postal Service changes that could affect the election outcome. Trump and a close Senate ally on Monday sought to portray the Democrats as at fault. Trump told reporters outside the White House that he wants to "make sure the election is not stolen." Republican Senator Tom Cotton defended the president by accusing Democrats of promoting "conspiracy" theories. "Their unfounded hysteria over the Postal Service may be the craziest one yet," Cotton said on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-appointed-postmaster-general-to-testify-to-congress-as-democrats-fear-cuts-could-influence-election/articleshow/77601124.cms||---
August 18, 2020||World||Trump counters Biden with law and order message in Minnesota||MANKATO, MINNESOTA: Declaring it's ``crunch time'' for the upcoming election, President Donald Trump zeroed in on Midwest battleground states on Monday with a tough, law and order message to counter program former Vice President Joe Biden's show at the Democrats' national convention. In Mankato, Minnesota, Trump stepped up his rhetoric against Biden, calling him a ``puppet of left-wing extremists trying to erase our borders, eliminate our police, indoctrinate our children, vilify our heroes, take away our energy,`` Trump told a crowd of several hundred supporters outside an aircraft hangar. He alleged that Biden a victory would ``replace American freedom with left-wing fascism.'' ``Fascists. They are fascists,'' Trump continued. ``Some of them, not all of them, but some of them. But they're getting closer and closer. We have to win this election. But the proud people of Minnesota will not let this happen.'' Fascism, though, is form of far-right nationalism. Earlier, Trump stopped in Minneapolis to hold an event with small business owners whose stores were damaged after violent protests and riots after George Floyd, a 46-year-old Black man, died in May in police custody. ``I'm here to help you. We will bring back law and order to your community. We will bring it back and we will bring it back immediately,`` Trump told supporters on the airport tarmac. He did not venture to the scene of the protests or the memorial to Floyd in the city. Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz said the White House had been interested in Trump visiting the makeshift memorial in Minneapolis on the site of Floyd's fatal encounter with police on Memorial Day. ``I spent this weekend trying to tell the White House why it was a really bad idea to have President Trump go down and stand at the George Floyd memorial and use (it) as a backdrop for his campaign and ignite the pain and the anguish that we're feeling in Minnesota,'' the governor said Monday during a virtual breakfast for the state's delegation to the Democratic National Convention. White House chief of staff Mark Meadows disputed Walz' statement. ``Gov. Walz never reached out to me, nor the president, nor the campaign so perhaps he misspoke,'' Meadows told The Associated Press. We've communicated before, so he has our contact information.'' On the tarmac in Minneapolis, Trump addressed about 150 supporters _ half of them wearing masks _ who chanted ``Four More Years.'' Trump told them that the Democrats will be taking away the constitutional amendment to bear arms. Democrats want to elevate their ``left-wing war on cops,? Trump asserted. ``Their sympathies lie with lawbreakers and with criminals.'' In recent weeks, Trump has repeatedly and falsely asserted that Biden supports defunding the police. Trump also was set to visit Wisconsin the official host state of the entirely virtual Democratic National Convention to launch a week of travel and political events aiming to blunt the customary polling ``bounce'' that a candidate gets during their convention week. The president trails in both public and private surveys less than three months before Election Day. ``We're going to be working very hard,'' Trump said before leaving the White House. ``We have to. We're getting down to final crunch. We want to be there.'' Marking his heaviest week of political travel since the coronavirus put a stop to his campaign schedule and imperiled his reelection chances, Trump was expected to sharply criticize Biden's economic policies in the Upper Midwest battleground states. On Tuesday, Trump will take on Biden over his immigration policies during a visit to Yuma, Arizona. He is also set to travel to Pennsylvania, the state of Biden's birth, on Thursday, ahead of the Democrat's acceptance speech. Trump's aggressive push comes as his path to reelection has narrowed since the coronavirus hit, and he's been forced to play defense in the states that carried him to reelection four years ago. Minnesota, viewed as a GOP pickup opportunity a year ago, now appears to be slipping out of reach, Republicans say. Wisconsin, a state that had voted for Democratic presidents for decades until Trump's 2016 victory, has emerged as one of the toughest battlegrounds of 2020. Vice President Mike Pence on Wednesday plans to visit the southern part of the state. Trump's campaign views the state's whiter, older demographics to be more favorable than Michigan, which Trump also won four years ago but is increasingly seen as a likely Democratic pick-up. Trump's campaign is seizing on Biden's decision not to travel to Milwaukee for the convention, citing the pandemic, as the Democrat `effectively abandoning' Wisconsin. The GOP is surging Republican surrogates to the state this week in a show of force, including Pence and Republican National Committee Chair Ronna McDaniel. Democrats insist they are still contesting the state, where they are devoting resources to television ads and field organizing, but that Biden is just being cautious and curtailing non-essential travel due to the coronavirus. He and Sen. Kamala Harris, his newly announced running mate, are set to deliver their convention addresses from Biden's home state of Delaware this week, mitigating the need for air travel. The Republican Party and Trump campaign are also ramping up their efforts as Biden takes center stage. Trump Victory, the campaign's joint field program with the Republican National Committee, will be holding over 2,500 events across the country, the RNC said. They also plan to knock on more than 1 million doors and call millions more voters during the week of the Democratic convention. The events this week come as Trump's campaign is looking to redefine what the president's political events look like in the age of the coronavirus. Trump is set to address hundreds of supporters at airports in Oshkosh, Wisconsin, and Mankato, Minnesota, two months after he was forced to abandon plans to resume holding rallies amid a resurgence in cases. ``We'd love to have those rallies, but I guess you just can't do that, you're not allowed to do that now,`` Trump said in Mankato, saying he has embraced ``airport hops'' as an alternative. In Minnesota, there is a statewide mask mandate for public indoor spaces, and capacity must be limited so safe social distancing can be maintained. Many Trump supporters at both events in the state were not wearing masks during Trump's remarks. In Wisconsin, supporters are required to be masked, but there is no statewide limit on how many people can gather. Trump's campaign, meanwhile is trying to set historically high expectations for the Biden campaign. ``You better believe that Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are going to get somewhere between a 8 and 10 point bump after this convention they put on,`` Gidley told Fox on Monday, ``solely because the media just fawns all over them.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-counters-biden-with-law-and-order-message-in-minnesota/articleshow/77601418.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Goa||ISL opts for league standings to decide groups and home grounds||PANAJI: FC Goa will continue to play a majority of their ‘home’ matches in the Indian Super League (ISL) at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda this season. The next edition of ISL, starting November, will be played in a single state for the first time. Unlike the previous editions, teams will not have the luxury of having their supporters around and instead will play in front of empty stands. For the first time, the entire ISL will be played in Goa. Matches will be played at three stadiums -- Nehru Stadium in Fatorda, Tilak Maidan in Vasco and GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim – with teams now being divided into groups, based on league standings. All participating teams were informed of their home grounds late on Monday. FC Goa have been placed in group A alongside ATK Mohun Bagan and Bengaluru FC. These teams, who finished top three last season during the league stage, will play their home games at Fatorda. “For the sake of identifying their home ground, groups have been made. For example, league champions FC Goa are at Fatorda which means they will play 11 games here,” said one official. Apart from the nine home games in the league stage, the matches at Fatorda for FC Goa will also include ‘away’ games against ATK Mohun Bagan and Bengaluru FC. Group B consists of the four next best-placed teams in the league with Chennaiyin FC, Mumbai City FC, Odisha FC and Kerala Blasters all playing their ‘home’ matches at Bambolim. The three bottom-placed teams – Jamshedpur FC, NorthEast United and Hyderabad FC – have been placed in group C and will play their home games at Vasco. Interestingly, FC Goa will take on the might of Mumbai at Bambolim, a venue where they have trained for a couple of years. It’s also a venue where coach Sergio Lobera, formerly with Goa, will feel at home. Players like Mandar Rao Desai, Ahmed Jahouh, Mourtada Fall and Hugo Boumous will adjust quite easily on a ground which is slightly shorter than the other two stadiums. HOME GROUNDSFatorda: FC Goa, ATKMB, Bengaluru FC Bambolim: Chennaiyin, Mumbai, Odisha, Kerala Vasco: Jamshedpur, NorthEast, Hyderabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-opts-for-league-standings-to-decide-groups-and-home-grounds/articleshow/77601617.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 18, 2020||India||Less than one in five deaths in India is medically certified to denote cause of death||Less than one out of five deaths in India is medically certified to denote cause of death. Deaths with medical certification of the cause were a mere 2.5% of estimated deaths in Jharkhand, 3.1% in Uttar Pradesh and 4.7% in Bihar. This emerges from an analysis of data from two reports recently released by the census commissioner’s office. This assumes greater significance at a time when a debate is raging on whether Covid-19 deaths are being accurately counted. The problem in states such as Bihar, UP and Jharkhand is two-fold – a low level of registration of deaths and a low proportion of even registered deaths being certified for cause. In Bihar, for instance, data from the Civil Registration System (CRS) for 2018 shows that only 35% of all deaths were registered, the lowest proportion among major states. And, of those registered, only one in seven was certified for cause of death, according to the report on Medical Certification of Cause of Death (MCCD). More than 50 years after passing legislation to make registration of births and deaths compulsory, while the registration of deaths has reached 86% of estimated total deaths, medical certification remains low. Among larger states, there is just one, Tamil Nadu, where about 45% of the registered deaths are medically certified. In some states, a high proportion of registered deaths are medically certified but the proportion of deaths registered is quite low. Thus, the proportion of total deaths for which the cause is certified is quite low. For instance, Telangana with 37.4% of registered deaths being medically certified seems to perform better than Maharashtra with 35%. However, only 58% of deaths were registered in Telangana compared to over 98% in Maharashtra. According to the report, the MCCD scheme captures mostly deaths in medical institutions in urban areas. Thus, it largely misses out on rural India, where two-thirds of the population lives. Its coverage in urban areas too is patchy with wide variations between states. From covering just 15 states in 1991, the MCCD now covers 35 states and union territories. The CRS report shows that just over one-third of deaths happened in institutions. Thus, two thirds of deaths would be outside the MCCD scheme. There are provisions for a separate form for non-institutional deaths attended by medical practitioners. The form is in a prescribed format with the immediate cause of death recorded first and the underlying cause the last. The underlying cause is the morbid condition that initiated the chain of events leading to death. The form also has provision for recording the interval between onset of disease and other details. “With most deaths happening outside the MCCD system, for better coverage of medical certification, more doctors need to be trained in giving the right code. Though the process of MCCD is part of the MBBS curriculum, doctors should be mentored and assisted in real life scenarios. Ideally, all doctors should understand the importance of assigning the right cause of death as it has policy implications,” said Dr P Giridara Gopal, researcher in community medicine, in AIIMS, Delhi “Even without a medically ascertained cause of death you can get a death registered and get the death certificate. So no one is bothered. The focus was always on ensuring 100% death registration, not on medical certification of cause. Mumbai municipal corporation is one of the few authorities with a good programme for training doctors in MCCD. Most governments are dependent on verbal autopsies done in a sample population to get the disease profile of a population. This is an accepted and cheaper way of determining the disease profile in resource-poor settings,” explained Dr Jeemon Panniyammakal, assistant professor of epidemiology in the Sree Chithra Institute in Thiruvananthapuram. Watch Less than one in five deaths is medically certified to denote cause of death in India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/less-than-one-in-five-deaths-in-india-is-medically-certified-to-denote-cause-of-death/articleshow/77602031.cms||Rema Nagarajan
August 18, 2020||India||SC to study if procedure needed for complaints against judges||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday said contempt of court proceedings initiated in 2009 against activist-advocate Prashant Bhushan for his charge that half of the 16 former CJIs were corrupt had raised an important question on what should be the procedure for making a complaint or allegation against a sitting judge. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari had said in its August 10 order, “Before reaching any finding whether the statement (of Bhushan) made as to ‘corruption’ would per se amount to contempt of court, the matter is required to be heard”. On Monday, the bench said a question of seminal importance had arisen as to whether there should be a procedure for members of the bar (advocates) to make a complaint against a sitting judge before going public with allegations. During hearing of the case, appearing for Bhushan, senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan told the bench that he would file a petition seeking review of the judgment convicting the activist-advocate for contempt of court for two “false and malicious” tweets scandalising the apex court. The bench referred to the SC’s 1995 judgment in C Ravichandran Iyer case where the court had laid down that if members of the bar had any material about “misconduct” or “bad conduct” of a judge, they should meet the high court chief justice concerned or the Chief Justice of India to apprise them of the material against the judge. The apex court had said they should wait for a reasonable period of time to allow the administrative head of the HC or the SC to take appropriate action. A reference was also made to the 1992 judgment by a five-judge SC bench headed by Justice J S Verma in S Ramaswami case where it had said the issue of whether allegations against a sitting judge warranted an inquiry was to be decided by Parliament on admitting a motion for removal of the judge moved by requisite number of MPs. However, it had said that during the inquiry, the sitting judge should have full right of defence. But in none of these two cases, the apex court had the occasion to examine whether an advocate could go ahead and make allegations against a sitting judge without first submitting the evidence backing the charges to the HC chief justice or the CJI. The bench it will hear arguments on August 24. Dhavan said he and Bhushan had formulated five grounds for review, pointing out the “dichotomy” in the August 14 judgment convicting him for contempt. The bench is scheduled to hear arguments on August 20 on the quantum of sentence for Bhushan. Proceeding with the 2009 contempt case against Bhushan, the bench told Dhavan and Kapil Sibal that several questions arose in these contempt proceedings which needed to be addressed, which included whether a procedure should be provided to make complaints or allegations with evidence against a sitting judge. Dhavan said Ravichandran Iyer judgment laid down an incorrect principle but Sibal, who appeared for Tehelka editor Tarun Tejpal in the contempt case, requested the court to close the contempt case and then proceed to adjudicate the questions relating to contempt of court and the procedure for making a complaint against a sitting judge. Seeking to be a party in the contempt proceedings against his son, senior advocate Shanti Bhushan requested the court to adjourn hearing by two weeks for an open court physical hearing of the matter. A combative Dhavan said, “Sibal is my guru and Shanti Bhushan is super guru of all of us. I cannot contradict their request. Let the proceedings be adjourned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-to-study-if-procedure-needed-for-complaints-against-judges/articleshow/77602301.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 18, 2020||Business||Lightspeed raises $275 million India fund||BENGALURU: Top Silicon Valley venture capital firm Lightspeed has closed its third India-focused fund at $275 million as it looks to double down on startups across the country. The new fund comes on the back of the firm’s record exits from unicorns (startups valued at over $1 billion) like Oyo and Byju’s in 2019, delivering cash returns of over $900 million between the two deals. It also comes two years after it raised $175 million for its second fund. Lightspeed — which is known as an early backer of messaging app Snap and software co MuleSoft (acquired by Salesforce for $6.5 billion) in the US — has invested $700 million in India. “It wasn’t clear 5-10 years ago if India can create companies worth over $500 million to $1 billion to make good venture returns. But now, the confidence is higher that the market size does support companies of this scale and value. And the entrepreneurial quality is also much higher now,” said Bejul Somaia, partner at Lightspeed. More than 80% of the capital invested by Lightspeed has been in early stages, in seed and series-A rounds, while it also invests at late-stage levels from its global funds, which raised $3 billion earlier this year. Lightspeed’s other portfolio companies in India include Udaan, a business-to-business commerce platform valued at $2.8 billion, and vernacular social network ShareChat, which is backed by Twitter. It has also been an early backer of enterprise software startups like Innovaccer and DarwinBox. It is seeing an increasing number of startup ideas coming from smaller towns, which will also get a boost from the adoption of remote work due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “When we did our first Extreme Entrepreneurs in 2018, we got applications from 49 cities. The very next year we got applications from 101 cities. I just think this is blowing up in a very non-linear way and you’re starting to see 100% distributed teams,” said Vaibhav Agarwal, partner at Lightspeed. Lightspeed’s latest fund comes at a time when several other large new funds have also been closed, highlighting that despite the Covid-19 pandemic shrinking global economy, capital flows in startups is not expected to dramatically slow down. TOI reported last month that Sequoia has raised $1.4 billion for India and Southeast Asia. Tiger Global Management, which was one of the most active investors in India in 2019, also closed a new $3.8-billion global fund.A report from Bain & Co said that dry powder available for investments in startups in India has reached a record high of $7 billion in 2019, from the previous high of $6.1 billion in 2018. The report added that India remains one of the most attractive emerging markets for venture capital among LPs, after Southeast Asia and China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lightspeed-raises-275m-india-fund/articleshow/77600537.cms||Madhav Chanchani
August 18, 2020||Business||US law firm seeks class action suit against HDFC Bank||MUMBAI: New York-based Rosen Law Firm has said it is investigating potential claims on behalf of shareholders of HDFC Bank after information that the lender may have issued materially misleading business information to investing public. The statement quotes media reports of irregularities in the bank’s auto loan business. “We were unaware of any such development (class action lawsuit) till we heard about it from the media a little earlier today. We are getting details of it. We’ll examine it and respond to it as appropriate. Prima facie it does look frivolous as we believe we have been transparent in our disclosures,” an HDFC Bank spokesperson said in response to a query. TNN Rosen is the same law firm that had last year initiated a class action against Infosys after an anonymous whistleblower complaint about irregularities in the IT firm. The statement by the investor rights law firm cited an ET report of July 13, which said that HDFC Bank had “conducted a probe into allegations of improper lending practices and conflicts of interests in its vehicle-financing operations involving the unit’s former head”. Following this report, HDFC Bank’s American depositary receipt price fell by $1.37 per share, or nearly 3%, to close at $47.02 per share on July 13. This was followed by the bank’s results and on August 6 another news report said that credit bureau Experian had informed the RBI that HDFC Bank has been late in passing details of its loans to the credit bureau.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/us-law-firm-seeks-class-action-suit-against-hdfc-bank/articleshow/77600547.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Two held for gangster’s murder||JAISALMER: Barmer police have arrested two accused in the kidnapping and murder of a gangster by the members of a rival gang. Police have arrested accused Dalu Ram and another accused from Jodhpur, and the vehicle used for the kidnapping was also seized. On Saturday, in a dispute over illegal river sand mining in Luni River in Bhatala area of Gudamalani in Barmer district, a gang kidnapped member of a rival gang and murdered him. The history-sheeter was kidnapped and beaten to death. The police teams are searching for the other absconding accused. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that the two history-sheeters, Rekharam and his colleague Dalu Ram, were friends. Some time back, Rekharam had purchased two JCB dumpers from Dalu Ram and paid money to Dalu Ram, but the latter refused to transfer the papers in Rekharam’s name, which escalated into a dispute. Later, when Dalu Ram’s vehicle was damaged, Rekharam was a suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-held-for-gangsters-murder/articleshow/77600945.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC to get three more judges||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court is to get three more judges with the Supreme Court collegium approving proposal to elevate three members of the Bar – Vaibhavi Nanavati, Nirzar Desai and Nikhil Kariel – for elevation to the bench. The SC collegium approved names of these three lawyers for appointment as HC judges in a meeting held on August 14. Their appointment will take the HC strength to 30. The three lawyers have legal practice of more than two decades. Advocate Desai has been a standing counsel for the central government. Advocate Nanavati has been on panels of various institutions and her area of practice include constitutional law, civil law, company law, educational and land related laws. Similarly, advocate Kariel too has got wide practice in various fields of law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-to-get-three-more-judges/articleshow/77599493.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Patna||SuMo seeks Centre’s help for research centre||PATNA: Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) on Monday demanded Centre’s support to establish a Dolphin research centre on Patna University premises. He raised the demand during a virtual meeting of Union forests minister Prakash Javadekar with state forests ministers. “Owing to the Bihar government initiatives, Gangetic dolphins were declared as the national aquatic animal of India in October, 2009,” SuMo said and added: “Bihar is home to 1464 Gangetic dolphins, which is half the total population of dolphins in the country. Hence, the state government expects support from the Centre in setting up a proposed dolphin research centre at PU by utilizing funds to the tune of Rs30 crore.” In his Independence Day speech, PM Narendra Modi announced Project Dolphin. The announcement was hailed by environmentalists as a positive step towards the conservation of Gangetic dolphins, one of the world’s rarest mammals. Of the four species of freshwater dolphin in the world, two are found in India — the Gangetic dolphin and the Indus river dolphins. The Ganga flowing along Patna and Bhagalpur is a host to over 1400 Gangetic dolphins. Ravindra Kumar Sinha, VC of Shri Mata Vaishno Devi University, Jammu and Kashmir, and a pioneer in conducting extensive research on Gangetic dolphins in the state, said these dolphins are at the apex of the food chain in the river system and their health directly reflects the health of river Ganga. “The primary source of food for Gangetic dolphins is fish. If there are plenty of fish in the river, that means its water quality is good. Hence, the population of Gangetic dolphins is an important indicator of the water quality of the Ganga,” he said. The freshwater dolphin, which is 2.6 metres (female) in length, is a blind mammal. Other than playing an important part in the food chain, the Gangetic dolphins also help in improving the overall aquatic habitat by nutrition recycling. “When these dolphins dug the surface of riverbeds in search of food, large quantities of organic materials are produced. Many aquatic animals, including small fish and zooplanktons feed on these organic materials,” Sinha added. Sinha, popularly known as ‘the Dolphin Man’, said the dolphin habitat in the state has long been facing an onslaught of human induced environmental disturbances such as illegal fishing, poaching and riverbed mining. “Even though the poaching of Gangetic dolphins is prohibited by the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, there have still been innumerable cases of their killing in the recent past. Fishermen kill the dolphins for its oil. Steps need to be taken in this regard.” said Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-seeks-centres-help-for-research-centre/articleshow/77597798.cms||Arunima Lal
August 18, 2020||Hubballi||DKS slams govt over family carrying body on bicycle in rain||Belagavi: A day after a family was forced to transport the body of a suspected Covid-19 victim on a bicycle amid heavy rains at a village in Karnataka’s Belagavi district, Karnataka Pradesh Congree Committee president D K Shivakumar termed the BJP government incompetent. Taking to Twitter, the Congress chief slammed the government for its “apathy” to provide an ambulance to transport the body. “Relatives of a 71-year-old dead person in Kittur, Belagavi had to carry the body for cremation on a bicycle in heavy rains. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, where is your government? Why was an ambulance not provided?” This incompetent government lacks humanity and has been a total failure in handling the pandemic,” he tweeted along with the video of the incident. It may be recalled that on Sunday a family from M K Hubballi in Belagavi district had to tie the body of a 71-year-old man, who had died following a cardiac arrest, to the luggage carrier of a bicycle and ferry him after authorities refused to provide an ambulance. The wife of the deceased alleged that despite repeated pleas to send an ambulance to their house, local authorities did not budge. The family members pulled the body for 3 - 4 kms to the cemetery where his last rites were performed. The officials here maintained that the deceased was not a registered patient, but an ambulance was provided. The family pulled the cycle for just 100 meters and an ambulance later carried the body, they said. However, a family member claimed that the ambulance arrived at the graveyard only after the video was posted on a social media platform.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dks-slams-govt-over-family-carrying-body-on-bicycle-in-rain/articleshow/77598418.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Business||SPi Global acquires majority stake in LearningMate||Chennai: Partners Group backed SPi Global, a content technology and content solutions company on Monday said it has agreed to buy a majority stake in ed-tech service provider LearningMate, from its shareholder Helix Investments for an undisclosed sum. LearningMate, is a B2B ed-tech services has nearly 1,000 ed-tech professionals across six locations including New York, London, Vancouver and Mumbai. LearningMate works with a ‘Services over Platform’ strategy in the K-12, higher education and corporate training sectors. LearningMate was majority owned by Helix Investments, a New York based private equity fund with a special focus on India. Helix made the investment in 2009 and has been a LearningMate partner for over a decade. Helix will retain a minority stake in the company. LearningMate’s founding team and senior management will continue to remain invested in the company, a statement from SPi Global said. The company employs nearly 16,500 persons. The new LearningMate board will consist of representatives from Partners Group, SPi Global and independent directors. The partnership will help both companies leverage complementary strengths and bring greater value to their customers. The ed-tech space is booming today and online learning is becoming the new normal especially in the light of the recent development. and successfully lead the organization to build value for the future.SPi Global has been on an acquisition overdrive. Last December it acquired Scientific Publishing Services from its owner Springer Nature group for an undisclosed sum. Scientific Publishing Services (SPS) operates six delivery centres with 3,600 employees based in Chennai and Trichy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/spi-global-acquires-majority-stake-in-learningmate/articleshow/77600129.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
August 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Dirty, stinking water adds to pandemic woes in Mangaluru||Mangaluru: While the spread of Covid-19 has left citizens worried, dirty drinking water being supplied to their homes from the plant in Thumbe has only added to their woes. The water is so dirty that even water purifiers at home are being damaged as mud deposits block the filters, say residents. The mayor has already ordered an inquiry into the allegations that water is not being treated before being supplied to the city. Sharing the picture of a water purifier filter covered with mud, retired superintendent of police Jayanth V Shetty said they are consuming dirty water since the past few months. “I got a new water purifier installed in February. In these five months I had to call the technician twice. Today the filter was full of mud and the water was not flowing through it. We got it replaced with a new filter. The technician was shocked to see the amount of dirt stuck on the filter,” Shetty said. In fact, the issue of MCC supplying untreated water to the city had triggered a debate in the first council meeting of the newly elected corporators held on August 13. Opposition leader in the MCC council Abdul Rouf had alleged that the city corporation has been supplying water without treating it properly. Rouf said corporators from the opposition have been discussing the issue since it concerns the health of the general public. “We have already brought the issue to the notice of the council. We will pursue the matter and visit the water treatment plants at Thumbe again. We are in constant touch with the officials of the city corporation,” he said. In fact, mayor Divakara had ordered an inquiry by MCC commissioner Dinesh Kumar on the complaints raised by the opposition. When contacted, the commissioner said that the city corporation has taken up the issue very seriously and is monitoring the water quality regularly. “We have been checking the pH value and the turbidity of water supplied to the city. We are also collecting water samples for analysis. We also have ensured sufficient stock of chemicals required for the treatment of water,” Dinesh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dirty-stinking-water-adds-to-pandemic-woes-in-mangaluru/articleshow/77600860.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Mysuru||Museum to come up on UoM campus||Mysuru: If everything goes according to plan, the first thematic and interactive museum in the country of a university, showcasing various aspects of the culture, heritage and history of the university, will come up on the Manasagangothri campus of the University of Mysore. The university proposed a Centenary Heritage Museum (CHM) on campus to mark the 100th convocation of the institution. “This museum will be ready within six months. We want to tell our university’s history through this museum,” said vice-chancellor G Hemantha Kumar. It can be recalled that the University of Mysore, founded by Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar in 1916, is the first university of the state, and sixth oldest university in the country. “This museum will come up in the centenary building in the Manasagangothri campus near the Institute of Development Studies(IDS) and adjacent to Bahadur Institute of Management Studies(BIMS),” said Hemantha Kumar. “We invited expression of interest (EOI) for the proposed museum. We want to tell our past, and present through this museum,” he said. According to the authorities, the primary focus of the museum shall be telling the story of the university from its origin, growth and development, including contributions in terms of developing human potential and academic achievements. The university has planned five theme based sections in the proposed museum. It includes, history and the royal patronage, story of past 100 years, eyes on the stars, mending milestones and nothing is equal to knowledge quiz and enticement zone. The stories of the university will be told using multimedia systems, touch screen kiosks, and using other modern technological methods, in all the galleries, to enhance visitors’ comfort and immersion. “We have a big building to host this museum. A final picture will emerge after we receive EoIs,” said Hemantha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/museum-to-come-up-on-uom-campus/articleshow/77601581.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man beaten up for trying to save dog||Ahmedabad: A resident of Bopal filed a police complaint on Sunday alleging that the watchman of his residential society, along with another man, had assaulted him when he objected to their beating of a stray dog. Paawan Panchal, 44, an interior designer and resident of Amidhara Society in Bopal, states in his FIR with Bopal police that he was having a discussion with his client Kalpesh Sharma on Saturday afternoon when the incident took place. At that time, the society’s watchman, Mangaji Thakor, was beating a stray dog with a stick. “I told Mangaji not to beat the dog, but he suddenly turned and began beating me with the stick. At that time, Mangaji’s friend Chetan Thakor also rushed in and said stray dogs had torn his autorickshaw’s seat. As I was trying to protect stray dogs, he too began beating me,” said Panchal. Panchal said that Chetan and Mangaji kept beating him until their wooden sticks broke. He said that he snatched away a broken stick from Chetan to defend himself and later other residents rescued him. Panchal went to the primary health centre at Ghuma village for treatment from where a medico legal case was filed. Later, Panchal filed a case of causing hurt, uttering of abusive words, criminal intimidation and abetment under relevant IPC sections, along with charges under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act against Mangaji and Chetan. On the other hand, Chetan, the autorickshaw driver, also filed a complaint against Panchal alleging that he had beaten and abused Chetan over parking of his autorickshaw in Amidhara Society. Chetan alleged that Panchal had beaten him with a stick and filed a complaint of causing hurt, criminal intimidation and uttering of abusive words against Panchal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beaten-up-for-trying-to-save-dog/articleshow/77599446.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Srinagar||Two Bihar martyrs’ bodies to arrive today||PATNA: The families of two CRPF jawans from the state, who fell to terrorists’ bullets at Baramulla in Jammu & Kashmir on Monday are in a shock. Jawan Luvkush Sudarshan Sharma has a three-year-old daughter and a seven-year-old son while his colleague Khurshid Khan, 38, leaves behind his three minor daughters. Sharma, 28, hails from Aaira village under Sakurabad police station area of Jehanabad while Khurshid was from Bhosiakalan village under Bikramganj police station of Rohtas. CRPF sources said their battalion was deployed in the Kashmir valley after abrogation of Article 370. “His daughter Ananya is mere three year old while son Sooraj Kumar is seven year old. He is yet to understand that he and his sister won’t be able to see their father again,” Rajnish Kumar, Sharma’s uncle and neighbour, told TOI over phone. Kumar said his nephew had joined the para-military force in 2014. “He always wanted to serve in the armed forces. He got posted in Kashmir last year before which he was in Assam,” he added. Sharma had last seen his family in December 2019 when he had come on a 25-day leave. “He had kept his family at a rented accommodation in Jehanabad town for the sole reason of providing quality education to his son who studies in a private school,” Kumar said, adding, “After the lockdown, they shifted to the village as school was shut, but the family has been continuously paying rent.” “His wife Anita is continuously crying and is not in a state to understand what’s happening around her. Apart from his wife and kids, Luvkush has left behind his father Sudarshan Sharma (55) and mother Parmila Devi (55),” he added. Martyr Khurshid’s cousin brother Mohammad Sitab Khan said his wife Nagma Khatoon has been repeatedly fainting ever since the news of her husband’s martyrdom reached her. “She had spoken to him over phone only last night,” he said. “Khan had joined the CRPF more than 15 years back. He was the eldest among four brothers who along with their mother Rukhsana Khatoon (60) live in a joint family. Their father had died five years ago,” he said. “My brother had ensured that his all three daughters– Zaheda Khurshid (13), Zubaida Khurshid (10) and Afsaan Khatoom (5) — get good education for which had got them admitted to a private school,” Khan said, adding Khurshid was posted in the valley only last year. Khan said the CRFP authorities have informed them that bodies of both martyrs are expected to reach Patna airport around 3pm on Tuesday from where they will bring Khurshid’s mortal remains for burial via road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/srinagar/two-bihar-martyrs-bodies-to-arrive-today/articleshow/77604042.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 18, 2020||Patna||Restrictions under Unlock 3.0 extended across Bihar till September 6||PATNA: The state government on Monday extended the restrictions under Unlock 3.0 till September 6 in order to contain Covid-19 pandemic. The earlier order dated July 30 was effective till Sunday. Bihar is among the top eight states with more than 1 lakh Covid-19 cases registered so far. The Centre has unlocked many restrictions but empowered the states to take decisions as per the assessment of situation and requirements. As per the fresh order issued by the state home department, restrictions and conditions mentioned in the July 30 order after the Unlock 3.0 announced by the Centre will remain in place till September 6 at headquarters level of state, districts, subdivisions, blocks and all municipal bodies. Under the order, central, state government and private offices would continue to function with 50% workforce. However, the offices of defence, central armed police forces (CAPF), public utilities, post offices, early warning agencies, National Informatics Centre and other essential services will function with full strength. Besides, the state government offices like police and other emergency services, prisons, district administration, treasury, IT services and BELTRON, electricity, water supply, sanitation, environment and forests, social welfare and some other departments will also function with full strength. Shopping malls, cinema halls and places of religious worship will remain shut. All educational, training, research and coaching institutions will continue with the online learning mode. Restaurants and other eateries are allowed only home delivery and take away services. Shops and markets will open but subjected to restrictions on staggering and timing as imposed by the respective district administration. Public transport services will also remain suspended with exceptions to air and railways and to those commuting for essential services. Private vehicles are allowed for permitted activities. Goods transportation is permitted with loading and unloading at warehouses. Vehicles carrying government officers with their identity cards are permitted to commute. All construction and agricultural activities with functioning of related shops are allowed. All social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious activities and gatherings, parks and gymnasiums to remain prohibited till September 6. The night curfew from 10pm to 5am will continue with exception to essential activities, loading-unloading cargo, multiple shifts of industrial units and movement on state and national highways. District magistrates are not allowed to dilute any of these restrictions. Rather, they can impose additional restrictions and prohibit more activities outside the containment zones as per their assessment of the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/restrictions-under-unlock-3-0-extended-across-state-till-sept-6/articleshow/77596313.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot lays foundation of 13 development projects in Kota||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday laid the foundation stone of 13 development projects worth Rs 1,056 crore in Kota. It includes the Rs 307-crore Chambal river front project and the Rs 300-crore Dev Narayan Nagar integrated housing scheme. Gehlot said the housing project is a unique scheme in which the livestock owners will be allotted residential as well as plots for rearing cattle. He said the scheme would help to get rid of the stray animal menace in the city. He hoped that due to timely completion of all the development work proposed under the Smart City project, the beauty of Kota city will improve and it will emerge as a centre of attraction for tourists. Gehlot He instructed urban development minister Shanti Dhariwal to make the best plans for other cities as well. The CM directed Dhariwal and urban development department officials to coordinate with the civil aviation department to get the new airport constructed in Kota as soon as possible. Dhariwal said the chief minister laid the foundation stone of 13 projects costing Rs 1,056 crore including the office building of senior city planner. He said all the projects will be completed by 2021. He informed that most of these development projects proposed under the Smart City Project are currently under construction. Dhariwal said the Chambal river front is a unique project, which will bring the city on the map of modern architecture. Under this scheme costing Rs 307 crore, six-km-long heritage river front will be constructed, which will showcase the blend of culture and architecture of the Rajasthan. According to the proposal, many gardens and restaurants will be developed on the river front. It will be developed as an attractive tourist destination by installing statues of great personalities of the country and state. The chief minister also released the booklet of Devanarayan Nagar Integrated Housing Scheme and a poster of Indira Rasoi Yojana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-lays-foundation-of-13-development-projects-in-kota/articleshow/77600950.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man held for nasty social media post||JAIPUR: A man was arrested by the Hanumangarh police for posting objectionable content on social media provoking communal disharmony on Monday. The accused had written a Facebook post which allegedly was a provoking one for two communities. A person filed a complaint against the accused though the cops refused to divulge the complainant’s name. The accused was identified as Nur-ul-Haq and was arrested by cops from Hanumangarh Junction police station. A case has been registered against him. “We received a complaint that the accused had written objectionable post which could have led to communal violence. We confirmed if such a post had been written following which we arrested the accused”, said an official. The case against the accused was registered under IPC sections 153 B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national-integration), 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs and others. “We are keeping a close watch on social media to avoid and prevent any outward incidents especially which create communal discord. Strict action will be taken against those promoting any such activities. We are constantly monitoring various social media sites to check any such activities. One local registered a complaint and we took action on that,” added the official. Earlier this month, a former councillor was arrested in Nagaur for allegedly posting communal comments on social media following the foundation laying ceremony at Ayodhya on Wednesday. One local registered a case against him following which he was arrested. The accused was identified as Ghulam Hussain and the case was registered at Kotwali, Nagaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-held-for-nasty-social-media-post/articleshow/77600933.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Cops crack down on gambling to prevent financial misery to families||Mangaluru: Mangaluru city police is tightening the screws on organised gambling in its jurisdiction. This concerted action has been initiated at a time, in what city police chief Vikash Kumar Vikash said, was during the unprecedented economic squeeze brought about by the pandemic. With money being a scarce resource for most families now, such indulgence will lead to more societal problems such as suicides and other crimes, according to the top cop. Rationalising the recent string of crackdowns on gambling, Vikash told TOI that police has not lost sight of their basic duties even while being the frontline warriors in the fight against Covid-19. “Many households are going through distressing times on the financial front due to the current economic scenario. Even in the best of times, gambling is not the legal means to get wealthy and improve one’s social standing,” he said. Seeking public cooperation in the drive against gambling, the city police chief said people can either inform him, DCPs Arunangshu Giri and Vinay Gaonkar or diall the city police control room if they have any information on such gambling activities. “Having extra eyes and ears on the ground will help police tackle this crime more effectively and save families from ruin,” he added. This apart, people addicted to gambling will also be more alert when they are aware that people could tip-off the police on their illegal activities, he said. Gamblers usually pledge their hard-earned or family savings, valuables in desperate bid to ensure liquidity, and losing the same could force them to end lives, he said. Pointing that no such direct correlation has been established between the two, Vikash said this possibility cannot be entirely ruled out. Gambling debts could also force people to commit heinous offences, he said, adding the appeal to Twitterrati from his official handle (@compolmlr) and for people through a press communique to sensitise them on the socio-economic-legal perils of gambling. “Policemen are doing their best to keep crimes under control in trying circumstances,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/cops-crack-down-on-gambling-to-prevent-financial-misery-to-families/articleshow/77600936.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Rain lashes city, Ahmedabad logs 72% of seasonal rainfall||Ahmedabad: From 8pm to 9pm on Monday, the city received 17mm rainfall on average, with the northern and eastern parts getting as high as 30mm rain. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) control room officials said that with 576mm rainfall recorded so far, the city has received 72% of its seasonal rain. According to State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC), Ahmedabad city received 54mm rainfall on Monday, out of which 50mm was between 8pm and 10pm. State capital Gandhinagar received 21mm rainfall till 10pm. Areas such as Rakhial, Odhav, Viratnagar, Memco, Naroda, Maninagar and Vatva recorded about 30mm rainfall on Monday whereas after 9pm heavy rainfall accompanied by thunder and lightning was recorded in western city parts such as Satellite, Vastrapur, Paldi and Naranpura. AMC officials said that Shahibaug and Mithakhali underpasses were closed for vehicular traffic and others will be closed if waterlogging persists. State relief commissioner office on Monday stated that till Monday afternoon, the state had received 79% of the seasonal rainfall. Zone-wise analysis reveals that Kutch zone has received maximum 132% of seasonal rain whereas north Gujarat has so far received 56% rain. Saurashtra has so far received 112%, south Gujarat 69% and central Gujarat 62%. “On Monday, Kutch’s Mandvi and Mundra received more than 130mm rainfall, followed by Valod (127mm), Tarapur (124mm) and Netrang (121mm),” said an official of State Emergency Operations Centre (SEOC), adding that Sardar Sarovar dam water level has reached 121metre, which is 54% of the dam’s capacity. As on Monday, 94 dams have more than 90% water, 10 dams have 80-90% water and 74 dams have 70-80% water, said SEOC officials. About 195 roads – ranging from national highway to panchayat roads – are closed due to waterlogging or damage. “A cyclonic circulation over Gujarat along with low pressure area over northeast Madhya Pradesh, east-west shear zone and a fresh low-pressure area over north Bay of Bengal moving westwards would give ample rainfall to the state for at least next few days,” said an India Meteorological Department (IMD) official on Monday. IMD has issued warning for heavy to very heavy rainfall in Surat, Devbhoomi Dwarka, Banaskantha, Narmada, Bharuch, Dangs, Navsari, Valsad, Tapi, Jamnagar, Porbandar, Junagadh, Morbi and Kutch on August 18 and 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rain-lashes-city-ahmedabad-logs-72-of-seasonal-rainfall/articleshow/77599461.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||City police officials to go for narco-tests of two housemaids||Ahmedabad: A day after a theft was reported in Ahmedabad (West) MP Kirit Solanki’s house, city police personnel decided to go for narco-analysis test of the two sisters, who worked as domestic help at the BJP MP’s house.Solanki’s son Mehul, 43, resident of Ranip and a realty developer, alleged in his FIR with Ranip police that the two accused Jaya Vaghela, 22, and her younger sister Rita, 19, stole ornaments worth Rs 10 lakh.DCP Zone-2, Vijay Patel, said, “The accused women have been constantly denying that they have any involvement in the case. We have sought their call data records and will seek court’s permission for their narco test.”Inspector J B Khmabhla of Ranip police said while answering a query on registration of domestic helps that Jaya was registered with the police station, but there were four other maids who had visited the MP’s house during the lockdown.They were charged under Sections 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) and 114 (abettor present when offence is committed) of the IPC.The FIR states Mehul and his wife used to keep some jewellery in a locker kept inside their bedroom’s wardrobe. Since its digital lock settings malfunctioned some time back, they have been using a key, the FIR stated.Apart from the couple, the maids knew the place in the wardrobe where the locker’s key was kept, the inspector said quoting the FIR.On July 5, Mehul’s wife informed him that jewellery worth Rs 9.9 lakh had gone missing from the safe and she suspected involvement of Jaya and Rita.A city police officer said that this is a rare instance, where cops will be seeking narco-analysis test or truth serum test for theft. “Generally, such test is done in a high-profile murder or sensitive case. In cases of theft or burglary, usually non-invasive tests like suspect detection system test or brain mapping tests are conducted,” said the police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-police-officials-to-go-for-narco-tests-of-two-housemaids/articleshow/77599546.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Plea in HC complains of scam in subsidy to Gujarati films||Ahmedabad: A filmmaker has approached the Gujarat high court demanding more financial assistance from the state government for his Gujarati film after a proper re-evaluation of its content.While seeking subsidy of Rs 45 lakh from the state government, according to its policy to support Gujarati movies, the film writer and producer, Manoj Patel, also complained that the authorities afforded wrongful gains to no less than 39 Gujarati films by extending financial assistance to them in accordance with the 2019 policy framed by the government whereas the films released much earlier and were to be covered under the 2016 policy.In 2019, the state government increased the financial assistance to be given to Gujarati films. Patel released his film ‘Commitment’ on November 4, 2016, on the issue of corruption in pharmaceutical business. However, the central government’s demonetization on November 8, 2011, ruined Patel’s dream of earning from his film.Complaining about the alleged scam in financial assistance to Gujarati movies, Patel claimed that many of these movies were actually re-makes of films made earlier in other languages. There were films which had credit titles in English, whereas the policy strictly prescribes them to be in Gujarati. Thus, many films are disqualified from financial assistance not only on technical grounds, but also because of their making and subject matters, he argued. He listed such movies and supplied two separate lists to the high court and requested that the authorities be directed to recover the amount wrongly given to the filmmakers. Patel’s grievance, however, was that his film deserved better a reception from the film screening committee, which viewed his film in April 2017, upon his request for financial assistance. His film was awarded 47 marks and was deemed qualified for financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh. Patel has been claiming Rs 45 lakh assistance from the information and broadcasting department citing its 2016 scheme. He claimed that he had spent Rs 92 lakh on his film and was actually eligible for assistance of Rs 69 lakh. Patel sought HC directions to the authorities for re-evaluation by the film screening committee for the purpose of more financial assistance. The HC has posted a hearing for August 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/plea-in-hc-complains-of-scam-in-subsidy-to-gujarati-films/articleshow/77599593.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Mysuru||Cultivation of black gram helps Mysuru, Chamarajanagar ryots reap rich dividends||Mysuru: Shortage of water in the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) and Kabini reservoirs during the summer months compelled the authorities of the Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd (CNNL) to refrain from releasing water to the irrigation canals of the two dams. Consequently, farmers in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar who had sown paddy were unable to reap a good harvest. However, ryots who had opted to cultivate black gram have made a killing. Although there is no regulatory market for pulses, farmers are reportedly earning somewhere between Rs 4,500 and Rs 7,000 per quintal of black gram, a source told TOI. “Each acre yields nearly three to five quintals of the crop,” he added. The competitive price that pulses are fetching has prompted many farmers in the Cauvery delta in Karnataka to switch to cultivation of black gram, green gram, et al, during this kharif season. Pulses have been sown across more than 53,000 hectares in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar districts, including rain-fed and irrigated areas. Farmers in T Narasipura, Nanjangud taluks in Mysuru, Kollegal, Hanurm Gundlupet and Chamarajanagar taluks in the neighbouring district have taken to large-scale cultivation of pulses following heavy showers during the summer. CNNL officials too have encouraged farmers to take to cultivation of pulses owing to the minimal amount of water that it requires. However, farmers feel that the absence of a statutory body to regulate the pricing of the crop has eaten into their profits. “We are forced to rely on middlemen and local traders, who offer us Rs 4,500 to Rs 7,000, depending on the quality of our crops. The state government must allow the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd to procure pulses directly from the farmers,” said Kiragasur Shankar, a farmer engaged in the cultivation of black gram. Joint director of the department of agriculture Mahanteshappa told TOI that, while cultivation of pulses was commonplace in the arid districts of North Karnataka, the trend was picking up in the Cauvery and Kapila basins as well. “Moreover, cultivation of pulses in irrigated lands helps enrich the fertility of the soil, keeps the chances of crops contracting diseases low and of course, farmers’s revenue shoots up,” Mahanteshappa told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cultivation-of-black-gram-helps-mysuru-chamarajanagar-ryots-reap-rich-dividends/articleshow/77601467.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Goon among two stabbed in separate cases||NAGPUR: A dreaded goon, Bobby Rawat, was injured after getting stabbed by two friends Sahil Sarwan and Shubham Thakur following a tiff at Zingabai Takli on Monday. In yet another incident, Lankesh Badge was stabbed by Pawan Ketkas during a drunken brawl at Bhim Nagar behind Lata Mangeshkar Hospital at Digdoh on Sunday. An offence was registered against Ketkas by MIDC police. In the latest incident, it’s learnt Rawat earned the wrath of Sarwan and Thakur for celebrating birthday of a common friend Rahul. Rawat, having several offences against him in the past, had taken a cake for Rahul. Later, they enjoyed a feast without inviting Sarwan and Thakur. Later, Sarwan and Thakur abused Rawat over the phone. They also decided to meet and settle the score. Sarwan and Thakur thrashed Rawat after he came to meet them along with some close aides. It was during the scuffle that Sarwan and Thakur stabbed Rawat and fled the spot. An offence was registered against Sarwan and Thakur by Mankapur police before placing them under arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/goon-among-two-stabbed-in-separate-cases/articleshow/77600937.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Friends fight against Covid stigma||AHMEDABAD: When Hetal Shah, 48, and her husband tested positive for Covid-19 last month, they were ostracized by neighbours. “People are not bad. The times are. When we recovered, the only thing on mind was to quell the negativity around Covid,” Shah said. The Shahs, who stay at Chandranagar area of the city, were troubled to see neighbours closing doors and windows and breaking contact with them. But Hetal Shah’s friend Usha Kursija, 54, stood by her through her infection, spent time with her and even got food for the family. After Shah was free of the virus, the first person to hug her was Usha. Together, they have embarked on a mission — quelling negativity around Covid-19 infection. Starting with three or four Covid patients 12 days ago, they now deliver tiffins with their personal touch to 50 patients daily. “The food is just a pretext. We want them to know they are loved. Every meal is accompanied by a piece of paper on which we write a positive thought to cheer up people and show solidarity. They must be facing the same kind of negativity that we did,” said Shah, a teacher for the past 25 years. “For the first few days, we cooked and delivered the food ourselves. After people began to learn about our efforts, many came forward to share the expenses. Today, we personally deliver food to 50 patients. It’s our way of telling them we care,” said Usha Kursija. She stood by her friend in times of distress and together, they are spreading cheer among other covid patients. With 50 patients being cared for and counting, the duo now gets food cooked from a caterer. “This is not about providing food, but about spreading the message loud that Covid patients need not despair. A little act of kindness and caring can go a long way in helping people overcome the infection,” said Kursija, a homemaker who lives in Anjali area of the city. The two friends have been getting calls not only from the city, but even from foreign countries, wanting to help them financially. “There are many good people willing to help, We are just doing our bit to spread positivity in these distressing times,” the friends said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-ostracization-friends-join-hands-to-quell-covid-stigma/articleshow/77599799.cms||Meghdoot Sharon
August 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Shyam Rajak joins RJD, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav terms it ‘homecoming’||PATNA: Former JD(U) minister Shyam Rajak joined RJD on Monday. He was sacked as a minister from the Nitish Kumar cabinet and expelled from the JD(U) on Sunday evening. Rajak returned to the RJD fold after 11 years. Soon after taking the membership slip from RJD’s de facto chief Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Rajak accused Nitish and JD(U) of ignoring scheduled caste people. “Nearly 99% of the ministers are unhappy with Nitish. Many have not yet taken decisions. I will not say who is deserting and going to which party. The only thing that I know as of now is that I am joining the RJD,” he told media persons. Rajak said he had never compromised with the principles of social justice and was a true follower of former CM and RJD chief Lalu Prasad. “I learned the lessons of social justice and secularism from Lalu ji. I am a firm believer of social justice and secularism, which were missing in the JD(U) these days,” he claimed. Describing his sacking against the JD(U) constitution, Rajak said he was removed without serving him notice. “It’s ridiculous that I was removed as a minister within 10 minutes. I was a member of the JD(U) national council and also proposer of Nitish Kumar in his election as the party’s national president,” Rajak said. Rajak, who resigned as Phulwarisharif MLA before joining the RJD on Monday, asserted that he had quit as the primary member of JD(U) and the (disciplinary) action against him was ‘illegal’. “It had become literally unbearable for me to remain in the party in which social justice was being dismantled. Someone who can’t protect his party’s constitution can’t safeguard the state,” he explained. Hailing Rajak’s joining the RJD, Tejashwi said, “It’s a homecoming for him. He is a staunch supporter of social justice and secularism.” Later, Rajak met former CM Rabri Devi at her residence. He had left RJD in 2009. Before leaving RJD, he was considered to be a trusted lieutenant of Lalu. Meanwhile, LJP in a statement said Rajak’s exit from NDA was unfortunate. LJP is an NDA ally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rajak-joins-rjd-tejas-terms-it-homecoming/articleshow/77597499.cms||Ramashankar
August 18, 2020||Patna||MEMU trains to run on Dildarnagar-Tarighat route soon||PATNA: Commissioner of railway safety (CRS), eastern circle, Kolkata A M Choudhary recently inspected the newly electrified 27km stretch between Dildarnagar and Tarighat railway stations under Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR). Railways will run electrified MEMU trains on this route after getting an approval from the CRS. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the railways has successfully electrified Dildarnagar-Tarighat route to ensure fast movement of trains. “All sections of the Danapur division have been electrified now,” he said. Dwelling at length upon the importance of Dildarnagar-Tarighat route, the CPRO said the Britishers were using Tarighat to unload goods and freights carried from Kolkata through waterways. However, railways developed this route and converted it into a broad gauge section in 1990 and started train services also, he said, adding this route will facilitate mostly people commuting daily between Dildarnagar and Ghazipur. The state government is also building a rail-cum-road bridge adjacent to this route for a direct connectivity to Ghazipur and Mau cities linking Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, sources said. ECR chief electric engineer Ramesh Chandra and Danapur DRM Sunil Kumar were also present during inspection of the route by the CRS. Besides, ECR chief commissioner of railway safety Shailesh Kumar Pathak inspected newly converted 11km broad gauge route between Saraigarh and Raghopur under Samastipur division of the ECR. This section is the part of Saharsa-Saraigarh-Forbesgnaj route. Earlier, Pathak had inspected 13km stretch of the new line between Saraigarh and Asanpur Kupha, a part of the Saraigarh-Nirmali route under Samastipur division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/memu-trains-to-run-on-dildarnagar-tarighat-route-soon/articleshow/77597515.cms||Kumod Verma
August 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Mob attacks police station, sets five vehicles ablaze||MOTIHARI: An irate mob attacked the Chiraiya police station and primary health centre (PHC) in East Champaran district Sunday night to protest the death of one Deepak Kumar (26) in an accident on Dhaka-Motihari road. The mob also set ablaze five vehicles and vandalized two police SUVs parked on the police station premises. Police arrested 46 people belonging to Chiraiya market area. East Champaran SP Navin Chandra Jha had to rush to the police station, 22km north of Motihari town, and brought the situation under control around midnight. Jha said police fired several rounds in the air to disperse the mob, which had indulged in arson and vandalism. “The 46 persons have been sent to jail on Monday. The police are investigating the case and more named accused will be arrested soon,” the SP said. According to SHO Indrajit Paswan, Deepak was going to Motihari on his bike when it collided with another vehicle near Mirpur village on Dhaka-Motihari road under Chiraiya police station. He got serious injuries in the accident and was admitted to Chiraiya PHC, where he succumbed to his injuries during treatment. “Soon, villagers assembled at the PHC and went on a rampage,” the SHO said. “After sometime, some rowdy elements joined the mob and reached the police station. They vandalized dozens of seized vehicles and also set ablaze five vehicles. Few policemen were also chased and beaten up by the mob,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mob-attacks-police-station-sets-five-vehicles-ablaze/articleshow/77596475.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Patna||NIA nabs 2 from Kishanganj in FICN smuggling case||PATNA: A team of National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested two persons from different villages near India-Nepal border in Kishanganj on Monday for allegedly smuggling fake Indian currency notes (FICN) with links in other neighbouring countries. Sources said the NIA team took the two to Silliguri in West Bengal for producing before their special court. They were identified as Mukhtar Hussain (42) and Baitullah (40). Mukhtar belongs to Chhauwa Bhitta under Jiapokhar police station while Baitullah is a native of Suri Bhitta under Sukhani police station. Both the villages are less than 5km from Nepal border. The duo used to work as daily wagers in the villages. Sources said both had linked with one Ghulam Murtaza, who was arrested by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) from a bus stop at Bihar Mor in West Bengal’s Bagdogra on January 8 this year. “He was arrested with FICN of Rs2000 denomination of Rs4.01 lakh face value. Murtaza was a native of Malda,” sources said. The case was taken over by the NIA for investigation in March and an FIR was registered in Delhi on March 8 after direction from the Counter Terrorism and Counter Radicalisation (CTCR) division of Union ministry of home affairs due to seriousness of the matter. Sources said NIA had found the involvement of Mukhtar and Baitullah with Murtaza in FICN racket. “Mukhtar had been to jail ten years back from Malda in a FICN smuggling case,” sources said. The NIA team seized two cellphones and some documents from Mukhtar’s residence. The seized cellphones may provide some vital clues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nia-nabs-2-from-kishanganj-in-ficn-smuggling-case/articleshow/77597781.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 18, 2020||Patna||Rivers show receding trend in north Bihar||PATNA/KHAGARIA: Major rivers showed receding trend on Monday, giving some respite to over 81 lakh people affected by floods in 16 districts of north Bihar. Weathermen also ruled out significant rainfall in the state over the next four days. Rivers like Bagmati and Burhi Gandak, which wreaked havoc in parts of north Bihar, have come down below the corresponding danger level at most places. According to water resources department (WRD), the swollen Bagmati was flowing above danger level at only one out of total five flood gauges in Sitamarhi district. The turbulent Burhi Gandak was also either static or falling in Muzaffarpur, Samastipur and Khagaria districts. According to official sources, at least 1,41,216 people in 124 villages across 39 panchayats have been affected by the floods in Khagaria district. Road communication remained affected in many areas. “Country boats are the only means of communication,” said Doman Mukhiya, a marginal farmer of Tilathi in Sakrohar panchayat under Beldaur block. In West Champaran, the Gandak has been eroding its right bank at Harakhtola ward number 3 in Motipur panchayat under Thakaraha block for the last three days. Sources said it was because of receding water level in the river. Surendar Yadav, mukhiya of the panchayat, said the evacuated families were taking shelter at Pipra-Piprasi embankment. Meanwhile, the discharge of water in Gandak river from Nepal through Valmikinagar barrage at 5pm stood at 1.77 lakh cusec and it was showing a falling trend. Kamla Balan, Khiroi and Adhwara group of rivers were also flowing below danger level. Khiro river was above danger level at one flood gauge in Darbhanga district. Altogether 33 teams of NDRF and SDRF were still involved in relief and rescue operations. According to disaster management department, 8.15 lakh people are affected by floods in 130 blocks spread over 16 districts. Altogether 25 people have died so far in the floods. The Patna Meteorological Centre has predicted only light to moderate rainfall at a few places in the state over the next four days. “Monsoon activity was weak in Bihar over the last 24 hours. Light rainfall was observed at a few places. The eastern part of monsoon trough line was passing across south-eastern Uttar Pradesh and Daltonganj in Jharkhand towards the Bay of Bengal. Accordingly, few places in south Bihar are likely to receive light rainfall over the next 48 hours,” said Shailendra Kumar Patel, an official at Patna centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rivers-show-receding-trend-in-north-bihar/articleshow/77596501.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Storm breaks border fence, goats land in Pakistan||JAISALMER: Strong dust storms are causing problems for villagers in the border areas here. Residents of Pochina village lamented that fencing broke due to the dust storms a couple of days back and around 250 goats wandered to the other side via Sundara area in Barmer district. The villagers submitted a memorandum to district collector Ashish Modi and cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad. They demanded that either their goats should be given back to them or they should be compensated. However, the BSF denied any goats going over to Pakistan. Shahgarh Bulj area in Jaisalmer and Sundara in Barmer have shifting sand dunes. The single fence either gets buried or broken during high-velocity storms. The central government has spent crores of rupees to protect this but has not been successful so far. Lal Singh, a villager said that they were grazing their goats just 4kms from the international border. He said around 250 goats of the villagers on August 10 and 11 went over to Pakistan border as the fence was buried at Sundara area in Barmer district. This has caused them economic loss, so they should get compensation. Another villager Balveer Singh Pochina said that as their goats were missing, they did not know how they will earn their livelihood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/storm-breaks-border-fence-goats-land-in-pak/articleshow/77600952.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Mysuru||VTU dictionary to help students learn engineering subjects in Kannada||Mysuru: Learning engineering and technical terms in Kannada is still a Herculean task as the learning sources are limited. In an effort aimed at helping students from rural backgrounds understand engineering subjects easily in their mother tongue, the state-run Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) will bring out a Kannada-English bilingual engineering dictionary. To ensure that it will be used extensively by students and interested readers without any difficulty, the university will develop an app for the purpose. “The idea is to develop an app to help readers in general and students in particular get information easily,” said VTU vice-chancellor Karisiddappa. “We are not spending any money on this project, and the work on the dictionary is on for the past six months. We are using the services of our faculty to develop this one-of-its-kind dictionary being brought out through the publication wing of the university. For every technical term, explanations are given in Kannada and English,” he explained. According to the authorities, the proposed dictionary is going to be a common dictionary for all engineering streams. “Students from rural backgrounds struggle to understand the subject due to the language barrier. Through this dictionary, we want to ensure that there will be enough learning materials for them in Kannada too,” the VC said. The university has approached faculty working in various VTU-affiliated colleges and those in autonomous institutions to help in the project. “We have already held several rounds of meetings in this regard,” he stated. U B Pavanaja, well-known Kannada science writer, said this kind of technical-engineering dictionary is much required. “However, it should be made available on public domain, and also updated regularly in line with new developments in the field,” he said, adding: “VTU should ensure that those who have proficiency in the subject and have a good grip on Kannada and English are part of the exercise. The translation should also be reader-friendly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/vtu-dictionary-to-help-students-learn-engineering-subjects-in-kannada/articleshow/77601289.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Mysuru||Rev Msgr Leslie Moras struggles to get RTO documents for his car||Mysuru: Getting licence and certificates for vehicles at Regional Transport Office (RTO) has always been a Herculean task for the common people as they would be made to run from pillar to post for months. Now, similar hardship is being faced by noted persons. For the past three months, Rev Msgr Leslie Moras, the Episcopal Vicar for Education and Medical Ministries, public relation office for the Diocese of Mysuru, has been finding it hard to get the fitness certificate for his 2005-model Hyundai Getz car from the authorities of RTO West Mysuru office. This, despite him paying the requisite fee and visiting the office in person, the Covid-19 risk notwithstanding. After his repeated requests to the RTO authorities failed to get any positive response, Fr Leslie Moras wrote a letter to the transport commissioner in Bengaluru on August 7, expressing concerns over the delay in the renewal of the registration certificate for his car. Rev Msgr Leslie Moras, 65, has told the commissioner that he applied for the registration certificate on May 24 for his Hyundai Getz car (KA09 N 4898) to the RTO office (West Mysuru). “Due to Covid-19 situation, I cannot visit the RTO office often. Me sending some of my personnel a couple of times also failed to get any response from the RTO office. It is not correct to make people, especially senior citizens, to run around during the pandemic. Vehicle inspection has already been done and the fee (Rs 2,500) paid. I request you to kindly direct the officials concerned to process my application and issue the registration card at the earliest,” reads the letter. Rev Msgr Leslie Moras told TOI that he has paid the fee and the inspection has also been completed. “But the RTO officers say that my file is missing. So I have written to the RTO commissioner,” he said. When contacted, RTO (West division) M Prabhuswamy said that he will check with the officers and take necessary action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/rev-msgr-leslie-moras-struggles-to-get-rto-documents-for-his-car/articleshow/77601522.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
August 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Pandemic drives up two-wheeler registrations in Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Post lockdown, the Regional Transport Office is recording a steady growth in two-wheeler registrations, but cars have seen a dip, with almost nil registration of high-end four wheelers. RTO RM Vernekar told TOI that since June, there has been a steady rise in the number of two-wheeler registrations. From a 30-40% increase in June, the registration has increased to 60-70% in July. “On an average, at least 60-70 vehicles are registered each day as against 100-120 during the pre-Covid days. There is a gradual increase demand for small cars too and the growth rate is around 50% when compared to pre-Covid days. As against an average of 60 car registrations then, the registration is around 25-30 per day. High end car registrations have become rare,” he said. Two-wheelers, the most affordable mode of commuting for the millennials, is easy to own and payment of EMIs is not that heavy as compared to cars, said a senior officer from the transport department. People’s hesitation to use public transport could be one of the reasons for a steady rise in demand for two-wheelers and small cars during the pandemic, he said. The pandemic has severely hit private city and service buses, the transport lifeline in undivided Dakshina Kannada. “Out of 325 city buses, only 175 are currently plying. The closure of the Kerala border has had a severe impact on business,” said Dakshina Kannada Bus Owners Association president Dilraj Alva. Canara Bus Operators’ Association (CBOA) president K Rajavarma Ballal said, “The situation is only worsening, and the government is not thinking of private operators. We have been submitting memorandums to the government urging tax exemption for six months and deferred payments for the remaining six months. Currently, only about 75 service buses are plying on the coastal route.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pandemic-drives-up-two-wheeler-registrations-in-mangaluru/articleshow/77600610.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
August 18, 2020||Business||Reliance Commercial Fin, Reliance Home Fin get stay against fraud classification||Mumbai: Delhi High Court has by way of an order dated August 14, 2020 directed that placing of Reliance Commercial Finance and Reliance Home Finance in the category of ‘fraud’ by Bank of Baroda shall be kept in abeyance, and that no step prejudicial to the interest of the companies shall be taken till the next date of hearing (September 29, 2020). The Delhi High Court in a separate petition by way of order dated August 11, 2020 directed Punjab National Bank to maintain status-quo in relation its classification of the Company's account as a fraud, Reliance Capital said in a statement to the stock exchanges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reliance-commercial-fin-reliance-home-fin-get-stay-against-fraud-classification/articleshow/77600636.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Dehradun||Contractual teachers of govt polytechnics threaten stir||DEHRADUN: The contractual teachers of government polytechnic institutions have demanded an early reinstatement from the state government saying that if their long overdue demand is not met soon, they will launch a state-wide agitation. “The government is not serious about protecting the interests of contractual teachers. The state of technical education is not well under the current regime. We demand permanent status for us,” said a representative of the contractual teachers told TOI. Meanwhile, the State School Teachers’ Association has also expressed its disappointment with the government over the same issue. The teachers’ association said that they are scheduled to meet the education minister soon and if a proper assurance of regularising their jobs isn’t given to them, then they will also launch “a fierce agitation against the government”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/contractual-teachers-of-govt-polytechnics-threaten-stir/articleshow/77598248.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 18, 2020||Business||Siddhartha’s company Sical has unpaid dues of Rs 151 crore||CHENNAI: Café Coffee Day promoter V G Siddhartha-owned Sical Logistics has unpaid dues of around Rs 151 crore to various banks and financial institutions as on March 31, 2020. Reporting its financial results for the quarter and year ended March 2020, Sical Logistics said it has not serviced debt on due dates to banks and financial institutions amounting to Rs 151 crore comprising principal of Rs 110 crore and interest of Rs 41 crore. As per the company’s consolidated balance sheet, long-term borrowings stood at Rs 451 crore as at March 31. Besides drawing attention to the delays by the company to service its debt, the auditors of the company have also expressed doubts on the ability of the enterprise to be a going concern. “The company has incurred losses during the financial year, has excess of current liabilities over current assets, loans that have fallen due for repayment, loans which have fallen due of subsidiary companies for which the company is the guarantor,” the report notes, adding that these indicate a “material uncertainty” related to the going concern assumption. For the quarter ended March 2020, Sical Logistics posted consolidated revenue of Rs 158 crore, compared to Rs 426 crore in revenue it made in the same quarter last year. The company reported a net loss of Rs 15 crore in the quarter compared to Rs 6 crore profit in the quarter ended March 2019. Siddhartha holds 0.68% shareholding in Sical Logistics with 4,00,000 shares as of the quarter ended June 2020. Tanglin Retail Reality Developments Private Limited, a group company of Coffee Day, owns 32.8%. The company’s shares closed the trading day flat at Rs 9.29 on the BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/siddharthas-co-sical-has-unpaid-dues-of-rs-151-crore/articleshow/77600096.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
August 18, 2020||Allahabad||Youth finds a way to electrify villages with sediment collected from Ganga’s riverbed||PRAYAGRAJ: For the hundreds of villages which are situated along rivers and are often left in dark due to the lack of an electricity connection, the riverbed could literally show them the light thanks to a new technology. A research scholar of Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology-Allahabad (MNNIT) Jeetendra Prasad has devised a technique of generating electricity from the soil of Ganga’s riverbed. The technology can be used to provide electricity in remote areas. Prasad charged a 12 volt battery and then converted it into an AC voltage of 230 volts. When used, the technology could be used to light up an electric bulb for nine hours, apart from powering electronics devices and military wireless sensors in remote areas. Prasad told TOI, “I have developed 35 sediment microbial fuel cell (SMFC) reactors using 500 gram of sediment from river for charging the reactors. Microbes present in the sediment create electrons in the anode chamber. These electrons flow from the anode to the cathode via an electric circuit and produce voltage. Each SMFC reactor generates a voltage of 1.16 volt. A voltage of 5 volt is generated by connecting all SMFCs in series-parallel connections.” The voltage is increased up to 12 volt using an electronic circuit and a charged 12 volt battery converts it into an AC voltage of 230 volts. Another advantage of this innovation is that it will boost use of renewable energy as it does not lead to pollution. His latest research was published in Journal of Power Sources. Prasad is pursuing a PhD under Ramesh Kumar Tripathi of MNNIT’s electrical engineering department. He was also awarded with the prestigious ‘SRISTI-Gandhian Young Technological Innovation Award’ (GYTI Award 2020) for his achievement and the award would be presented by the President. The award is for youth-driven innovations in 42 categories. The selection involves a four-stage evaluation process. MNNIT is the only National Institute of Technology in the country to have receive this award among the 31 branches. Prasad’s research work has been published in international journals like Science Direct and IEEE. Born in Shakkarpur village of Ghazipur district, Prasad’s father is a retired UP Bridge Corporation electrician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/youth-finds-a-way-to-electrify-villages-with-sediment-collected-from-gangas-riverbed/articleshow/77601025.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Business||‘Axis Bank to continue with pre-Covid provisions’||MUMBAI: In the last 12 months, Axis Bank has raised Rs 22,500 crore of equity. It has used Rs 6,898 crore to make excess provisions for the Covid crisis. In an interview with TOI, MD & CEO Amitabh Chaudhry speaks of how this enables the bank to take on pandemic risks and even grow its business this year. Excerpts: You have adopted a conservative policy on provisions. Is this a countercyclical step or will it be continued in future?We have adopted a very conservative policy and we will continue to have the same approach going forward. Provisioning is one among many such steps that include, but are not limited to, accounting policy choices, risk frameworks, underwriting choices and process resilience, among others. While there may be a dispensation for loans allowing them to be classified as standard assets and have lower provisioning, we will continue to be conservative in the provisioning overall and continue our stance in line with the pre-Covid levels. How do you expect to restructure loans for businesses where activity has not started?There are two aspects to restructuring — One, what is right for the customer? Two, what is right for the bank? That is, how does the bank de-risk itself? Some businesses may take a very long time to revive. In these cases, the promoter will have to demonstrate that they believe that the businesses can get back by bringing in more capital. Do you expect to grow market share during the current year?We had drawn up our GPS (growth-profitability-sustainability) strategy before Covid happened. While we will be conservative, we will pursue growth wherever we see an opportunity. We will use the time to ensure we capture the right opportunities. For instance, we have been one of the biggest investors in the RBI’s targeted term lending operations. In deposits, what we are seeing in recent quarters is an improvement in the granularity. We do believe that we will grow our market share over the short to medium term. Do you think interest rates have bottomed out?Focus for policy now should be to manage and communicate liquidity, manage the G-secs yield curve at the medium and long maturities, and incentivise credit, including compressing the spread for mid- and lower-rated exposures. The government has to work with the RBI to design a coordinated policy response for these objectives. I think interest rates are steady for now, though the RBI does have room to cut rates a couple of times. What India needs is not low-interest rates but revival of the economy. How is the deal with Max Life progressing? The RBI had raised some questions on the transaction... Do you expect fund infusion will be an issue given that the RBI has asked banks to conserve capital?The deal is subject to regulatory approvals and as such both parties are committed to the process of obtaining the same. We have not formally received any queries from the RBI. We do not expect capital costs to be a concern as the impact on our CET-1 (common equity tier-1) would be less than 15bps (100 basis points = 1 percentage point) and after our recent capital-raise, we have a CET-1 in excess of 15%, and overall capital adequacy in excess of 19%. There have been several changes at the management level. Is that a reflection of changing priorities?No, I don’t think so. There are three categories of exits — first being those who have left because of governance or discipline issues, second are those who had a different perspective on their career aspirations and have looked for roles outside. However, recently, a couple of senior executives had to leave because of personal issues that has nothing to do with the bank. The issues they had could not have been addressed at Axis, and they had to move somewhere it could be addressed. We are a large bank and have enough talent pool. In fact, we have seen a few senior employees returning as well. We have been clear that wherever there are gaps, we will first look for internal replacements. It’s an ongoing process and we have recently brought in a new head of strategy and multinational coverage. Is there any value unlocking that is planned? We want to grow all our subsidiaries and achieve scale. This has been a part of our ‘One Axis’ strategy and is in play. Axis MF is one of the fastest growing MFs and doing extremely well. We want all of them to grow and have made several top-level hires in the subsidiaries to support their effort. How do you plan to utilise the Freecharge platform? How is your digital strategy playing out?UPI has reduced the significance of digital wallets. We expect that Freecharge will help in customer acquisition for different products of Axis Bank. As Freecharge is not a finance company, it cannot lend, but it can generate leads for the bank. We were the first to have a separate digital team in place and this is an area where we are going to spend more even if we have to do cost-cutting elsewhere. Over 70% of our fixed deposits, 53% of mutual funds, 50% of business loans are sourced digitally, 40-45% of personal loans, and credit cards are digitally sourced. We are digitising at every level. For our staff, we have recently rolled out ‘bring your own device’, which has now been rolled out to 36,000 frontline employees. We will be launching the ‘Full Power Digital Savings Account’ that can be opened instantly with video KYC. Keeping in mind the need of the hour, the product proposition provides access to 250+ services online and virtual debit card, through which customers can start transacting immediately after opening the account. We are building digital capabilities on the SME and corporate side as well where we are building an omnichannel solution for corporates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-bank-to-continue-with-pre-covid-provisions/articleshow/77600453.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Eco Eden to be unlocked at Bopal dump site in March 2021||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation will set up an ecology park at the Bopal landfill site which spans 22,000 sq km. The AMC will deodorize the soil at the site before the park’s establishment. The soil will get sanitreat, a non-hazardous mixture of mineral and herbal components that controls the decomposition of organic waste materials. The Rs 3.5 crore project will also involve the laying of a new top layer of soil to hold moisture and bind the roots of plants. The top layer will get the black soil addition to make it more fertile. Officials said that reclaiming earth for the ecology park will cost about Rs 75 lakh. Lighting and plantation will cost about Rs 1 crore. The park will have a small pond to attract birds. Municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar said that bio-mining at the site will be completed in three months and then the ecology park project will be taken up. The park will be ready by March-end next year, he said. The officials said that a bio-mining machine which can process 1,000 tonnes of garbage in an eight-hour shift has been installed at the site. They said if required, the machine will be run in two shifts to clear garbage by December. The levelling of the area is under way. The officials said that works such as the construction of a compound wall and laying of drainage and irrigation lines will take time. So the tendering process for the works will begin when bio-mining is on the verge of completion. The officials said that the AMC may develop plantations or a landscaped garden in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/eco-eden-to-be-unlocked-at-bopal-dump-site-in-mar-21/articleshow/77599605.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Business||Flipkart in talks for e-pharmacy biz||BENGALURU: After Amazon India, Walmart-owned Flipkart is looking to enter the e-pharmacy space as demand for online medicine delivery remains strong, two people aware of the matter said. Flipkart is building its own team internally for the e-pharmacy business. But it has also held early stage partnership talks with PharmEasy even as the Mumbai-based e-pharmacy firm is said to be in advanced discussions to acquire Bengaluru-based rival Medlife, the people added. Flipkart CEO Kalyan Krishnamurthy has held multiple rounds of talks with PharmEasy’s founding team, exploring various contours of a partnership. “Flipkart also wants to be sure of the legal framework before rolling out the service as there are ambiguities with parts of law for selling medicine online, which has created friction with traditional chemists,” one of the people aware of the matter said. After Amazon’s rollout of pharmacy services last week in Bengaluru, the All India Organisation of Chemists and Druggists (AIOCD) had sent a letter to Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, saying the launch was illegal. While these discussions are in early stages, a potential investment by Flipkart is also one of the options on the table, but those details have not been finalised yet, sources aware of the discussion added. “We are not in talks with any e-pharma player with an investment view as of now,” a Flipkart spokesperson said, without commenting on discussions for a partnership.“As part of the industry, we keep talking to everyone,” PharmEasy co-founder Dhaval Shah said. PharmEasy’s order volumes are currently said to be 40-50% higher than pre-Covid-19 levels, similar to a surge in demand on other platforms. Both Amazon and Flipkart’s interest in medicine delivery comes at a time when the industry is seeing consolidation with Reliance Industries being in the final stages of the process to close the acquisition of NetMeds, which was first reported by TOI in May. “It’s certainly noteworthy when Amazon enters the space. For Flipkart, this has been an area of interest for a while and it is a matter of time for the company to enter this space, especially after Amazon’s entry,” a senior executive of an online pharmacy startup said. According to a February report by market research firm RedSeer, the e-pharma industry, including consultancy and diagnostics, is about $1.2 billion. This is expected to reach about $16 billion in five years. While over 4 million households were already buying medicines online, this space has seen scores of new users adopting the new route too. Watch Flipkart in talks for e-pharmacy biz||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/flipkart-in-talks-for-e-pharmacy-biz/articleshow/77600493.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 18, 2020||Mysuru||Liquor business yet to see an upswing||Mysuru: While the liquor business is struggling to return to normal, strict Covid-19 guidelines by shop owners has also hit the business post lockdown. Liquor consumers are being turned away for not wearing masks because owners fear action by excise authorities who have been monitoring liquor shops daily. A few shops in both urban and rural areas were forced to shut for not adhering to guidelines and now owners have hired security guards to ensure social distancing and buyers wear masks. Unlike earlier, an owner of an MRP outlet is more concerned about customers wearing masks rather than asking them what they want. He says excise officers visit and verify CCTVs regularly. “If they notice anyone buying liquor without a mask or not maintaining social distance near the shop, they close the shop for a week. We’re more cautious of late,” he told TOI. B Madesh, excise commissioner, Mysuru urban, says since there will be heavy public movement at liquor shops they have been told to strictly adhere to all guidelines. “We had warned several shop owners for not following guidelines and had shut their businesses. If they can’t adhere to norms let them stop doing business. Today all of them are following the norms,” he said. Currently, liquor is being only sold in retail outlets and consumers are not allowed to drink within the premises. Bar and restaurants haven’t been given permission yet to restart their business,” said Madesh, adding that Mysuru has more than 500+ liquor licenses. Wine Merchants Association president Guruswamy S said, “Except in some places in rural areas, all of us are adhering to guidelines of the department. We too have told our members to take necessary steps. The liquor business is yet to pick up even after the lockdown was lifted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/liquor-business-yet-to-see-an-upswing/articleshow/77600467.cms||Lawrence Milton
August 18, 2020||Patna||WHO team inspects PMCH Covid ward||PATNA: A three-member team of the World Health Organization (WHO) on Monday visited the newly created Covid ward at the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) and discussed the facilities available there with its medical superintendent Dr Bimal Karak and other doctors. The team led by Dr Ujjawal Prasad Sinha collected information on duty roster of the doctors and staff being followed by the hospital, food items being provided to patients and other facilities available for them as well as their attendants. Expressing satisfaction over the healthcare facilities available there, the team members, however, asked the hospital administration to follow the WHO guidelines in providing treatment to the people tested positive for the Covid-19. Principal Dr V P Choudhary said the superintendent also shared the information on displaying medicines available with the hospital for treatment of Covid patients and releasing health bulletin from ‘May I help you’ counter both in the morning and evening hours. In the course of discussion, Dr Karak informed the WHO team about the dialysis facility to be introduced in the next two days for the Covid patients with kidney problem and undergoing treatment in the Covid ward. He said the nephrology department had been directed to install fresenius dialysis machine in the Covid ward. Dr Gopal Prasad of nephrology department has been made the nodal officer of the new dialysis unit while deputy superintendent Dr Abhishek Bashuki would monitor it’s functioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/who-team-inspects-pmch-covid-ward/articleshow/77597688.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Water supply to be erratic on Tue in west city||Ahmedabad: The western part of the city will get irregular water supply on Tuesday following a leakage in the main supply line. Affected areas will include West, North West and South West zones of the civic body.AMC officials said a leakage was found in the western trunk line of 1,600mm diameter near Bhadreshwar Flat in Naranpura.Supply will not be affected in Chandkheda, Motera and Ranip wards. AMC officials said water supply will not stop, but will run according to availability and thus may not be according to schedule.There is also a possibility that some areas may not get water supply with adequate pressure, said civic body officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/water-supply-to-be-erratic-on-tue-in-west-city/articleshow/77599626.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Patna||Work from home: Beneficial for some, stressful for many in Patna||PATNA: As the Covid-19 pandemic has changed the office functioning worldwide, work from home (WFH) culture is becoming a new normal for private organizations in the state capital. What was once a dream for many professionals, for the flexibility WFH provides, has become a reality now. While some employees feel the WFH provides better work-life balance, less commute stress and expenses, others argue over the challenges of working remotely such as hindrances in communication channels, increased workload and loss in productivity. Sheikhpura resident Pritish Srivastava, who works for an IT firm, said, “WFH is not easy and fun, as most people used to think before the pandemic. It takes a toll on your mental and physical health. My sleep cycle has been disturbed and there is no balance between my personal and professional life.” Nishant Shekhar, a software developer based in Saket Vihar, also feels the same. “Ever since I switched to WFH, my workload has tremendously increased. Earlier, I used to leave the office by 8pm. Now I log off from work at 10pm. Even after logging off, I have to constantly check my messages and follow up on deadlines,” he said. However, despite the challenges of working remotely, many employees also talked about the benefits WFH offers. Other than providing flexibility in terms of place, time and dress code, WFH has also enabled employees to save additional money as they do not have to spend on commuting to workplace. A chartered accountant by profession, Ekta Jha of Boring Road said, “What I like the most about WFH is that there is no need to dress up. I can attend meetings in pyjamas and T-shirts from the comfort of my couch while simultaneously savouring homemade meals.” Ayushi Dixit, a startup employee from Kankarbagh said, “Now, I am neither spending any money on my daily commute nor on eating out during office breaks.” Organisations also have mixed reactions to the WFH culture. Sourima Dutta, an HR professional from Patel Nagar area said, “While there are manifold benefits of WFH such as improved employee retention and access to a wider pool of applicants while recruiting, there are also challenges such as difficulty in monitoring performance, information security risk and decreased staff morale.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/work-from-home-beneficial-for-some-stressful-for-many/articleshow/77596362.cms||Arunima Lal
August 18, 2020||Patna||Patna University likely to hold entrance tests in September||PATNA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, universities and other institutions of higher education in the state are trying their best to make up the delay in the commencement of the new academic session by expediting the admission process. The extended deadline for online submission of applications in colleges affiliated to both Patna University (PU) and Patliputra University (PPU) will end on August 31 and the process of admission to different undergraduate (UG) courses begin in September. While PU holds faculty-wise entrance test for admissions, PPU admits students on merit-cum-choice basis. PU is likely to hold entrance tests for UG admissions in the second week of September. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of a six-member committee formed by PU vice-chancellor (VC) H N Prasad and headed by Magadh Mahila College principal Shashi Sharma on Monday. “Nearly 40,000 students will take the entrance tests in the offline mode because conducting online exams is not feasible in rural areas. However, the number of centres will be increased so that social distancing norms are followed properly,” PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha told this newspaper. On the other hand, the last date for submission of applications for PU’s PG courses is September 21. Admissions will be made on the basis of the marks obtained in the UG examinations. PPU is also not likely to extend the last date of submission of application forms. “Admissions will commence in September,” said pro-VC G K Chaudhary. Chanakya National Law University (CNLU) received applications for admission to its LLB programme through Common Law Admission Test till August 14. According to a senior CNLU faculty member, S P Singh, the entrance test is likely to be held at over 300 centres on September 7. Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) had invited applications for admission to its different courses till June 6. “A combined entrance test will be conducted by Central University of Rajasthan this year. The final date is likely to be announced soon,” said CUSB PRO Mudassir Alam. Birla Institute of Technology-Patna (BIT-P) has decided to admit students to all its BTech courses on the basis of the marks obtained by students in classes X and XII. BIT-P director Arbind Kumar said, “While selecting candidates, 30% weightage will be given to Class X marks and 70% to Class XII marks. The last date for submission of online applications is August 21 and the admission process is likely to be completed by mid-September.” The Indian Institute of Technology and the National Institute of Technology will admit students on the basis of their performance in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) to be conducted by the National Testing Agency from September 1 to 6. Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU) will also admit students to its engineering programmes on the basis of JEE. Admission to its medical courses will be made on the basis of the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test. “Students will be admitted to AKU’s BEd programme on the basis of a state-level combined entrance test to be conducted by Lalit Narayan Mithila University, the date of which has not been announced yet,” said AKU pro-VC S M Karim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ug-courses-pu-likely-to-hold-entrance-tests-in-september/articleshow/77596394.cms||B K Mishra
August 18, 2020||Patna||Panel recommends universities to chalk out modalities for pending exams||PATNA: The seven-member committee of vice-chancellors (VCs), constituted by governor-cum-chancellor Phagu Chauhan, has recommended different universities to chalk out a plan for modalities of conducting the pending exams as per their requirements and convenience. In a meeting held at the Raj Bhavan on Monday, the panel pointed out that universities would decide whether the examinations were be held in the offline or online mode. They would also finalize the pattern of examination — subjective or objective — as well as its duration — three hours or less. In case of any departure from the existing rules and regulations, the examination boards of the universities would submit draft transitory regulations for approval from the chancellor. The committee submitted its report to the chancellor’s secretariat just after the meeting. Earlier, the members discussed all the aspects related to the conduct of examinations under the existing circumstances and in the light of the latest guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC). The UGC has already announced that the final examinations of undergraduate and postgraduate courses should be held by the end of September. The Supreme Court on Monday also stamped the UGC’s decision on examinations. The meeting was attended by the VCs of Munger University, Patna University, Patliputra University, Magadh University, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar Bihar University, Purnea University and Veer Kunwar Singh University. The resolutions of the committee will now be placed before the chancellor for his approval.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/panel-recommends-univs-to-chalk-out-modalities-for-pending-exams/articleshow/77596405.cms||B K Mishra
August 18, 2020||Patna||Number of turncoats to rise in Bihar||PATNA: The politicians switching sides ahead of elections is nothing new in Bihar. What is important this time is that some of them are shifting decades-old loyalties to improve their prospects in the upcoming assembly elections due in October-November this year. Though the Election Commission is yet to announce the poll schedule, many political parties apprehend exodus to the rival camps as every party is facing the problem of increasing the number of ticket aspirants. So far the biggest loser is RJD, which had to expel its three MLAs on Sunday while its Sasaram MLA Ashok Kushwaha quit the party and joined JD(U) on Monday. Two of the three expelled RJD MLAs — Maheshwar Prasad Yadav (Gaighat) and Prema Chaudhary (Patepur) — also joined JD(U) while the third, Faraz Fatmi (Keoti), was in Delhi. The ruling JD(U) is no exception. On Sunday, Shyam Rajak was not only sacked as a minister, but he was expelled from JD(U). Rajak, a noted Mahadalit face, joined RJD on Monday. ”The JD(U) is set to face desertion in due course of time. Many leaders are waiting for the opportune moment,” Rajak said. Sources said Rajak was not sure about a JD(U) ticket to contest from Phulwarisharif this time. He has represented the constituency since 1995, except losing to Arun Manjhi in a bypoll. Arun is learnt to be lobbying for the JD(U) ticket from Phulwarisharif. Five RJD MLCs -- Sanjay Prasad, Radha Charan Sah, Dillip Rai, Qamar Alam and Ranvijay Kumar Singh -- had joined JD(U) in June this year soon after the ruling party MLC Javed Iqbal Ansari switched over to the party led by Lalu Prasad. Congress, which is trying to strengthen its base, is also set to see exodus soon, political observers said. Some of the Congress legislators and leaders were in touch with the top leadership of the parties of their choice. “For many of them, JD(U) is their first preference,” said a senior leader, preferring anonymity. Former CM and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, who had spearheaded the revolt against Nitish Kumar during the 2015 assembly elections, is likely to join the NDA after deserting the Mahagathbandhan. He has suddenly become a great admirer of Nitish. Manjhi is likely to take a formal decision at a meeting of the party’s core group on August 20. Manjhi is unhappy with the Mahagathbandhan for repeatedly ignoring his demand for setting up a coordination committee for seat-sharing. The situation might not remain the same when the parties start declaring their candidates for the assembly polls. The rebellion by aspirants is also likely to become a routine affair once they are denied tickets by their respective parties to contest the elections. Prof. D M Diwakar, a political observer, said politicians switching sides in search of a greener pasture before elections is a common feature in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/number-of-turncoats-to-rise-in-state/articleshow/77597652.cms||Ramashankar
August 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Three RJD MLAs join JD(U)||PATNA: Three RJD MLAs joined the ruling JD(U) in presence of state’s energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav here on Monday. The three are Maheshwar Prasad Yadav (Gaighat), Prema Choudhary (Patepur) and Ashok Kumar (Sasaram). Maheshwar and Prema were among the three RJD MLAs who were expelled from the party on Sunday. “The third expelled MLA, Faraz Fatmi (Keoti), was also to join JD(U) today. But he could not reach here from Delhi,” JD(U) state general secretary (headquarters) Navin Kumar Arya told TOI. Faraz is the son of former Darbhanga MP MAA Fatmi. The RJD leadership expelled Maheshwar, Prema and Faraz from the party for anti-party activities. Insiders said RJD expelled its three MLAs after coming to know about their plan to join JD(U). Besides the three MLAs, other prominent RJD leaders who took JD(U) membership on Monday were its state general secretary Abdus Salam Beg from Sasaram), state general secretary (minority cell) Mohammad Anoothe (Vaishali), RJD Vaishali district EBC cell president Asharfi Mandal and its Patepur block president Md Islam. State’s parliamentary affairs and rural development minister Shravan Kumar, IPRD minister Neeraj Kumar, JD(U) national secretary Ravindra Singh and party’s former chief whip in the state legislative council, Sanjay Kumar Singh alias Gandhijee, were also present on the occasion. Welcoming the three MLAs and their supporters, Bijendra said despite being in RJD, the three had won the 2015 assembly election under the leadership of the then Grand Alliance’s chief ministerial candidate and CM Nitish Kumar. “Now, they have decided to work under the leadership of Nitish ji,” he said. Prema, who won from Patepur thrice (2000, November 2005 and 2015) told TOI that she was being ignored in RJD and had decided to quit. Prema, who was once RJD’s state women’s cell president, said when RJD removed her from the post, she had expected the party to induct her in the Mahagathbandhan government as she was one of the few senior woman MLAs. “I was also not given any prestigious assignment either. I felt ignored, especially after Lalu Prasad ji went to Ranchi,” Prema said. Five-term MLA Maheshwar said he would contest the coming election on JD(U) symbol from his traditional Gaighat seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/three-rjd-mlas-join-jdu/articleshow/77597506.cms||Madan Kumar
August 18, 2020||Patna||Two Bihar martyrs’ bodies to arrive today||PATNA: The families of two CRPF jawans from the state, who fell to terrorists’ bullets at Baramulla in Jammu & Kashmir on Monday are in a shock. Jawan Luvkush Sudarshan Sharma has a three-year-old daughter and a seven-year-old son while his colleague Khurshid Khan, 38, leaves behind his three minor daughters. Sharma, 28, hails from Aaira village under Sakurabad police station area of Jehanabad while Khurshid was from Bhosiakalan village under Bikramganj police station of Rohtas. CRPF sources said their battalion was deployed in the Kashmir valley after abrogation of Article 370. “His daughter Ananya is mere three year old while son Sooraj Kumar is seven year old. He is yet to understand that he and his sister won’t be able to see their father again,” Rajnish Kumar, Sharma’s uncle and neighbour, told TOI over phone. Kumar said his nephew had joined the para-military force in 2014. “He always wanted to serve in the armed forces. He got posted in Kashmir last year before which he was in Assam,” he added. Sharma had last seen his family in December 2019 when he had come on a 25-day leave. “He had kept his family at a rented accommodation in Jehanabad town for the sole reason of providing quality education to his son who studies in a private school,” Kumar said, adding, “After the lockdown, they shifted to the village as school was shut, but the family has been continuously paying rent.” “His wife Anita is continuously crying and is not in a state to understand what’s happening around her. Apart from his wife and kids, Luvkush has left behind his father Sudarshan Sharma (55) and mother Parmila Devi (55),” he added. Martyr Khurshid’s cousin brother Mohammad Sitab Khan said his wife Nagma Khatoon has been repeatedly fainting ever since the news of her husband’s martyrdom reached her. “She had spoken to him over phone only last night,” he said. “Khan had joined the CRPF more than 15 years back. He was the eldest among four brothers who along with their mother Rukhsana Khatoon (60) live in a joint family. Their father had died five years ago,” he said. “My brother had ensured that his all three daughters– Zaheda Khurshid (13), Zubaida Khurshid (10) and Afsaan Khatoom (5) — get good education for which had got them admitted to a private school,” Khan said, adding Khurshid was posted in the valley only last year. Khan said the CRFP authorities have informed them that bodies of both martyrs are expected to reach Patna airport around 3pm on Tuesday from where they will bring Khurshid’s mortal remains for burial via road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-bihar-martyrs-bodies-to-arrive-today/articleshow/77597441.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 18, 2020||Jammu||Two Bihar martyrs’ bodies to arrive today||PATNA: The families of two CRPF jawans from the state, who fell to terrorists’ bullets at Baramulla in Jammu & Kashmir on Monday are in a shock. Jawan Luvkush Sudarshan Sharma has a three-year-old daughter and a seven-year-old son while his colleague Khurshid Khan, 38, leaves behind his three minor daughters. Sharma, 28, hails from Aaira village under Sakurabad police station area of Jehanabad while Khurshid was from Bhosiakalan village under Bikramganj police station of Rohtas. CRPF sources said their battalion was deployed in the Kashmir valley after abrogation of Article 370. “His daughter Ananya is mere three year old while son Sooraj Kumar is seven year old. He is yet to understand that he and his sister won’t be able to see their father again,” Rajnish Kumar, Sharma’s uncle and neighbour, told TOI over phone. Kumar said his nephew had joined the para-military force in 2014. “He always wanted to serve in the armed forces. He got posted in Kashmir last year before which he was in Assam,” he added. Sharma had last seen his family in December 2019 when he had come on a 25-day leave. “He had kept his family at a rented accommodation in Jehanabad town for the sole reason of providing quality education to his son who studies in a private school,” Kumar said, adding, “After the lockdown, they shifted to the village as school was shut, but the family has been continuously paying rent.” “His wife Anita is continuously crying and is not in a state to understand what’s happening around her. Apart from his wife and kids, Luvkush has left behind his father Sudarshan Sharma (55) and mother Parmila Devi (55),” he added. Martyr Khurshid’s cousin brother Mohammad Sitab Khan said his wife Nagma Khatoon has been repeatedly fainting ever since the news of her husband’s martyrdom reached her. “She had spoken to him over phone only last night,” he said. “Khan had joined the CRPF more than 15 years back. He was the eldest among four brothers who along with their mother Rukhsana Khatoon (60) live in a joint family. Their father had died five years ago,” he said. “My brother had ensured that his all three daughters– Zaheda Khurshid (13), Zubaida Khurshid (10) and Afsaan Khatoom (5) — get good education for which had got them admitted to a private school,” Khan said, adding Khurshid was posted in the valley only last year. Khan said the CRFP authorities have informed them that bodies of both martyrs are expected to reach Patna airport around 3pm on Tuesday from where they will bring Khurshid’s mortal remains for burial via road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/two-bihar-martyrs-bodies-to-arrive-today/articleshow/77604041.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Extension of curbs brings few cheers, but no relief to many||PATNA: The extension of the lockdown till September 6 as a result of a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state has garnered mixed response from people. While some are disappointed because the government has not lifted the ban on services in non-essential categories like shopping malls, others are of the opinion that economic loss seems a small price to pay for the huge loss of lives due to corona. Businessmen and entrepreneurs, who are struggling to sail through the pandemic, have expressed apprehension about the decision. Bablu Singh, the owner of a restaurant in Anisabad, says, “I understand the risks of operating a restaurant amid a pandemic. Hence, I respect the government’s decision. Fortunately, our takeaway service has picked up the pace during the last few days.” As part of the fresh lockdown, services like public transport, religious places, gymnasiums, educational institutes and shopping malls will not be allowed to open. Divan Gupta, the owner of an ice-cream shop at a mall in Patliputra Colony, rues, “I had chosen this mall keeping in mind the increased footfalls here. But now when I see standalone shops, I regret my decision. The government should have allowed small shops inside malls to open with restrictions in place.” Academics believe that the extension of the lockdown can prove to be a huge setback for schools and colleges as well as those running coaching institutes. Pankaj Kapadia, the director of a coaching institute on Boring Road, says, “Online mode of education cannot replace classroom teaching techniques, but having said that, I cannot reopen my institute because of the exponential rise in the number of corona cases.” Gym owners and fitness trainers are also disappointed. Rahul, who runs a gymnasium in Phulwarisharif, claims, “I had heard that gyms would reopen, but it turned out to be a rumour.” To Rajiv Nagar resident Nikita Singh, who recently got herself enrolled into a business school at Mumbai, “the lockdown has been nothing, but depressing” as all her plans have been put on hold. Her mother, on the other hand, has heaved a sigh of relief. “She is happy that I will stay home for some more time as colleges have not opened,” Nikita says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/extension-of-curbs-brings-few-cheers-but-no-relief-to-many/articleshow/77596333.cms||Arunima Lal
August 18, 2020||Patna||Chirag Paswan slams Bihar government for slow RT-PCR test rate||PATNA: Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) national president Chirag Paswan continued his attack on chief minister Nitish Kumar saying the rate of RT-PCR tests was low even after PM Narendra Modi expressed his concern over the matter recently. Chirag, who has been vocal against the JD(U) national president, said RT-PCR test is required to confirm the reports of rapid antigen testing for Covid19. “But the rate of RT-PCR test is very low compared to the rapid antigen testing. Thus the government is putting the lives of people in danger by not doing so,” he said. Chirag raised the issue during a virtual meeting of the executive committee of the party on Monday. The Jamui MP said as per the ICMR, rapid antigen test was meant for containment zones only. “RT-PCR test is the gold standard test as per ICMR,” he added. The LJP leader said even officials of the health department admitted that the number of RT-PCR tests was low. “Under such circumstances, holding assembly polls will be putting the lives of people at risk,” he said, adding that raising issues related to public health should not be construed as “a revolt”. Chirag also assessed the situation of floods in the state. All the MPs, MLAs, and members of the executive committee of the party attended the virtual meeting. Sushant’s cousin meets Chirag: BJP MLA Niraj Kumar Singh Bablu along with his MLC wife Nutan Singh called on LJP national president Chirag Paswan in Patna on Monday to express their gratitude for lending support to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s family on the issue of a CBI probe into the matter. Chirag assured the actor’s cousin Bablu and his wife Nutan, an LJP MLC, of all help in ensuring justice to the family. “We are with you and your family at the hour of crisis. Whenever you need our support, we are free to contact us,” an LJP leader quoted Chirag as having told the couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-slams-govt-for-slow-rt-pcr-test-rate/articleshow/77597675.cms||Ramashankar
August 18, 2020||Patna||Araria civil surgeon axed for anomalies||ARARIA: The state health department has suspended Araria civil surgeon Dr Madan Mohan Singh with immediate effect. He will report in the office of the regional deputy director, Bhagalpur, during the suspension period. Dr A P Singh has been made Araria civil surgeon. Araria DM Prashant Kumar CH said Dr Madan has been suspended through a letter issued by deputy secretary in health department Vivekanand Thakur for alleged anomalies in the purchase of 200 beds for Covid isolation centres in the district. According to sources, the DM had sought explanation from Dr Madan for not showing interest in taking preventive measures as per the guideline and also for purchasing masks and sanitisers. When asked to submit details, Dr Madan showed all masks and sanitisers distributed. Sensing foul play in the purchase of masks and other items, including beds, the DM had asked deputy development commissioner (DDC) to examine the details and submit a report. The DDC found that around 200 beds worth Rs40 lakh were purchased by Dr Madan without getting any approval either from the district health committee or the DM office. Sources said neither any bidding process was initiated for purchase of the beds nor prices of the items were fixed by the purchasing committee of the district health committee or the DM. On the basis of the DDC inquiry, the DM wrote to the health department on July 22 regarding the matter. “The health department has issued suspension order and asked Dr Madan to report to health department’s regional deputy director at Bhagalpur,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/araria-civil-surgeon-axed-for-anomalies/articleshow/77596444.cms||L P Nayak
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 45-year-old sent to judicial custody for raping minor||KOTA: A 45-year-old rape accused who had sexually abused a 16-year-old girl was produced before Pocso court in Kota on Monday. He was sent to judicial custody for 14 days. The accused had abducted the minor from her village under Khatoli police station of Kota district on Saturday and raped her in the forests of Chambal. The girl was however rescued on the same night. The accused was arrested on Sunday evening. The minor’s mother, a resident of Todikhedi village, on Saturday approached the police station and lodged a case of abduction of her minor daughter against Gobrilal Meena (45), Khatoli SHO Ramavtar Sharma said. Two police teams that were formed rescued the girl late on Saturday from the forests of Chambal. The minor told the police that she was raped by the accused following which police slapped Section 376 of IPC and sections of Pocso Act in the case. The minor was sent for medical examination on the same day. One of the police teams nabbed Meena from the forest late on Sunday. During his interrogation Meena admitted to the crime. Potency test of accused was also conducted on Monday morning following which he was produced before Pocso court that sent him to judicial custody for 14 days. The accused was sent to New Medical College Hospital in Kota for collection of his sample for Covid. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/45-yr-old-sent-to-judicial-custody-for-raping-minor/articleshow/77600960.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Agra||Covid cases in Bareilly crosses 5,000 mark||Bareilly/Meerut/Agra: At least 114 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Bareilly on Monday even as two persons succumbed to the deadly virus, according to additional chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar. With these new cases, Bareilly district tally has now crossed the 5,000 mark. With 30 patients discharged from hospital, the total active cases dropped to 1,983 in the district. Bareilly has reported a total of 5,088 cases, including 97 deaths. In Meerut district, at least 49 cases were found positive on Monday, taking the tally to 2,880. Also, one more death took the toll to 104, said Meerut's chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar. Moreover, at least one death was reported in Agra district on Monday. A 57-year-old woman died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Resident of Shamshabad block's Rajpur Chungi locality, the woman was a patient of renal failure, and she died following respiratory failure. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to co-morbid condition. So far, 103 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Meanwhile, 35 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 2,353. As many as 35 Covid-19 patients were discharged. Of the 2,353 cases reported, 81.9% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 322 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-cases-in-bareilly-crosses-5000-mark/articleshow/77598249.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Pune||Pune’s first sero-survey shows 51.5% citizens have Covid antibodies||PUNE: The city’s very first sero-survey, carried out to assess Covid-19’s spread in certain areas, has found antibodies in 51.5% of residents who were picked for the study. Presence of Covid-specific antibodies reveals that a person has had the infection. The ‘Epidemiological and Serological Surveillance of Covid-19 in Pune’ studied samples from 1,664 people across five high-incidence areas within the Pune Municipal Corporation. Seropositivity in residents from these areas ranged between 36.1% and 65.4%. The Lohianagar-Kasewadi area (under the Bhavani Peth ward office) had the highest prevalence of Covid-19 among the selected locations. “Our findings indicate that there has been an extensive spread of Covid-19 in these prabhags,” said Aurnab Ghose, a senior researcher who was part of the survey team. The study was led by the Pune Municipal Corporation and experts from Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER). Its findings were announced at a press conference on Monday. Ghose added, “We detected the presence of IgG antibodies against SARS-CoV-2. This indicates past infection, but does not necessarily suggest immunity from subsequent infection.” The researchers said the number of confirmed cases on July 1, within the administrative zones of the PMC (known as prabhags), were considered the baseline for the study. Blood samples were collected between July 20 and August 5. “These samples were then processed to detect the presence of IgG antibodies against the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of the viral spike protein using the RBD-ELISA assay,” stated the survey report. The RBD-ELISA analysis, used only for research purposes, specifically looks for IgG antibodies that have responded to SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19. The sero-survey has helped uncover details that have the potential to shape authorities’ response to the pandemic. Results show the spread has occurred across all types of dwellings. A seropositivity of 49% was registered among people living in bungalows; it ranged between 56% and 62% among those living in clustered hutments. Prevalence was low among residents of apartments — at 33%. Also, prevalence was high (62.2%) among those with access only to common toilets. It was relatively lower (45.3%) among those with independent toilets. There was also no substantial difference in spread between men and women. Males who were part of the survey registered a seropositivity of 52.8% while women showed 50.1%. Those above 66 had a lower prevalence of just 39.8%. “Results from the study will be used to plan our future course of action. The lower prevalence in senior citizens is a good sign. It will help us reduce the death rate among this section of the population, which has high comorbidity problems,” said divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao. There are more such sero-surveys planned for the region. The PCMC is expected to launch a massive study, involving 5,000 citizens, within the next few days. Watch Pune:Sero-survey shows 51.5% citizens have Covid antibodies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-first-sero-survey-shows-51-5-citizens-have-covid-antibodies/articleshow/77602008.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Teen DJ dies in celebratory firing in Bharatpur’s Khoh police station area||JAIPUR: A minor was killed in celebratory firing at Bharatpur’s Khoh police station area on Sunday night. The person was allegedly involved in the music department of the function and was killed when one of the wedding parties opened fire with an illegal weapon. Mukul Kohli, 17, died on the spot; however, no one has been arrested yet. Prem Bhaskar, SHO, Khoh police station, told TOI, “The minor was the DJ for a wedding taking place on Sunday night. We received the report, though no complaint or FIR has been registered yet. However, we will take cognizance of the fact that since the minor has been shot and killed. We will investigate the matter irrespective of the complaint.” The minor’s body was handed over to the family after post-mortem. Cops are still waiting for the deceased’s family to register a case. “This is a very serious case as not only weddings at such a scale are allowed, but a child was killed. Hence, irrespective of whether the family registers a case or not, we will probe the matter,” the official added. In a similar case in 2016, excessive drinking had soured the wedding celebrations in Alwar’s Kotkasim when the brother of the groom, who was firing indiscriminately in the air while dancing, shot a 28-year-old guest. The man died on the spot. The accused was arrested. Police officials had said the wedding procession had come to Badhana village in Kotkasim area from Jorasi village in Haryana. Twenty six-year-old Devendra Singh, the overenthusiastic brother of the groom, got drunk and fired several rounds in the air.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teen-dj-dies-in-celebratory-firing/articleshow/77600962.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Mock test for Pb Achievement Survey would (PAS) to start in September||Mehak Jain | TNN Ludhiana: In a bid to increase the efficacy of the school education system, the Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS) will be conducted in all government schools of the district. Mock tests for the purpose will start in September. The survey is expected to go a long way in strengthening students’ understanding and reasoning ability. It will also prepare students for the National Achievement Survey to be conducted in November on the directions of the MHRD ministry. The survey will be based on parameters of the National Achievement Survey. Students’ learning outcome will be assessed on the basis of Multiple-Choice Questions (MCQs) as per the prescribed syllabus of selective subjects, including English, Science, Mathematics and Social Studies. Training webinars have been planned to sensitise officials, resource persons and teachers about the parameters, tools and procedures for the survey. Jasvir Singh, district mentor (Science) said , “With a view to prepare both students and teachers for the survey, a comprehensive programme of organising quiz in August and mock tests from September has been planned. A training programme of district mentors, block mentors, BMTs, ( block) CMTs (cluster) has started. Question banks to develop comprehension of basic concepts of different subjects is also being prepared.” Principal, GSSS Shahpur Dr Davinder Singh Chhina said, “The education department has started organising webinars to sensitise district education officers, deputy district education officers, block primary education officers, ‘Padho Punjab, Padhao Punjab’ coordinators, Zila Sikhiya Sudhar teams and social media coordinators.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mock-test-for-pb-achievement-survey-would-pas-to-start-in-september/articleshow/77598258.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata, ‘second home’ for Pt Jasraj, mourns passing away of a versatile musical genius||KOLKATA: Pt Jasraj’s bond with Kolkata was a special one that began in 1946 when he started living in the city with his brother and then, worked as an artiste at All India Radio. Struck by grief at the news of his demise, music connoisseurs and his disciples recalled the memories of his association with the city he called his second home, where he spent 13 long years. Even in January this year, ahead of his performance before his 90th birthday, Jasraj had talked about his times in Kolkata, when he spent 14 hours a day on riyaaz as a 20-year-old, the encouragement he received from Som Tiwari (he addressed her as Ammaji), who was a disciple of his ‘bade bhaisaab’ (Pt Maniram), and the camaraderie with Dr Mukund Lath. Back then, he used to play the tabla but good friend Ujjwal Roy would insist that he didn’t as that would not help him grow as a vocalist. Pt Vijay Kichlu had first met him at Tiwari’s house. “I’d say he belonged to Bengal. He was a very good singer but back then, it seemed he was shy of singing in public. Slowly from being a tabla player, he turned into a vocalist. His influence was from Ustad Aamir Khan and his training from his brother. Yet, he created a niche for himself without following anyone blindly,” Kichlu said. A photo from his young daysHis Kolkata address was 32, Kabir Road. A few steps away, at 27, Kabir Road was the residence of Ustad Ali Akbar Khan. Both would often bump into each other. “Once when I was out on a stroll, I saw Dada wearing a vest and washing his Land Cruiser. When he found that I was out on a stroll, he said I should hop into his car. And in 12 minutes flat, he drove me to Chowringhee and back,” Jasraj had recounted the incident in an earlier visit to the city. It was perhaps this bond that made him promptly agree to singing at the inaugural edition of Kolkata’s Swara Samrat Festival dedicated to Ustad Ali Akbar Khan. “He was 83 and went up on stage at four in the morning and sang for two-hours-fifty-minutes. Listening to him was hypnotic,” said Pt Tejendra Narayan Majumdar. The legend had high regards for Kolkata’s audience. “Kolkata always talks music. Once, I was walking down Hindustan Park, when I chanced upon a group of young boys playing gully cricket. The moment one hit the ball hard, an onlooker said: ‘Have you seen how he struck the ball? It seemed as effortless as a Bhimsein Joshi taan’,” Jasraj had said. Then, there were his stories of listening to concerts standing in front of the loudspeakers, placed strategically on the streets, while hoping for a kind listener to leave midway and handing him his ticket. If not, he would go to the bus depot and sneak inside an empty bus parked near Basusree cinema and spend the night there, listening to the music. “If luck favoured, the conductor would allow me to lie down on one of the seats, too. That saved any strain on my poor legs,” Jasraj had said, who never tired of sharing tales about listening to concerts and performing in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-second-home-for-pt-jasraj-mourns-passing-away-of-a-versatile-musical-genius/articleshow/77602009.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Ex-AICC general secretary in-charge Avinash Pande bows out of Rajasthan, seeks unity in the party||JAIPUR: Former AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Avinash Pande, who was replaced by Ajay Maken following a complaint by Sachin Pilot, thanked the Congressmen of the state for their unity and cooperation which helped to bring back the party to power. Pande, who was at the helm of affairs of Rajasthan in the crucial time of assembly polls after fellow Maharashtra Congressman Gurudas Kammat left, helped to strengthen the Congress from grassroots and catapult the faction-ridden party to the seat of power in the state. According to sources, Sachin Pilot’s main grievance against Pande was he could not push the demand for political appointments from party cadres vigorously, which the chief minister has been avoiding on some pretexts. The main issue for the CM was Pilot at the helm of affairs at the party unit, has been seeking an equal share of posts in the appointments for his loyalists, which the CM was not ready to concede, said a source. Pande, as in-charge, had to walk the tight rope from the very beginning between the two clear factions in the state unit led by Gehlot and Pilot even before the assembly elections, as there was hard bargaining for seats to loyalists even during assembly polls and for claim for chief ministership. With Gehlot outwitting Pilot to the top job and emerging as the saviour of the beleaguered Congress from the rampant attempts at poaching its MLAs in Gujarat, MP and Maharashtra by the BJP, the power equation within the party changed. Gehlot emerged too strong and Pilot felt further marginalised leading to the rebellion and a month of acrimony and uncertainty, said a party functionary. In a late-night post on social media, Pande said, “My tenure as the in-charge of the Congress organization in Rajasthan has been very satisfactory.” Working with chief minister Ashok Gehlot, former state Congress president Sachin Pilot and other senior leaders was a very positive experience and as a result of the unity of all Congress people, the Congress government was formed in 2018, he said. “For strengthening of Congress party in the state, all the Congress people from booth, ward, block, district to the state unit worked with full enthusiasm for which I thank everyone,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pande-bows-out-of-raj-seeks-unity-in-the-party/articleshow/77600958.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Jodhpur||Death of Pak refugees raises serious questions: Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia||JODHPUR: BJP state president Satish Poonia on Monday termed the death of 11 Pak refugees under mysterious condition as disturbing for the government and society. He said that these deaths have raised many questions, which need to be answered. Poonia, who was in Jodhpur on Monday and paid a number of condolence visits, said while talking to media, “This was a serious issue as it has posed serious questions to the government and to society.” दो दिवसीय जोधपुर प्रवास के दौरान आज अभी; विगत दिनों एक ही परिवार के 11 पाक विस्थापितों की दुखद मृत्यु पर संवेदना… https://t.co/lMLbTY69Sq— Satish Poonia (@DrSatishPoonia) 1597637313000He said that the Central government has been working hard for the welfare of these Pak Hindu migrants but this incident has taken place in the state, which has clearly pointed to the dereliction of the state government about this issue. “Chief minister Ashok Gehlot had come to Jodhpur and visited these migrants to pay tribute to the deceased persons. But he did not say anything definite on the matter,” Poonia said. He said that a video reportedly made by one of the victims, has gone viral, in which serious allegations have been raised, which needed to be investigated. Terming the present state government a ‘jugad’ government, Poonia said that this tenure of the Gehlot government has turned out to be weaker than his previous tenure. “Crime rate has shot up tremendously, farmers are miserably disappointed and unemployment has been pathetic under this government’s rule,” he alleged. He also questioned the poll promises of the Congress government referring to waiving of farmers’ loans in 10 days of assuming power and unemployment allowance to Rs 1.58 lakh for youth and termed the government an absolute failure. He also accused the Gehlot government of undermining democracy and morality, referring to his threatening the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/bjp-death-of-pak-refugees-raises-serious-questions/articleshow/77600964.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Allahabad||High Court seeks reply from DM, SSP on non-compliance of Covid orders||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has sought explanation from the DM and SSP of Prayagraj through video conferencing on August 18 regarding some photographs which have been filed for initiating contempt proceedings for non-compliance of the August 5 order concerning the steps taken to check spread of Covid-19 in letter and spirit. The court passed this order on Monday after a contempt application was placed before the court by two counsel of this court, Ram Kaushik and Priyanka Midda, attaching therein certain photographs. Taking the contempt application on record, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed, “The photographs attached with the contempt application are very shocking and all this definitely requires an explanation from the police and the district administration. These photographs show that road aps and plans are there only on paper and things are not being implemented the way they should be.” Hearing a PIL seeking better condition of quarantine centres, the court fixed August 18 as the next date of hearing. Holding that since the earlier order restraining pillion riding is creating inconvenience to the citizens of the state, the court modified its earlier order dated August 5 to the effect that only two people would be allowed on two- wheelers provided both have proper masks, visors and helmets. The court directed the police to strictly adhere to this direction. Further, the court also directed the police to forbid E-rickshaws and auto-rickshaws, which are carrying many more passengers than their capacity. They cannot carry more than four passengers at a time, the court added. Earlier, the court had on August 5 directed the state authorities to see vigorously that no two individuals in public remain within a distance of two yards from each other. Secondly, if any public place is found where people fail to maintain a distance of two yards from each other then the owner of the premises, where the violation of this rule is found, should be brought to book and the premises should be closed down. Thirdly, if it is brought to the notice of the administration in the higher echelon that policemen, etc., are not enforcing rules of distancing then action should be taken against those policemen. During the course of hearing, the court showed its displeasure why when the rate of infection was at its peak the state was still contemplating coming with a road map even after the passing of almost two weeks of the order. “Now, what we find is that while almost five months have passed since the lockdown was initially imposed, guidelines and road maps are still being issued. This evidently means that these guidelines are not sufficient and that actual work now needs to be done on the spot,” the court added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/high-court-seeks-reply-from-dm-ssp-on-non-compliance-of-covid-orders/articleshow/77601084.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 18, 2020||Kolkata||Parents get a week to pay 80% of pending fee||Kolkata: Calcutta High Court has given parents reprieve till next week to pay 80% of the pending school fees. Asking schools not to take any “coercive action” till then, the court has instructed them to give parents this part-payment option. If they don’t do so and insist on 100% payment of pending dues, the schools cannot de-roster students from online classes and stop them from appearing in online examinations. The HC will appoint a two-member committee to look into the audited accounts of city schools “to ascertain the variable costs involved and the extent of concession the schools ought to pass on to the students”. The court has said that Jadavpur University VC Suranjan Das will head this committee provided he agrees to the court’s request. The other member will be named by Advocate General Kishore Dutta from among the recently retired heads of state higher secondary board or secondary board. A division bench of justices Sanjib Banerjee and Moushumi Bhattacharya will hear the school-fee PIL again on Tuesday. Das has agreed to the court’s request. “Since I have been requested by the court, I will happily discharge my responsibility. I hope I am able to do justice to all stakeholders,” Das said. The committee, the HC said, will receive the audited accounts of the income and expenditure of schools within a week. These account statements should be certified by regular auditors or by a chartered accountant. The schools that do not furnish these details won’t be able to take steps against students. The particulars to be to be furnished by schools will have all details, covering heads of income and expenditure from January to July, 2020. “Such figures will give the committee an idea as to what the normal income and expenditure has been after the lockdown started in March,” the order said. The court has proposed that the two member committee will be free to take the help of any accountant or chartered accountant for vetting the accounts of the schools involved in the PIL.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/parents-get-a-week-to-pay-80-of-pending-fee/articleshow/77599641.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 18, 2020||Delhi||Screening Covid patients in Delhi: 800 eyes on wards and staff at Lok Nayak||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s largest Covid-19 facility, Lok Nayak Hospital, has started monitoring coronavirus patients being treated in the hospital through 800 cameras. This follows the need to have live monitoring of wards and medical service after videos surfaced in June showing patients lying unattended, some even near a dead body, in the hospital. The new monitoring system is part of the interventions planned by Delhi government to effect a turnaround in medical care at the institution. “The hospital was subject to a volley of criticism two months ago. Now the hospital is being appreciated all over,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Monday while congratulating doctors and hospital staff who made this possible. The cameras beam live images from casualty, wards, corridors and other strategic spaces to the control room near the office of medical director Suresh Kumar. The footage of patients in the wards, nurses and doctors attending to the patients, provision of meals and the sanitation on the complex are being especially monitored round the clock. The cameras are trained on 31 wards besides the intensive care units. In the monitoring room, some doctors, the security officer, sanitation supervisors, nursing heads and administrative officials keep a keen eye on the screen. They are armed with the contact numbers of people responsible for the various services and can dial them immediately on noticing something amiss. Citing a recent incident of how the system works, an official related how the duty nurse was alerted after a patient was observed in the monitoring room showing signs of discomfort. He was shifted to the ICU in time. “The doctors, nurses and other staff are already working diligently on the ground, but the monitoring gives us a back-up system for close observation and immediate intervention,” explained Kumar. The monitoring began a week ago. “The monitoring starts the moment a patient is brought to the casualty ward. The doctors and nurses working in the casualty wards are monitored to see how they handle the patients,” said Kumar. “This has crucially reduced the time taken between arrival at casualty and the shift to the ICU or a ward.” The medical director claimed that the hospital had managed to reduce deaths in the hospital and in the past week, had registered no fatalities on two days. Shifting procedures are also streamlined. “Since the vacant beds are also visible on the screen, monitoring officials can inform the casualty wards where to take the patients. Earlier, finding vacant beds was a time-consuming process,” said Kumar. Health minister Satyendar Jain recently inspected the monitoring room and directed the hospital administration to ensure zero deaths were reported in the hospital. Lok Nayak Hospital’s casualty ward has 25 ventilators and there are eight doctors, six patient attendants, 12 ward boys, five security guards and 12 nursing staff present in every shift. Currently, there are around 500 Covid patients being treated at the hospital. The monitoring system is also helping the hospital authorities see how medical waste is collected and disposed of. This 24x7 scrutiny has made the 650-odd staff more diligent in providing medical and related services in the 2,000-bedded Covid hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/screening-covid-patients-800-eyes-on-wards-and-staff-at-lok-nayak/articleshow/77599685.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 18, 2020||Agra||UP: Aligarh to produce grenades, UAVs, communication devices||AGRA: Eleven companies are set to manufacture military equipment — hand grenades, unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) and communication components — at the Aligarh node of the defence-industrial corridor in UP, additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi said on Monday. The project should get off the ground by November this year. The 53-hectare Aligarh node is one of six along the corridor, the others being Lucknow, Kanpur, Agra, Chitrakoot and Jhansi. “A draft plan will be prepared in a month and work to offer basic amenities and infrastructure to the companies will begin by November this year,” said Awasthi, also chief executive officer of Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), which is the nodal agency for the project. Aligarh deputy commissioner (industry) Srinath Paswan added that the government has decided to acquire more land for the corridor in the city. Defence minister Rajnath Singh had on August 9 said that India would stop importing 101 items of military equipment that can be made by domestic manufacturers. “Investments of more than Rs 400 crore by the MSME sector here will give a big push to the country’s Make in India programme. Our priority is to encourage Indian investors since the defence minister wants items of military equipment to be made in India,” Awasthi said. However, he added, “We will surely get foreign investment once the project starts.” Most of the 11 companies who have been allotted land on the corridor now are from Aligarh, Delhi and Ghaziabad and are a mix of those that have been in the defence sector and those that have not. Aligarh-based Deep Explo Equipments Pvt Ltd, for instance, has been operating in the defence sector for 26 years. It has been manufacturing tear gas shell assemblies (complete units), smoke covers and ignitors for missiles — Aakash, Pinaka, Concour, Invar, BrahMos and Torpedo — through its three major anchor units and with Bharat Dynamics Limited. “We have now entered a longer exclusive agreement to supply hardware components for hand grenades, multimode grenades for Army, and chaff and other flaring units for the Air Force,” Lalesh Saxena, managing director of the company, told TOI. Nitya Creation India, also on the list of 11, has been engaged in the defence sector, manufacturing components for defence communication systems and supplying them to Bharat Electronics Limited for 15 years now. “We have signed an MoU with the UP government for manufacturing electromechanical components for aircraft communication systems,” Navneet Varshney, managing director of the Aligarh-based company, told TOI. There are some new entrants as well, like Allen & Alvan Pvt Ltd, a hardware and security products manufacturing company. “We will enter the defence sector now. We are going to manufacture unmanned aerial vehicles and three allied items,” said Dhanjit Wadra, managing director of the company and president of the Federation of Innovative Manufacturers, which is also UPEIDA’s knowledge partner for the corridor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/aligarh-will-soon-produce-uavs-grenades-military-comms-devices/articleshow/77598271.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 18, 2020||Varanasi||Data shows corona spared Varanasi’s slum-dwellers||VARANASI: Slums in the city where most of the sanitary workers — the frontline corona warriors — dwell, have so far proved to be safer in terms of virus spread as compared to most of the clean, posh and all other localities. Not only the claims of Varanasi Municipal Corporation, but even the data of Covid-19 positive cases, fatalities and hotspots prove this fact. Municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi said, “Till August 16, the number of hotspot areas in Varanasi was 1,214, of which only two are slums. Parts of Konia and Bheem Nagar Malin Bastis (slums) had been declared as hotspots in the past few months when five slum-dwellers tested positive. Among these five, only one was sanitary staff while others were in different professions and all have been cured.” Most of the dwellers in city.s 210 slums remained safe at a time when district’s Covid-19 tally has gone above 5,400. Rathi said of the 210 slums, 158 house major population of sanitary staff . Since the beginning of Covid menace, VMC ensured repeated sanitisation of these areas and also carried out awareness campaigns and distribution of precautionary articles including mobile hand wash facility. Direct bank transfer facility was ensured for them for disbursing salaries and other financial helps while mobile ATMs were placed near their localities to avoid gatherings in banks, he said adding, 500 self -help groups were formed to generate employment among slum-dwellers, who manufactured PPE kits, face shields, sanitary pads and also masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/data-shows-corona-spared-citys-slum-dwellers/articleshow/77601220.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand chief minister buys plot in Gairsain, asks others also to invest in area||DEHRADUN: In a bid to encourage others to invest in the hills, Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Monday announced that he has purchased a land close to Gairsain, the new summer capital of Uttarakhand. The CM appealed to invest in the area saying it would fillip reverse migration in the hills. He also requested those people, who have migrated to the plains of Uttarakhand or those who have shifted to other states, to return to their native villages during key festivals and celebrate the auspicious occasions with near and dear ones. Through a social media post, CM informed that he has become a “bhoomidhar” (land owner) in Gairsain. He has bought around 6 naali (local measuring unit) land (around 1,300 square metres) in Devidhar area on the outskirts of Sarkot village, which is close to Gairsain. “How will the process of reverse migration start if those who have money and are looking to invest face their backs towards the hills. It is time that people came forward to invest in different sectors in the hills. This is a small step from my side and I hope that it will motivate others to invest and work in the hill regions of the state,” CM Rawat said. He added that he will build a house on the newly purchased land. “Whenever my pocket permits, I will construct a house there. Development will reach the hills only when the educated class, intellectuals, and people who are aware about situations and things, start living there. For development, we need investment on the local level. There is a lot of scope in far flung areas and we need to tap the local resources for the overall development,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-buys-plot-in-gairsain-asks-others-also-to-invest-in-area/articleshow/77598279.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan excise dept to bring back old alcohol brands, revive heritage||JAIPUR: When liquor production was in short supply and regulated, Rajasthan used to make nearly two dozen brands of whiskey, rum, gin, brandy and heritage liquor. By 1986, production of the brands faced closure due to the popularity of grain-based alcohol by private distilleries. But now the state excise department is trying to bring back some of the old brands and revive the heritage. Black Horse whiskey and Black Jack rum, which kept the Army and BSF in the 70s and 80s in high spirits, will now be seen on the shelves of the government’s liquor outlets. According to a senior official, the department is initially making 5,000 cases of Black Horse, which would be launched in the next 15 days. While the rate has not been finalized, it would be in the mid-segment, between Rs 500-600 per 750 ml bottle. “These liquor beverages are part of our history. By producing some brands of the yore, we want to revive our heritage. They will be made in our Jhotwara distillery and the products will be available on the government shops,” said Prithvi Raj, finance secretary (Revenue). Previously, the alcohol was made out of sugarcane molasses, unlike food grains like wheat, bajra, and rice. Before the green revolution, food grains were in short supply and molasses were preferred for making alcohol. Now, grain production in the country has increased, it is also considered better than molasses. Black Horse will be a grain-based alcohol. Many of these brands were produced in a distillery in Ganganagar Sugar Mill (GSM) before the operations closed due to competition from new private distilleries. “GSM’s history goes back to over hundred years and much of the credit is given to erstwhile king of Bikaner, Maharaja Ganga Singh, who was instrumental in bringing Ganga canal to the area and making it a fertile field for sugarcane cultivation. With the availability of molasses, a distillery was also set up to make alcohol beverages,” said Anil Kumar Singh, who retired from Rajasthan State Ganganagar Sugar Mill (RSGSM) as deputy general manager and now works as a consultant. Recently, the department made another attempt to produce heritage liquors which served the royalty of various princely states. It introduced Kesar Kasturi and Chandr Hass, while work is on to re-launch Jagmohan and Saunf. The heritage liquor is made of spices, herbs and roots with alcohol content in varying degrees. For example, Chandr Hass, a brew of ex-royals of Kanota, uses 78 varieties of herbs and spices. Similarly, Kesar Kasturi is made of 10-12 herbs. These are also produced at RSGSM’s Jhotwara located Royal Heritage Liquor Distillery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-excise-dept-to-bring-back-old-alcohol-brands-revive-heritage/articleshow/77600963.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
August 18, 2020||Udaipur||Udaipur: Mobile app to boost local business in village||UDAIPUR: A 30-year-old commerce graduate from Lakhawali village under Badgaon panchayat samiti of Udaipur launched an app on Independence Day that connects various service providers. Entrepreneur Harikant Nagda realised the difficulties residents faced during lockdown months when they needed experts for various services. “Motivated by PM Narendra Modi’s mantra ‘Vocal for Local’, he came up with the idea of the idea to use the digital platform in such a way that it would prove beneficial both for consumers and entrepreneurs. I worked for weeks and developed the app - Lakhawali Business Backbone mobile application (LBB) which is now open for people,” Nagda said.  The mobile application would include details of service providers among residents themselves as this would save time and money. The application which is free for download would be available at google play store soon. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/mobile-app-to-boost-local-biz-in-village/articleshow/77600990.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Buying an e-vehicle? Subsidy to reflect in your bank account in seven days||NEW DELHI: Delhiites buying an electric vehicle (EV) will get the subsidy of up to Rs 30,000 for two-wheelers and up to Rs 1.5 lakh for cars directly transferred to their bank accounts within seven days of the purchase. Launched by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on August 7, Delhi government’s comprehensive electric vehicle policy aims to push the adoption of EVs by creating an entire ecosystem in Delhi, which includes incentives for buying new vehicles, creating a robust charging infrastructure, funding through various sources that include congestion charge, and monitoring mechanism for timely implementation. Dialogue and Development Commission vice-chairman Jasmine Shah, who has worked extensively on the EV policy, said the rollout of all commitments in the EV policy was being attempted over the next three months. “The first and foremost is to ensure that the promised financial incentives are put in place and there is a clean and clear system so that people don’t have to run around; or it will defeat the entire purpose,” Shah said. He said the subsidies were clearly defined and now an entire system and framework for delivering these directly in the accounts of people was being put in place. “There will be electronic transfers and the government is working towards a smooth system, whereby within seven days of purchase, you should get the subsidy amount in your bank account,” Shah said. The system is expected to be in place in the next few weeks. Shah said the provision of road tax exemption was in process but additional road tax on diesel and petrol vehicles and congestion fees on cabs would take some time as the process for that was much longer. After incentive, the other primary aspect the government is working on is creating charging infrastructure. Shah said preliminary work had started, including identifying locations where charging stations could come up. “There is a lot of interest from the power discoms in Delhi that want to be a part of setting up of charging stations. It is at an early stage but the discussions have started,” he said. “The initial plans for charging stations will be ready within next three months,” Shah said, adding that the charging stations would come up in a staggered fashion as a lot of planning was involved before execution. The chief minister has promised 200 charging stations in the first year and the entire government machinery is working towards that, Shah said. “The entire department is working hard to ensure that whatever provisions and commitments are made in the policy are rolled out immediately,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/buying-an-e-vehicle-subsidy-to-reflect-in-your-a/c-in-7-days/articleshow/77599809.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 18, 2020||Patna||SPs of 9 districts shifted, ADG Bhatti promoted||Patna: The state government on Monday transferred 14 IPS officers, including the SPs of nine districts. ADG R S Bhatti was promoted to DG rank in Bihar Military Police (BMP). Khagaria, Jehanabad, Araria, Saran, Aurangabad, Jamui, Bhojpur, Bagaha and Vaishali got new SPs. R Malar Vizhi and M R Nayak, who were waiting for posting, have been made ADG (training) and IG (railways), respectively. Khagaria SP Meenu Kumari will be Jehanabad SP in place of Maneesh, who will replace Gaurav Mangla in Vaishali. Mangla has been shifted to State Crime Records Bureau as SP. Araria SP Dhurat Saayli Savlaram will be Saran SP in place of Har Kishore Rai, who will replace Sushil Kumar in Bhojpur. Sushil has been made commandant of BMP-3 at Bodh Gaya, replacing Pramod Kumar Mandal, who has been made Jamui SP. Jamui SP Inamul Haq Mengnoo has been made assistant director of Bihar Police Academy at Rajgir. Aurangabad SP Deepak Barnwal has been shifted to special branch. SP (special task force) Sudhir Kumar Podika replaced him in Aurangabad. Bagaha SP Rajiv Ranjan will be SP, STF. Patna Sadar SDPO Kiran Kumar Gorakh Jadhav has been posted as SP, Bagaha. Sasaram SDPO Hriday Kant has been made Araria SP while Muzaffarpur ASP (East) Amitesh Kumar will be Khagaria SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sps-of-9-districts-shifted-adg-bhatti-promoted/articleshow/77599732.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bareilly||Pray from homes during Muharram, give money to poor: Cleric||Bareilly: Sajjada nasheen of Dargah Aala Hazrat Mufti Ahsan Raza Khan on Monday appealed to the community members to pray from their homes during Muharram. He asked the people to follow the government guidelines for Covid-19. Khan said the money saved for events should, now, be distributed among the poor. Media coordinator Dargah Aala Hazrat Nasir Qureshi said, “Sajjada nasheen of Dargah Aala Hazrat Mufti Ahsan Raza Khan said that all the events and processions organized during Muharram should be withdrawn this year. He also urged the people to follow the government guidelines for Covid-19. He said they should, instead, pray from home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pray-from-homes-during-muharram-give-money-to-poor-cleric/articleshow/77596158.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 15 lakh new names in non-NFSA list of beneficiaries||JAIPUR: The state government has completed phase-II of the survey of non-NFSA (national food security act) beneficiaries for the distribution of food grains or cash money on August 15. Around 4.14 lakh families including 15.36 lakh new beneficiaries have been registered in this phase in the whole state, said a food department official. Jaipur district has enrolled over 2 lakh new beneficiaries during the registration through E-mitra in this phase. The state government had extended the date for the second phase of registration of non-NFSA beneficiaries (belonging to 37 categories) up to August 15 from August 3 for distribution of food grains/cash money. “It is yet to be decided by the government whether to distribute food grains or cash money to the beneficiaries,” said an official. During the survey of the poor and needy people (those who are not covered by national food security Act), done by the state government in the first phase, 68 lakh members of 20 lakh families were registered. The date for the distribution of food grains to the beneficiaries in the second phase is yet to be announced by the government. In Jaipur, of the total allotment of 74,568 quintals of food grains, 63,364 quintals were distributed to over 6.33 lakh non-NFSA beneficiaries in the month of June. Under the free ration scheme to non-NFSA and migrant workers 1 kg chana is distributed to each family every month and 5 kg wheat each is given to every family member. According to an official, the state government had lifted 4.46 lakh quintals of food grains under Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme for the month of May and June at one go starting from the last week of May till the first week of June (the distribution was also done at one go). In fact, the state procured extra/additional food grains from FCI for these two months - 1.20 lakh quintals in May and 1.87 lakh quintals in the month of June, said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15l-new-names-in-non-nfsa-list-of-beneficiaries/articleshow/77600983.cms||---
August 18, 2020||India||Shashi Tharoor plan to summon Facebook before House panel stirs row||NEW DELHI: With the political row over allegations that Facebook failed to act against BJP handles despite violations of code of conduct, attention is focused on the parliamentary standing committee on information technology, whose next meeting is scheduled for September 1-2. On Sunday, committee chairman Shashi Tharoor had said the panel would like to hear from Facebook about the WSJ report and what the social media giant proposed to do about hate speech in the country. Tharoor also said the committee would, “in the normal course, consider testimony under the topic ‘safeguarding citizens’ rights and prevention of misuse of social/online news media platforms’”. His comments fuelled a row with BJP MP Nishikant Dubey alleging that the chairman of the committee did not have the authority to act without discussing the agenda with members of the panel. Shortly after, TOI also learnt that all BJP MPs on the committee would write to Speaker Om Birla to complain about Tharoor making the claim that Facebook would be summoned, without consulting other MPs first. Blog: Bullying tactics on the Left: Facebook is not biased to the RightTMC MP Mahua Moitra, however, jumped to Tharoor’s defence and said, “Am IT committee member - agenda item was already agreed and bulletinised with the Speaker's approval at the beginning of the year. When to schedule each item and who to call is chairman's prerogative Amazing how BJP jumps up and down at anything to do with FB’s interests.” Facebook refused to remove anti-Muslim posts to not upset Modi govt: WSJLater in the day, Tharoor took umbrage to Dubey’s tweet and said he would “take it up”. “You are absolutely right Mahua Moitra and by imputing motives to my decision, Nishikant Dubey has brought the committee's work into disrepute, a matter I will take up. Extraordinary that an MP would suggest that a matter of such great public interest should not be taken up by us,” Tharoor said on Twitter. You are absolutely right, @mahuaMoitra,& by imputing motives to my decision, @nishikant_dubey has brought the Commi… https://t.co/PaqMXAkMj4— Shashi Tharoor (@ShashiTharoor) 1597672934000Meanwhile, Facebook on Monday acknowledged there was “more to do” on prohibiting hate speech and it was “making progress on enforcement and conducting regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy”. “We prohibit hate speech and content that incites violence and we enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone's political position or party affiliation. While we know there is more to do, we're making progress on enforcement and conduct regular audits of our process to ensure fairness and accuracy," a Facebook spokesperson said. Read AlsoWe enforce policies without regard to anyone's political party affiliation: FacebookSocial media giant Facebook said on Monday that it prohibits hate speech and content that incites violence and enforces these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position or party affiliation. The statement was in reaction to a report in the Wall Street Journal claiming that theWatch Tharoor plans to summon Facebook before panel, stirs row||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tharoor-plan-to-summon-facebook-before-panel-stirs-row/articleshow/77602637.cms||Swati Mathur
August 18, 2020||Delhi||Check oxygen levels door to door, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal tells volunteers||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal has asked the party volunteers in different parts of the country to work on the frontlines, visit each and every home to test the oxygen levels of the people and help prevent deaths due to Covid. He was interacting with them on Monday through video conferencing. “From our experiences of dealing with the pandemic, we have observed that the biggest challenge is the falling oxygen levels in the Covid patients. Due to falling oxygen levels, many patients lose their lives. Timely detection of the lowering oxygen levels and provision of help can save the lives of the patients,” Kejriwal said. Kejriwal further said that AAP volunteers in different villages of the country (where AAP workers are active) would set up oxygen testing centres in their houses for people to come and check their oxygen levels. “If a person is suffering from the symptoms of Covid, they must go to the government Covid testing centres for tests. But in some states, testing results take time. In such cases, their oxygen levels must be measured so that if their oxygen levels are lower than 95, they should be immediately transferred to hospitals. In this way, we will be able to save more and more lives,” Kejriwal added. The Delhi CM said that in every village, an “Oxi Mitra” will be appointed for setting up of oxygen testing centres. Within a day of Kejriwal appealing to party volunteers and others to donate oximeters to AAP, more than 30,000 oximeters have been donated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/check-oxygen-levels-door-to-door-cm-tells-volunteers/articleshow/77599794.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Varanasi||Missing girl found dead in pond, family accuses cops of inaction||VARANASI: A 16-year-old missing girl was found murdered after allegedly being raped at a village in Mubarakpur area of Azamgarh district on Monday. Her body was found floating in a village pond. The police have nabbed a local youth in this connection. The girl’s family has accused the police of not taking action despite a complaint filed on Saturday. They alleged that the police failed to rescue the girl even after nabbing the accused on Sunday. According to reports, the girl and her parents had returned home from Mumbai due to Covid pandemic. She went missing on Saturday. The family members gave a complaint to Mubarakpur police on the same day. Later, on the complaint of the girl’s family the police took the accused under custody on Sunday. On Monday morning, the girl’s body was found in the pond. As soon as the news spread, several villagers blocked Sathiaon crossing in protest against the incident alleging police inaction. Heavy police force was deployed in the area to maintain law and order. ASP (city) Pankaj Kumar Pandey said that the accused has been taken under custody, and FIR is being lodged against him under section 376 (rape) and 302 (murder) of IPC. The body has been sent for the postmortem. On allegation against the police, he said that the matter would be looked into, and action would be initiated against those found guilty. Meanwhile, the SP workers led by a local leader Akhilesh Yadav also reached the village and staged dharna demanding action against the guilty. He alleged that the government has failed to put a check on crime. Earlier in Azamagrah, a man and his son were shot by some miscreants at Rasoolpur Dudhahar village in Ghudsahana Naupur gram panchayat on Thursday, while a gram pradhan was shot in Tarwa area of the district on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/missing-girl-found-dead-in-pond-family-accuses-cops-of-inaction/articleshow/77601312.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Agra||Restaurants & gyms to start operating in Agra from Tues||Agra: With the Covid-19 positivity rate decreasing below 2 per cent, the district administration on Monday issued orders for reopening of restaurants and gymnasiums from Tuesday onwards. In Agra district, restaurants and gymnasiums were non-operational since March 23. The district administration is also working on a plan to reopen historical and archaeological sites - except Taj Mahal and Agra fort - next week. tDistrict magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “Maintaining social distancing protocol, restaurants and gymnasiums can operate from Tuesday onwards. Yoga centres can also operate. Public parks will be opened. Restaurants will be allowed to operate till 10 pm. Arrangement for sanitization is mandatory. Action will be taken against those found violating the Covid-19 prevention guidelines.”“We are considering the opening of historical and archaeological sites. Except Taj Mahal and Agra fort, other places will be opened next week. Taj Mahal and Agra fort will be opened in the second phase," he said. Historical and archaeological sites in Agra are closed since March 17. Union ministry of culture had allowed the opening of historical monuments protected by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) on July 6 with SOP and safeguards in place. However, the final decision was left to the local administration. The Agra district administration in order to put a tab on the spread of the deadly virus had decided to keep the ASI protected monuments closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/restaurants-gyms-to-start-operating-in-agra-from-tues/articleshow/77598300.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 18, 2020||Patna||Daily Covid tally dips in Bihar, recovery rate rises||PATNA: State health department on Monday reported 2,525 fresh cases of Covid-19 across Bihar, slightly higher than on Sunday, but well below the 3,000 mark, which was trending in the past week, taking the corresponding tally to 1,06,617. As per the daily bulletin issued by the health department, 4,140 patients recovered from Covid-19 in the past 24 hours— the highest single day recovery in the past one week. With 76,706 total recoveries so far, active cases stand at 29,369 in Bihar. As a beacon of hope amid the ongoing Covid crisis, the recovery rate in Bihar surged above 70% in the past 24 hours, making it the highest for this month. “With 4,140 recoveries in the past 24 hours, the recovery rate of Bihar stands at 71.94%,” state health secretary Lokesh Kumar Singh said in the daily Covid briefing on Monday evening. He added that 1,07,727 tests were conducted for Covid-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of tests conducted in the state so far to 17,87,189. Patna reported the highest number of fresh cases (303) on Monday, followed by 203 cases in Madhubani, 143 cases in Muzaffarpur and 137 cases in East Champaran. Fresh cases apart, the health department officially reported five deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid death toll to 542 as of Monday evening. Besides, five more deaths were reported at AIIMS-Patna and four were reported at NMCH due to Covid-19 on Monday. As per the daily bulletin issued by AIIMS-Patna, four deaths were reported from patients from Patna and one from Jamui. The deceased from Patna included a 71-year-old man from Kadamkuan, 75-year-old man from Danapur, 45-year-old man from Doctor Colony and 63-year-old man from Sadaqat Ashram. The deceased from Jamui district was a 76-year-old female, who was admitted to AIIMS-Patna on August 8. AIIMS-P daily bulletin also stated that 23 new Covid-19 positive patients were admitted in the past 24 hours. At present, 237 Covid-19 positive patients are undergoing treatment at AIIMS-P. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Patna, reported four deaths on Monday. According to a daily bulletin issued by the NMCH, all four deaths happened due to comorbidities— three had cardiac arrests and one had typhoid. The deceased were from Patna, East Champaran, Madhepura and Bhojpur. The NMCH daily bulletin also mentioned that there were 65 Covid-19 positive patients undergoing treatment at the hospital, out of which 11 were admitted on Monday. While 29 patients were on ventilators, eight were kept on oxygen support. Adding to the list of recoveries, eight people were discharged from NMCH and nine were discharged from AIIMS-P on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/daily-covid-tally-sees-a-dip-recovery-rate-rises-to-70/articleshow/77599812.cms||Arunima Lal
August 18, 2020||Kolkata||CU waives application fee, students to get refund||Kolkata: Candidates who have paid the application fee at the time of filling up admission forms online before the state government waived off the entire amount will get a refund, principals of colleges affiliated to Calcutta University have said. Different colleges were charging different amounts as application fee when the process started on August 10. Consequently, the government capped the charge at Rs 150. But after a couple of days, the higher education department issued another order, waiving the entire application charge. The colleges have informed the applicants about the same through their websites. Since candidates apply for multiple subjects in multiple colleges and have to pay for every application, the initiative will help the students immensely, particularly those from less privileged backgrounds. On an average, a college charges anything between Rs 250 and Rs 400 per application. Some of the private colleges charge Rs 500 and above. “An average student will be saving anything between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,500. During this pandemic, this is going to be a huge relief not only for the students but even for their families,” said an official of Calcutta University. The college authorities who are busy with the online admission process are trying to figure out ways to refund the application fees to the candidates who had paid before the government notification. “We stopped accepting the application fee from August 13 soon after the government order but a lot of students had already paid the money by then. The amount will be refunded because we cannot be unfair to one section of students. Currently, college authorities are busy with the admission process. Once the admission process is over, we will figure out the way and start the refund process,” said Tapan Kumar Poddar, president of the Calcutta University committee of the All Bengal Principals’ Council. Subhasis Dutta, principal of Maulana Azad College, said the option of application fee in the college’s portal has been deactivated and a notice has been put up on the website. Scottish Church College will refund the application fees of Rs 300 per application after the entire admission process is over. “The candidates will require to produce the payment receipt for the refund,” said a member of the admission committee of the college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-waives-application-fee-students-to-get-refund/articleshow/77599804.cms||Zeeshan Javed
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Jawai Bandh caves shut with stones, hyenas homeless||JAIPUR: Hyenas have been forced to wander outside cave entrances that have been blocked with stones at Jawai Bandh Leopard Conservation. These caves in the reserve, which was used to be homes to hyenas and leopards, are now a plot of conniving government apathy and individual greed. The sight and cries of these hyenas have appalled wildlife activists, which according to them is a deliberate attempt to force the wild animals away from the area. Several such cases have been closed in ignorance of forest officials. Even after repeated complaints by activists, authorities haven’t taken any action. “The forest department should register a case against these miscreants for destroying wild animal habitats,” said a local wildlife enthusiast. A senior forest official said, “We have sought a report on this issue from the assistant conservator of forests (ACF). The matter has also been discussed by Pali collector and action will be taken.” These caves have been an integral part of the habitat of Jawai Dam reserve inhabitants. Hyena, leopards and other wild animals dwell in protection of these caves. It was in consideration of this that the region had been declared a conservation reserve. As many hills are located on pasture and government land, locals are finding it easy to encroach as the district administration is turning a blind eye to the issue. Gafar Khan, a wildlife enthusiast said, “After sunset, these hyenas leave their caves and return after the sunrise. Duting that time, encroachers put stones and block the caves” The Jawai Bandh forest was previously a closed wildlife area. On February 23, 2010, the state government declared it as Jawai Bandh Leopard Conservation Reserve. Since then, it has set a successful example of wildlife peacefully co-existing with humans. “If caves are destroyed, either the leopards and hyena will abandon the area or man-animal conflicts will increase,” said Ravi Singh, a wildlife photographer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jawai-bandh-caves-shut-with-stones-hyenas-homeless/articleshow/77601005.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bareilly||Youth arrested for wife’s murder, tests positive for Covid-19||Bareilly: A 22-year-old youth, arrested for allegedly murdering his wife and then filing a false complaint that she had been abducted, has tested positive for Covid-19 infection. Now, 12 policemen who came in contact with the accused during interrogation and arrest have been quarantined. According to Bareilly police, Tejpal lodged a complaint with them claiming that he and his wife, Aarti, were returning from Prahladpur village to Bachera village on a motorcycle on August 15, when a few armed men in a van waylaid them. They snatched Rs 1,100 cash from him and took away his wife and motorcycle. On the youth’s complaint, an FIR was lodged. During police investigation, it came to light that Tejpal was in a relationship with another woman and the couple had been living separately. Due to family pressure, he came to fetch her from her maternal home. But on the way, he allegedly killed his wife with the help of a friend. They dumped her body in a pond. In another complaint with police, the deceased’s father accused Tejpal and eight others of killing Aarti for dowry. Superintendent of police (rural areas) Sansaar Singh said, “After the accused was arrested for his wife's murder, we got him tested for Covid-19 according to the protocol. He has been tested positive and shifted to a level one hospital. Nearly, 12 policemen who were in contact with him have been quarantined. If they show symptoms in the next few days, they will be tested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-arrested-for-wifes-murder-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77596184.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||MTech in ‘computational linguistics’ at Hindi varsity||NAGPUR: For the first time in Maharashtra, the Mahatma Gandhi International Hindi University would be starting an MTech course in ‘computational linguistics’ from 2020-21 session. Currently, it’s available only in a couple of institutions including Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) in India. The Wardha-based university is also launching ‘Master of Informatics and Language Engineering’ and PhD in same subject, which is only of its kind in the country. Both these courses would be imparted in Hindi medium that will benefit a large section of students, who faced difficulties in learning English. Announcing the launch of courses and admissions, vice-chancellor Prof Rajneesh Shukla on Monday said students can enrol for courses like MA, MEd, MBA, MTech, PhD, BA, BSW, BJMC, and BEd, among others. “We provide facilities like Wi-Fi, hostel, scholarship and research scholarship, and computer lab for the students. We’re NAAC ‘A’ certified central university,” he said. Shukla said the university was prepared to face challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic that had forced everyone to stay indoors. “The infrastructure to support education is already in place. The university is fully committed for all-round development of the students. With the natural environment of the university and the facilities available, there are ample possibilities to move forward as an active student,” he said. Apart from new courses, admissions to Hindi Linguistics, Hindi-Language Technology, Spanish, Chinese, French, Hindi literature, drama, Sanskrit, Gandhi and peace studies, women's studies, Buddhist studies, Dalit and tribal studies, philosophy PhD in social work, sociology, mass communication, anthropology, translation studies, migration and diaspora studies and education are also available. The deadline for submission of applications for all courses is September 5. Application forms for diploma and certificate courses are available on the university’s website www.hindivishwa.org. For more information regarding admissions, students can contact toll free number 18002332141.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mtech-in-computational-linguistics-at-hindi-varsity/articleshow/77600992.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 18, 2020||Kanpur||Police raid Jaikant Bajpai's house in search of his brothers||KANPUR:After the arrest of gangster Vikas Dubey’s financier Jaikant Bajpai, now the district police are conducting raids to nab his brothers Rajai, Ajai and Shobhit. The police, however, had to return empty-handed from their Nazirabad residence in Harshnagar locality, as all three were found to be absconding, during raid on Sunday night. To recall, the police had booked Jaikant along with his brothers Shobhit (24), Rajaikant (39) and Ajaikant (45)under Section 3 (1) of Uttar Pradesh Gangster Act on July 31. Jaikan, along with Prashant Shukla alias Dabblu was arrested on July 20 and had also been booked under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object), 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), 395(punishment for dacoity), 412(dishonestly receiving property stolen in the commission of a dacoity) , 120 B of (criminal conspiracy) IPC, said the police and added, but his three brothers continued to evade arrest. “Now, the police are looking for his three brothers and in the process raids were conducted on Sunday night. Jai was arrested, but his three brothers are still on run and now they are on the top bracket of ‘wanted list’ of the city police,” said SSP Preetinder Singh. Police had earlier accused Jaykant of providing gangster Vikas Dubey 25 cartridges of .32 bore revolvers and cash worth Rs 2 lakh on July 2 prior to the Bikru ambush which had left eight cops dead and seven including a civilian injured. He had also attempted to make gangster flee, but was finally arrested along with one of his aide Dabblu. Jaikant was taken into custody by police on July 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/police-raid-jaikant-house-in-search-of-his-brothers/articleshow/77601413.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Delhi||NDMC doctors not paid: Not Delhi government’s fault, SC told||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has told the Supreme Court that it was not responsible for non-payment of salaries to doctors and medical staff of North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run hospitals, and there has been no delay on its part in release of funds to the municipal body. Countering the stand taken by the north corporation that non-payment of salaries was due to Delhi government not releasing funds, the government in its affidavit said that Rs 276.6 crore had so far been released to the civic body, which is 25% of the total allocation to be made in the current financial year. The government filed the affidavit on a plea of a batch of doctors, including the chief medical officers, who approached the apex court through advocate S K Gupta for payment of their salaries. “The Govt of NCT Delhi has paid the salaries of all doctors and medical staff for the hospitals owned and run by Delhi govt. The Delhi govt is not responsible in any manner for the salaries of the doctors and other medical staff of the hospitals owned by North DMC and the said liability is completely on the corporations (sic),” the affidavit read. Alleging that the corporation did not use the unspent money from the last financial year, the government said the court should seek response on why Rs 136 crore had not been used for the payment of salaries. “It is respectfully submitted that it is the prerogative of north corporation as to how many doctors it employs and what salary it pays to doctors. The government of NCT is not concerned with the same in any manner," the affidavit said, putting the entire blame of the corporation for not paying salaries to doctors. The Delhi government said it is likely to face additional financial burden of around Rs 1,855 crore due to Covid-19. Admitting that it was not able to pay salaries to doctors, the municipal corporation had earlier blamed Delhi government for its “lackadaisical” approach to release of funds. “Despite direction from court on June 17 that salaries and emoluments of doctors and health workers, being in the frontline as Covid-19 warriors, be released timely, Delhi government in a very lackadaisical manner slept over this matter and released Rs 27.7 crore under the head of health towards grants-in-aid on July 9. It may be submitted that the period of the first quarter ended on June 30 and the amount under grants-in-aid for the first quarter was to be released before that date. However, there are still pending amounts payable by the government. This shows that the government is not honouring its statutory liability,” the corporation had said in its affidavit. There are around 1,000 doctors working in various hospitals run by the municipal body and Rs 18.6 crore was needed every month to pay their salaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-docs-not-paid-not-govts-fault-sc-told/articleshow/77599823.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
August 18, 2020||Delhi||Just 27% of tests conducted via RT-PCR in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 787 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Monday, taking the tally to over 1.53 lakh, while the death toll rose to 4,214 with 18 more fatalities. The number of tests conducted was 14,988. Of these, 10,882 (73%) were done using rapid antigen testing (RAT), and 4,106 (27%) tests were conducted using the RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat method, the gold standard for Covid testing. Delhi high court, on July 27, asked Delhi government to ramp up RT-PCR tests for Covid-19. Delhi has a capacity to conduct 11,000 RT-PCR tests daily. However, data shows the number of RT-PCR tests has remained between 3,024 and 6,478 over the past week. RT-PCR detects the presence of infection by targeting specific genetic sequences of SARS CoV2, the virus causing Covid-19. It has 68% to 80% sensitivity — ability to correctly identify those with the disease. Rapid antigen test detects the presence of infection by targeting specific viral proteins present in a sample. Though it gives results faster, its sensitivity is significantly lower, which means it throws up a high rate of false-negative results. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) says RAT has to be utilised mainly in containment zones/hotspots and healthcare settings. For patients suffering from severe acute respiratory infections (SARI), for example fever and cough, ICMR told the court that RT-PCR testing was advised. “Rapid antigen throws false negatives in many cases. If the person who has disease symptoms isn’t re-tested using RT-PCR immediately, there is a risk that we may miss positive cases and the suspect can continue to spread the disease,” says a doctor. Most big hospitals say there has been a significant increase in Covid-19 cases over the past 10 days, after a brief decline last month. The same is also reflected in the occupancy rate for Covid-19 beds that had reduced to less than 3,000 on July 30 and continued to be so till August 5. It has now reached 3,579. Of the 1,231 ICU beds with ventilators, 434 are occupied. The occupancy of ICU beds without a ventilator is 37%, according to the latest update by hospital on the Delhi Corona app. Max Smart, Saket, Indraprastha Apollo, Max Patparganj, BLK Super Specialty, Fortis Hospital Vasant Kunj, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute and Aakash Healthcare among others did not have any ICU bed with ventilator available at 10pm on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/just-27-of-tests-conducted-via-rt-pcr/articleshow/77599815.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Woman, mom-in-law get death sentence for ‘sacrificing’ child||PATNA: One Sankesha Devi (40) and her mother-in-law Durgawati Devi (60) were sentenced to death by the court of ADJ-IV Law Kush Kumar in Gopalganj on Monday for killing a four-year-old boy as a ‘sacrifice’ to get a male child by black magic. The incident took place at Chhitauna under Vijaypur police station in Gopalganj district on September 5, 2017. This is probably the first instance in last several decades that women have been awarded capital punishment in Bihar. “The deceased, Deo Kumar, lived on the campus of Sankesha and Durgawati,” Gopalganj public prosecutor Deo Vansh Giri told TOI over phone. Giri said Sankesha, with the help of Durgawati, had hacked Deo to death in her bedroom and dumped the body under a pile of grass a few metres away from their residence. His parents found the body with more than six stab injuries and slit throat,” he said. Giri said both the women had used sickles to kill the child. “Sankesha didn’t have any child and she wanted a son. She, along with Durgawati, resorted to black magic for that,” he said. Giri said police had recovered Deo’s bloodstained cloths and the sickles used as murder weapon from Sankesha’s bedroom. He said both the convicts were pronounced guilty on July 5 this year via virtual hearing. “The death sentence was also pronounced via virtual hearing. Both were present before the court through videoconference from jail,” he said. The government counsel said 11 out of the 13 witnesses supported the prosecution’s case. “Two never turned up,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-mom-in-law-get-death-sentence-for-sacrificing-child/articleshow/77599832.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 18, 2020||Kolkata||Covid scare takes a toll on dengue detection tests||Kolkata: Fear of contracting Covid-19 is keeping people away from the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s (KMC) dengue detection centres, threatening to negate the civic body’s drive against the mosquito-borne disease. Those running a temperature or suffering from cough and cold or body ache are choosing to visit government hospitals or private diagnostic labs to get a Covid-19 test done, rather than visiting a KMC clinic to check if they have dengue, according to civic health officials. This being the dengue season, an outbreak could be disastrous in the midst of the pandemic, a civic official warned. “Those with symptoms should also go for a dengue test either at our detection centres or private labs. Any delay in detection could enhance the risk factor for dengue patients. This year, it could be worse since people are afraid of visiting dengue detection centres fearing Covid infection,” said a KMC official. A section of Rapid Action Force (RAF) workers from KMC’s vector-control wing has been keeping a special vigil on large areas of Behala, including Parnasree, Taratala, Sarsuna and Shakuntala Park following reports of sporadic cases in last one month. The KMC vector-control special wing personnel entrusted to destroy mosquito-breeding sites have reasons to worry as these neighbourhoods had registered several cases — and deaths — in August last year. “Usually dengue cases spike from August and accordingly, we enhance our prevention drive. This year, people are more occupied with Covid-19. This could make our dengue drive more difficult in the coming months,” a KMC health department official said. KMC sources said the civic body’s rapid action team was keeping a watch on other dengue-prone areas like Dum Dum, Cossipore, Hatibagan, Burrabazar, Girish Park, Bagbazar, Taltala, Entally, Ballygunge, Kasba, Chetla, Bhowanipore, Kidderpore, Behala, Tollygunge and areas off EM Bypass. According to KMC officials, recent showers have created puddles that may become mosquito-breeding sites. Kolkata and south Bengal will receive light to moderate rain over the next week. Since the monsoon trough is now over south Bengal, showers will be frequent, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre. A low-pressure is set to develop over north Bay of Bengal around August 19. “It could trigger moderate rain across south Bengal, including Kolkata,” said RMC director GK Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-scare-takes-a-toll-on-dengue-detection-tests/articleshow/77599817.cms||Saikat Ray
August 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Idukki gets its first Covid testing lab||IDUKKI: Idukki's much-awaited Covid-19 testing lab started functioning on Monday. The Covid-19 lab that is attached to Idukki Medical College has got the nod from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct tests. On Monday the lab collected 17 samples for testing and the authorities are hopeful of conducting around 100 tests in the coming day. Authorities are hoping to test all samples in the district at the lab if it gets an automated RNA extraction system. Earlier, the samples were collected from Idukki and sent to the lab at Thlappady in Kottayam. Due to the large number of samples that reach the Thalappady lab, the results for Idukki were delayed by two to three days. Moreover, the Thalappady lab is closed on all Mondays for disinfection, thus delaying the announcing of results for Idukki even further. Due to the disinfection closure at Thalappady, Idukki had no cases reported on Tuesdays for the last four weeks, said officials. Meanwhile, 23 tested positive in the district on Monday, out of which the source of infection in a Kattappana native is yet to be traced, said district medical officer. A six-member family from Kanjiramattamin Thodupuzha was among the fresh cases that contracted the virus through local transmission. While nine returnees, including eight from other states, were among the new cases, the district reported 15 recoveries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/idukki-gets-its-first-covid-testing-lab/articleshow/77598351.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Kanpur||Main accused in 2 hooch tragedies held||KANPUR: The main accused in the hooch tragedies in Kanpur and Kanpur Dehat districts in 2018 and 2019, which claimed as many as 24 lives, was arrested by the Special Task Force (STF) in Phafoond area of Auraiya district on Monday. The accused, Janak Singh alias Chotey Parihar, is a native of Biruhali village under Ajitmal police station in Auraiya district. “He was wanted in connection with two cases of hooch tragedies in Sachendi, Saadh area of Ghatampur and Kanpur Dehat districts in 2018 and 2019, that claimed lives of as many as 24 people,” said Inspector Kotwali Satyadeo Sharma. After registering the cases, the police had launched an investigation and arrested several suspects, but Janak continued to evade arrest. During investigation, it surfaced that Janak had supplied methyl alcohol to hooch manufacturers and was absconding since the incidents. “STF traced Janak’s location using his mobile phone. Police has declared a reward of Rs 25,000 on Parihar,” said Inspector STF Pankaj Mishra. Police said the arrest has led the police to identify some more key people involved in the manufacture and distribution of spurious liquor, including the supply chain of methanol (methyl alcohol), which led to the deaths in the region. Incidentally, methanol or methyl alcohol poisoning has been behind most of the hooch tragedies in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/main-accused-in-2-hooch-tragedies-held/articleshow/77601393.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Kanpur||Covid victim’s valuables‘stolen’, police plaint filed||KANPUR: Family members of labour enforcement officer of Muzaffarnagar, Kamlesh Kumar Mishra, who succumbed to Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at a hospital in Mandhana area of the district, have lodged a complaint alleging that two mobile phones including an Android phone, cash worth Rs 15,000 and a gold ring was stolen by someone at the hospital. Mishra, a resident of Jajmau Chakeri area, was admitted to Covid hospital in Mandhana area on August 11. After his death on August 15, his family members recalled that he was carrying two phones including an Android phone, Rs 15,000 cash and a gold ring when admitted to the hospital. As soon as the theft came to light, they created ruckus on the premises of the hospital. Senior administrative officials of the hospital intervened and pacified the situation. Soon the hospital administration returned one of the two phones of the deceased to his family members, but feigned ignorance regarding the other items. Subsequently, suspicious over the employees of the hospital, the kin of Mishra lodged a complaint with the Bithoor police station on Sunday. Station House Officer Bithoor Kaushlendra Pratap Singh said, “We are scanning CCTV footage and investigations are on in this regard.” Meanwhile, the hospital management said that they will also scan CCTV footage from the hospital. “Till date, nearly 450 Covid patients have being treated here, but no body has complained like this. However, we will form a committee and look into the matter and also question suspects,” said a senior hospital staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/covid-victims-valuablesstolen-police-plaint-filed/articleshow/77601373.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC, Lucknow bench closed from August 17 to 19||PRAYAGRAJ: The Chief Justice of Allahabad high court has decided that there shall be no sitting of the courts in Allahabad High Court and its Lucknow bench from August 17 to 19. Chief Justice Govind Mathur took the decision in the light of representation dated August 16, of the president Bar Association, High Court Allahabad and request of president, Awadh Bar Association, Lucknow, on telephone. The matter regarding sitting of courts in the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad has been considered and deliberated with members of administrative committee, on telephone. It is unanimously resolved that in modification of earlier order dated August 16, regarding functioning of courts at Lucknow, there shall be no sitting of courts at Allahabad and Lucknow from August 17 to 19. Further, the notification said, on the aforementioned dates, only the urgent matters mentioned before the Chief Justice and senior judge at Lucknow respectively, shall be taken by the courts nominated. There shall be no physical filing from August 17 to 19, the notification added. In continuation of the order dated August 16, it has also been directed that the urgency applications, for filing a fresh matter through e-filing only or for hearing in filed matters, during the period from August 17 to 19, may be filed at Allahabad through the following e mail ids: 1. For Civil Matters: urgentlisting_allahabad_civil@allahabadhighcourt.in 2. For Criminal Matters: urgentlisting_allahabad_criminal@allahabadhighcourt.in The courts shall take up the matters for hearing through video conferencing only and the person submitting urgency application will provide his/her mobile number along with case details and his/her e-mail id, in the said urgency application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/allahabad-hc-lucknow-bench-closed-from-aug-17-to-19/articleshow/77601128.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 18, 2020||Surat||Over 300 poets express Covid pain through words||Surat: ‘Ochinto, dharti par aa kaal kevo fari gayo, corona no sakhat bhardo sau jan ne bharkhi gayo (Suddenly, the earth plunged into such darkness, the vice-like corona grip consumed one and all.’ These couplets of poet Parul Barot sum up the pain inflicted by the global pandemic. Barot won the first prize in a unique online poetry competition on Covid-19 theme on Sunday and poets from not just across the country but abroad too participated. Poetries were sent in Gujarati, Marathi, Hindi and Bengali. The competition was organized by 65-year-old city-based welfare trust Rashtriya Kala Kendra (RKK) which also published an e-books of 303 participating poetries. Another e-book of over 300 poems on coronavirus written by noted poets was also been released. Second prize winner Harshida Trivedi too expressed her feelings by reciting, ‘Kan kan ma a dodi avyo jane moto bhup, dur rahi pan na vartayo avu lidhu rup (It ran through small particles like a king, took such a shape that no one could identify it.” “As an organisation to promote performing arts it is our duty to continue our work when we thought to organise this competition. We came to know that many people are writing their thoughts through poetry and we received good responses,” said Rupin Pachhigar, secretary of RKK. Harsh Brahmbhatt, a noted poet, said this initiative has given a big encouragement to the poets.” Rajesh Vyas ‘Miskeen’ added, “We find the courage to fight the current negativity through such attempts.” The e-books were launched by Gujarat BJP president C R Paatil in an online event on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/over-300-poets-express-covid-pain-through-words/articleshow/77597342.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 18, 2020||Kanpur||Vikas Dubey aide Govind Saini surrenders in court||KANPUR: Govind Saini, another close aide of slain gangster Vikas Dubey who was carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 on his head, surrendered before the anti-dacoity court in Maati in Kanpur Dehat district on Monday evening. Govind is younger brother of Gopal Saini, who had surrendered in Maati in Kanpur Dehat district on July 30 evening. Their house is located nearby the house of Prem Prakash Pandey, who was gunned down along with Atul Dubey soon after the Bikru ambush on July 3 morning. Govind was one among the accused who have been absconding and Special Task Force (STF) and the district police were looking for him and others since the Bikru ambush on July 2 & 3 night wherein, eight policemen, including deputy Superintendent of Police Devendra Kumar Mishra, shot dead, besides six others including a civilian were injured by gangster Vikas Dubey and his aides when they had gone to arrest him in connection with an attempt to murder case lodged at Chaubeypur police station by a local Rahul Tiwari. Additional Government Counsel Prashant Mishra told reporters that Govind Saini, accused in the killing of eight policemen, surrendered before the anti-dacoity court at Maati in Kanpur Dehat on Monday evening.Saini's advocate had moved an application for his surrender before the Special court, he said and added that he has been sent to jail in 14 days judicial custody. Police further said that Govind used to run a grocery shop in Bikru village and had hurled bombs on police party on July 2 & 3."We will move an application before the court requesting for his remand so that he can be interrogated with regard to Bikru ambush besides to gather inputs related to 11 other members of Vikas Dubey's gang who are still on run," he said. The police are now on lookout for 11 other aides of gangster including his brother Deep Prakash, Raja Ram, Shiv Tiwari, Vishnu Pal Yadav alias Ziledar, Ram Singh, Ramu Bajpai, Heeru Dubey, Bauwan Shukla, Shivam Dubey and Bal Govind Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vikas-dubey-aide-govind-saini-surrenders-in-court/articleshow/77601361.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 18, 2020||Allahabad||MLA Vijay Mishra tests Covid negative, put in temporary Naini jail||PRAYAGRAJ: Bhadohi’s muscleman politician and Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra, who was shifted to high-security Naini Central Jail on Sunday night amid tight security arrangements, tested negative for novel coronavirus infection on Monday. Mishra underwent the Rapid Antigen Test. Taking precautions, Naini jail authorities, however, still decided to keep Mishra at the temporary jail for 14 days before shifting him in the barracks of the main jail. Mishra would remain in quarantine at the temporary jail. Senior superintendent of Naini Central jail P N Pandey told TOI, “The swab sample of Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra was tested through Rapid Antigen Test kit and he tested negative.” The MLA would be quarantined at temporary jail for 14 days after which he would be shifted to barracks of main jail, he added. Since Mishra had fled to Madhya Pradesh in order to evade arrest, it was suspected that he may have got exposed to the virus during travel. The MLA was arrested in a case of criminal intimidation and wrongful confinement lodged by his relative against him, his wife Ramlali Mishra, a member of the state legislative council, and son Vishnu Mishra. A local court in Bhadohi had sent the NISHAD Party MLA Vijay Mishra to 14-day judicial custody. On the request of administration, the court had allowed Mishra to be sent to high-security Naini Central jail in Prayagraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mla-vijay-mishra-tests-negative-put-in-temporary-naini-jail/articleshow/77601077.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Varanasi||Nearly 50% cases among traders, Kashi market timings unchanged||VARANASI: After review of Covid-19 spread and the surge in cases and casualties, the district administration has retained the restrictions on market opening and traffic movement in the city. Traders, their employees and customers still constitute the biggest chunk of Covid-19 cases and casualties, but salaried people, students and children have also tested positive for the coronavirus infection in the last 10 days, said officials. The district administration hence decided not to effect any change in market timings and traffic curbs. All markets will open from 9am till 5pm and no traffic will be permitted on roads between 6pm and 5am. Traders had been keenly expecting a revised schedule for markets from Monday and were curiously waiting for announcement of a new schedule by district administration since Sunday. Their hopes were dashed when district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma did not make any change in market timings and traffic movement. Sharma said the district administration went through occupation-wise data of Covid-19 positive cases and fatalities and found traders and people infected after market visits constituted around 50% of all cases. “Social distancing is not being followed strictly in markets and people are not wearing masks, and that is why infection is spreading among traders, their employees and people visiting markets. There was no scope for administration to increase market timings and we decided to continue the curbs,” he added. Most infected traders hail from Lanka, Cantt, Sigra, Manduadih, Bhelupur, Chowk Kotwali and Chetganj, said officials. The occupation-wise data released by the administration revealed that the highest number of cases were from trading community since the reopening of markets in May, though cases are also rising among salaried people, students, children and pensioners. In the last 10 days, from August 6 to 15, the number of infected traders increased from 1,882 to 2,460, an addition of 578 new patients. The number of salaried people found infected jumped from 411 to 992 in this period. Similarly, only 99 students were infected till August 6, but the number rose to 274 in the past 10 days. From Covid-19 outbreak in Varanasi till August 6, only 17 children were found infected, but the number rose to 113 on August 15, while cases are also being detected among housewives and senior citizens. The administration has appealed to the traders’ union to ensure strict compliance of social distancing and other Covid protocol. The DM asked traders’ association to set up committees to ensure closure of shops where norms are violated, besides ensuring regular health check-up, testing in case of any symptom and informing health and district administration officials. Officials also appealed them to take preventive medicines like ivermectin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/nearly-50-cases-among-traders-kashi-market-timings-unchanged/articleshow/77601208.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
August 18, 2020||Bhopal||930 new cases takes MP Covid count to 46,385||BHOPAL: With 930 new people testing positive for Covid-19 on Monday, the tally of cases in the state has reached 46385. Apart from these new cases, 23 casualties were also reported, says the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. The districts where these casualties have been reported includes four deaths in Bhopal, two deaths each in Indore, Gwalior, Jabalpur, Sagar, and Hoshangabad districts and one death each in Dhar, Dewas, Rewa, Chhatarpur, Damoh, Datia,Tikamgarh, Chhindwara and Shahdol districts. With these new deaths, the toll due to Covid-19 in state reached 1128 on Monday. While fresh cases were reported from 48 out of the 52 districts, deaths were also reported from 15 districts on Monday. As per the state health bulletin, it was Indore district where maximum 245 new positive cases were reported on Monday. After Indore, it was Jabalpur where 93 new positive cases were reported, followed by Bhopal where 92 cases were reported on Monday. Of the 48 districts that reported fresh cases on Monday, new cases were reported in double figures from 27 districts of the state. Reports of a total of 19862 samples were received on Monday when 930 people tested positive, thus overall 4.7% of the people whose samples were tested on Monday were found positive. This positivity rate — the number of people found positive out of every 100 samples tested — of 4.7% is higher than that of overall average positivity rate of around 4.3% in the state. Overall, there were 10232 active cases in the state on Monday. On the brighter side, 987 people who were admitted in hospitals recovered and were discharged from the hospital. With these new patients recovering, the total number of patients who have recovered so far from the disease reached 35205. A total of 3660 localities across these 52 districts have been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/930-new-cases-takes-mp-covid-count-to-46385/articleshow/77601080.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bhopal||‘Pandit Jasraj loved performing in Bhopal’||BHOPAL: Legendary vocalist of Mewati gharana Padma Vibhushan Pandit Jasraj loved performing in Bhopal, say his friends who knew him for almost 50 years and got the opportunity to host him when he came to the City of Lakes. The maestro had been visiting Bhopal since early 1970's. Recalling one of his earliest visits to Bhopal, Rajendra Kothari, an economic consultant and a close acquaintance of the maestro said, "He was a humble man and great devotee of Lord Krishna. When he came to Bhopal in 1973, he took a tonga ride from the Bhopal railway station to Radha Talkies. He used to visit my place whenever he came to Bhopal as he said he felt comfortable at my home instead of hotels.” Kothari added, "He used to say he performed his best in Bhopal as the city's artistic taste, love for music and serenity made him feel at home." The maestro had wished to establish an institute for Mewati gharana classical singing in Bhopal and took 15-day long classes for the same in the year 1985, 1988 and 1992 in Bhopal, but his dream to establish an institute could not come true. Recalling best times with Pandit Jasraj, Dhrupad maestros Gundecha brothers said"Panditji was a guru and a father figure to us. When he came to Bhopal after the formation of Bharat Bhavan to perform, he didn’t like the tanpuras at the multi-art centre and asked my brothers to lend him theirs'. It was an honour for my brothers have a maestro play their tanpura," Akhilesh Gundecha, noted pakhawaj player said. "He was jolly-natured and loved to laugh. He used to tell and listen to jokes and had aremarkable wit," added Gundecha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pt-jasraj-loved-performing-in-bhopal/articleshow/77601087.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Agra||Woman accuses ex-Aligarh mayor of forcibly converting her sister, booked with 3 others||Agra: Four persons including a woman have been booked for trying to “disturb” communal harmony after she alleged that former Aligarh mayor and BJP leader Shakuntala Bharti forcibly converted her younger sister’s religion in order to get her married to a Hindu boy. Ashiya’s younger sister Faizi had left her home on August 7. Later, Ashiya’s husband Parvez approached police and filed a complaint against one Rishabh alleging that he had abducted her. A few days later, they alleged that it was done at the behest of Bharti. Acting on the complaint, police lodged an FIR against Rishabh under section 363 (kidnapping) and 366 (abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage) of IPC and started searching for a girl. Faizi was traced soon. And, in front of the magistrate, the girl said that she was an adult and had married Rishabh on her own will. Meanwhile, Bharti also trashed all the charges. “Legal action should be taken against these people. If investigation finds out that I knew anything about the conversion of this girl, then I will leave Uttar Pradesh and never show up again. Prove it. If you cannot prove it, do not say such things. These people want to tarnish my image,” the fiery BJP leader said. Ashiya and her three aides were booked under section 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion), 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes) of IPC and also for violating the prohibitory orders and section 3 in the Epidemic Disease Act at civil lines police station. On Sunday, a high-drama was witnessed when a police team barged into a press conference called by Ashiya. While her aides Faizan and Shiraj Ahmed were arrested, Ashiya and Mohammad Najim escaped. Najim is AIMIM’s local functionary. Civil Line’s circle officer Anil Samaniya told TOI that the girl who married the Hindu boy had demanded security from the police as she “felt threatened from her own family”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-accuses-ex-aligarh-mayor-of-forcibly-converting-her-sister-booked-with-3-others/articleshow/77598357.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 18, 2020||Delhi||12 Delhi forests created: Gopal Rai to Union minister Prakash Javadekar||NEW DELHI: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai in an online meeting with Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday informed that, so far, Delhi had planted 10 lakh saplings this monsoon and would plant additional 21 lakh by the end of March 2021. While the Centre had set a target of 15 lakh saplings, Delhi government would plant double the number, Rai said. He added that 12 city forests had already been created, while development work to create four more was under way. “Under the Bees Sutri Program, the Centre had set a target of 10,14,000 saplings for Delhi in 2018-2019, where we planted 28,00,000 saplings. In 2019-2020, we planted 25,00,000 saplings against the target of 10,00,000. This year, the target set was 15,00,000, while we aim to plant 31,00,000 saplings,” Rai informed the Union minister Prakash Javadekar. At the meeting, Rai said that Delhi government was planning the second scheme of School Nursery Yojana, through which eco-clubs were created in each school and college, for which Rs 20,000 was provided to each club. “In 2,000 Delhi schools, we conduct various programmes through the eco-clubs. We will proceed towards the betterment of the programme through which the saplings given by the forest department can be preserved in the schools,” said Rai. The environment minister added that under the Nagar Van Yojana, over 20,000 parks and gardens, spread over 8,000 hectares, existed in the capital. “Since Delhi is the national capital, the central and the state governments are concerned about its environment. We will work together to address various concerns. Your efforts on inviting the states for a dialogue on the environmental situation are commendable,” Rai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/12-city-forests-created-rai-to-union-min/articleshow/77599838.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Madurai||CBI probe into Sathankulam deaths proceeding in right direction, says HC||MADURAI: Observing that the CBI investigation into the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks, was proceeding in the right track, the Madras high court on Monday directed the investigating agency to file another status report. in a sealed cover. The court was hearing the suo motu public interest litigation initiated following the custodial deaths of the father-son duo at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district. Pursuant to an earlier direction of the court, the CBI had submitted a status report with regard to the progress of investigation. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam said that the CBI, which had taken over the investigation had examined many witnesses and collected evidence in the case. The judges said the status report also discloses that CBI would require time for the scientific analysis of the evidence. The judges further said that as per the report, many CBI members were affected with Covid-19 and have resumed the investigation after recovery. Taking cognizance of the report, the judges directed the CBI to file another status report. The judges also directed the CB-CID officials to submit a status report on the progress of investigation into the custodial torture of S Raja Singh by the Sathankulam policemen, after the additional advocate general (AAG) K Chellapandian informed that the case pertaining to it was transferred to the CB-CID. As per June 26 order, the AAG submitted that a high-level committee comprising DGP, law secretary, home secretary and other stakeholders would meet soon and come up with comprehensive guidelines for the procedure that should be followed during the arrest. The judges also directed the DGP to file a report in this regard. Meanwhile, three police personnel - former additional superintendent of police D Kumar, former deputy superintendent of police C Prathapan and constable Maharajan, submitted their reports on Monday, pursuant to an earlier direction on the suo motu criminal contempt proceedings initiated them based on a report sent by the Kovilpatti judicial magistrate. Taking cognizance of the report, the judges said that the appearance of the contemnors are dispensed with for now and they shall appear before the court as and when required. Meanwhile, suspended head constable S Murugan, who was arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of the father-son, filed a bail plea before the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cbi-probe-into-sathankulam-deaths-proceeding-in-right-direction-says-hc/articleshow/77601088.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bareilly||Farmers stop forest dept from entering farms, threaten drastic steps if Amaria tigers are not relocated||Pilibhit: Farmers in Pilibhit have announced they won’t allow field teams of the forest department into their farms, to protest the department’s alleged failure in making a plan to translocate the Amaria tigers, and to protect locals from their possible attacks. They have also restrained World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) from installing camera traps as part of their first-ever project to count the number of tigers in the sugarcane fields of Amaria. Paramveer Singh Perry, a farmer in village Surajpur and the organiser of the protest, said he is one of the farmers in whose farms the tigers are regularly spotted, threatening the lives of all who work there. “Forest officials are using our farmlands to carry out their research on these tigers that have adapted to living in agricultural fields. They install camera traps, capture pictures of tiger as part of their study, but show no concern towards the adversities and risks we face every day,” said Perry. “Currently, the tiger population is assessed at between 10 and 12, but a day will come when they multiply. Does the forest department expect us to migrate, leaving behind our properties for these tigers?” asked Perry. “Farmers here have been nourishing these tigers and rearing their cubs for around eight years, but despite several requests for the translocation, forest authorities are yet to come up with a concrete plan to convince the locals,” said Jagjot Singh, a farmer from village Rasoola, adding, “The time has come for us to take harsh decisions — if the forest department doesn’t translocate the tigers, should we do something decisive that runs us afoul of the law?” “We’ll allow neither forest staff nor other teams to enter our farms from now on, nor will we allow any tiger related activity there, till the time the authorities present a time-bound plan for shifting the tigers into the forest,” Perry said. “We’d been informed about a tigress with her small cub in village Surajpur. We wanted to monitor her for the safety of the cub, but we were obstructed by farmers,” said Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer. Field director of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve, H Rajamohan, said translocation of the tigers involves many subsidiary plans and activities like exploration of substitute forest regions, making re-wilding enclosures for the big cats to get them adapted to the forest, approval of related plans from the National Tiger Conservation Authority and allocation of funds from the state government, etc. “We’re working on a plan, but it will take time. We’re likely to hold a meeting with farmers within 2-3 days to find an amicable solution to their grievances and to seek their cooperation, like before,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmers-stop-forest-dept-from-entering-farms-threaten-drastic-steps-if-amaria-tigers-are-not-relocated/articleshow/77596227.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Delhi||BJP scripted Shaheen Bagh protests: AAP||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Monday alleged that BJP had scripted the protests against Citizenship (Amendment) Act and National Register of Citizens at Shaheen Bagh for political gains before the Delhi assembly election. The allegations were made by AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj a day after several Muslim residents of Shaheen Bagh, including some who were opposed to CAA, joined the saffron party. Bharadwaj claimed, “The over three-month-long protest was scripted at the top level in BJP. They decided who would speak what, who would attack whom and who was going to counter-attack. The assembly polls were fought under a planned strategy. The party’s vote share, which was estimated at 18% in an initial survey, rose to 38% due to the protests. People who raised anti-national and pro-Pakistan slogans or talked about dividing India joined BJP and were welcomed by the party state chief Adesh Gupta.” The AAP spokesperson claimed that Delhi Police, which doesn’t allow protests for more than a day, allowed the protests at Shaheen Bagh to continue for 101 days, causing trouble to lakhs of people as the road was blocked. “Police didn’t do anything despite the protesters raising anti-national slogans and talking about dividing India. The hate spread from Shaheen Bagh ultimately led to communal riots in northeast Delhi, which left 53 dead and scores injured,” he added. Claiming that BJP benefitted the most from the protests, Bharadwaj said the assembly election could have been fought on works done in the fields of education, health and environment or other developmental issues. “But Delhi BJP chose to contest on the issue of Shaheen Bagh. We should not think that Parvesh Verma or Anurag Thakur created this strategy. The reality is that such a strategy was planned at the topmost level and all top leaders repeatedly targeted Shaheen Bagh during their speeches,” he added. However, Bharadwaj clarified, “I agree that there were many pro-democracy people who joined this protest. But even they didn’t understand that the stir was just a brainchild and script of BJP. Before the Delhi election, it was thought that if the government didn’t take back CAA, then more protests like Shaheen Bagh would take place across India. But that didn’t happen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-bjp-scripted-shaheen-bagh-bjp-its-conspiracy-by-aap-cong/articleshow/77599891.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Andhra Pradesh: Third flood warning in Godavari||RAJAHMUNDRY: With the flood situation in East and West Godavari districts turning from bad to worse, a third flood warning was issued at Sir Arthur Cotton barrage in Dowlaiswaram on Monday evening. The water level of Godavari at the barrage has crossed 18.20 feet and likely to further rise, while 19.69 lakh cusecs of water is being released into the sea from the barrage. At Bhadrachalam, the water level had reached 61.60 feet by Monday evening and was still rising as incessant rains continue in the catchment areas. Several islands and low-lying villages in Konaseema have been cut off from the mainland. With water levels showing no signs of receding, more and more villages are getting marooned in the four merged mandals in East Godavari district. Flood waters have entered around 51 villages in Konaseema and 33 villages in Divipatnam mandal. In West Godavari, over 30 villages have been badly hit, with 19 villages in Polavaram mandal completely cut off from the mainland. Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy spoke to the collectors of the Godavari districts and took stock of the situation. Over 22,000 people have already been evacuated from the affected villages. Besides shelter homes, the evacuees are also being housed in school buildings. Amalapuram sub-collector Himanshu Kaushik said 51 villages have been affected, while 12 villages are partially inundated. “People from the affected villages have been shifted to relief camps. The situation is under control, but the next two days are going to be crucial,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3rd-flood-warning-in-godavari/articleshow/77599834.cms||Samson Raj
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad-Dholera highway work to start||GANDHINAGAR: In a significant post-lockdown move, the Gujarat government has initiated development work of the decade-old Ahmedabad-Dholera four-lane expressway project. A work order of Rs 3,500 crore for the stretch of road connecting Ahmedabad to Dholera Special Investment Region (SIR) has been decided and work is expected to begin shortly. In addition, the state government has also approved work orders for 700MW solar power generation within the SIR. Combined, the power generation and expressway projects are worth Rs 8,500 crore and are likely to kick off after the monsoon. The 110km four-lane expressway project is expected to be completed between 18 and 24 months. Manoj Das, additional chief secretary (ACS) to the chief minister and industry & mines department, who is overseeing implementation of the Dholea SIR project, said that the challenging task of land acquisition for the project has been complete and tendering process is over. “Work award of Rs 3,500 crore for the expressway project has been finalised. NHAI and Gujarat government intend to formally kick-start site work after the monsoon. The Ahmedabad-Dholera expressway will have more advanced features than the Ahmedabad-Vadodara expressway,” Das said. He added that infrastructure projects worth over Rs 3,000 crore were ongoing within the SIR and the four-lane expressway will attract more investment in the coming days. “The government has also approved 700MW solar power generation work at Dholera last week and this is expected to attract an additional investment of around Rs 5,000 crore. The expressway project and power generation project together will further attract investments in the SIR,” he claimed. Commenting on the proposed airport at Dholera, the official said, “Land filling work for Dholera airport development work will start shortly. Despite the global impact of Covid-19, we are receiving encouraging response at Dholera and we expect significant investment in coming days in Dholera SIR.’’ The Ahmedabad-Dholera SIR expressway project had been facing delays because of opposition to land acquisition. Earlier, the project had run into other roadblocks as well. The project had been initially planned under BOOT ((build, own, operate, transfer) basis, but the government decided to develop it directly, as no developer had shown interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-dholera-highway-work-to-start/articleshow/77601111.cms||Kapil Dave
August 18, 2020||Madurai||Notice to governments on plea not to dump waste soil into sea||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Monday ordered notice to the central and state governments on a plea which sought not to dump waste soil and hazardous chemical waste into sea along the Palk Bay stretch in Ramanathapuram district. A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and P Rajamanickam ordered notice on the public interest litigation filed by G Joseph, secretary of the Ramnad district fish workers trade union. The petitioner stated that a thermal power plant with a capacity of 1600MW is under construction at Uppur in the district. The plant also requires water for its coolant system which is sourced from sea. The contractors were constructing a bridge for eight km from Uppur to Thondi for the purpose of drawing sea water to the plant. They were dumping waste soil inside the sea at Palk Bay for the construction. The bed of Palk bay is a fertile zone for growth of seagrass which provides an ecosystem for dugongs, sea cucumbers, sea horses, turtles and many fish species. He stated that dumping of waste soil affects aquatic life and coral spread. Hence, the petitioner sought to forbear the authorities from granting permission for quarrying sand at the area and also sought to prevent dumping waste soil into the sea. The case was adjourned to September 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/notice-to-govts-on-plea-not-to-dump-waste-soil-into-sea/articleshow/77601125.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Varanasi||19 children rescued, 9 human traffickers held in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: Gorakhpur anti-human trafficking unit rescued 19 minors and arrested 9 human traffickers and sent them to jail on Monday, police said. “Surya Pratap Mishra, Uttar Pradesh state coordinator of Bachpan Bachao Andolan, gave tip-off to police that children were being trafficked from Araria , Bihar to Delhi by bus. Police surrounded Jagdishpur area under Khorabar police station limit. During checking of buses coming from Bihar at Madapar Koni Tiraha, the police caught 9 human traffickers and rescued 19 children and handed them to the child line,” spector AHTU, Ajit Pratap Singh told. “Nine have been booked under section 370 (buying or disposing of any person as a slave) IPC, 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) IPC, section 79 juvenile justice Act and 3 Child Labour Prohibition and Regulation Act 2016 and sent to jail,” he said. “Human trafficking is an organized crime and it is matter of investigation that how big their network is. However, 9 traffickers have been arrested and 19 rescued children are being given counselling,” said SP crime Ashok Kumar Verma. The arrested traffickers include Mohd Hashim, Mohd Zahid, Tshtiyaq, Shamshad, Murshid, Maroof, Noor Hassan, Shahid and Haseeb. All the traffickers are from Araria, Bihar, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/19-children-rescued-9-human-traffickers-held-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/77601336.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Influenza-like illnesses to be tested at panchayat level in Kerala||KOCHI: Health department has asked all districts to ensure that testing for influenza-like illnesses (ILI) should be available at the panchayat level itself. This comes as the test positivity rate increased in the second week of August in many districts. “ILI OPD shall be started in a separate building (FLTC if there are no admissions currently or a separate building) in every panchayat area at fixed times, eg 2-4pm including arrangements of testing. Public system to focus on testing symptomatic,” the state health department stated in its Covid weekly bulletin (August 8 to 14). Malappuram (12.5%), Kasaragod (10.1%), Thiruvananthapuram (8.9%) and Ernakulam (6.7%) continue to be the districts with the highest test positivity rate. Palakkad, Kottayam, and Kannur show a higher rise of TPR when compared to the first week of August. In Palakkad, present TPR is 5.84%; it was 3.8% in the first week. In Kottayam, compared to the first week's 3.1%, now the TPR is 4.9% while in Kannur, it has jumped from 2.3% to 4.3%. TPR is an indicator of the spread of infection. The health department has asked Thiruvananthapuram, Kasaragod, Malappuram, Palakkad, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Kottayam, and Malappuram district administrations to focus on rigorous cluster contaminant strategies. To start testing at the panchayat level, the Health authorities have already started training PHC nurses and other staff to collect swab. This would reduce delays in testing and encourage authorities to conduct more tests daily at the panchayat level itself. It has been noticed that even in panchayats that have large Covid clusters, the daily testing even in clusters has been less than 100. Meanwhile, authorities said that even as testing in private labs should be encouraged, it should be based on 'citizen’s choice'. ILI tests will be done using rapid antigen tests, which give results within 30 minutes. “Along with doctors, now nurses and technicians are being trained at the panchayat level to collect swabs. As we increase our testing capacity, the number of tests also needs to be increased and that has to start from the panchayat level,” said Dr Joseph Chacko, president, Kerala Government Medical Officers' Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/influenza-like-illnesses-to-be-tested-at-panchayat-level/articleshow/77603550.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Kochi||Influenza-like illnesses to be tested at panchayat level in Kerala||KOCHI: Health department has asked all districts to ensure that testing for influenza-like illnesses (ILI) should be available at the panchayat level itself. This comes as the test positivity rate increased in the second week of August in many districts. “ILI OPD shall be started in a separate building (FLTC if there are no admissions currently or a separate building) in every panchayat area at fixed times, eg 2-4pm including arrangements of testing. Public system to focus on testing symptomatic,” the state health department stated in its Covid weekly bulletin (August 8 to 14). Malappuram (12.5%), Kasaragod (10.1%), Thiruvananthapuram (8.9%) and Ernakulam (6.7%) continue to be the districts with the highest test positivity rate. Palakkad, Kottayam, and Kannur show a higher rise of TPR when compared to the first week of August. In Palakkad, present TPR is 5.84%; it was 3.8% in the first week. In Kottayam, compared to the first week's 3.1%, now the TPR is 4.9% while in Kannur, it has jumped from 2.3% to 4.3%. TPR is an indicator of the spread of infection. The health department has asked Thiruvananthapuram, Kasaragod, Malappuram, Palakkad, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Kottayam, and Malappuram district administrations to focus on rigorous cluster contaminant strategies. To start testing at the panchayat level, the Health authorities have already started training PHC nurses and other staff to collect swab. This would reduce delays in testing and encourage authorities to conduct more tests daily at the panchayat level itself. It has been noticed that even in panchayats that have large Covid clusters, the daily testing even in clusters has been less than 100. Meanwhile, authorities said that even as testing in private labs should be encouraged, it should be based on 'citizen’s choice'. ILI tests will be done using rapid antigen tests, which give results within 30 minutes. “Along with doctors, now nurses and technicians are being trained at the panchayat level to collect swabs. As we increase our testing capacity, the number of tests also needs to be increased and that has to start from the panchayat level,” said Dr Joseph Chacko, president, Kerala Government Medical Officers' Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/influenza-like-illnesses-to-be-tested-at-panchayat-level/articleshow/77598436.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi assembly panel may summon Facebook officials||NEW DELHI: Delhi Assembly’s committee on peace and harmony may summon Facebook officials for their alleged inaction in containing hateful content that could affect social harmony in India. The assembly panel has received several complaints addressed to its chairman, Raghav Chadha, against some officials of Facebook for their alleged deliberate inaction in checked hateful content in India. The complaints received by the peace and harmony committee underscore many alleged instances of intentional and deliberate inaction on the part of the social media platform to enforce its policies against inflammatory and hateful content. The committee felt compelled to take notice of these complaints and investigate the accusation to ascertain whether there was any role played by or complicity of Facebook officials in the orchestration of riots in northeast Delhi in February, a statement issued by the committee said. “It has been alleged in the complaints that Facebook, despite its comprehensive policies and regulations on curbing unabated dissemination of hateful and offensive content, in place, has been turning a blind eye to mass manufacturing and propagation of vile, hateful communal content which are not only bad in taste but have potential to erupt violence and riot-like situation,” the statement read. The panel has vetted the complaints and is of the view that the allegations against the Facebook officials are of a serious nature. “If unchecked, the allegations may lead to serious adverse fallouts,” cautioned the statement. In order to comb through the veracity of complaints and allegations made, the committee will summon Facebook official to appear before the panel and participate in the relevant proceedings. The committee is likely to convene its meeting this week to initiate the proceedings. In a statement, the committee referred to a recent video where Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg termed the contents of a BJP leader’s post as categorically offensive and hateful. Despite saying so, Facebook officials allegedly turned a blind eye to the hate speech and utterances of those who peddle communal hatred, panel members felt. “In view thereof, it compels the committee to take immediate notice and get to the root of this issue with a view to painstakingly discern if there is any role or complicity of Facebook officials in the orchestration of Delhi riots,” said Chadha. The committee statement added, “With a view to sub serve its fundamental objective and rationale to maintain peace and harmony across Delhi, and obviate any attempt or overtures by the vested interests to create disruption or engender communal disharmony across Delhi, the Delhi assembly committee has decided to delve into the issue and apprehend any devious conspiracy and unholy nexus of rabble-rousers with oblique motives to wreak havoc in the country, and more particularly in Delhi, by disturbing peace and tranquillity as well as instigating intense communal disharmony.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/house-panel-may-summon-fb-officials/articleshow/77599897.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 18, 2020||Bhopal||Tiger didn’t visit Chambal in last five months: Congress’s dig at Jyotiraditya Scindia||BHOPAL: Five-months after the Kamal Nath government was toppled after 22 party MLAs followed Jyotiraditya Scindia to the BJP, state Congress on Monday reacted strongly to the BJP Rajya Sabha MP’s Indore-Ujjain visit. “Jyotiraditya Scindia had claimed that Tiger Abhi Zinda hai (Tiger is still alive). But in the past five months, Tiger did not go to do public service in the Gwalior-Chambal areas. Today, he has come to the Jungle Raj in Indore-Ujjain,” state Congress media cell chief Jitu Patwari took a dig on Monday.  Jitu Patwari also recalled, “After toppling the Congress government, Jyotiraditya Scindia went to the BJP and took membership of the party. He then made two declarations. One, that he is in politics to earn respect and two, that public service is his main goal – a principle which he inherited from his family. If he left the Congress party to earn respect, question is why then is he now wandering door-to-door?” Jyotiraditya Scindia paid a visit to several BJP leaders in the Indore-Ujjain region including party’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayavargiya and former Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan. Patwari argued that before the 2018 assembly elections, there were two main faces of the Congress party – former chief minister Kamal Nath and Jyotiraditya Scindia. “Scindia claimed that he was told to hit the roads so he came on the roads and brought the government on the road too,” Patwari said, speaking to reporters. “That was his ego, his pride and to show his importance and I accept he succeeded in it,” Patwari said. The Congress said that Jyotiraditya Scindia during the Congress government regime had promised he would agitate on the roads in support of the demands made by guest teachers of government schools. “But till date he has not hit the roads in support of the teachers. Today, 68000 guest contractual teachers have not received their salaries over the past three to four months. There are reports of suicides by 65 of them. But Scindia has not uttered a single word for them,” he argued. Jitu Patwari appealed to Jyotirdaitya Scindia to at least write a letter to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on the issue of contractual teachers. “I want to appeal to him that the guest teachers for who you said would hit the streets, at least you should have written a letter to Shivraj Singh Chouhan about them and told him what to do. But he hasn’t done that so far,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tiger-didnt-visit-chambal-in-last-5-months-congs-dig-at-scindia/articleshow/77601157.cms||Suchandana Gupta
August 18, 2020||Agra||Uttar Pradesh: Four injured in clash between two groups in Etah||AGRA: Four persons, including two women, were injured after gunshots were fired in a clash between two groups in Etah’s Khata Kheria village on Monday. The clash occurred after one group accused a member of the other group of molesting a woman from their family. An FIR has been registered against four persons under section 307 (attempt to murder), along with other sections of the IPC. Two of them, including Gajraj Singh Shakya who opened fire, have been arrested by the police. A video of the incident showing stone being pelted and shots being fired went viral on social media. Police said that the incident took place around 7am when a group led by Gajraj attacked the other group led by Sripal Shakya over allegations of molestation of a woman by the former’s son. During the clash, Gajraj fired gunshots, in which four persons- Neetu, Chanchal, Bhoodev and Viresh were injured. They were immediately rushed to district hospital for treatment. Etah senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sunil Kumar Singh said the others wanted in the case will be arrested soon. The matter is being probed. Watch UP: Violent clashes between two groups after eve-teasing incident||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-injured-in-clash-between-two-groups-in-etah/articleshow/77598409.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Varanasi||Three Mukhtar aides externed, five arms licences cancelled||VARANASI: The Mau district administration on Monday cancelled five arms licenses of jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s henchmen and also ordered ‘jilabadar’ (externment) of three others. SP Mau Anurag Arya said, “After investigation in the cases of suspended arms licenses of the henchmen of Mukhtar and their gangs, two licenses of single barrel gun and revolver issued in the name of Pravin Rai, and licenses issued in the names of Girija Rai Rajnish Singh and Mandhata Shukla have been cancelled.” Arya said 20 arms licenses of people associated with Mukhtar and other criminal gangs backed by him have been suspended so far. Of these, 13 have also been cancelled. The externment order was initiated against Anis of Madanpura under Dakshintola police station, Altamash Sabhasad of Astupura and Mohar Singh of Badid area under Mohammadabad Gohna police station after seeking approval of district magistrate Gyan Prakash Tripathi, added Arya. They will stay out of Mau district for the period of six month after the issuance of this order, he added. A major crackdown on economic empire and armoury of Mukhtar-backed gangs and his henchmen had started from Mau district, mainly after May 31. So far, the action has cost the gangsters over Rs 100 crores in Mau and neighbouring districts of Ghazipur, Jaunpur, Azamgarh and Varanasi. As per police records, the value of sezied movable and immovable properties of Mukhtar’s henchmen, the government land freed from their possessions and constructions destroyed is estimated to be over Rs 66 crores. Their income of Rs 41 crores per annum through illegal activities like extortion, monopoly in fish, coal and other traders has also been hit by police. According to officials, 72 arms licenses were cancelled or suspended while 71 arms were surrendered before Monday’s action of Mau officials. As many as 96 members of the gang have been arrested while 75 of them were booked under Gangster Act, officials said adding, seven members involved in grabbing contracts in PWD, coal depots have also fallen in police net in the past three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/three-mukhtar-aides-externed-five-arms-licences-cancelled/articleshow/77601290.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
August 18, 2020||Madurai||Man beaten to death by sons||TUTICORIN: The Thattarmadam police in Tuticorin district arrested two youngsters on Monday for murdering their father who picked up a quarrel his wife and other family members in an inebriated condition on Sunday. The murdered man has been identified as Durairaj, 46, of Usarathukudiruppu village near Thattarmadam. Police said the man had two sons and two daughters. One of the daughters was married. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Durairaj was an alcoholic and used to harass his family members in an inebriated condition. On Sunday morning, the man picked up a quarrel with his wife when his sons Siva, 18, and Jagan, 21, beat him with logs. The man suffered an injury on his forehead. Durairaj died on Sunday afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-beaten-to-death-by-sons/articleshow/77601147.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Facebook official claims harassment, files police complaint||NEW DELHI: After a senior director of Facebook complained of being threatened and abused on social media platforms, Delhi Police filed an FIR for sexual harassment, criminal intimidation and insulting a woman’s modesty, while invoking provisions of the IT Act. The complainant told the cops that she faced “violent threats to life and body” and was being subjected to sexually coloured remarks and defamatory comments. In her complaint, the woman said an article published online by an international media organisation had been distorted by her intimidators, who accused her of stopping Facebook’s hate speech rules being applied to some political parties allegedly due to her proximity to them. She listed five social media handles from which she had received threats. “The content, which even includes my photograph, is evidently threatening to my life and body and I fear for my safety as well as that of my family members. The content also maligns my reputation based on a news article and I am subjected to name-calling, cyber bullying and eve-teasing online,” she said in the complaint. The complaint was first mailed to the Chittaranjan Park police station, from where it was forwarded to Special Cell for investigation. Delhi Police spokesperson Eish Singhal said that an enquiry was under way and legal action had been initiated against the suspects. The Facebook executive had appended in her complaint the links and screenshots of the abuses hurled at her, but police found that these had subsequently been deleted or blocked from public view. The investigators will approach the social media sites on which these offending accounts were being operated and track the IP addresses of the users. Meanwhile, Facebook, Inc. refused to make any specific comment on the matter on Monday. A company spokesperson said, “We take the safety and security of our employees seriously and care for their wellbeing. However, we do not comment on individual employee matters.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fb-official-claims-harassment-files-police-complaint/articleshow/77599944.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Kozhikode||Wayanad ropes in volunteers to ramp up mitigation steps||Kozhikode: Taking cue from Kollam district, authorities in Wayanad have started the ‘Closed group’ initiative for strengthening community-level participatory initiatives to enforce Covid-19 preventive measures. Under the programme, neighborhood volunteers will be appointed by the police as members of the special Janamaithri police committee temporarily in containment zones. The community volunteers will be permitted to go out of the zone for the purchase of essentials for the houses in the containment zone. “Two community volunteers would be appointed. Each set of community volunteers would cater to around 20 houses situated in a containment zone. They will be registered at the respective police stations and the volunteers would be tasked with home delivery of essentials and other items to the houses in the zone,” district police chief R Ilango added. He added that the move would ensure that people in containment zones need not venture outside for the purchase of essentials. “The community volunteers would ensure the supply chain of essential goods till the doorsteps of people in the containment zone,” he added. The closed group system started at Padinjarathara in the district on Monday. Ilango said that apart from ensuring the supply of essentials within the closed group in the containment zone, the community volunteers can also carry out symptom monitoring and can also point out instances of quarantine violation. The closed group initiative was first initiated in Kollam city police limits following which the state police chief had directed its rollout in other districts as well. Meanwhile, 15 new Covid-19 cases were reported on Monday that included 12 cases through contact. Those who tested positive include eight from the large community cluster at Valad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wayanad-ropes-in-volunteers-to-ramp-up-mitigation-steps/articleshow/77598469.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bhopal||Capable leaders are ignored in Congress: Scindia on Pilot||Indore: Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Monday slammed AICC leadership for ignoring capable leaders in the party and cited example of Sachin Pilot, who had recently revolted against Rajasthan government. “In Congress, question marks are raised on the capability, which is a matter of pain,” said Scindia. Referring to mediapersons, he added, “You all work in an organization and if any question mark is raised on your capability, you will go through the thing, which my ex-colleague faced.” He said, “Pilot is my friend. He has been with me in last 20 years of my journey as public servant. Everybody is aware of the pain that he has gone through. How after so much delay the Congress is trying to set its house in order is also known to everyone. We all are aware about the truth”, Scindia said while addressing a press-conference at Indore airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/capable-leaders-are-ignored-in-congress-scindia-on-pilot/articleshow/77601190.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Trichy||Southern region reports 1,413 fresh cases, 627 in central districts||MADURAI/ TRICHY: The southern region reported 1,413 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 76,290 cases, which include 11,892 active cases. The region also recorded 28 deaths taking the toll to 1,275 on Monday. Meanwhile, the death toll in the central region continued to be a concerning factor with 15 more patients declared dead with comorbidities in the eight districts. The region also reported 627 fresh cases taking the toll to 23,193, which included 5,483 active cases. Among the eight districts in the state that have more than 10,000 cases, four districts – Madurai (12,888), Virudhunagar (11,400), Theni (10,189) and Tuticorin (10,040) – are in the south. The four other districts are in the Chennai region – Chennai (1,17,839), Chengalpattu (21,151), Thiruvallur (20,179) and Kancheepuram (14,035). Theni with 279 fresh cases recorded the highest number of new cases in the region, followed by Virudhunagar (212) and Kanyakumari (209). Sivagangai (54) with 3,423 total cases is the only southern district with less than 4,000 cases. Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi added 47 and 147 cases on Monday. However Sivagangai with 86 deaths has a high death rate of 2.51%, on a par with Madurai that has recorded 324 deaths. Average death rate in the south is 1.67% against the state’s average of 1.71%. The south accounts for 21.7% of the total of 5,886 deaths reported in the state, while the total cases in the south is 22.18% of the 3,43,945 cases. The overall recovery rate of the southern districts is 82.74%. Going by the state medical bulletin, the central region recorded a total of 317 deaths so far. Monday’s casualties included seven patients in Trichy, two patients each in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Karur and one patient each in Perambalur and Tiruvarur. Of the seven casualties in Trichy, four patients died at private hospitals. The two deaths in Thanjavur and one death in Perambalur also happened in private hospitals. Pudukottai district remained on top with 164 cases. Trichy and Thanjavur districts also came next to Pudukottai with 121 cases and 113 cases. While Trichy had a total of 5,990 positive cases, Thanjavur recorded 5,000 cases. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Ariyalur (76), Tiruvarur (72), Karur (37), Perambalur (34), and Nagappattinam (10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/southern-region-reports-1413-fresh-cases-627-in-central-dists/articleshow/77606637.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Madurai||Southern region reports 1,413 fresh cases, 627 in central districts||MADURAI/ TRICHY: The southern region reported 1,413 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 76,290 cases, which include 11,892 active cases. The region also recorded 28 deaths taking the toll to 1,275 on Monday. Meanwhile, the death toll in the central region continued to be a concerning factor with 15 more patients declared dead with comorbidities in the eight districts. The region also reported 627 fresh cases taking the toll to 23,193, which included 5,483 active cases. Among the eight districts in the state that have more than 10,000 cases, four districts – Madurai (12,888), Virudhunagar (11,400), Theni (10,189) and Tuticorin (10,040) – are in the south. The four other districts are in the Chennai region – Chennai (1,17,839), Chengalpattu (21,151), Thiruvallur (20,179) and Kancheepuram (14,035). Theni with 279 fresh cases recorded the highest number of new cases in the region, followed by Virudhunagar (212) and Kanyakumari (209). Sivagangai (54) with 3,423 total cases is the only southern district with less than 4,000 cases. Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi added 47 and 147 cases on Monday. However Sivagangai with 86 deaths has a high death rate of 2.51%, on a par with Madurai that has recorded 324 deaths. Average death rate in the south is 1.67% against the state’s average of 1.71%. The south accounts for 21.7% of the total of 5,886 deaths reported in the state, while the total cases in the south is 22.18% of the 3,43,945 cases. The overall recovery rate of the southern districts is 82.74%. Going by the state medical bulletin, the central region recorded a total of 317 deaths so far. Monday’s casualties included seven patients in Trichy, two patients each in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Karur and one patient each in Perambalur and Tiruvarur. Of the seven casualties in Trichy, four patients died at private hospitals. The two deaths in Thanjavur and one death in Perambalur also happened in private hospitals. Pudukottai district remained on top with 164 cases. Trichy and Thanjavur districts also came next to Pudukottai with 121 cases and 113 cases. While Trichy had a total of 5,990 positive cases, Thanjavur recorded 5,000 cases. Covid-19 cases were also reported in Ariyalur (76), Tiruvarur (72), Karur (37), Perambalur (34), and Nagappattinam (10).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-region-reports-1413-fresh-cases-627-in-central-dists/articleshow/77601185.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Rajkot||Bodies of six swept away in flood waters recovered||Rajkot: Bodies of six persons, including a woman, who were swept away in the strong currents of flood waters in different districts of Saurashtra region in the past 48 hours were fished out on Monday, even as rains continued in several districts.The National Highway No-8 linking Somnath, Veraval and Dwarka in Gir Somnath district got submerged in flood waters, bringing traffic to a grinding halt as heavy rains continued to lash Saurashtra for the fifth consecutive day. There was a flash flood reported in Shetrunji River after heavy rainfall in Gir forest of Dhari in Amreli district. Heavy rains occurred in Dalkhania and Mithapur villages. Following the flash flood, Khodiyar Dam on Shetrunji River started overflowing. Shingoda River started flooding, forcing district authorities to open five gates of Kodinar-Shingoda Dam. As the water gushed from the dam, it flooded the bridge over Shingoda River in Kodinar. Traffic was also disrupted on Doneshwer bridge after Masundari River started flooding in Gir Gadhada taluka of Gir Somnath district. Meanwhile, in Kotadi village of Mandvi in Kutch district, 70 buffaloes and seven cows were swept away in the strong currents of the flooding Kotadi River. Of these cattle, 17 buffaloes were rescued. In Dhrab village of Mundra taluka in Kutch, the bodies of Kesar Turk (28) and her husband Ghulam Turk (30) were fished out. While the body of Kesar was recovered on Sunday late night, the body of Ghulam was found on Monday morning. An unidentified person who had drowned along with Kesar and Ghulam could not be traced till Monday evening. The bodies of Arjan Kodiyatar (30), Punja Kodiyatar (28) and Bawan Gorasia (31), who had drowned in the creek area, were recovered from near Mokar village of Ranavav taluka in Porbandar. While Arjan’s body was recovered on Sunday night, the bodies of Punja and Bawan were fished out on Monday morning. “The victims had jumped into the creek to save their buffalo from being swept away in the strong currents,” said an official from Ranavav police station. A team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) had set afloat eight boats in the creek to search for the victims,” added the official. In Hadmatiya village of Kalyanpur taluka, the body of Jaideep Joshi (35), who got swept away along with Mashri Rawalia (45) and Ranmal Varu (35) while crossing a low-level bridge were also found||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bodies-of-six-swept-away-in-flood-waters-recovered/articleshow/77598484.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Madurai||Controversy over hoisting of community flag in Melapatti||MADURAI: Tension prevailed in Melapatti village near Peraiyur in the district as a group of people from Scheduled Caste were stopped by members of nadar community from hoisting a community flag on Sunday night in view of VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan’s birthday on Monday. Intervention by police and revenue officials prevented any untoward incident arising out of simmering tension between the two groups. A police deployment has been made in the village to prevent any further escalation. Police sources said that the SC community people claimed that the piece of land where the flag mast is located is a poramboke land, while members from nadar community claimed that it is a patta land belonging to someone named Kasi. It is true that SC people have been hoisting a flag in the mast for the past few years. In the peace meeting convened by Peraiyur DSP Mathialagan and revenue officials led by Peraiyur tahsildar, both sides have been asked to remain calm till the land claim is verified by the revenue department. A police officer said that intervention at the right time prevented a possible clash between two communities as around 50 people from each community had gathered. “People are cooperating at present and the situation is under control,” he said. For now only a case regarding violation of curfew rules has been registered in connection with the incident, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/controversy-over-hoisting-of-community-flag-in-melapatti/articleshow/77601200.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Surat||Two drain openings could give entry to small animals: Forest dept||Surat: In a startling revelation, two drain openings have been found at the Surat airport premises from where, it is believed, small wild animals such as foxes could enter the operational area. This was found during an inspection by the forest department last week. The forest department conducted the inspection under the direction of deputy conservator of forest, Puneet Nayyar, after two dead foxes were found from the airport runway in December last year. Though no traces of wild animals were found inside the airport premises during the inspection, the forest officials have asked the airport authorities to fix mesh grills on the open drains to prevent the intrusion of wild animals. Talking with TOI, Nayyar said, “The open drains were found on the Dumas side of the airport. These drain openings could be the possible entry for the wild animals into the operational area. Though we are yet to find out the exact route of intrusion or the wild life sighting inside the airport premises, the airport authorities have been asked to put up mesh grills on the drain openings.” Nayyar added, “Even last year during routine inspection, the airport authorities were asked to put mesh on the drain opening. We will again visit the airport next month to review the compliance by the airport authorities.” TOI in its report dated June 6, 2020 had published a report over the recovery of two fox carcasses at the runway in December-2019. The airport authorities had refused to share the incident report under the Right to Information Act (RTI) application filed by social activist, Rajesh Modi. Ideally, the death of an animal listed under the scheduled category of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, has to be reported to the forest department before disposal. However, the airport authorities had allegedly disposed the fox carcasses without informing the forest authorities. Earlier, in April 2019, four jackals were spotted on the operation side of the airport and were rescued by the forest department. “We have not received satisfactory reply from the airport authorities over the carcasses of the foxes found from the runway in December 2019. We are awaiting the reply from the authorities over the same,” said Nayyar. When contacted Airport director, Aman Saini told TOI, “To ensure safe operations at airport, joint inspection of operational area was carried out with the team of forest officers to check wildlife and birds. No wildlife animals were sighted into the operational area. There is no openings in the airport area and it is not possible for the wildlife animals to enter through the drains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-drain-openings-could-give-entry-to-small-animals-forest-dept/articleshow/77597425.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bhopal||Sr BJP netas to get positions in state PSUs||Bhopal: BJP in a bid to soothe frayed nerves of its senior leaders ignored in the cabinet expansion is planning to adjust them in the state undertakings with a rank of cabinet minister. A recent cabinet approval on MP Cooperative Society (Amendment) Bill, 2020, has also paved the way for political appointments in district cooperative banks, apex bank and other related committees. Party insiders disclosed that chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state BJP chief, VD Sharma have also planned to accommodate some leaders in the boards, corporations and cooperative bodies ahead of by-polls on 27 seats in the state. “There are more than 150 senior leaders including MLAs, former MLAs, former MPs and other office-bearers in the state and district units who were eyeing a cabinet berth or placement in the state PSUs," disclosed a senior state BJP functionary. He further revealed that the party leadership is also assessing post by-poll results scenario amid Congress-BJP tiff over local issues. In case some Scindia supporters lose the elections, a new strategy would be planned to accommodate them and adjust the old guards too. Sources revealed that the cabinet approval to the Cooperative Society Bill will pave way for the government to accommodate party MLAs and MPs on the post of president and vice-president in these bodies. Besides, several leaders could also be adjusted in the advisory committees of the cooperatives. After five months of being in power, the BJP is grappling with the tussle between insiders and outsiders where old loyalists in the saffron party feel neglected after 22 staunch supporters of Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia quit Congress to join the BJP and were given prominence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sr-bjp-netas-to-get-positions-in-state-psus/articleshow/77601199.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Train knocks bear dead||CHANDRAPUR: A sloth bear was knocked dead by a speeding goods train on Chanda fort-Gondia railway track, near Talodhi Junction, on Monday morning. The goods train was heading towards Gondia and the sloth bear was trying to cross the railway line, passing through compartment number 72 under Balapur social forestry area, when it was hit by the speeding train. The bear died on the spot. After learning about the accident, Dr DG Tekam, the livestock development officer from Talodhi, Balapur, carried out post mortem on the five-year-old bear. Range forest officer SA Kulbandhe later incinerated the remains of the bear at Balapur forest depot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/train-knocks-bear-dead/articleshow/77601210.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 18, 2020||Rajkot||Porbandar MP tests positive for nCov||Rajkot: Member of Parliament from Porbandar, Ramesh Dhaduk tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The resident of Godnal, informed his followers about the infection on Twitter and asked everybody who had come in contact with him in past few days to self isolate themselves. According to reports, Dhaduk’s son and daughter-in-law have also tested positive. BJP MLA from Bhuj Nima Acharya tested covid positive on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/porbandar-mp-tests-positive-for-ncov/articleshow/77598502.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Why Fire Safety Act not applied in cities: HC asks||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Monday said it is a serious matter that the state’s Fire Safety Act is not applicable to municipal corporation areas and not applying it to these urban areas like playing a fraud on the people.The HC observed so and questioned who should be held accountable in case of a fire like one at Shrey Hospital, where eight Covid-19 patients died early this month, particularly when the buildings do not have fire department no-objection certificates.The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala took serious notice of the non-application of the, which was specially enacted after a long litigation and various HC orders, as presented in his PIL by advocate Amit Panchal, who is seeking action against those responsible for the Shrey Hospital fire. The high court also said that it was a really painful incident and questioned the advocate general about the applicability of the law and who should be held accountable in such a scenario. While the petitioner insisted on the need for NOCs in high-rise buildings, schools, hospitals and showed the HC how only 91 of more than 2,000 hospitals in the city had fire NOCs, Justice J B Pardiwala pointed out that there are fire extinguishers in judges’ chambers too but he does not know how to use them. The HC stressed on training on fire safety. It also asked whether any training was given to the staff of the private hospital on extinguishing fires. The HC also asked who should be held responsible if fire safety equipment was not functional. The issue arose when the petitioner pointed out that the fire brigades have inadequate numbers.The petitioner also pointed out that the state’s Fire Safety Act, 2013 empowers a fire officer to act against those breaking fire rules, but the powers to seal a building and taking punitive action are not vested with fire officers in the Gujarat Provincial Municipal Corporation (GPMC) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/why-fire-safety-act-not-applied-in-cities-hc-asks/articleshow/77599962.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala sees 1,725 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state reported 1,725 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, the highest daily figure ever. Among them, 1,605 people were infected through contact and the source of infection in 94 cases is unknown. As many as 1,131 recoveries were also reported in the day. Forty-five of the new cases are returnees from abroad and 75 from other states. At present, the state has 15,890 active cases and the total number of cases reported till date has touched 46,140. Highest number of deaths in a day was also recorded on Monday - 13, taking the total death toll to 170. The deceased have been identified as Varghese, 90, (Kannur), K G Chandran, 75, and Rajam S Pillai, 76, (Alappuzha), Bichu, 69, (Kozhikode), Asma, 38, Abbas, 55, Ramesan, 47, Mariamma, 75, and Risa Fathima, 7 months, (Kasaragod), Kurian Titus, 42, Selvaraj, 58, and Siluvamma, 75, (Thiruvananthapuram) and Bichava Haji, 65, (Malappuram). Among the new cases, 461 cases were reported from Thiruvananthapuram. The rest of the cases are from Malappuram (306), Thrissur (156), Alappuzha (139), Palakkad (137), Ernakulam (129), Kasaragod (97), Kottayam (89), Kannur (77), Kollam (48), Kozhikode (46), Idukki (23), Wayanad (15) and Pathanamthitta (2). Among the contact cases, 31 are health care workers and two are DSC personnel. The state capital recorded the highest number of contact cases 435 followed by 285 in Malappuram, 144 in Thrissur, 124 in Palakkad, 123 in Ernakulam, 122 in Alappuzha, 90 in Kasargod, 81 in Kottayam, 61 in Kannur, 45 in Kollam, 33 from Kozhikode, 14 from Idukki, 13 from Wayanad and two from Pathanamthitta. Among the 31 health workers who have been infected, 15 are from Thiruvananthapuram, and the rest from Kannur (5), Thrissur (3), Malappuram (3), Kozhikode (2), Ernakulam (1), Palakkad (1) and Kasaragod (1). Of those recovered, 270 are from Thiruvananthapuram, 170 from Kasaragod, 130 from Malappuram, 110 from Alappuzha, 89 from Kollam, 76 from Kozhikode, 63 from Ernakulam, 53 from Palakkad, 46 from Kottayam, 42 from Thrissur, 32 from Pathanamthitta, 22 from Kannur, 15 from Idukki and 13 from Wayanad. As many as 1,64,029 people are under surveillance across the state, 1,50,332 under home or institutional quarantine and 13,697 under observation in hospitals. On Monday, 1,455 people were admitted to hospitals. In the last 24 hours, 26,150 samples were tested. A total of 12,05,759 samples have been sent for testing so far, among them 1,49,766 are samples from priority groups as part of sentinel surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-sees-1725-new-cases-13-deaths/articleshow/77598499.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Madurai||Theni, Tuticorin districts cross 10,000 Covid-19 positive cases||MADURAI: Theni and Tuticorin districts on Monday became the third and fourth districts in south Tamil Nadu to cross 10,000 cases. With 279 fresh cases on Monday, Theni’s tally climbed to 10,189 whereas total cases in Tuticorin touched 10,040 with 75 more cases. Tuticorin district that crossed 9,000 cases on August 9 took eight days to cross 10,000 cases. Though the district recorded 415 cases on July 23 and more than 300 a day on many days till early this month, the district has managed to bring it down to below 100 cases a day over the last one week. The district added 683 cases between August 11 and 17 at an average of less than 98 cases a day. “Positivity rate was as high as 20% a day three weeks ago. It has dropped to the range of 2.5% to 5% a day in the last few days. Aggressive testing during the peak period by conducting fever camps in clusters such as commercial areas and factories helped in early detection and curtailing the spread,” Tuticorin collector Sandeep Nanduri said. The overall positivity rate of Tuticorin district is around 8% of the nearly 1.25 lakh samples tested so far. At 89 deaths so far, Tuticorin’s death rate is at 0.89%, which is the lowest among the southern districts. In the last one week, Theni added 1,932 cases at an average of 276 cases a day. Theni crossed 9,000 cases on August 13 and took only four days to add the next 1,000 cases. “The numbers have started coming down and so is the positivity rate,” Theni collector M Pallavi Baldev said. From August 1 to 10 the district added 3,229 cases at an average of 323 a day. On an average 3,200 samples are collected a day. Positivity rate was 26.3% on August 8 when 446 fresh cases were reported. On Monday it was 10.3% with 279 from 2,707 samples. Overall positivity rate of the district is 10.3% from 98,250 samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/theni-tuticorin-dists-cross-10000-covid-19-positive-cases/articleshow/77601215.cms||M K Ananth
August 18, 2020||Madurai||EPS, OPS, senior leaders will decide AIADMK’s CM candidate: Sellur Raju||MADURAI: Minister for co-operation Sellur K Raju on Monday said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and other senior leaders will decide the AIADMK’s chief ministerial candidate in the 2021 Tamil Nadu assembly elections. Raju stated this while reporters sought his reaction to BJP state president L Murugan’s statement that the national party would point out the next CM of Tamil Nadu. “It is their wish. They have to keep their cadre in good spirits as elections are nearing. Each party will say that. We are not worried about it. We respect our allies, but AIADMK need not listen to what other parties say (regarding the CM candidate),” he said. As reporters continued asking him about the poster war between the AIADMK and BJP, he said that both parties had new functionaries and they were expressing their wishes. He asked reporters not to ask questions that would damage the goodwill between the Centre and the state government. The minister said AIADMK is a secular party. “Parties in an alliance may have views and ideologies that differ. As of now, the alliance (with BJP) is continuing),” he added. On the Innova car prize announced by Murugan to BJP district presidents who make the party candidates win, Raju said that such luxury cars would have to be given to all the 1.5 crore AIADMK cadre as they would make the party come to power once again. “Victory is determined only if the cadre function, and not just the leaders. This was the clear ideology of our party founder MGR too,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eps-ops-senior-leaders-will-decide-aiadmks-cm-candidate-sellur-raju/articleshow/77601263.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Docs in demand as WFH turns pain in the neck||Bhubaneswar: Work from home (WFH) has literally become a pain for many, as lying down or sitting on a couch or bed for long hours is now accompanied by stiff neck, backache and creaky joints. Weight gain thanks to stress eating and muscle weakness caused by lack of activity have compounded WFH woes. A 37-year-old software developer from Baramunda recently contacted an orthopaedic surgeon of a private hospital after suffering severe neck pain. “The pain began two months ago when I started working for long hours at home. I was somehow managing with tablets prescribed by my doctor friend, but I had to contact a specialist after the pain increased,” said the man. Doctors acknowledged getting more and more people with WFH-induced posture and pain problems. Nirmal Chandra Mohapatra, head of the department of orthopaedics at SCB Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack, said sitting for hours would definitely lead to back pain and neck pain. “Such people even face the risk of sciatica, weight gain and muscle weakness. People who are in WFH mode must take a five-minute break every 20 minutes and walk around. They can do back exercises and practise yoga. They can also stand in the sun for some vitamin D,” he added. Sarthak Patnaik, senior consultant in the department of arthroscopy and sports medicine, SUM Ultimate Medicare, said bad posture placed stress on muscle, bone, spine and affected blood circulation. “We used to receive patients with neck pain, backache and joint pain, but the number has increased after Covid. Apart from this, people are complaining of pain in the wrist and elbow joints. Due to lack of movement, the fluid in these joints stiffens and causes pain,” he added. While some professionals have work-like set-up in their homes, with proper furniture, those who were thrown into WFH suddenly are making do with couches and beds. “People should keep their computers at a place that is parallel to their head. Sit straight instead of bending down while working. Walk for a few minutes in the middle of the work and make some movement of the arms,” he added. Shakti Prasad Das, orthopaedic surgeon and director of SVNIRTAR, stressed on proper standing and sitting postures while working from home. “To get relief from joint pains, neck pain and backache, people have to exercise and get some sunlight,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/docs-in-demand-as-wfh-turns-pain-in-the-neck/articleshow/77598518.cms||Hemanta Pradhan
August 18, 2020||Vadodara||After six days, rains take a break in Vadodara||Vadodara: After a heavy bout of showers over last six days, rains took a break in Vadodra on Monday. The weather was overcast but the city recorded light showers giving the civic authorities tim to carry out the relief measures. Water levels in Vishwamitri River too receded to 17 feet but it may swell again by a couple of feet as over 3,000 cusecs of water was being released from the Ajwa Dam since Monday morning. The dam was flowing steady at 212 feet but the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) is on alert. Residential colonies along the Vishwamitri River were on the edge on Sunday and some residents of Casa Residency in Vadsar were even rescued by the fire brigade after the locality got submerged in rain waters. Residents of some low lying areas in Sayajigunj too have been asked to be in safer locality for a couple of days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/after-six-days-rains-take-a-break-in-vadodara/articleshow/77598522.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Tourism dept plans to launch campaign on hotel safety||Bhubaneswar: The state government will launch a creative campaign to reassure tourists about the safety of hotels in Odisha. The tourism department has begun the process of selecting a private agency to prepare the campaign. The state government allowed hotels to function at 30% occupancy from June 8. However, most hotels remain vacant as tourists are fearful of their safety and the hygiene of the establishments. “We have floated a tender to select the agency that will prepare a creative tourist safety assurance campaign. The promotional campaign will focus on the state government’s efforts in containing the spread of the virus and the safety protocols being followed by hotels. Through pictorial and video messages, we want to build a sense of confidence among tourists and reassure them that they are safe in Odisha,” tourism secretary Vishal Dev told TOI. Hotels have adopted a slew of anti-Covid measures for the safety of their guests. “We have reopened with heightened safety and hygiene protocols. Contactless check-in, thermal screening, sanitized rooms and dining halls and sufficient provision of masks and sanitizers for tourists are the new normal in the hospitality sector,” owner of Swosti Group of Hotels and chairman of the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Odisha (HRAO), J K Mohanty, said. Although tourists from other states are yet to resume leisure travel, local visitors from different districts have started arriving at hotels. “I checked into a hotel as my father was admitted to a hospital nearby for treatment. The experience was completely different from pre-Covid days. The hotel made all efforts to keep the premises safe,” said Satish Ranjan Agarwal, a businessman from Sambalpur staying in a hotel here. Hoteliers said special care was being taken to keep staff safe. “We have been according priority to the safety and hygiene of our staff who render services to guests. We are regularly monitoring the health of our employees and ensuring that they get Covid tests done. A short video on our arrangements and safety protocols has been circulated among tourists,” owner of Victoria Club Hotel and senior functionary of Hotel Association of Puri, Debasis Kumar, said. The tourism department has asked all hotels to keep an eye on their employees’ health after 18 staff members of a star hotel near Jayadev Vihar Square here tested positive for the coronavirus on August 12. On the occasion of World Tourism Day on September 27, the department plans to launch facilities for road trips to and through Odisha to attract tourists. The tourism department hopes to tap the market in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand to promote interstate road trips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/tourism-dept-plans-to-launch-campaign-on-hotel-safety/articleshow/77598504.cms||Debabrata Mohapatra
August 18, 2020||Kochi||Virus spread increasing among vulnerable groups||Kochi: Covid-19 test positivity among persons who have contact with interstate truck drivers, persons with high social exposure and health workers is increasing in the state, reveals an analysis of the sentinel surveillance done in the state in June and July. The positivity rate of sentinel surveillance results has been steadily increasing from 0.13% in May to 0.59 % in July. This is key as the health department’s Covid-19 sentinel surveillance (June-July 2020) throws light on the spread of the infection in the community. To understand the extent of spread in community, the health department since April 19 has been testing persons with influenza like illness (ILI), persons who have high social exposure with locals – shopkeepers, police, food delivery persons, etc. as well as healthcare workers (HCWs), persons who come in contact with truck drivers, besides guest workers. Positivity rate of persons with high exposure to truck drivers is now 1.29%, while for persons with high social exposure the positivity rate is 0.77% and HCWs it is 0.64%. The lowest growth of 0.08% is seen amongst persons with ILI – 0.08 %. Of the 17,000 plus local population tested in July as part of sentinel surveillance, only 35% were symptomatic. “It is evident that cases and positivity are more at clusters as evidenced by test results at clusters, whereas in general population, the positivity still remains low. The sentinel surveillance data iterates that early identification of clusters and containment could be the best strategy,” the report notes. Health experts said that it is pertinent that state focuses on increasing testing, both in private and government sectors. “Testing needs to be increased to identify and isolate positive persons. This can only help in reducing the spread of infection,” said Dr Gopikumar P, secretary, IMA, Kerala chapter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/virus-spread-increasing-among-vulnerable-groups/articleshow/77598536.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Madurai||Vehicle movement increases after e-pass rule relaxation||MADURAI: The number of vehicles, especially cars, on highways in Madurai district has increased after the restrictions on approving e-pass for inter-district movement are eased out. Toll gates were busy due to the sudden spurt of vehicles. A revenue official at a check post on the Madurai-Trichy highway on the district border said that the number of cars increased by 20 to 30% by on Monday. All the vehicles are checked for e-passes and only those who possess valid passes are allowed to proceed further. He also said, “Swabs are collected from e-pass holders who were asked to isolate themselves at their houses. Special attention is being given to vehicles coming from Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu districts, where spread of virus is high,” he said. An official involved in approving e-passes for Madurai district said, “Approval is given instantly by system if applications fulfill certain criteria.” J Vijayaraghavan, a native of Tirumangalam in Madurai, who stays in Villupuram said, “I had applied for e-pass to visit my mother who is staying alone. The applications were rejected and it was a concern. Finally, I got the approval after the easing of restrictions. I am going to visit my mother after four months,” he said. President of Kappalur Industrialists Association P N Ragunatha Raja said that the move has increased confidence among industrialists, who are working hard to bring their manufacturing units back on track. It will help them get orders and collect pending dues, he said. J Venkatesan, president of Madurai District Cab Drivers Association said that earlier applications only for medical emergencies, deaths and marriages were approved, but now approval is given to visit ailing relatives and family members. Approvals are also being given to work place visits and client meetings. “We are elated as our demand has been accepted by the state government. It will certainly enhance our earnings. We have also raised a charter of demands including cancellation of road tax for a certain period and withdrawal of fuel price hike,” Venkatesan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vehicle-movement-increases-after-e-pass-rule-relaxation/articleshow/77601295.cms||V Devanathan
August 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||‘Coastal highway to change state’s fortunes’||Bhubaneswar: Petroleum and natural gas minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Monday said the Digha-Gopalpur Coastal Highway project would transform the the fortunes of Odisha. Taking to Twitter, Pradhan said, “#ModiGovt’s ambitious 451km Digha-Gopalpur coastal highway will be a game-changer in transforming the fortunes of coastal Odisha. Maintaining ecological and environmental sanctity of the region, the coastal area will also emerge as one of India’s prime tourist attractions.” Talking further about the project, he said the coastal highway would act as an economic corridor for the transport of agricultural and pisciculture produce to Paradip and Dhamra ports and also play an important role in the movement of supplies during natural disasters such as cyclones and floods. Pradhan also spoke on the Atmanirbhar Bharat programme of the Centre and tweeted, “Improved infrastructure development and connectivity are central to PM Shri @narendramodi’s vision for #AatmaNirbharBharat. The National Infrastructure Pipeline will not only revolutionise infrastructure creation but also pull India out of the economic impact of #Covid19.” Highlighting the benefits for Odisha under the vision, he stated, “Expansion of #NCC in the coastal areas will open new avenues for the youth of the region and further strengthen disaster management capabilities. With the impetus being given to Odisha in infrastructure development, it will emerge as a key contributor of #AatmaNirbharBharat.” “Odisha has been one of the prime beneficiaries of PM Modi’s infra and connectivity push. Blessed with a long coastline and having India’s biggest container handling port and a petrochemical complex in Paradip, Odisha is strategically poised for synergised infrastructure push,” he mentioned in one of his tweets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/coastal-highway-to-change-states-fortunes/articleshow/77598532.cms||Sandip Mishra
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Mumbai mafia supplied meth, opium to suspects||Ahmedabad: Investigators of the Gujarat anti-terrorist squad (ATS) probing the seizure of 245g methamphetamine and 488g of opium, worth Rs 25 lakh, have got a major lead in the case. A senior ATS official said the drugs were supplied from Mumbai to a man in Sanchore, Rajasthan, who in turn delivered it to Suresh Thakkar, Jagdishchandra Mali and Khemaram Brahman, all residents of Sanchore. ATS sources said the three, drove in Thakkar’s car — which is modified because he has a physical disability — to Sidhpur in Gujarat and delivered it to Imran Shaikh there. “Imran is alleged a drug peddler and was to deliver the consignment to someone in Ahmedabad. All four were arrested in a joint operation by Gujarat ATS and city crime last Thursday in Sidhpur. We identified the Mumbai drug racketeer and his associate who delivered the consignment to the arrested accused. Teams of investigators will soon leave for Mumbai and Sanchore to dig deeper and make more arrests,” the source added.A senior ATS official said direct supply from Mumbai to Ahmedabad was blocked as city crime branch had carried out several raids recently and seized consignments. Hence the Mumbai racketeers pushed drugs into Gujarat from Rajasthan. “They had used this route about ten times,” he added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/mumbai-mafia-supplied-meth-opium-to-suspects/articleshow/77601309.cms||Sarfaraz Shaikh
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Man held for spreading rumour over KCR’s health||HYDERABAD: A migrant labour who was wanted in a case of spreading alleged false information about the health of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was arrested by Hyderabad Central Crime Station (CCS) sleuths on Monday. CCS officials, in a press note, said that on June 8, a suo-moto case was registered by police after one person whose Facebook profile name is Panyala Raju spread fake new about KCR’s health. During the investigation, police came to know that the accused is a native of Jagityal district and was residing in Saudi Arabia. Police issued a Look Out Circular (LOC) to all airports after registering the case. The accused came to the Mumbai airport on Friday and the emigration authorities were alerted that a LOC was pending against him. They notified the Hyderabad CCS officials. A team of policemen from Hyderabad went to Mumbai and took him into custody on Monday. Police registered a case against the accused under Information Technology Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-spreading-rumour-over-kcrs-health/articleshow/77600039.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC netted Rs 771 per minute in corona protocol fines||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), to ensure that people wear masks to prevent the spread of Covid-19, has adopted a policy to giving a packet of five masks to everyone who is being fined. Amdavadis have paid nearly Rs 3.75 crore in fines for not wearing mask or social distancing violations in three months.Officials said since the lockdown was eased, collection of fines spiked with the majority of fines coming in three months. An AMC officer said their teams work for about nine hours a day and hence the fines collected in three months works out to Rs 771 per minute.Municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar said, “Our intention is to ensure people wear masks and not to collect fines. We give a packet of five masks to those caught not wearing mask one. When the penalty was Rs 500 we gave them one mask each. We now give them five so they get into the habit of wearing one.” Harshad Solanki, director of the AMC solid waste department, which has been tasked with ensuring Covid protocol compliance, said whether the fine was Rs 100, 200, 500 or 1,000, it was mainly educated people paying them. He said in the East, North and South Zones, the stiff Rs 1,000 fine has had a great impact and there has been a considerable drop in violations in these areas.However, in the western parts of the city — Bodakdev, Jodhpur, Thaltej, Stadium and Navrangpura wards — violators instantly hand over even Rs 1,000 fines.The more the educated and the posher the area, the more people are violating mask and social distancing rules. He said the West Zone pays the most in fines for not wearing masks. Of the seven zones, the West Zone accounted for 18% of all cases.Officials said that on Monday, a total of Rs 3 lakh was collected in fines of which the West, North West and South West Zones accounted for 40% of cases, or 122 of the 305 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-netted-rs-771-per-minute-in-corona-protocol-fines/articleshow/77600006.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
August 18, 2020||Vadodara||Testing up, but positive cases still down||Vadodara: The increase in Covid-19 testing in Vadodara sprung up a surprise. While the number of tests on Monday was around 1.5 times that on Sunday, the number of positive cases remained nearly the same. Since Sunday evening, 1,640 samples were tested in the city and district against 1,119 on the previous day. But, quite curiously, the number of cases detected in the tests since Sunday evening was 105 against 106 cases found on the previous day.“We are unable to find any new cases despite the increased testing. We unable to even find people with symptoms like that of Covid-19 too. The numbers seem to be a staggering for now,” said VMC medical officer Dr Devesh Patel. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/testing-up-but-positive-cases-still-down/articleshow/77598549.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Cuttack||Racket using fake bills to claim GST worth Rs 129 cr unearthed||Cuttack: The GST enforcement wing in the state has unearthed a racket, which used fake bills to claim input tax credit worth Rs 129 crore over multiple transactions routed through different chains. The input tax credit was claimed on fake invoices worth Rs 712 crore. Input tax credit is an option in GST which allows the traders to claim credit for taxes paid on purchase. The alleged mastermind of the racket, Kashmira Kumar Agrawal, director of M/s. Madhumita Steels Industries Private Limited, has been arrested from Sambalpur, an official release said on Monday. Consequent upon tracking of a chain of fraudulent transaction followed by scrutiny of suspected e-waybill transactions and collection of intelligence, physical inspections were carried out simultaneously at 14 business establishments. These were, however, found to be non-existent and fictitious, the official release said. During interrogation, proprietors of these fake firms admitted that they were neither doing any business nor doing any purchases/sales in the name of their firms and the transactions reflected in their returns were only paper transactions without any actual receipt and supply of goods. All of them also categorically admitted that they had neither deposited nor withdrawn any amount from the bank account opened in the name of their firm, the official release further said. The banking transactions in the name of the firms had been undertaken by the mastermind by misusing the signed cheque book and RTGS forms taken from the innocent persons in whose name registration had been taken fraudulently and in some cases by forging their signature. Investigation reveals that the mastermind, hired middlemen to collect credentials such as PAN card, Aadhaar card, photograph, etc, from persons of no means (housewives, drivers, plumber etc.) of Sundargarh and Sambalpur district on the pretext of giving them gainful employment/ handsome amount of money in every month but misused the documents to fulfil his own vested interest and defrauded the government revenue, the official release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/cuttack/racket-using-fake-bills-to-claim-gst-worth-rs-129-cr-unearthed/articleshow/77598542.cms||lalmohan.patnaik
August 18, 2020||Hubballi||Pig thieves murder three of a family in Chitradurga||Chitradurga: A gang of pig thieves brutally murdered three people at Nayakanahatti of Challakere taluk in Chitradurga district late on Sunday night. The deceased are Seenappa, 55, his son Yallesha, 22, and his cousin Maresha, 25, all from a pig-rearing family. The gang attacked the trio when they were fast asleep at a shed housing some 100 pigs on the outskirts of Nayakanahatti. When the trio put up a strong resistance to the theft of pigs, the gang members allegedly threw chilli powder on their face and also hit them with lethal weapons and stones. The trio succumbed to injuries that they sustained on their heads. Police have noticed chilli powder on Seenappa’s body and tyre markings of vehicles near the crime spot. The shed is left with only some five pigs, while the others are missing, a family member said. A week ago, a gang of 8-9 members, which had come in an SUV, had attempted to steal the pigs, Seenappa’s wife said, adding that her husband and son had chased them away then. “We suspect the same gang to be behind the murders,” SP Radhika G said, adding forensic experts and cellphone tracking experts are on the job to trace the culprits. Police said pig theft cases are on the rise in the region, and they are keeping an eye on pork stalls to trace the thieves. A case has been booked at Nayakanahatti police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pig-thieves-murder-three-of-a-family-in-chitradurga/articleshow/77599218.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||City adds 645 cases in 3 days||Bhubaneswar: The city on Monday reported 198 positive cases, taking the tally to 5487. In the past three days, the city has added 645 cases, with the single-day highest of 277 on Saturday. Among the fresh Covid cases, 104 were reported from quarantine (home and institutional) centres. Sources in Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC) said more than 2200 tests were conducted on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. “With more tests being conducted, it is obvious there will be more positive cases. But the rate of positivity is a little more than 10%, a 2% increase from the past week. We have appealed to the people not to panic as we have sufficient beds in our Covid facilities. Besides, 85% of the cases are asymptomatic,” said a BMC officer. On Monday, 132 patients were discharged from hospital taking the recoveries to 3567. The officer added that none of the areas has been brought under containment as most are reporting one or two cases. The seven containment zones that had been created in seven slums have also been lifted. “We are vigilant in the slum areas and our policy of no home isolation for slum dwellers is still in force. We are taking those suspected to have come in touch with primary contacts to the quarantine centres. That is the reason isolated cases are being reported from slums without the need to bring them under containment,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/city-adds-645-cases-in-3-days/articleshow/77598555.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Vadodara||Four of Alavi Bohra’s first family donate their plasma||Vadodara: If plasma donation for treatment of Covid-19 is gaining momentum in the city, donors like the first family of the Alavi Bohra community are giving the much-needed push. Four members of the family have made five plasma donations even as others from the community are joining hands in their efforts.The Alavi Bohra community could well be called a micro minority with a population of only around 10,000 globally. And it was left stunned when its spiritual leader Saiyedna Haatim Zakiyuddin Saheb and four other family members were diagnosed with Covid-19. This took place in the holy month of Ramzan and prayers as well as sermons were performed by the Saiyedna’s successor Bhaisaheb Nuruddin who was also found positive.In a small population of around 5,000 or even less of the sect in the city, 38 persons had tested positive and seven had died. But the community decided to fight back with major awareness drives regarding safeguards against Covid-10 and even plasma donation. Since the end of June, the Saiyedna’s two brothers, his son and a nephew have all donated plasma. The example they set encouraged three or four others in the community to donate plasma. Later this month, the community is looking to make more donations.Said Bhaisaheb Nuruddin, “We asked youngsters to come forward and have been calling up people who have been cured to enlist them for becoming plasma donors. On our request, the Bhailal Amin General Hospital has allowed videography of the donation process with explanations from their experts so that more people are motivated.”Nuruddin’s younger brother Dr Bhaisaheb Zulkarnain, who practices homoeopathy had been reading up on plasma therapy ever since he went into home quarantine after testing positive on May 15. “After detailed study, I made my first donation on June 23 and then even later. The Syedna is not able to do so as he is not completely fit, but has been motivating us a lot,” Zulkarnain said. The others who donated plasma include the Syedna’s son Bhaisaheb Murtuza and Nuriddin’s son Kumail. The lead taken by the family has shown results with many now keen on donating plasma. Liyakat Petiwala (64) did so despite his ripe age about 10 days back. “I had high blood pressure and diabetes, but decided to donate after the doctors gave a go ahead. It has had no effect on my health. If someone can benefit from our gesture, we should definitely do it. If needed, I will do so again,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-of-alavi-bohras-first-family-donate-their-plasma/articleshow/77598577.cms||Sachin Sharma
August 18, 2020||Mysuru||Water level in Malnad reservoirs close to the brim||Shivamogga/ Hassan: The Malnad districts of Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru were lashed by heavy showers again on Monday. Copious rain in the catchment areas of Sharavathi and Bhadra rivers resulted in a proportional spike in the inflow to the Linganamakki and Bhadra reservoirs respectively. If the catchment areas of the two rivers continue to be lashed by heavy rain over the ensuing weeks, the two reservoirs are likely to be filled to the brim by the end of August. In Chikkamagaluru, Koppa, Mudigere, Kudremukha and Charmadi Ghats were among the areas that received heavy rain. Water level at Bhadra Reservoir in Lakkinakopppa, Chikkamagaluru on Monday stood at 178.6ft against its capacity storage of 186ft. Although the current level at the dam is lower compared to the reading on August 17 last year – 184.6ft - authorities are confident that the reservoir will be full to the brim by the end of the month. In Shivamogga, Hosanagara and Thirthahalli taluks reported very heavy rain. Hosanagara being the catchment area of the Sharavathi River, heavy showers in the taluk pushed the water level at Linganamakki Dam in Sagar to almost 1,800ft against its capacity storage of 1,819ft as on Monday. In Hassan, the crest gates of the Hemavathi Dam in Gorur were opened after the authorities confirmed that the reservoir had filled to its brim. This is the second time in August that the authorities have opened all six crest gates at the dam. As on Monday evening, the water level at Hemavathi Dam stood a few inches short of its capacity storage of 2,922ft. The reservoir recorded an inflow of 9,142 cusecs on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/water-level-in-malnad-reservoirs-close-to-the-brim/articleshow/77601438.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||In 2 weeks, Tvm picks up double cumulative cases of five months||Thiruvananthapuram: In 15 days this month, the district health team has picked up twice the cumulative number of cases reported in the past five months, indicating the extent of transmission. It was a result of increased testing rates as part of surveillance and cluster containment; 42,237 samples were collected by 42 teams in the district, out of which and 4,470 tested positive. This number of positives is actually double the positive cases in the district reported from March to the middle of July in the district. Till July 18, the district had a cumulative number of 2,220 cases. The daily number of tests in the district consistently crossed 3,000 for seven days during this period. It went below 1,000 once when only 935 samples could be tested and 292 positives were detected that day. Since July 5 when cluster outbreak was confirmed at Poonthura, the district team had seldom brought down testing to below 2,000 except on a few occasions when testing had to be called off in some coastal clusters due to local protest. While the district is still far from achieving the golden test positivity rate of below 5%, a higher number of tests has been crucial in cluster identification and containment, the officials said. The positivity rate went above 10% on 6 days in two weeks so far. The highest positivity rates of 29% and 31% were recorded on two days in Trivandrum during this period. The officials said that positivity rate spikes higher whenever a new cluster is identified and fresh cases emerge. Data available with the health department show that the total tests conducted in the district till July 7 since March were 24,568 and in the next 11 days the figure touched 45,936 tests; in less than two weeks, 23,112 were tested. The classic strategy of detecting more cases with more tests was amply demonstrated in the district during this period. The daily positivity rate had ranged between 5.2% and 14.7% in July. On days where more tests were done, the positivity rate was on the higher side. On July 14, the district did 2,721 tests, and the positivity rate was 10.8% and on July 16, 2,633 tests were done and positivity stood at 14.7%. In addition to over 42,000 tests, the district has managed to do 700 Tru naat and GeneXpert tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/in-2-weeks-tvm-picks-up-double-cumulative-cases-of-five-months/articleshow/77598564.cms||Aswin J Kumar
August 18, 2020||Surat||Virtual diamonds exhibition on Aug 27||Surat: With the coronavirus pandemic hitting the diamond industry hard, a first ever virtual exhibition of diamond exhibition has been organised by the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) for allowing the diamantaires in Surat and Mumbai to showcase their products across the world. The virtual buyers and seller meeting (VBSM) will be held for two days starting from August 27 where the diamantaires will showcase their diamonds to the buyers in Australia, Bangladesh, China, Colombia, Europe, Middle East, Russia CIS, South Africa, South Asia, UK, and USA. Industry experts stated that the demand for gems and jewellery was slowly recovering in the markets like US, China and other parts of the world. However, due to the suspension of international flights, cancellation of the international gems and jewellery exhibition, the diamantaires are unable to market their products to the international buyers. Talking with TOI, GJEPC chairman, Colin Shah said, “It’s time for the industry to explore digital world and make best use of it to showcase the products and help buyers make informed decision.” Vice-chairman of GJEPC, Vipul Shah told TOI, “The virtual exhibition has been planned at a crucial time when the demand for diamonds has increased gradually in key markets. Owing to the upcoming holiday season in Western countries, we are likely to see the demand for diamonds to increase in August.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/virtual-diamonds-exhibition-on-aug-27/articleshow/77597496.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Mumbai||International Baccalaureate adjusts awarded grades after outcry||MUMBAI: International Baccalaureate has adjusted awarded grades after a public outcry by students, schools and parents who were dissatisfied with lower-than-expected final diploma grades. Supported by media organisations and global governments, IBO on Monday made “critical adjustment” to awarded results for Diploma Programme (DP) and Career-related Programme (CP) May 2020 session. IB said it was communicating the change to “ministries and universities” so that they were “aware of steps taken” and “rationale for changes”. In the interim, many students’ conditional university offers were cancelled as final grades were deficient for the college, and lower than those awarded by their schools. “Since July, IB gathered and addressed feedback from IB World Schools. Of 3,020 schools receiving results for May 2020 session, 700 submitted a review request on behalf of students. IB’s review and analysis of detailed information from schools offered invaluable insights, leading IB to evaluate and recommend grade adjustments where applicable,” the board stated. TOI first reported about “final grades being less than predicted scores” (July 8). This year, final exams could not be held due to Covid-19 , and assessment was based on predicted grades given by the school, internal assessment and schools’ historical performance. But many students and parents said the vast difference between predicted grades and actual final score from the board saw many dreams crash. School heads claimed the assessment method had seen diploma graduates from their campus reduce dramatically as many had not scored minimum grade points required to graduate. The fresh assessment method, which takes into consideration predicted grades and internal coursework, raised schools performance levels. Internal assessment grades are based on student coursework and assessed by trained independent IB examiners. “Now that the vague algorithm has not taken into account imaginary school historical data, most of our students graduated, and scores awarded are close to the school’s predicted grades. The final grades came this morning and many who lost the diploma have now graduated,” said an IB school head. IB confirmed no student’s overall point score would decrease from issued grades after adjustments. “Students’ subject final grade results will be adjusted to be equal to internal assessment results when the predicted grade was only a grade less, equal to or greater than IA grade. The student will be awarded IA grade as final grade for that subject in such cases. This will support many students in this session,” IB said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ib-adjusts-awarded-grades-after-outcry/articleshow/77600554.cms||Hemali Chhapia
August 18, 2020||Kochi||Cops team up with public to nab Covid-protocol violators in Kerala||ALAPPUZHA: To catch Covid-protocol violators, the Chengannur police have set up junction committees with the support of local residents. The members of the committees will alert the police with pictures and videos of those not following social distancing or roaming without masks on WhatsApp. Besides they would also take accident victims to hospitals. Chengannur DSP P V Baby said that the committees are active in their police station limits. "We have registered over 6,000 cases for not wearing masks and not following social distancing. As many as 53 junction committees are active in our Chengannur areas. “So, after taking over 6,000 cases, almost all the people are following the rules and instruction as well. Auto and taxi drivers, shop owners, and other members of the public form the committee, and they are doing a good job. We understood that we can successfully execute our activities for fighting Covid-19 only with the participation of the people. They will also help accident victims to get medical help with the help of police,” said Baby. The police claim to have conducted awareness programmes in addition to setting up 15 market committees and 40 cluster committees. “To date, we have organized 100 awareness programmes, and conducted announcements in 200 places apart from bringing out 3,000 posters and banners on Covid awareness,” the cops said. The DSP said that Ernakulam Range IG S Kaliraj Mahesh Kumar and Alappuzha police chief P K Sabu are monitoring their progress and sharing suggestions daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-team-up-with-public-to-nab-violators/articleshow/77598584.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal tops Covid death chart in August||BHOPAL: Coronavirus cases are rising sharply in Madhya Pradesh. As many as 14,579 new positive cases — or 31% of the total Covid infections in state so far — were reported in the first 17 days of August. Of the 14,579 cases, over 50% or 7,323 cases were reported from Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior and Jabalpur. In the last week, over 1,000 cases were reported in a single-day on three days. The total state Covid tally is now 46,385. In July, Bhopal had emerged has the worst corona-hit district. In August, so far, Indore has topped the Covid chart with 2,721 new cases, followed by Bhopal (2,149), Jabalpur (1,294) and Gwalior (1,159). The seriousness of the situation can be understood by the fact that Jabalpur had reported only 729 cases in July, while in the first two weeks of August, it has reported over 17,000 cases. Districts like Ratlam and Vidisha which had reported very few cases in July now come in the top 10 districts with maximum Covid infections. What adds to the concern is that the virus continues to spread across Madhya Pradesh as in over 25 districts more than 170 cases were reported in August. In the remaining 24 districts, at least 50 cases have been reported. Meanwhile, the state also reported 261 deaths in August so far. Bhopal saw the maximum number of Covid deaths in August — 67 — averaging over four deaths per days.In the second place is Indore with 33 deaths, followed by Jabalpur with 26 deaths. MP’s Covid death count has risen to 1,105, putting it at ninth position in toll though it is 15th in tally. The state’s recovery rate is around 76.5% (national average 72.2%) and death rate 2.4% (national average 1.9%)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-saw-1/3-of-total-covid-cases-in-aug/articleshow/77600038.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||IMFL concealed in boxes bearing virus hazard labels||Ahmedabad: State monitoring cell (SMC) on Sunday seized 192 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), worth Rs 66k, packed in boxes with ‘Chemtex Bio-Security Package Covid-19’ labels on them, from Asarwa. The van carrying the IMFL had a sticker ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao’ on the back and ‘Kabhi B’ on its side. One Hitendra Solanki, 34, of Kathwada, the driver of the van, has been held and handed over to Shahibaug police. Four other persons named Ravi, Sabbir, Jago and one unknown person who escaped during the raid, have been named in the FIR lodged by SMC at Shahibaug police station on Sunday.The SMC stated that they raided a place near Bhogilal New Chawl acting on a tip-off and held Solanki who was unloading the boxes, while another person who was with him fled.“On checking the boxes, we found IMFL bottles. The boxes had labels of ‘Chemtex Bio-Security Package Covid-19’ stuck on them,” said a police official.Solanki revealed that a man named Sabbir had told him to bring the liquor from Pavagadh. “Sabbir took Solanki’s phone and gave him another phone through which he guided him,” said an SMC source.“In Pavagadh, one Jago delivered 16 IMFL boxes to Solanki. On the way back, Sabbir met Solanki near Bakrol Crossroads. He gave Solanki his phone and took the phone he had given him. Sabbir then gave him a mobile number and told him to deliver the IMFL to a man named Ravi,” added an SMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/imfl-concealed-in-boxes-bearing-virus-hazard-labels/articleshow/77600202.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Madurai||No new cases in 8 wards in Madurai city||MADURAI: Eight of the 100 wards in Madurai Corporation limits have not reported even a single Covid-19 case in the last 15 days. Officials said the development has given them the much-required confidence and encouragement amid their hectic efforts towards controlling the pandemic. St Mary’s- ward number 69, Madura Baskaradoss Nagar- 78, Perumal Theppakulam-79, Sokkanathar Temple- 82, Meenakshi Temple-84, Jadamuni Temple-85, Kovalan Nagar-92 and Thiruparankundram-96 are the eight wards. Except for St Mary’s, all the other wards come under zone four of the corporation. Zone four has the lowest number of active cases among the four zones for several weeks now. An official in-charge of the zone four said that continuous door-to-door screening and aggressive testing through fever camps helped to bring down the numbers. “We are screening every house once in three days using thermal scanner. People are tested even if there is a mild symptom. Although, some show reluctance to visit fever camps for testing, they are convinced by the personnel visiting them,” he said. The number of containment streets, too, has been decreasing. There are only four containment streets in the city-- Nellai Street in Melamadai, Velupillai Street in Villapuram North Street, TVK Street in Kamarajarpuram and Preetham Street in Palanganatham. “There was a time when corporation had 61 containment streets. It is encouraging for us to see the containment streets are coming down. The reduction in containment street means spread is contained at the initial stage itself,” a corporation health official said. Officials said that there are 605 active Covid-19 cases in Madurai as on Sunday. Zone four had lowest number of active cases at 69. Zone one had 209 cases, zone two had 210 cases and zone three had 117 cases. While 68 positive cases were reported in the city on Sunday, only 8 of them were from zone four.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/no-new-cases-in-8-wards-in-madurai-city/articleshow/77601313.cms||V Devanathan
August 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BKC unit has 37% ICU death rate in past three weeks||MUMBAI: An unusually higher number of deaths at the outsourced ICU of BKC’s jumbo Covid facility has raised concerns within the civic body. The deaths have given rise to discussions around accountability at these makeshift centres, where the ICUs are managed by private agencies and wards by BMC teams. TOI has learned that of the 232 ICU admissions at the BKC facility in the past three weeks, 86 patients have died, lending it a fatality rate of 37%. This is higher than that seen by some of BMC’s tertiary hospitals like KEM (34% in June) or Sion (26%) at the peak of the pandemic. TimesViewThe jumbo care centres in the city have the best of medicines, the best of ventilators and other healthcare facilities. What they need more of is supervision so that there is greater accountability and that public confidence in going to such facilities in case of health issues continues to stay strong.Civic officials said some very critical patients were referred to the facility, including from peripheral areas. BMC gives medicines and pays pvt agencies Rs 6,000 per ICU bedICUs in three of the five jumbo facilities have been commissioned in the past one month, whereas a fourth 225-bed critical care facility built in the Nesco grounds, Goregaon, is nearing completion. While the BKC ICU has 108 functional ICU beds, Dahisar has 119 and the Dome in Worli has 28. The ICUs at Dahisar and Worli facilities, which too are run by private agency LifeLine Care, have registered a dozen deaths each out of 119 and 90 admissions respectively. BMC’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the BMC has sought details of deaths from Cardiac Health Care agency that has won the bid to run the BKC facility and will shortly be managing the NESCO ICU. “We are doing an internal evaluation. BMC doctors are not directly involved in the treatment and are playing a supervisory role here,” Kakani said. The BMC is paying a sum of Rs 6,000 per bed to private agencies running the ICUs who are provided medicines and life-saving equipment by the civic body. These agencies are only supposed to bring manpower consisting of doctors, nurses and ward boys. A senior doctor in one of the centres said there have been worries about the quality of manpower and misuse of medicines and consumables. “These issues are expected in the initial stages of Private Public Partnerships and can be ironed out. The worrying part is that these ICU teams have been hurriedly put together, some without adequate training,” the doctor said. To reduce the mortality numbers, Dr Muffazal Lakdawala who has been running the Covid facility in Worli Dome said they have formed a panel of specialists who are guiding the team from the private agency (Lifeline) on video calls. “Four to five experts—a diabetologist, nephrologist, cardiologist and neurologist—are all coming on phone calls to help them,” said the surgeon. “While deaths are a worry, it needs to be acknowledged that some of the most critical patients refused admission elsewhere are admitted here. Also, the patients are not dying immediately but after one or two weeks of treatment,” he said. During a pandemic, a death rate of up to 20% in ICUs is not considered unacceptably high, said officials. Many 80- and 90-year-olds have also walked out of these centres. Dr Kishor Bisure, who is overall in-charge of the Dahisar facility, said many patients have given good reviews of the privately-run ICUs. “I have deputed a BMC anaesthesiologist to oversee ICU management. Our centre has one intensivist per shift and patients have told us that they are approached by a medical person at least four times in a day,” he said. Dr Neelam Andrade, dean of Nesco jumbo facility said one of the workable solutions could be monitoring of ICU management by BMC doctors and nurses for better outcomes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bkc-unit-has-37-icu-death-rate-in-past-3-wks/articleshow/77602149.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Tests after I-Day event: 4 GMC staffers +ve||Ahmedabad: A frantic sanitization drive was undertaken at the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation (GMC) office near Patik Ashram on Monday after four municipal employees tested positive for Covid. The officials had got themselves tested after the August 15 Independence Day celebrations organized by the GMC. The four officials included the city engineer. GMC sources said that 12 employees who came into contact with the Covid-positive colleagues are under home quarantine. Health officials at the GMC said that the city engineer B K Pandya, the solid waste department manager, and one employee each of engineering and Smart City divisions have tested positive. Reports of other employees are awaited. Sources in the GMC said that Pandya had not been feeling for the past few days, but attended office. A senior deputy municipal commissioner who had been interacting with Pandya and other officers has been recommended a test. Another official pointed out that after the August 15 celebrations, several GMC staffers suspected that more people will be infected. “Pandya has been heading key city projects, especially those that are being undertaken after the GMC’s recent jurisdiction expansion. The condition of the affected employees is stable right now,” said a senior GMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tests-after-i-day-event-4-gmc-staffers-ve/articleshow/77600049.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Woman cheated of Rs 47k by cyber crooks||Ahmedabad: A woman, Saraswati Saho, 23, a resident of Noblenagar in Sardarnagar, lodged a complaint at Sardarnagar police station on Sunday that she was cheated of Rs 47,000 by cyber crooks who pretended to be speaking from an e-wallet helpline number. The complainant had searched the e-wallet helpline number on a search engine. The complainant had on August 4 tried to recharge her mobile phone through her e-wallet but the transaction had failed. “The complainant used her brother’s phone to search for the helpline number online. She then dialled the first number on the list which was put up by the crooks. As she complained about the failed recharge, the crooks sought bank details and said that the amount will be credited to her account,” said a police official. As soon as she gave her account details, in two transactions Rs 47,000 was withdrawn from her account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-cheated-of-rs-47k-by-cyber-crooks/articleshow/77601344.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Vadodara||Covid-19: Ahmedabad, Surat toll in 24 hours among lowest||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday added 1,033 positive cases, taking the total to 79,816. The state also recorded 15 deaths, taking the toll to 2,802. The deaths include three each from Ahmedabad and Surat; two each from Morbi, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, and Vadodara; and one from Gir-Somnath. The cases include 243 from Surat, 158 from Ahmedabad, 109 from Vadodara, and 92 from Rajkot. It was the lowest daily toll for Surat in 36 days. An analysis of the deaths also reveals that Ahmedabad and Surat cumulatively contributed 40% of daily deaths, which is one of the lowest ever for the districts. To put the figure in perspective, it was 66.7% on August 1, 70% on July 15, and 62% on July 1. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot districts are 29,247, 17,072, 6,491, and 3,364. The deaths in these four districts are 1,662, 554, 113, and 68. Surat recorded the last 1,000 cases in four days. The current rate of adding 1,000 cases for Ahmedabad is six days. In all, 1,086 patients were discharged in the 24-hour period, taking the total to 62,579. The discharges include 298 from Surat, 182 from Ahmedabad, 82 from Rajkot, and 67 from Vadodara. Active patients in Gujarat are now 18% of the total cases — 14,435. The share of discharged and deceased patients in the patient total is 78.4% and 3.6% respectively. Gujarat carried out 45,540 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 13.58 lakh. The state health department said that 701 tests per day per million are conducted in the state. As on Monday evening, Gujarat had 5.02 lakh persons under quarantine, of whom 5.01 lakh were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/abad-surat-toll-in-24-hours-among-lowest/articleshow/77603406.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Kids make 7% Covid cases in August; teens worst-hit||BHOPAL: Children, under the age of 18, made up over 7% of Covid infections in the state capital in August, says the health department report.  During the first three weeks of August, Bhopal has reported almost 1,993 cases, of which 146 were children. The most vulnerable age group in kids to be hit by Covid was the 12 to 15 category. It comprised 40% of the infected cases in children. Boys were more prone to the infection than girls at a ratio of 58:42. However, infection rate for those aged 10 and below was equal. Both genders were infected in equal measure. Between 16 to 18 age group, the infection spread hit 23%, statistically speaking, till August 16. “Most children do not suffer from what we call serious diseases. The dent of Covid-19 on children is less lethal as compared to adults. However, children tend to become what is termed as ‘super-spreaders’ of Covid,” said consultant paediatrician, Dr Rakesh Sukheja. Projects cater to the most pressing health and nutrition needs of children in different states of India. We may not be able to help all of them, but we can surely help at least some such children get the healthy start they deserve. Compared to the first two weeks of June, indicating when the first spike in active Covid-19 cases hit Bhopal, under age 10 infections increased almost fourfold from 9 to 31. In the age group, 11 to 20, active cases doubled to 77. Current numbers indicate that infection spread has more than doubled in the paediatric age group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kids-make-7-covid-cases-in-august-teens-worst-hit/articleshow/77600044.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Youth sends lewd messages, held||Ahmedabad: Narol police have detained Sanjaykumar alias Milan, 22, of Narol on Monday, for stealing a woman college principal’s mobile phone and Rs 21k cash — and then, sending lewd messages and obscene images to the principal’s colleagues and friends from her phone. He has been sent for pre-arrest Covid-19 test. ACP K-division, Milap Patel said, “On the night of July 30, she had gone to sleep while her husband was watching TV, keeping the door of the house open. However, he also fell asleep. In the night, at about 3am, the complainant woke up and couldn’t find her phone.” Next day, she told her colleagues at college that her phone was missing and gave them her husband’s number, in case they needed to contact her. “On August 1, she started the process to block one of the two sim cards on her mobile phone, which she assumed stolen. However, the accused had by then begun sending lewd messages and pictures to the principal’s colleagues and friends from the phone. On August 4, when the principal went to her college, her colleagues told her about the messages. The principal and her husband submitted an application with prints of the messages and pictures, on the same day, at the cybercrime cell,” said Patel. Patel added that the application was forwarded to them for further investigation by cybercrime cell based on which they registered a complaint on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/youth-sends-lewd-messages-held/articleshow/77601327.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Surat||Covid-19: Ahmedabad, Surat toll in 24 hours among lowest||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday added 1,033 positive cases, taking the total to 79,816. The state also recorded 15 deaths, taking the toll to 2,802. The deaths include three each from Ahmedabad and Surat; two each from Morbi, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, and Vadodara; and one from Gir-Somnath. The cases include 243 from Surat, 158 from Ahmedabad, 109 from Vadodara, and 92 from Rajkot. It was the lowest daily toll for Surat in 36 days. An analysis of the deaths also reveals that Ahmedabad and Surat cumulatively contributed 40% of daily deaths, which is one of the lowest ever for the districts. To put the figure in perspective, it was 66.7% on August 1, 70% on July 15, and 62% on July 1. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot districts are 29,247, 17,072, 6,491, and 3,364. The deaths in these four districts are 1,662, 554, 113, and 68. Surat recorded the last 1,000 cases in four days. The current rate of adding 1,000 cases for Ahmedabad is six days. In all, 1,086 patients were discharged in the 24-hour period, taking the total to 62,579. The discharges include 298 from Surat, 182 from Ahmedabad, 82 from Rajkot, and 67 from Vadodara. Active patients in Gujarat are now 18% of the total cases — 14,435. The share of discharged and deceased patients in the patient total is 78.4% and 3.6% respectively. Gujarat carried out 45,540 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 13.58 lakh. The state health department said that 701 tests per day per million are conducted in the state. As on Monday evening, Gujarat had 5.02 lakh persons under quarantine, of whom 5.01 lakh were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/abad-surat-toll-in-24-hours-among-lowest/articleshow/77603408.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Ahmedabad, Surat toll in 24 hours among lowest||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday added 1,033 positive cases, taking the total to 79,816. The state also recorded 15 deaths, taking the toll to 2,802. The deaths include three each from Ahmedabad and Surat; two each from Morbi, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, and Vadodara; and one from Gir-Somnath. The cases include 243 from Surat, 158 from Ahmedabad, 109 from Vadodara, and 92 from Rajkot. It was the lowest daily toll for Surat in 36 days. An analysis of the deaths also reveals that Ahmedabad and Surat cumulatively contributed 40% of daily deaths, which is one of the lowest ever for the districts. To put the figure in perspective, it was 66.7% on August 1, 70% on July 15, and 62% on July 1. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot districts are 29,247, 17,072, 6,491, and 3,364. The deaths in these four districts are 1,662, 554, 113, and 68. Surat recorded the last 1,000 cases in four days. The current rate of adding 1,000 cases for Ahmedabad is six days. In all, 1,086 patients were discharged in the 24-hour period, taking the total to 62,579. The discharges include 298 from Surat, 182 from Ahmedabad, 82 from Rajkot, and 67 from Vadodara. Active patients in Gujarat are now 18% of the total cases — 14,435. The share of discharged and deceased patients in the patient total is 78.4% and 3.6% respectively. Gujarat carried out 45,540 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 13.58 lakh. The state health department said that 701 tests per day per million are conducted in the state. As on Monday evening, Gujarat had 5.02 lakh persons under quarantine, of whom 5.01 lakh were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-surat-toll-in-24-hours-among-lowest/articleshow/77600051.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Kolkata||TMC MLA dies of Covid-19||Egra: Bengal lost its second MLA to Covid on Monday. Samaresh Das, the Trinamool MLA from Egra constituency in East Midnapore, died of Covid at a city hospital around 4.15am on Monday. Das had tested positive for the virus on July 18. He was 76. Incidentally, Egra was the first place in the state outside Kolkata to report a Covid case. Others in Das’s family underwent Covid tests and their reports came negative. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee condoled his death, saying his demise had left a void in state politics. The MLA had been admitted to a Covid hospital in Panskura. After his condition deteriorated, Das was shifted to a private hospital in Salt Lake. He was put on ventilation since then. Das became the MLA from Egra with his victory in the 2009 by-election. Earlier this year, he had become the centre of a controversy after being seen sharing the dais with BJP state president Dilip Ghosh at a function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-mla-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/77600112.cms||Suman Mondal
August 18, 2020||Vadodara||Milk coop’s ex-secretary booked for siphoning Rs 9 L||Vadodara: A former secretary of a village milk cooperative society was booked for using society’s money amounting to Rs 8.9 lakh for his personal use.According to police, Bharat Parmar, the former secretary of Padamla village milk cooperative society had siphoned off the money between April 2018 and March last year. Parmar’s irregularities came to light in March last year as he was not paying money to the society’s members regularly. When other office-bearers asked Parmar about it, he admitted that he had used the cash for his personal use. Parmar was asked to deposit the cash with the society by May and he was removed from the post of secretary. Parmar, however, did not return the money. On February 5, Parmar gave a written statement to the society’s secretary about siphoning the money following which the auditor advised the office-bearers to register a complaint against Parmar with police.The president of the society, Raoji Parmar, approached police after the district registrar of the cooperative societies asked him to lodge a police case. Based on Raoji’s complaint, an offence of criminal breach of trust was registered against Parmar on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/milk-coops-ex-secretary-booked-for-siphoning-rs-9-l/articleshow/77598590.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||62-yr-old woman jumps to death||Hyderabad: A 62-year-old house wife who was suffering from health issues killed herself by jumping from the 13th floor of an apartment in Manikonda on Monday . She left a suicide note stating that she had been suffering from depression. Police registered a suspicious death case. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/62-yr-old-woman-jumps-to-death/articleshow/77600050.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Madurai||Doctors urge for check-up in case of symptoms post Covid-19 recovery||MADURAI: With some patients turning up with breathing difficulties a few weeks post recovery from Covid-19, doctors are insisting that in case of any such symptoms, patients must come forward for consultation. An outpatient ‘Post Covid-19 Treatment Centre’ dedicated to cover only recovered patients started functioning at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) from Sunday. “This service is exclusively for recovered patients in case they show any symptoms of lung illness, arthritis etc., after discharge. We had around 15 patients drop by on Sunday. This will not only help alleviate fears of patients but also monitor their health condition,” said GRH dean Dr J Sangumani. He added that doctors will also follow up with recovered patients over phone and inquire if they are suffering from any discomfort or symptoms. Even private hospitals are following up with recovered patients. “We observed that some patients are walking in with symptoms of dry cough and dyspnea (shortness of breath), a few weeks after recovery. Permanent lung damage or post-inflammatory fibrosis (scarring) in lungs were found in CT-scans, which are irreversible,” said Dr Prem Ananth P, a consultant interventional pulmonologist. However, he clarified that this should not be mistaken as recurrence of Covid-19. “Such condition is seen mainly in those recovered Covid-19 patients with higher lung involvement rather than in patients with comorbid conditions. In CT scans, the level of Covid-19 infection of lungs is graded as CO-RADS. CO-RADS level above 3 is usually considered Covid-19. Higher the CO-RADS level, the more the severity. When the lung involvement measured by CO-RADS is 50-60%, the chances of survival is difficult and it is more likely for fibrosis to happen,” the pulmonologist explained. He added that such patients can become oxygen-dependent for life and can likely suffer other pulmonary complications. Though there have been cases of recovered Covid-19 patients suffering cardiac arrest or stroke, doctors said that there is no evidence to prove that Covid-19 is the cause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/docs-urge-for-check-up-in-case-of-symptoms-post-covid-19-recovery/articleshow/77601329.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
August 18, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19: Ahmedabad, Surat toll in 24 hours among lowest||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Monday added 1,033 positive cases, taking the total to 79,816. The state also recorded 15 deaths, taking the toll to 2,802. The deaths include three each from Ahmedabad and Surat; two each from Morbi, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, and Vadodara; and one from Gir-Somnath. The cases include 243 from Surat, 158 from Ahmedabad, 109 from Vadodara, and 92 from Rajkot. It was the lowest daily toll for Surat in 36 days. An analysis of the deaths also reveals that Ahmedabad and Surat cumulatively contributed 40% of daily deaths, which is one of the lowest ever for the districts. To put the figure in perspective, it was 66.7% on August 1, 70% on July 15, and 62% on July 1. With the update, the cumulative cases in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot districts are 29,247, 17,072, 6,491, and 3,364. The deaths in these four districts are 1,662, 554, 113, and 68. Surat recorded the last 1,000 cases in four days. The current rate of adding 1,000 cases for Ahmedabad is six days. In all, 1,086 patients were discharged in the 24-hour period, taking the total to 62,579. The discharges include 298 from Surat, 182 from Ahmedabad, 82 from Rajkot, and 67 from Vadodara. Active patients in Gujarat are now 18% of the total cases — 14,435. The share of discharged and deceased patients in the patient total is 78.4% and 3.6% respectively. Gujarat carried out 45,540 tests in 24 hours, taking the total to 13.58 lakh. The state health department said that 701 tests per day per million are conducted in the state. As on Monday evening, Gujarat had 5.02 lakh persons under quarantine, of whom 5.01 lakh were under home quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/abad-surat-toll-in-24-hours-among-lowest/articleshow/77603407.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat man booked for concealing father’s accident||AHMEDABAD: Even if a person meets with an accident involving his family members, he must inform the police immediately or he may land in legal tangle. This happened with a man from Borol village in Bayad taluka of Arvalli district who met with an accident on Saturday when riding his motorcycle. A stray dog came in front of him suddenly on Bayad-Kapadwanj highway. The man identified as Hitendra Patel, 25, and his father Raman Patel, 55, fell on road in which Raman suffered injuries on his head and Hitendra sustained bruises on his right elbow. But as he did not inform the police, cops began proceeding to book him not only under the charges of causing hurt and the Motor Vehicle Act but also for concealment of evidences for not informing police about the accident. According to the FIR filed with Bayad police, Hitendra’s uncle Hasmukh Patel said that Hitendra had called him up on Saturday afternoon and told him on how he had met with an accident. Hitendra told Hasmukh that Raman was taken to a private hospital in Bayad from where he was shifted to a private hospital on SG Road in Ahmedabad city. As Raman was admitted to a private hospital in Ahmedabad city, a medico legal case was filed and concerned police station was informed about the accident. After this, cops of Bayad police station took statement of Raman’s family members and his brother Hasmukh became complainant and alleged negligence by Hitendra and accused him of concealing the fact with family and police personnel. Police booked Hitendra and began an investigation into the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-booked-for-concealing-fathers-accident/articleshow/77601368.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Goa||Majority of Panaji families immerse idols on Sunday||Panaji: Majority of Panaji’s residents chose to observe a one-and-a-half days Ganesh Chaturthi and nearly 65% of the idols were immersed on Sunday. The fifth day immersion will cover the remainder of the idols, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) said. “Only Maruti temple in Panaji is holding an 11-day festival. The other temples restricted themselves to a day and a half or five days. So far we have not received any communication from individual families in Panaji who will observe the festival beyond five days,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. “Some people picked a one-and-a-half days Ganesh Chaturthi owing to the pandemic, especially since the celebrations are very low-key this year,” he said. As per CCP’s standard operating procedures (SOP), devotees were given from 5pm to 10pm to carry out the immersion ritual. However, many started out as early as 4.30pm to ensure that they do not encounter other families that would also be carrying out immersion. With families shouldering individual responsibility, police and lifeguards posted at the water bodies were able to monitor the situation without any glitches while CCP officials were able to smoothly guide the locals through the process. “We were able to complete the ritual at all immersion points by 10pm, barring the Four Pillars junction where it went on till about 11pm,” Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/majority-of-panaji-families-immerse-idols-on-sunday/articleshow/77730923.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Mumbai||250kg drugs worth Rs47cr seized by DRI, 3 held after raids in Mum, Hyderabad||Mumbai: Three days after Directorate Revenue Intelligence (DRI) busted an international drug-trafficking racket with seizure of heroin worth Rs 1,000 crore, it unearthed another inter-state drug cartel and seized 250kg of synthetic drugs worth Rs 47 crore and arrested three drug-traffickers on Sunday. DRI Nava Sheva unit officials raided and carried out arrests in Mumbai and Hyderabad on Independence Day. Officials were tipped off that a consignment of Mephedrone, a banned psychotropic substance under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, was arriving from Hyderabad. They said the consignment was loaded in a private passenger bus as cargo with no one accompanying it to ensure that no one could be linked to it. In follow-up raids, recipients here were identified and their premises were raided, resulting in recovery of Mephedrone and Ketamine, in addition to samples of other psychotropic substances, indicating a distribution network in the country and abroad. In raids for three days, officials seized over 250kg drugs worth almost Rs 47 crore in the grey market and Rs 45 lakh worth currency in rupees, dollars and euros under NDPS Act. A huge quantity of raw material was also seized. Of the three arrested, one had been arrested by DRI in 2017 under NDPS Act. Officials refused to divulge names as they are looking for accomplices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/250kg-drugs-worth-rs47cr-seized-by-dri-3-held-after-raids-in-mum-hyderabad/articleshow/77600555.cms||Ahmed Ali
August 18, 2020||Vadodara||19-year-old woman murdered by paramour in Karjan||Vadodara: A 19-year-old woman from Palej in Bharuch was murdered by her paramour in Karjan on Friday. The accused, Shailesh Chauhan, was arrested by the local crime branch of Vadodara rural police on Monday.The victim, Priyanka Thakor, wanted to marry Chauhan after divorcing her husband Pravin. Thakor recently even had a daughter with Chauhan. Police said that according to their community customs, it was decided that Thakor will be allowed to marry Chauhan after paying money to Pravin. But as Chauhan was unable to pay, arguments took place between Thakor and him on Friday. Cops said that in the heat of the moment, Chauhan strangulated her to death. Thakor was found dead at Valan village in Karjan on Saturday morning. Vadodara rural police had registered a murder case on Sunday night as the post-mortem report revealed that she was strangulated to death.According to police, Thakor had left her home under the pretext of buying medicine on Friday. When Thakor did not return till late, her mother and relatives searched for her but could not find her. A day later, her body was found by locals at a farm in Valan village.“A case of accidental death was registered, and an advertisement was published so that the woman’s identity could be confirmed. Seeing the advertisement, the family approached us,” said inspector K M Solanki of Karjan police station. Thakor’s body was then sent to SSG Hospital for post-mortem. “The post-mortem revealed that the victim was strangulated and did not die a natural death, so we registered the case,” Solanki added.Besides, Karjan police, the local crime branch (LCB) had also been involved in the investigation to find the killer. LCB sleuths said that Thakor and Chauhan had heated arguments on the day of the crime. “The victim and her husband were separated but were not divorced. As she wanted to marry her paramour, it was decided according to community customs that the accused will have to pay money to her husband,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/19-year-old-woman-murdered-by-paramour-in-karjan/articleshow/77598637.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Random tests in Rajasthan jails to prevent outbreaks||JAIPUR: Jails are one of the vulnerable places for Covid-19 outbreaks. On Sunday, the central jail in Jaipur had reported 18 cases, and more are being reported from jails in Sikar, Bharatpur and others jails across the state. Following this, the health department has intensified its safety and protective measures in jails to prevent the spread and decided to conduct regular random tests. All chief medical health officers have been directed to be on alert for outbreaks in jails. Taking lessons from a similar outbreak in May in the district and central jail of Jaipur, the health department has already issued directions for the same. The health department is taking extra precaution and will keep monitoring the health of prisoners and under trials lodged in jails. “Since jails are vulnerable places, we regularly take samples randomly from inmates and test them,” said Dr K K Sharma, director (health). ‘Strict health monitoring in jails’“Through strict monitoring of the health of inmates in jails, we have managed to detect new infections,” said Dr Sharma. In Sikar, Bharatpur and other districts, the health department officials managed to identify Covid cases through regular random sampling. In May, more than 250 inmates and jail staff of the central and district jails were found infected with the virus. The health department had then turned a ward of the jail into a Covid care centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/random-tests-in-rajasthan-jails-to-prevent-outbreaks/articleshow/77601369.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Madurai||Neet remains a challenge for government school students||MADURAI: The state education department may have introduced free online classes and tests for government and aided school students to prepare for Neet, but clearing it remains a huge challenge for many of them due to internet connectivity and lack of mobile phones. In Madurai district, around 400 students are currently undergoing the free NEET online classes. “There was some resistance in the beginning but now students have started adapting. Study material and video lessons are provided. Tests are held every week across the state via the E-box platform. Based on students’ requests, question papers are also shared over WhatsApp,” said Selvan Arputharaj, one of the NEET co-ordinators. Teachers also report the progress of students regularly to the district chief educational officer (CEO). While internet connectivity was a major issue in the beginning, that is being facilitated by district education officials. Data packs have been provided free of cost to all those who need it and all students also have their free laptops. “However, some students who use their parents’ phones and for those without their own smart phones, it has been difficult. In rural areas, even with data packs, network connectivity is slow,” said a teacher. Teachers said that while online classes are the only possible way, they fear lack of direct monitoring, interactivity and discussion can be detrimental to students. “We are providing all resources and it is up to the students to make full use of them. But, still it is not the same as to how they study in camps,” said the headmaster of a government school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/neet-remains-a-challenge-for-govt-school-students/articleshow/77601348.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Rain damages antiques at Albert Hall museum||JAIPUR: Heavy rainfall in Jaipur on August 14 (Friday) landed the basement of Albert Hall — Rajasthan’s oldest museum — and the office of the state archaeology museum department under five feet of water. This was the first time after the 1981 floods that the museum, situated at Ram Niwas Bagh, was inundated. Rainwater damaged the files and antiquities present in the basement. The files were laid out on the museum’s floor to dry. Rain nearly destroyed old documents, paintings, manuscripts and other art piecesDirector of state archaeology and museum department Prakash Sharma said, “Our office and basement of Albert Hall was in five feet of water. All our correspondence files are wet and will take time to dry, especially in this weather. None of our material of archaeological importance got wet in the rains and it was just routine files.” There are thousands of exhibits on display from all over the world. Around 18,000 antiquities were in the basement of Albert Hall on August 14. The antiques & objects in the basement have been left to dryThe Albert Hall superintendent Rakesh Chholak said that it would take months to assess the damage caused to antiquities. Mud pumps had to be used to drain water out of the Albert Hall premises Watch Egyptian mummy gets narrow save as rain damages antiques at Jaipur’s Albert Hall museum||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rains-damage-antiques-at-albert-hall-museum/articleshow/77601389.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Need to curtail imports of edible oil’||Ahmedabad: To protect oilseeds growing farmers and domestic edible oil industry, oil millers have called for a need to curtail imports of edible oil. The millers’ request has come in the light of a possible spike in oilseed and edible oil production domestically. The expectation of higher production of edible oils stems from the substantial increase in sowing of oilseeds such as groundnut, sunflower, soybean and safflower this kharif season across India. Gujarat is a top producer of groundnut. “With increase in area under oilseeds cultivation, the availability of domestic edible oils is likely to go up sizeably in coming months. So the need to curtail edible oils imports has become inevitable,” Saurashtra Oil Mills Association (SOMA) said in a letter written to the Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Around 65% of India’s edible oil requirement is met through imports. India’s edible oil imports stood at 15 lakh tonne in July, which was 41% higher than the imports registered in the same month last year. “This import is very high when most of the bulk consumers like hotels, restaurants and snacks manufacturers are either closed or operating at marginal capacity in current scenario of Covid-19 pandemic,” the association added. According to SOMA, high import has already resulted into groundnut prices dropping from Rs 6,200 to Rs 5,300 per quintal, which is damaging the farmers. “To protect our farmers and domestic edible oil industry, putting quantitative restrictions on imports of edible oils seem to be the only solution,” SOMA president Sameer Shah said in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/need-to-curtail-imports-of-edible-oil/articleshow/77601375.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Flood levels expected to drop today||Vijayawada: While flood level at Munneru rivulet came down to 85,000 cusecs, Wyra, Katteleru and other rivulets upstream of Prakasam Barrage continued to overflow, forcing officials to lift all 73 gates on Monday, releasing 1.8 lakh cusecs of water. However, officials estimate that flood levels will come down by Tuesday evening. Penuganchiprolu, Nandigama and Kanchikacherla were particularly affected following floods in Munneru rivulet. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz along with district SP Ravindra M Ravindra Babu and government whip Samineni Udaya Bhanu inspected the situation at Lingala village on Monday. - Venu Lanka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flood-levels-expected-to-drop-today/articleshow/77600128.cms||Venu Lanka
August 18, 2020||Vadodara||‘MSU’s claim on success of mock test 2.0 fake’||Vadodara: M S University officials on Monday faced heat from student outfits which staged protests at the university head office against alleged “fake claims” made by the varsity officials on success of the recently concluded online mock test. Terming its second attempt of conducting online mock test on August 13 and August 14 as “successful”, the university officials have already declared that it will conduct online final examination of students of nine faculties/ colleges from August 25. Student outfits including the All Gujarat Students Union (AGSU) and the National Students Union of India (NSUI) termed the claims made by the officials are baseless. “There are faculties where not a single student could successfully appear for the online mock test. Yet, the university officials have claimed that the online mock test was successful. They are simply hiding their inefficiencies,” said MSU Students Union general secretary Rakesh Panjabi. NSUI’s Vraj Patel said that nearly half of the 500 students of Polytechnic College could not appear for the online mock exam. “We had brought this to the notice of authorities. But instead of resolving their problems, the university went ahead and declared schedule of the final exams,” he said. “Even at smaller faculties like Faculty of Journalism and Communication, of the 83 students only 75 students could login. These students could not finish the mock test successfully. But they are being shown as successful simply because they could login,” said Panjabi. The student leaders have claimed that the data of students who appeared in online mock test publicized by university officials is itself questionable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msus-claim-on-success-of-mock-test-2-0-fake/articleshow/77598677.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Coronavirus snuffs out eight more lives; 121 lose battle in just 17 days||LUCKNOW: Covid-19 claimed eight more lives in the city on Monday pushing the city toll to 121 this month and 217 since the pandemic outbreak. The surge in casualties in August has been alarming, with 121 patients succumbing to the novel coronavirus infection in 17 days, at an average of one death in less than every four hours, and accounting for 55% casualties so far since March. Among the eight patients who died on Monday, two were undergoing treatment at KGMU and others in private hospitals. A 51 year old woman died of respiratory failure in KGMU after developing double pneumonia, while another woman (55) died of acute respiratory distress syndrome. “Both had been admitted in a critical state,” said KGMU spokesperson Dr Sudhir Singh. Four patients, including a 72-year-old woman from Charbagh, a 60-year-old man from Nazirabad and a 36-year-old man from Neelmatha, died at a private medical college and hospital in Sarojini Nagar. The fourth patient, a 72-year-old man, was declared brought dead. The lungs of all the four patients were severely damaged due to Covid-19, said health officials. Another resident of Neelmatha, a 67-year-old man, died of double pneumonia in a private hospital on Rae Bareli road, while Covid-19 induced acute respiratory distress syndrome claimed the life of a 70-year-old woman at a private hospital on Hardoi road. Meanwhile, seven patients, including a two-month-old boy from other districts also died during treatment at KGMU. The boy from Ballia died after battling Covid-19 for five days. “The baby went into septic shock after a clot stopped blood supply to the liver,” said Dr Sudhir Singh. The other six included one man each from Prayagraj, Sultanpur, and Faizabad and three women from Unnao, Kanpur and Balrampur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/coronavirus-snuffs-out-eight-more-lives-121-lose-battle-in-just-17-days/articleshow/77601386.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 18, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC continues interim order on kids’ online classes in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: The state’s latest circular permits schools to run 30-minute online classes on week days for pre-primary and up to Std II, but with a parent-teachers’ association of united forum keen to challenge it, Bombay high court on Monday continued its interim order against coercive steps by government or schools. A bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Riyaz Chagla gave the association and some parents who challenged a June 15 circular that barred online classes up to Std II time to withdraw their petition and file a fresh one to challenge the new July 22 circular. Such a restriction was arbitrary and unconstitutional, petitioner’s counsel Mihir Desai had said. The bench continued by three weeks its interim order directing state government not to take coercive steps against schools conducting the online classes for students up to Std II to those willing to avail such teaching beyond 30 minutes and restraining action by schools against parents unwilling to avail of them for their children. A June 24 lockdown circular for online education said online classes would last for 30 minutes daily for KG students, for dialogue with parents. For Std I and II students the half hour would include 15 minutes’ activity-based learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-continues-interim-order-on-kids-online-classes-in-state/articleshow/77600556.cms||Swati Deshpande
August 18, 2020||Vadodara||CHARUSAT, Zydus sign MoU for R&D||Vadodara/Anand: Changa-based Charotar University of Science and Technology (CHARUSAT) and Zydus Research Centre of Ahmedabad-based pharma major Cadila Healthcare Limited have signed an MoU for research and development (R&D).Both the institutes have signed the MoU to contribute towards the progress of education through the means of R&D.The institutes will engage in a mutual exchange of research and consultancy services and research facilities.“Under this joint venture, various workshops, conferences and symposiums will be organized and courses or syllabus will be developed based on the industry requirements,” a CHARUSAT official said.According to the MoU, employees of Zydus Research Centre and faculty members of CHARUSAT will have an access to continue their research and development work in both the facilities.Zydus Research Center’s president Dr Sanjiv Kumar said that interdisciplinary research was the need of the hour. “Educational institutes need to be proactive and equipped to prepare industry centric pedagogy and syllabus for which industrial partnership plays a crucial role,” said CHARUSAT’s president Surendra Patel, who along with other office-bearers of the university and Zydus Research Centre remained present during the signing of the MoU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/charusat-zydus-sign-mou-for-rd/articleshow/77598693.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Delhi||IIT-Delhi aims to touch billion lives by 2030||NEW DELHI: IIT-Delhi, in its next phase of growth, aims to touch a billion lives through its technologies. As part of its diamond jubilee celebrations, the IIT, which is among the 10 government-run institutions of eminence, released its 10-year aspiration plan. Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu inaugurated the yearlong celebrations via videoconferencing on Monday. Releasing the diamond jubilee logo and the institute’s strategy document titled ‘IIT Delhi- Setting the vision and direction for 2030,’ Naidu said: “IIT-Delhi has made rapid strides in the last six decades and today it is counted among the reputed institutions in the world... It is heartening to note that over half of India’s unicorns have come out of this single institute…” Naidu further said: “I am told that the institute is planning to file over 200 patents this year as against 153 patents filed in 2019. IIT-Delhi has emerged as a leader in the entrepreneurship space in the country. It is good to note that institutions, such as IIT-Delhi, are producing job providers rather than job seekers and becoming trendsetters for other institutions…”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/iit-d-aims-to-touch-billion-lives-by-2030/articleshow/77600134.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Ambulance stuck in flood, woman delivers under tree in Gadchiroli forest||NAGPUR: Women in eastern Vidarbha’s tribal district of Gadchiroli, considered a Maoist guerrilla base, have to face extreme hardships to become mothers. They are risking their lives even after 73 years of the country’s independence. In the latest case, a 27-year-old tribal woman had to deliver amid rains under a tree with someone holding an umbrella in the forest. The adjoining villages and roads lost connectivity with the rest of the remote district due to the heavy floods. The ambulance, which was supposed to ferry the woman, got stuck in the flood water around six km away. Her delivery was single-handedly managed by a contractual nurse who had to walk in the forest for around six kms. After the delivery, the team had to once again walk for several kilometres to reach the PHC with the mother and baby in hand wading through the flooded water in the thick forest. In July, a nine-month pregnant woman had to walk 23 kms through the forested stretch and cross nullahs to give birth and had to walk back the same distance with the new born within four days of her delivery. Bharti Dorpeti, a woman from the Madia tribe, who later gave birth to a baby girl, was saved due to the heroics of the contractual nurse Soni Durge, posted at the Gatta primary health centre’s (PHC) sub-unit, on August 12 in the forest between Gilanguda and Jharewada in the Etapalli taluka of south Gadchiroli. A native of Jharewada village, around 10 kms away from Gatta PHC and it’s sub-centre, Bharti’s expected date of delivery was on August 28. On August 3, Durge is learnt to have visited Bharti in the village and also wanted her to come to the Gatta primary health centre (PHC) at the earliest to stay there for a week in advance under the ‘Mahergaon’ scheme through which expecting mothers are provided free accommodation, food and a daily allowance of Rs200 apart from health care facilities. Durge, who had been working in the remote and highly sensitive Maoist stronghold of Gatta for the last six years, said the tribal women avoid coming to the PHC until they undergo labour pains. “Bharti had experienced labour pains on August 12 and informed ASHA worker Savita Alam who in turn sent her husband on his bike to alert me. As it’s raining heavily and the entire locality is flooded, I set off immediately with my delivery kit and emergency medicine mentally readying for any emergency in an ambulance,” said Durge. There were more challenges that lay ahead. “There are two major nullahs within three kms of the PHC which tend to overflow and flood the roads and bridges. It was within one km that our ambulance got stuck in the flooded water on the bridge,” said the nurse. The flooded area made matters worse. “ASHA worker Alam’s husband was following the ambulance on his bike. I tried to take his help to reach the village but it was flooded. We somehow managed to alert Bharti’s family and asked them to bring her as far as possible. She was ferried on a charpoy by husband Surja and others through the forest,” said Durge. The last lap before reaching the woman was the toughest. “The bike, too, could not be used after some time. We had to walk for almost six kilometres when we spotted Bharti being brought on a charpoy. She was in pain and we had no other option but to choose a place under a tree to get the delivery done. After the delivery, we walked back with the baby and the mother for around six kms on foot before reaching the Gatta PHC where they are now doing well,” said the nurse, sounding satisfied with her efforts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ambulance-stuck-in-flood-woman-delivers-under-tree-in-gadchiroli-forest/articleshow/77601323.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 18, 2020||Thane||One killed, four hurt in explosion, fire in Tarapur||MUMBAI: A worker was killed and four persons suffered serious burn injuries in an explosion at a reactor, followed by a fire in an organic factory in Tarapur chemical zone on Monday. Nine workers on night shift escaped. The explosion occurred in the chlorination reactor of Nandolia Organic Chemicals Pvt Ltd around 7.30pm when production of chlorobenzene, an aromatic organic chemical, a flammable liquid, was on. The sound of the explosion was heard up to 10km away. Sandeep Kushwaha (29) was found dead in the factory. Eight died in January in a blast at a chemical factory in Tarapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/1-killed-4-hurt-in-explosion-fire-in-tarapur/articleshow/77600558.cms||Sandhya Nair
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||With 595 new Covid-19 cases, Lucknow tally at 17,741||LUCKNOW: The novel coronavirus infected 595 more city residents on Monday, pushing the case count to 17,741 since the outbreak in March. The steep spike in August accounts for 9,563 Covid cases —54% of the total so far. At present, 7,223 Covid-19 patients are in hospitals or home isolation. As many as 668 patients recovered on Monday, taking total recoveries to 10,301 so far. The finance controller of UP Housing and Development Board, three family members of a former SP MLA and 20 Vidhan Sabha employees were among the 595 cases. The finance controller got himself tested after developing influenza-like symptoms. The office will be sanitised and officer’s close contacts tested, said health officials. Family members of ex-MLA living in Thakurganj also got themselves tested after developing symptoms. Gomtinagar reported highest 35 cases, followed by Thakurganj 34, Aliganj 33, Saadatganj 31, Alambagh 29, Indiranagar 25, Chowk 24 , Madiaon 21, Jankipuram 20, Hasanganj 18, Hazratganj 17 and Mahanagar 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/with-595-new-cases-city-tally-at-17741/articleshow/77601414.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Covid-19 patient dies at Lokbandhu hospital entrance||LUCKNOW: An 84-year-old Covid-19 patient in a critical stage died at the entrance of Lokbandhu Hospital on Sunday evening due to delay in admission for treatment. The victim’s kin blamed the hospital authorities and said a delay of over an hour in attending to the senior citizen lead to his death, but the hospital administration denied the charges and said the patient was examined and found to have been brought dead. Chief medical officer Dr Rajendra Prasad ordered a probe into the allegations and said, “Inquiry will be conducted by additional CMO. We will take action, if any lapses are found.” Shrigovind Pathak (84) from Alambagh was in home isolation since August 12 after testing Covid-19 positive. When his condition started deteriorating on Sunday, the family called Integrated Command and Control Centre which sent an ambulance to shift him to Lokbandhu Hospital. Shrigovind’s son Pramod Pathak said, “We reached the hospital at 5.30pm and informed the helpdesk at entrance. I told the staff that my father is gasping for breath and has heart and prostate ailments, besides blood pressure. They told me not to panic and said a ward boy will soon shift him to the ward.” “When nobody came, I reminded them again and was again given assurance. This continued till 6.30pm when the ambulance staff said my father’s vitals are deteriorating. I pleaded with the staff who informed doctors. Finally, a doctor arrived, examined my father and declared him brought dead,” he added. Chief medical superintendent of Lokbandhu hospital Dr Amita Yadav denied allegations of negligence or delay in treatment. She said a doctor examined the patient in ambulance within half an hour after arrival and found he was brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/patient-dies-at-lokbandhu-hosp-entrance/articleshow/77601420.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||35 days after having antibodies, 36-year-old man tests Covid positive again||NAGPUR: A 36-year-old man from the city has tested positive for Covid-19 for the second time in 35 days. It is probably first such case to come to fore in Vidarbha and very few such have been reported in other parts of the country. The case defies popular belief that one cannot contracting the disease once antibodies have developed. A journalist, the man was among three to test ‘reactive’ in antibody test done on blood samples. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar had conducted test of 150 officials and journalists in a special camp held on July 10. The results came on July 11 in which three journalists tested ‘reactive’. It means IgG antibody to Covid-19 was detected in their sample. This happens when a person has contracted the infection and recovered. The test is also known as sero surveillance. It was conducted in the district and also in other parts of the country to know whether there is spread in non-containment zones and intensity of infection in any particular sector. Later, some colleagues of the man tested positive so he gave swab samples in government-run laboratory for testing through Real Time PCR method on August 13. His reports came positive on August 14. The man had no idea about being infected earlier or now. “I had no symptoms before the antibody test. I am not having any symptom even now,” he said. This means even former patients can get infected again. As of Monday, over 6,500 Covid-19 positive patients had recovered in the district. Consultant physician and intensivist Dr Nikhil Balankhe told TOI, “Though such cases are few, recovered patients can contract the disease again whenever their resistance is down. It can even happen multiple times if exposed to be positive person again. There is no specific protection period for a recovered person. Much depends on viral load of person from whom he is contracting the disease. Hence, recovered patients should not become careless. All have to take all types of precautions,” he said. Deputy medical superintendent of IGGMCH Dr Sagar Pande said, “There are proven cases in the world of people continuing to be positive up to 70 days. In city itself, a girl from Khamla had tested positive for 40 days. Therefore, each and every discharged person has to follow recommended days of home isolation and take precautions later for themselves and to prevent from spread of the disease,” he said. The Dedicated Covid Hospitals and CCCs are discharging patients without second test after 7-10 days. There is always a chance of coronavirus spreading if any patient does not follow home isolation strictly or take utmost precautions even after recovery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/35-days-after-having-antibodies-36-year-old-man-tests-ve-again/articleshow/77601402.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||In times of corona, a drive-through besna||Pictures from the drive-through besna of Panna ThakkarAhmedabad: This was a besna (condolence meeting) with a difference. While Covid control guidelines do not allow for large gatherings, the besna of a 49-year-old woman in the city on Sunday was different, as people offered their respects to the departed soul as they drove past the porch of the bungalow in which the bereaved family lives. “My wife was a very social person and had a huge friends circle. We got many calls from friends, expressing their condolences and saying they wanted to visit our house. But it was not possible to hold a regular besna,” said Manish Thakkar, a businessman, who lives in the Satellite area of the city. His wife Panna Thakkar passed away on August 9, at the age of 49, after battling lung cancer for 14 months. When Manish and his son were discussing what to do, the idea struck. “There is a lot of space in our society and it is possible for cars to pass through with adequate social distancing. People offered their respects to my wife while they were seated in their cars,” Thakkar said. Volunteers handed well-wishers flowers to offer at an image of Panna Thakkar from their vehicles. Some 250 cars passed through as people offered condolences. Gayle, Bravo had recorded messages A while ago, West Indies cricketers Chris Gayle and Dwayne Bravo recorded video messages, encouraging Panna in her battle against cancer. Manish Thakkar’s son, Prem, had visited the Caribbean last year, where a friend of Manish Thakkar was associated with a Caribbean Premier League (CPL) team. “Prem has become friends with international cricketers from the Caribbean and it was kind of the cricketers to send comforting messages for my wife,” said Manish Thakkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-times-of-corona-a-drive-through-besna/articleshow/77600265.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Four years on, trio that raped, buried 14-year-old girl arrested||RAJKOT: In a major breakthrough, Amreli local crime branch cracked a four-year-old murder case of a minor girl on Monday and arrested three persons who had committed the crime in the forest near Dhari town of Amreli district. Police said the accused, Vimal Bharola (23), Jairaj Parmar (23) and Hitesh Patadia (22), had committed the crime on August 18, 2016. Bharola is the main accused in the case, who had also allegedly raped the 14-year-old girl several times. After the director general of police issued an order, asking all police stations across the state to trace and find missing children, this case was reopened. “Our investigation revealed that the minor was in a relationship with Bharola. We found that Bharola had shifted to Shobha Vadala village of Visavadar taluka in Junagadh district. After we rounded him up and interrogated him, Bharola confessed to the crime,” said R K Karamta, sub-inspector and in-charge inspector with Amreli local crime branch. During his interrogation, Bharola said he had an affair with the girl whom he had raped several times. In 2016, both had decided to elope on August 18. Bharola and Parmar took the survivor on a motorcycle. However, the survivor asked the duo to take her back home. Fearing that she would reveal their names, Bharola gagged the girl’s mouth with a piece of cloth, while Parmar strangled her. After killing the girl, Bharola and Parmar went home. On the same day night, they returned with their friend Patadia with a crowbar and a spade. “The trio dug up a pit near the crime spot, buried the girl’s body and threw the crowbar and the spade into Shetrunji River. The mortal remains of the girl have been exhumed. We produced Bharola before a Protection of Children from Sexual Offences court and secured his three-day remand,” said Karmata, adding that the other two accused would be produced before a court later. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-years-on-trio-that-raped-buried-14-year-old-girl-arrested/articleshow/77598711.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Tirumala Brahmotsavams likely to be a low-key affair this year||TIRUPATI: The Srivari Brahmotsavams in Tirumala, also known as ‘Utsavam of the Vahanams’, is likely to be a low-key affair this time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While as many as 450 different festivals are celebrated at the sacred abode of Lord Venkateswara every year, the annual Brahmotsavams occupies a special place in the hearts of millions of the Lord’s devotees. This year’s Brahmotsavams, to be celebrated from September 19 to 27, will in all probability be a silent and solemn affair as Covid-19 case surge across the country. Since the nine-day festival witnesses a huge turnout of devotees every day, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams normally starts planning and preparing for the Brahmotsavams at least three months in advance. The TTD trust board meeting, slated to be held in the last week of August, will take a decision on whether to conduct the annual Brahmotsavams with or without fanfare. The temple body has been observing all annual festivals at the ancient temple in ‘ekantham’ without the participation of devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tirumala-brahmotsavams-likely-to-be-a-low-key-affair-this-year/articleshow/77600140.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Idol makers stare at huge losses as Covid spoils Ganesha Chathurthi||COIMBATORE: Idol makers across the state seldom had time to relax during this time of the year. The craftsmen would be busy giving final touches to Ganesha idols of various sizes, striking deals with buyers and filling cash boxes. But this year, they are staring at unsold idols and an uncertain future. Barely five days to go for Ganesha Chathurthi, idol makers from Coimbatore to Madurai have not seen any orders for their products. Artisans say that by this time of the year, they would have sold 75% of idols. This year though, every square foot of their workshops is stuffed with unsold idols. Idols makers have two kinds of clients – members of Hindu outfits who buy huge idols to be installed in public places, and public who buy smaller ones for their houses. While the government has restrained Hindu outfits from installing idols in public places, affecting sales of huge ones, even the smaller ones have not found any takers this year. “This year, I did not make even a single big idol. I made close to 3,000 small idols, of which, I managed to sell only 800,” said S Saravana Kumar, owner of Rajavalli Shanmugam Arts in Coimbatore. Idol makers are uncertain if they can sell their creations along the roads due to lockdown. “We are scared of taking idols to the markets. We are confident that once we take them there, we can sell them,” he said. A week before the festival, the idols would be sold at markets and other crowded areas in the district like Poo Market, Sundarapuram, Perur, Town Hall and Gandhi Park. “Without any revenue this year, we would have nothing to invest for next year’s production,” said M Amuthavalli, owner of Amuthavalli Murugan Arts, who has sold only 50% of small idols. In Madurai’s idol making hub of Vilacheri, idols ranging from five to 12 feet tall are nowhere to be seen. Instead, the artisans are making small ones that are one foot tall. P Vijayakumar, one of the six people involved in making big idols at Vilacheri said, “I have not taken up orders this time due to ongoing uncertainty. I made 40 idols last year and sent them to neighbouring districts as well,” he told TOI. “Those who make small idols have also restricted production to 70% compared to the last year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/idol-makers-stare-at-huge-losses-as-covid-spoils-ganesha-chathurthi/articleshow/77600142.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Rajkot||32-year-old labourer kidnapped, two arrested||Rajkot: Two persons were arrested on Monday for allegedly kidnapping a 32-year-old labourer with the intention to kill him in Dahi Sarada village of Padadhari taluka in Rajkot district on Sunday evening. Police said the accused, Naresh Sondarva (35), and his uncle Parbat Sondarva (45), had allegedly kidnapped Mukesh Gohel as the latter had a live-in relationship with Naresh’s wife Harshida. Both Gohel and Harshida had been living together in Meknam village of Padadhari taluka. A month ago Harshida delivered Gohel’s son. When Gohel organized a religious function for his son, Naresh came to know that Harshida and Gohel were living in Meknam village. The accused kidnapped Gohel from Dahi Sarada village when the Gohel was going to Padadhari from Meknam to buy articles for the ceremony. Dahi Sarada village falls on way to Padadhari.“There was a labourer accompanying Gohel on his bike at the time of the crime. The accused let him go , telling him to tell Harshida that Gohel would not come back alive. Gohel’s mother Kamala approached us with a complaint. We had obtained the cellphone numbers of the accused, on the basis of which the local crime branch (LCB) of Dwarka police traced them to Bakodi village of Kalyanpur taluka in Devbhoomi Dwarka district,” said K A Jadeja, sub-inspector with Padadhari police station. “The cellphone location of the accused and the victim were showing that they were on the move in the stretch between Padadhari and Dwarka, following which we alerted Dwarka LCB .officials who nabbed the accused and secured the custody of Gohel. They handed over the accused and the victim to us on Monday,” added Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/32-year-old-labourer-kidnapped-two-arrested/articleshow/77598723.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Ward-watch units to keep tabs on home Covid-positive patients||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) and Kolkata Police are likely to form special ward watch committees to keep an eye on people in isolation. Though the committees will be formed across the city, they will start operations in containment-prone zones, mostly Baghajatin, Patuli, Bhowanipore and Ballygunge, next week. According to sources, the necessity to form such panels arose after complaints poured into police stations and KMC borough offices that a section of Covid-positive patients and their relatives were flouting isolation norms and moving about freely. Often, cops find it difficult to check whether a Covid patient is staying in home isolation or in a hospital and the KMC ward coordinator is also unable to keep track of every patient. Though standalone buildings with Covid patients get identified by immediate neighbours, it is difficult to check which house in a gated complex may have a patient. “This gap between the cops and the coordinators often leads to confusion in the Covid-response team that puts a check on free movement of a Covid patient and his/her contacts during isolation at home,” said a KMC health department official. Now the updated list of patients will be shared among cops and the civic team, and, if required, field visits will be carried out. Police sources said there were several reasons why this coordination is necessary. “In a recent incident, cops from Phoolbagan ended up going to a house to investigate an unnatural death of a senior citizen. There, they realized that at least three other members were Covid-positive, even though they themselves had no knowledge of it. Similarly, a woman from an isolation home at Maniktala continued to visit her office and another woman ended up at South Port police station to lodge a complaint even though her family had two Covid patients,” a source said. A section of ward coordinators and cops have been locally tying up to keep tabs on errant Covid patients and their relatives. “I have formed a team which has been keeping an eye on Covid patients in home isolation and their contacts,” said Bappaditya Dasgupta a KMC ward coordinator. KMC sources said there was also need to be transparent about the isolation policy amidst claims that people were being forced into them. The KMC admitted that people who test positive are being made to sign isolation bonds, but says they have the choice to opt for institutional isolation centres if they wish to.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ward-watch-units-to-keep-tabs-on-home-cov-patients/articleshow/77600174.cms||Saikat Ray
August 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Collector holds meeting with Hindu outfits||COIMBATORE: Collector K Rajamani on Monday instructed Hindu outfits not to install idols as part of Ganesha Chathurthi celebrations. The collector convened a meeting with members of various Hindu outfits along with police and revenue department officials. During the meeting, he said the Hindu outfits should follow the state government’s guidelines. The state government announced that idols should not be installed in public places during Ganesha Chathurthi. Speaking at the meeting, Hindu Munnani functionaries said their organization leaders had decided to install 1.5 lakh idols across the state and they would install the idols. The collector asked them to maintain peace and harmony in Coimbatore. Meanwhile, Tirupur collector K Vijayakarthikeyan also convened a meeting with officials and Hindu outfits on Monday. He said permission won’t be given for installing idols in public places. He added that idol procession also won’t be allowed as per the government instructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/collector-holds-meeting-with-hindu-outfits/articleshow/77600138.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Delhi||Start physical exams from September 14: Delhi HC to DU||NEW DELHI: Delhi high court on Monday directed Delhi University to start physical exams for final-year undergraduate students from September 14, and to work out modalities for stay and transportation of disabled students who left the national capital during the Covid-19 lockdown. The court also told DU to verify the number of students belonging to persons with disability (PwD) category who were left out of online open book examination (OBE). “You (DU) will have to find out where PwD students are located. Sufficient notice has to be given to them to allow them to travel. Can it be possible to allow them to take examinations where they are? By roping in the universities there?” a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad sought to know from DU. The high court’s poser came after senior advocate S K Rungta, appearing for one of the petitioners National Federation of Blind (NFB), said there is an obligation on the state to take responsibility in certain circumstances and PwD students, who will have to take examinations physically, will face greater difficulties as hostels are still closed. The court told DU that it needs to have specific figures on PwD students and the facilities that are to be provided to them. “The university is directed to verify the number of PwD students who will sit for physical examination and work out the modalities of their stay and transport etc,” the bench said and asked it to file an affidavit in this regard. The court was hearing pleas by law student Prateek Sharma and NFB seeking to set up effective mechanisms for visually impaired and other students with disabilities so that educational instructions can be given to them properly and teaching material is provided to them through online mode of teaching during the pandemic. During the hearing, when the court suggested physical examinations be started from September 8, advocate Mohinder Rupal, appearing for DU, said the varsity needed at least two weeks from August 31. The court was informed that DU will start declaring results of students who participated in online OBE by September-end. Watch Start physical exams from September 14, Delhi HC asks DU||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-to-du-start-physical-exams-from-september-14/articleshow/77600148.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Rs 1 crore to complete subway work on Singanallur-Vellalore Road||COIMBATORE: The state government has sanctioned Rs 1 crore to acquire lands to complete the construction of a portion of the limited use subway (LUS) at Asthanthira Naicker Street on Singanallur–Vellalore Road for two wheelers and light motor vehicles. Meanwhile, the state highways department (project) has decided to spend Rs 2 crore for laying service roads on both sides of LUS, which would help motorists of Singanallur and surrounding areas. According to sources from the highways department, lands should be acquired from the southern and northern side of the LUS. Around 10 houses located on the northern side (Asthanthira Naicker Street) to be demolished after the acquisition of lands. As the officials convinced the public to provide appropriate compensation for their lands, the state government has sanctioned Rs 1 crore for land acquisition. “The railways department had completed its work in the LUS and handed it over to us in 2013. There were a lot of hurdles whenever the state highways department attempted to start the work. Finally, the land owners agreed to provide their lands and we hope that the land acquisition work will be completed within a month period,” said an official. He also added that service roads on the both sides of LUS to be laid for at least 500-metre length each side. The pumps will be fixed in the LUS to drain the stagnated water from the LUS. After completion of work, it will be handed over to the city municipal corporation. “It will be useful for motorists to cross the railway track by using the LUS. People from Vellalore and Singanallur can use the LUS in future. Once we get the land, we would complete all the work in a three-month period,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rs-1-cr-to-complete-subway-work-on-singanallur-vellalore-road/articleshow/77600136.cms||A Subburaj
August 18, 2020||Rajkot||Swindler arrested in Junagadh for Rs 10L fraud||Rajkot: A swindler was arrested on Monday for allegedly duping 100-odd people of Rs 10 lakh in Junagadh district. Police said the accused, Pradeep Khavadu (36), had collected Rs 10,000 from each victim, promising them of different loans. “Khavadu has been arrested on the complaint of Gomti Chauhan. Chauhan used to work as an agent with Khavadu. After the loans of the victims were not granted, the victims started making inquiries with Chauhan, following which Chauhan lodged a complaint against Khavadu,” said Pradeepsinh Jadeja, Junagadh deputy superintendent of police.“Khavadu was traced on the basis of his bank account details to Joshipura locality of Junagadh, where he lived with a fake identity. We have seized Rs 2.32 lakh cash, a bike and a laptop. During his interrogation, Khavadu said that in order to tide over his financial crisis he resorted to cheating,” added Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/swindler-arrested-in-junagadh-for-rs-10l-fraud/articleshow/77598738.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: BEST gains 4 lakh passengers in a month||MUMBAI: BEST gained four lakh commuters in a month and its ridership has touched 14 lakh, a senior official said on Monday. ‘Begin Again’ statistics showed collections went up by 44%, from Rs 90 lakh to Rs 1.3 crore daily ticket sales in a month. “The additional Rs 40 lakh is welcome, although it will not curtail huge losses, which can only be curbed with viability gap-funding from BMC,’‘ the official said. BEST is looking forward to earning non-fare revenue, such as advertisements, parking and lease. Meanwhile, commuters complained of zero social distancing in some buses during peak hours. BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade said, “Passengers should not be in a hurry and should not crowd buses. They must listen to conductors to maintain social distancing. Conductor have to ensure 25 people are seated and maximum five standees in a bus.” BEST is operating its full fleet of 3,500 buses, which includes 120 double-deckers. Some double-deckers have been deployed on long routes along eastern and western express highways for the first time to cater to demand from office-goers. Office-goers and self-employed people depend on BEST which is the biggest public road transport service in Mumbai during the Covid pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-gains-4l-passengers/articleshow/77600559.cms||Somit Sen
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||5 persons held with 100kg ganja from Viz||Hyderabad: Five persons were nabbed by the task force sleuths in Tappachabura with 100kg of ganja. One of the accused, Ashish Singh, is a repeated offender. A rowdy-sheet has also been opened against him in the past. The consignment was brought to the city from Visakhapatnam. Earlier on Sunday, a vehicle was caught carrying ganja worth Rs 2.62 crore from Visakhapatnam Agency area to Maharashtra via Hyderabad. The officials had seized 1050kg ganja. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/5-persons-held-with-100kg-ganja-from-viz/articleshow/77600224.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Work starts on corridor with metro’s first ‘double deck’||NEW DELHI: The work on the 22km Aerocity-Tughlaqabad corridor, which will connect the high-speed Airport Express Line with two busy corridors — Yellow (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) and Violet (Kashmere Gate-Raja Nahar Singh, Ballabhgarh) lines — was started by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) on Monday. This includes casting work of U-girders for the 4.2km elevated section of this largely underground corridor. The casting of the 28m U-girders is being done at a yard in south Delhi’s Pushp Vihar. Four elevated stations — Sangam Vihar, Khanpur-Deoli, Ambedkar Nagar and Saket G-Block — will be constructed on this stretch. In a first, Mehrauli-Badarpur Road in south Delhi will see a 2.4km double-decker viaduct with the metro corridor on top and a six-lane flyover below. Apart from this, a six-lane underpass will connect Saket G-Block to Sangam Vihar. “After the construction of this section, MB Road will be signal free from Sangam Vihar to Saket. A ramp will facilitate seamless traffic movement from Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg to MB Road. An underpass will allow smooth movement of traffic from MB Road towards Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. The Saket G-Block station will be an interchange between the Aerocity-Tughlaqabad corridor and the proposed Lajpat Nagar-Saket G-Block corridor of Phase-IV, which is yet to get the Centre’s nod. “The Aerocity-Tughlaqabad corridor will have 15 stations. Despite facing a labour shortage, DMRC is moving ahead with the construction work on all the three corridors of Phase-IV approved so far. Under this phase, 61.6km of new lines will be constructed across three corridors comprising 45 stations. These new sections will provide inter-connectivity among the already operational sections,” said Dayal. Over the years, DMRC has used different types of precast structures, such as box girders, I-girders and U-girders to construct its corridors. For Phase-IV, DMRC has decided to standardise the usage of U-girders for the entire network to save time and lower construction cost. U-Girders are precast, pre-tensioned, U-shaped girders on which tracks can be laid immediately. These girders are readied in casting yards and brought to the sites. “Metro projects across the world extensively use this technology nowadays, which saves time in construction besides ensuring better quality. The girders are set up at the site with the help of high-capacity cranes or launchers,” Dayal said. The casting work of these girders requires meticulous precision and planning. “Optimum care has to be taken to maintain all measurements and technical parameters during the casting process. At the Pushp Vihar yard, four U-girder casting beds have been set up, apart from a dedicated quality control laboratory to monitor all parameters,” Dayal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/work-starts-on-corridor-with-metros-first-double-deck/articleshow/77600238.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Cow injured in explosion dies||COIMBATORE: The cow that suffered injuries on its mouth after biting a crude bomb (avuttukkai) at Sengalpadugai near Kallar in Mettupalayam, died without responding to treatment on Monday. Veterinarians were not able to save the six-year-old animal, its owner AR Mohammed Jaffar Ali said. “I was fined 10 years ago for poaching a deer. Now, forest department officials suspect that I placed the bomb and are questioning me. I request the officials to take action against those who placed the bomb,” he said. Police superintendent Ara Arularasu said police will soon arrest the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cow-injured-in-explosion-dies/articleshow/77600152.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Sambhar poaching in TATR, 10 arrested||CHANDRAPUR: Rangers of Mul buffer range have arrested 10 people for poaching of a sambhar in the buffer zone of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve on Monday. Officials claimed that eight more accused are absconding. Sources informed that a group of villagers from Fulzari village in the buffer zone had gone into the forest for fishing with their trained dogs on Sunday afternoon. When they saw a herd of sambhars, they sent their dogs after them. Soon, the dogs brought down a sambhar and the accused took its meat to their homes. However, forest officials of Mul range got a tip-off from NGO Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI) and they raided the homes of the accused and recovered the meat. The ten accused, identified as Devidas Soyam, Mangesh Sidam, Jaipal Sidam, Roshan Sidam, Shubham Atram, Avinash Madavi, Suraj Dhole, Bandu Bhandari, Samadhan Dhole and Ramchandra Kasture, were arrested during the raid. They have been booked under relevant sections of the Wildlife Protection Act. Eight more accused are on the run. In another case, rangers of Sindewahi forest range arrested 13 for poaching a wildboar. Four accused from Chikti village in Sindewahi range also poached the boar with the help of trained dogs on Sunday. After the boar was killed, they summoned others from the village with chopping tools to the forest. They then took the meat of boar to the village and distributed part of it to some of their friends. On getting information, foresters raided the village and arrested 13 people for poaching and possession of meat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sambhar-poaching-in-tatr-10-arrested/articleshow/77601442.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 18, 2020||Coimbatore||15 stray dogs found dead, poisoning suspected||COIMBATORE: Fifteen stray dogs were found dead at Indira Nagar in Kanuvai on Monday morning. Residents believe they were poisoned to death. The dogs were found lying dead, frothing from the mouth within metres of each other and in three different roads, residents informed the Pannimadai panchayat and police. One stray dog is alive and is undergoing treatment at Humane Animal Society’s sterilization centre at Seeranaickenpalayam. Some of the animals had vomited before dying, had froth in their mouth and swollen abdomens, all signs of them being poisoned. “Poisoning of dogs is difficult to trace, because the district animal welfare officer and veterinary hospitals do not pick them up and conduct a postmortem, which can help us identify the poison and then analyse its source, and probably find who was responsible,” said Mini Vasudevan, co-founder of HAS. “This could probably be a case of someone feeding the dogs food that was laced with poison,” she says. The Pannimadai police said no official complaint has been lodged with them. Panchayat members suspect that some people who were harassed by the stray dogs could have fed them poisoned meat, or some robber could have poisoned the dogs. The panchayat has informed the animal husbandry department about the deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/15-stray-dogs-found-dead-poisoning-suspected/articleshow/77600184.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Schools start admission process||COIMBATORE: Government, government-aided, and corporation schools in the district on Monday saw parents queueing up for admitting their children in classes I, VI, and IX. Admission started at government schools, which comprises 777 primary schools, 235 middle schools, 85 high schools and 108 higher secondary schools. Apart from these, 176 government-aided schools, 285 matriculation schools and 11 self-financing schools also started the process. At the corporation higher secondary school in Venkatapuram, headmaster A Thangarajan said more than 20 students completed admission by noon. “We admitted and handed over textbooks, notebooks and bag to those who came with transfer certificate. Students from an elementary school in the locality come here for admission,” he said. A parent, who had come to admit her son in Class I, said she produced his birth certificate and Aadhaar card. “It was a simple procedure. We were given books, notebooks and a bag,” she said, holding a dark blue bag. At the panchayat union elementary school at Ashokapuram, parents who had come for admission from Class I were seen walking away with books. Those who had come to admit their wards in classes VI and above were seen getting application forms, TC and other documents ready. Many parents are pulling out their children from private schools and putting them in government and corporation schools as they have been hit by the lockdown and couldn’t afford fees, a headmaster said. “Four parents had taken their children out of private schools on the Thadagam Road and approached us for admission,” said the headmaster of Venkatapuram corporation higher secondary school. Teachers involved in the admission process said they sensed an increased demand for admission in government and aided schools. “On Monday, 40 parents came for admission, each in Class VI and Class IX. This year, more parents might choose government schools,” said T Arulanandam, a government-aided schoolteacher and the state auditor of the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teacher Association. Teachers said they would complete admission process for classes I, VI, and IX this week. Meanwhile, some government-aided schools in the city held tests to admit students in Class VI. A parent, who had come to admit her daughter at a government-aided school on the Bharathi Park Road, said her child had to undertake a test. Teachers forums raised concerns about this as aided schools were not supposed to hold entrance tests for admission. Government and aided schools should not conduct tests for admission as per the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, said chief educational officer P Usha. She said she will look into the issue. The state government has directed schools to begin admission for Class XI from August 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/schools-start-admission-process/articleshow/77600211.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Bypass complex takes guard after director tests Covid-19 positive||KOLKATA: Home to a number of actors, celebrities and industrialists, Urbana residential complex off EM Bypass has started strengthening their guard after Tollywood director Raj Chakraborty, a resident, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. On Monday, Chakraborty took to social media to announce the news of him being infected. “I have tested Covid-19 positive. My father has been hospitalized recently, but he has tested negative both times. In home quarantine right now. Rest of my family members will be testing for Covid-19 too. These are the trying times,” Chakraborty tweeted at 1.48pm. Incidentally, Chakraborty and his wife Subhashree Ganguly are expecting their first child and sources said that immediately after developing Covid symptoms, the director isolated himself in a separate room in his flat in Tower 6. “Ours has been one of the first complexes in the city to introduce Covid protocols for the safety of residents. We haven’t dropped our guard. But after Raj informed us, we made one immediate change. We had a scheduled meeting with residents and facility management members on Tuesday, which we rescheduled as an online meeting next Thursday,” said Debjani Mukherjee, director, Urbana facility management. The complex in Anandapur is one of the premium high-rise premises with 1,170 flats in seven towers, home to around 780-odd families. In the past three months, around 28 residents were infected, but the current number of active cases, including Chakraborty, is only seven. “Two of our facility management staffers were also infected. But both have recovered and resumed work. We are taking all precautionary measures,” Mukherjee said. “Urbana has shown incredible power in battling Covid. The fact that only 28 people here have been infected so far, speaks about the kind of discipline most of the residents have adhered to,” said director Arindam Sil, who also resides in the complex.  Other celebrities who live there include actors Srabanti and Payel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bypass-complex-takes-guard-after-director-tests-ve/articleshow/77600237.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 18, 2020||Vadodara||Man pays with punishment in cheque bounce case||Vadodara: A local court has directed a resident of Dabhoi Road to cough up an amount double than what he had failed to repay to his friend in January 2017.The court of judicial magistrate P J Raichura also sentenced the man Bharat Solanki to simple imprisonment for a year as a cheque he had given towards the payment was returned by the bank.According to details of the case, Solanki had borrowed Rs 28,000 from the complainant Ghulam Kadar Sheikh and given him a post-dated cheque. When Sheikh deposited the cheque in his account in April 2017, it was returned by his bank citing insufficient funds. When Solanki was confronted, he said that he would repay the amount as he did not have money then. A month later, Solanki gave another cheque to Sheikh which was also returned for the same reason. Sheikh sent a legal notice to Solanki as he misbehaved with him when again asked for payment. As Solanki refused to accept the legal notice, Sheikh approached the court to register a criminal case against Solanki under the Negotiables Instruments Act.After the trial, the court found Solanki guilty and asked him to pay a fine of Rs 56,000 of which Rs 42,000 will be paid to Sheikh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-pays-with-punishment-in-cheque-bounce-case/articleshow/77598745.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Mumbai||BEST appeals to over 1,500 staff to donate plasma||MUMBAI: BEST general manager Surendrakumar Bagde on Monday appealed to staff who were hospitalised for Covid for up to 30-45 days and are back home to donate blood plasma to save lives. More than 1,500 staff recovered and BEST’s recovery rate is 87%. “Those back home and feeling well can now do a noble deed by saving others in the city. Such workers will get two days sanctioned leave to make the donation,” Bagde said. BEST’s chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Singhal said, “During Covid-19 BEST provided efficient bus services across Mumbai metropolitan region, transported patients to quarantine centres in 74 bus ambulances, provided uninterrupted power to 10.5 lakh consumers and now its employees will donate plasma in public interest. The undertaking has emerged as a major lifeline of Mumbai.” Sources said workers who recovered will be encouraged to donate at Nair, KEM, Sion or any BMC hospitals or Lalbaugcha Raja Ganpati mandal. The total cases in BEST was 1,750 on Monday. “Speedy recovery (87%) was due to BEST Covid response teams arranging beds, ICU facilities in private hospitals and life-saving Remdesivir injections for staff in emergencies,” Dr Singhal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-appeals-to-over-1500-staff-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77600562.cms||Somit Sen
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||Study: Migrants & youths developing virus immunity||LUCKNOW: Daily wagers, including migrant labourers, have emerged as the biggest group among people who have been found to develop antibodies against Covid-19 without even knowing that they had contracted the disease at some point of time in the past, according to a KGMU study. The study also shows that as compared to other age groups, more young people from diverse fields have developed immunity against the virus. People found to be having antibodies remained asymptomatic after getting infected with the novel coronavirus infection and recovered after developing antibodies against the disease with no knowledge that they had been carrying the virus. The study, ‘Antibodies among blood donors’, conducted by the transfusion medicine department of the King George's Medical University (KGMU), tested samples of 2,121 healthy blood donors and found that 63 (3%) of them had antibodies against Covid-19. All the donors tested were healthy at the time of donation and said they had not been tested for Covid-19 earlier and never had any symptom of the disease. The blood samples were tested in the machine which can track immunoglobulin G-IgG – a protective antibody that develops in most patients around two weeks after infection and remains in the blood for sometime even after recovery. “It was found that of 63 people with antibodies, at least 19 (30%) were dailywagers, including migrant labourers,” said head of the department Prof Tulika Chandra. “Age-wise, maximum 57% people with antibodies were in the age group of 18-29 years, followed by 26% in age group of 30-39 years and 17% between 40 and 49 years,” she said. “Contrary to the belief that Covid affects blood content in patients, those found with antibodies had an average haemoglobin level of 14gm, which is normal,” Prof Chandra said. None of the donors above 50 years and above had Covid-19 antibodies, suggesting that this age group was not exposed to the virus. The study was undertaken to find out if herd immunity is developing in the society. According to experts, the findings show that immunity is developing in people but it cannot be termed “herd immunity” yet. The reason behind developing immunity against the virus could be the fact that daily wagers and young are the ones who have been moving out for work and other activities. The alarming part, however, is that people found with antibodies were not aware about their status and could have contributed to its spread at the time when the virus was active in their bodies. These people now have the option to donate plasma needed for convalescent therapy. “The data will be handed over to the government for Covid-19 management,” Prof Chandra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/study-migrants-youths-developing-virus-immunity/articleshow/77601448.cms||Yusra Husain
August 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Follow reservation norms: Forums||COIMBATORE: Members of district adi dravida welfare committee on Monday petitioned the collector to ensure that all schools follow the 19% reservation for SC/ST students in Class XI admissions, as per the school education department’s order No 587. While all schools must follow the reservation system based on community roster, some private matriculation schools and government-aided schools conducted admission for Class XI ignoring the government order, they said. The collector should ensure that SC/ST students get the seats reserved for them, they said. Representatives of Social Justice Party also petitioned the collector and requested him to ensure reservation norms in schools. They said that the committee formed to ensure reservation norms has not been convened for the last two years. They also sought action against private schools that are forcing parents to pay full fee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/follow-reservation-norms-forums/articleshow/77600214.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Delhi||SDMC deseals all 11 properties on SC list, checks for more||NEW DELHI: South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Monday desealed 10 residential farmhouses in Vasant Kunj sealed last year on the direction of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee. Another property was desealed on Friday evening. The Supreme Court on Friday ordered desealing of these 11 residential premises that had faced action for allegedly flouting norms but were not used for commercial purposes. The committee “had no power to look into the matter and to take any action” in these cases, the court said, clarifying that checking unauthorised constructions was beyond the jurisdiction of the panel. The corporation is examining the order to find out if more such properties can be desealed, a senior SDMC official said. On whether the corporation will serve notices to these farmhouses for flouting norms, he said, “After desealing these premises, the engineering department of the zone concerned may take action as per norms but our priority is now to adhere to the court’s directions.” The 11 properties that were desealed were located at MG Road, Mall Road and Church Road in Vasant Kunj. These were sealed on March 25 and 26, 2019 by the municipal corporation on the direction of the monitoring committee. The sealing drive started with the action against nine properties in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur on December 17, 2017, which was followed by a similar exercise against 51 units in the Defence Colony market on December 22. Close to 8,000 establishments or properties have been completely or partially sealed for illegal construction or misuse since 2017. These include close to 1,500 traders’ establishments at Defence Colony, Greater Kailash, Hauz Khas, Green Park and other local shopping complexes in south and north Delhi. Despite amendments in the Delhi master plan and the municipal corporations’ guidelines, they are yet to get any relief. The affected traders of Green Park now plan to move the apex court for desealing of their shops that were totally “commercial”. “Shops in markets such as Defence Colony, Green Park and South Extension were sealed for misuses such as using upper residential floors for commercial purposes without payment of conversion charges. But the master plan doesn’t allow any charge as owners have purchased these properties at prime rates. This area was always commercial,” said Vijay Israni, vice-president of Green Park Market Association. In November 2019, even Delhi Development Authority decided to not take conversion charges from around 100 local shopping centres, said traders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-deseals-all-11-properties-on-sc-list-checks-for-more/articleshow/77600249.cms||Vibha Sharma
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||When Pandit Jasraj’s rendition drew a deer at Sankatmochan||LUCKNOW: Hours before subah-e-Banaras on Hanuman Jayanti in April 1987, Pandit Jasraj re-established the power of the Indian ragas. Performing at one of his favourite places, the Sankatmochan Hanuman temple, Pandit Jasraj immersed his soul into a ‘Todi’ with lines from Vinay Patrika, the book of poems written by Tulsidas. The rendition had left the audience spellbound when from somewhere a deer walked in. It walked towards the stage as if the sound was a string that drew it. Turning eyeballs and triggering murmurs, the deer went very close to the stage and stood mesmerized till Pandit Jasraj opened his eyes. “He smiled, folded his hands and said Jai Ho. That was him and the power of Hindustani sangeet. With that, he came on a par with Tansen, whose singing is said to have moved animals and birds in the darbar of Akbar,” recalled Mahant VN Mishra, the chief of Sankatmochan Hanuman temple. “Many artists believe that singing unites people with the almighty. Pandit Jasraj fused himself with God every day when he practised but each time, he came back to the mortal world. This time, he has decided to stay in the company of his creator,” Mishra said, recalling that Pandit Jasraj and the temple’s sangeet parampara went back to 1973. “In all these years, he faltered once. But then, he would always recall the incident as Lord Hanuman’s reminder of not letting success get into his head,” Mishra said.  Citing Jasraj, he added: He told me, “Ek bar mujhe ghamand aa gaya tha...tab Prabhu ne TTE ke dwara mujhe sabak sikhaya. Mujhe chalti train se utarna pada kyunki ticket pakka nahi tha (Once I became arrogant. Then the Lord taught me a lesson through the train ticket examiner who made me get off a train as my ticket was not confirmed).” In love with Lucknow, Pandit Jasraj once said that it was very difficult for him to refuse an invitation from the city of Begum Akhtar. Speaking to reporters ahead of an event in Bhatkhande in 2012, Pandit Jasraj had said: “Ye Lakhnau hai... Begum Akhtar ka shehar... Maine ghanton unki ghazal ‘diwana banana hai toh’ suna hai…” Vocal and harmonium accompanist from the city Pandit Dharmnath Mishra recalled his meeting with the legend at this function. “Someone asked him to explain what music meant to him. He replied that for many, it was a profession or livelihood. Some call it their life, but to me, it is the only and ultimate source of happiness. That day, I understood the reason behind his characteristic classic faint smile that was always on his face while singing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/when-pandit-jasrajs-rendition-drew-a-deer-at-sankatmochan/articleshow/77601459.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||ID cards for Covid coordinators unveiled||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation unveiled a sample identity card which will be issued to Covid coordinators, the nomination of which has been made mandatory for all offices with 30 or more workers. An image of the sample card was tweeted by municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar, who said such coordinators ill enforce Covid protocols. The identity card bears details such as the phone number, email id and the address of the coordinator. Official said that a card in this format will have to be issued by each office or establishment and a photocopy of it along with the letter appointing the Covid coordinator will have to be sent to the deputy municipal commissioner of the jurisdiction. Officials said that if an employee tests positive for Covid, the coordinator will also have to provide a list of persons who had come in contact with that person. Any violation will invite strict penalties for the coordinator including punishment under Sections 188 and 270 of the IPC and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act. The officials said that such ID cards will be mandatory for all offices having 30 or more workers. For smaller establishments, the manager and owner will be responsible. The officer said that for crowding in a shop, the owner would be liable for punishment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/id-cards-for-covid-coordinators-unveiled/articleshow/77600258.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Rajkot||Illegally hoarded grains seized||Rajkot: Illegally hoarded grains worth Rs 4.38 lakh meant to be sold to ration card holders were seized in Bhavnagar between March and July this year. The district civil supply officer has suspended eight ration shop owners found guilty of the crime for 90 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/illegally-hoarded-grains-seized/articleshow/77598774.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand reports 319 new Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths||Dehradun: The number of Covid cases in Uttarakhand reached 12,493 on Monday after witnessing a jump of 319 fresh infections on the day. The toll of the virus also surged to 158 after six more Covid-19 patients died in the state. In the biggest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases in any hill district, Uttarkashi reported 77 new infections on the day. At present, there are 259 active cases in the district. Meanwhile, Rudraprayag also reported 41 fresh cases. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of the Covid-19 control room, informed that the maximum of 109 new cases were reported from Haridwar, followed by 38 cases from Udham Singh Nagar, 23 from Nainital, 15 from Tehri, 10 from Dehradun, three from Bageshwar, and one case each was reported from Chamoli, Champawat, and Pithoragarh districts. Among the six deaths in the state on Monday, four were reported from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh and the oher two were recorded at Dr Susheela Tiwari Government Medical College in Haldwani. In some relief for the state, 385 patients recovered on Monday, taking the total number of cured cases to 8,485. At the time of filing this report, there were 3,806 active cases in Uttarakhand. The recovery rate of the state on Monday was 67.9% and the infection rate just a little above 5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-319-new-covid-19-cases-6-deaths/articleshow/77597606.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 18, 2020||Kolkata||First repatriation charter flight to land in Kolkata today||KOLKATA: An international charter aircraft carrying Indians will touch down in Kolkata on Tuesday, marking the revival of repatriation flights to the state after one and a half months. The GoAir flight that will depart Kuwait City at 10.15am local time and arrive in Kolkata at 6.25pm will follow a revised SOP issued earlier this month by the state. All passengers have cleared Covid-19 test in the past three days and will not require quarantine on arrival unless someone develops a Covid symptom during the flight. Speaking to TOI, a GoAir spokesperson said the first repatriation charter flight had received the nod from both the state and the Indian mission in Kuwait, as well as from the ministry of external affairs. The airline has three other flights lined up on the same sector, but dates have not been finalized. Originally, the four flights were scheduled to operate between August 17 and 20. The second charter flight repatriating Indians will be on Wednesday. IndiGo will operate the flight from Dubai and it is expected to reach Kolkata in the afternoon. The flight has been organized jointly by St Xavier’s College Alumni Association, Purvanchal Pravasi Milan and Marwari Yuva Mancha, UAE. “Hundreds — many of them labourers and unemployed — had approached us, seeking help to return home. Since the Bengal government has allowed landing of charter flights, we began planning and started contacting the passengers. We have sponsored the return for 50 passengers,” said St Xavier’s College Kolkata Alumni UAE chapter president Kalyan Bhattacharya. The 170-seater flight is now completely booked. The flight from Kolkata to Dubai will depart early on Tuesday with rock-bottom fare of Rs 7,736 to fly to Dubai. “A Covid-negative certificate is mandatory and a UAE interior ministry approval is a must for residents. Indians with a valid UAE visa can also take the flight,” an IndiGo official said. A slew of charter flights will be operated from this weekend till the end of the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/first-repatriation-charter-flight-to-land-in-city-today/articleshow/77600246.cms||Subhro Niyogi
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Drug protocols ignored at Ramesh hospital: Probe||HYDERABAD: An enquiry committee set up by the AP government to look into the August 9 fire accident in Vijayawada has found fault with Ramesh Hospitals. The health department committee report cited serious violations on the part of the hospital management, including unauthorised administration of plasma therapy, Remdesivir injections being given to patients irrespective of the severity of the infection and non-compliance of Covid-19 guidelines. The panel also found out that an ambulance was stationed at the Covid Care Centre, but it could not be pressed into service at the time of the mishap owing to non-availability of the vehicle keys. The committee said three patients were admitted a day before the accident despite the trio testing negative. “There were only two doctors, three nurses and one housekeeping available for 30 beds in total violation of Covid-19 guidelines and ICMR protocol,” it said. The hospital was treating serious Covid-19 positive cases at the hotel though it was supposed to admit mild symptomatic and asymptomatic patients, the committee said and added that exorbitant charges were collected in violation of government orders. Stating that the hospital had violated the central guidelines, the panel said the management failed to honour the DMHO’s condition of reserving 10 isolation beds to treat patients under the Aarogyasri scheme. The report said the DMHO had allowed the Ramesh Hospitals to run the CCCs at Swarna Palace and Swarna Heights only from July 19, but patients were admitted to the CCCs at Swarna Heights from July 13 and at Swarna Palace from July 15. “The hospital has admitted Covid-19 patients even before having an MoU, which is a gross negligence on its part,” it said. In another damning finding, the committee said Hotel Swarna Palace had constructed the fifth floor without seeking approval from the town planning wing of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drug-protocols-ignored-at-ramesh-hospital-probe/articleshow/77600251.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Another CBI case against textile company directors||LUDHIANA: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has slapped another case on the directors of already troubled city-based textile conglomerate, SEL Textiles Limited. The case was registered for cheating a consortium of 10 Indian banks of Rs 1,530 crore. The Saluja family, including Ram Sharan and both his sons, Neeraj and Dhiraj, who are directors in SEL Textiles Limited, has been named as accused in the FIR along with several others. As per sources in the CBI, a search was also conducted at homes and offices of the directors, but no arrests have been made so far. Some public servants too have been booked under sections 120-B, 403, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC and Section 13(2)r/w13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The FIR was registered by CBI on August 6 on the complaint of the Central Bank of India, in which it was alleged that the company and its directors indulged in criminal conspiracy to defraud the banks and divert loan funds with an intention to misappropriate them between 2009-13, causing a loss of Rs 1,530 crore to 10 public sector banks of the consortium. As per the complaint, SEL also did huge non-genuine transactions with a Canada-based company, Aarti Impex, which has been named in Panama papers. According to complainant Vinod Kumar Malik of the Central Bank of India, “In 2009, SEL Textiles Limited had availed different loans worth Rs 40.2 crore from our bank. The credit limits were under the consortium banking arrangement and our bank was its leader and Allahabad Bank a member. Thereafter, the company approached our Focal Point, Ludhiana, branch on several occasions for enhancement of cash credit (CC) limits for working capital requirement and also availed several term loans. Various credit limits and enhancements were given over the passage of time and overall Rs 1,530.99 crore plus interest is due from the company to the consortium. A forensic audit report in 2017 was submitted by M/s GSA & Associates, chartered accountants, through which the lenders came to know that the company had diverted huge funds of the banks for wrongful acts.” Malik also said in his complaint, “Some of the major observations that came to the fore in the report included opaque and recalcitrant approach towards lenders; inadequate disclosures at the time of forensic audit, giving credence to wilful default impression; diversion of short-term funds for long-term uses as well as re-routing of money from business for acquiring unproductive assets; and delay in realisation of sales proceeds from select parties leading to continuous increase in levels of sundry debtors from a few big customers and they all appear to be suspected related entities or acting in concert, controlled directly or indirectly by the company.” Earlier in November 2019, the CBI had registered a case against SEL Manufacturing Company, in which there were several other directors besides the Saluja trio, on the complaint of Bank of Maharashtra. The bank officials had claimed that the firm had defrauded their institution of Rs 113.55 crore by resorting to various mala fide activities, such as diversion of funds, not utilising the loan for the purpose for which it was sanctioned, improper reporting of the financial data and other charges. At the time too, raids were conducted at various premises of the company. Repeated attempts to contact the Salujas and other officials of the company remained futile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/another-cbi-case-against-textile-company-directors/articleshow/77600244.cms||Mohit Behl
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||100% fee waiver impossible: Panjab University committee||CHANDIGARH: The committee constituted by the vice chancellor (VC) of Panjab University (PU) professor Raj Kumar, to study the feasibility of fee waivers for the current semester, sought detailed data from the finance department about the fee charged from a student. The committee is also planning on a 100% fee waiver for disabled students this semester. In its first meeting that was held on Monday, the fee committee, chaired by R K Singla, dean university of instructions, members suggested that before taking a decision, a detailed report on the fee component should be tabled with the committee. The final decision will be taken on Tuesday. The members also proposed that students should get an option that they can pay a fee in four instalments this year, instead of the usual two. The committee also wanted information on the various schemes under which needy students of the university were given fee concessions. It is proposed that the student welfare fund, which is nearly Rs 2 crore to Rs 2.5 crore, should be converted into fellowship that can be given to the students who face financial issues due to covid-19. In the meeting, members agreed that the demand for 100% fee exemption to all students by various student parties cannot be accepted. Last week, the VC held a meeting with all student parties, who staged a protest demanding fee waiver. Highly placed sources in the university said there is an increase in the deposit of fee by students of various departments after the decision was taken to postpone the classes by August 31. Navdeep Goyal, chairman of the special committee on academic calendar and examination, confirmed that in some departments all students have paid their fees. He said they are seeking permission to start online classes. “I sent the cases to the DUI for final decision whether to permit them or not,” he said. Singla said it is not possible to permit only a few departments to start classes. The academic calendar will start on September 1 and all departments will commence their classes on the same day, he said. Meanwhile, National Students’ Union of India representatives sat on an indefinite hunger strike, demanding 100% fee waiver this semester just as Punjab government waived off school fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-committee-seeks-info-on-fee-components-from-finance-dept-says-100-waiver-impossible/articleshow/77600252.cms||Aarti Kapur
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||Science students worried over lack of practical classes||LUCKNOW: Online classes for the new academic session of Lucknow University had begun on August 4 but till date, no practical classes have been held as the university is shut. Now, students of science faculty are expressing their concerns as practicals are impossible without a laboratory. They say that the university should look for a solution otherwise it will affect their results since practical exams carry 50% marks for them. “Every year, practical and theory classes are held simultaneously from the first day of the session. It is difficult to understand science without experimentation, especially for chemistry students. We cannot install distillation equipment, burners and hotplates, or use gases for experimentation at home,” said BSc student Ankit. Student Ayushi Singh said, “Zoology without dissection in the laboratory is similar to learning computer without having a computer. For science students, it is a double loss as they cannot understand complex concepts without experimenting or dissecting.” “The university should have modified the curriculum and shifted the practical-based paper to the next semester, when the pandemic subsides,” said BSc student Harshit Rajput. LU spokesperson Prof Durgesh Srivastava said, “We are finding solutions to this problem. For example, the physics department is using animations and videos for practicals while for other subjects, the university is thinking of setting up a virtual laboratory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/science-students-worried-over-lack-of-practical-classes/articleshow/77601464.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||PU to seek dental body nod for exams||Chandigarh: Panjab University (PU) decided to seek permission from the Dental Council of India (DCI) to hold the examination of intermediate and final-year students of Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital. On Monday, an online meeting was chaired by syndicate member and chairman Navdeep Goyal in which a representation from the hospital to permit them to conduct the exam for the students as per directions from the council was tabled. Members decided the authorities will send a representation to the DCI in which they will seek permission to allow them to conduct exams for all Bachelor of Dental Surgery (BDS) students. For 17 students of Master of Dental Surgery (MDS), the department will need approval to call students to appear physically for the examination in the college. In the meeting, the members made a reference of a few other states that have adopted online mode to conduct examinations. “The university should also go for it as in BDS there are 500 students who have to appear in the exams. It might not be possible that all outstation students can travel to Chandigarh to appear in examination, so the blended option to hold examinations should be given to them,” the members said. For MDS the college is ready to hold physical examination as there are only 17 students, who can easily visit the campus. According to the communication the department received from the DCI, it was stated that the examination for first, second and third year BDS course may be conducted by the respective colleges or universities as and when the normalcy in the respective state or district is restored. No specific time frame may be prescribed. But the colleges are free to allow the students to commence their studies for next higher classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-to-seek-dental-body-nod-for-exams/articleshow/77600266.cms||Aarti Kapur
August 18, 2020||Delhi||Masked men run riot in north Delhi area, attack locals; three held||NEW DELHI: A group of masked men barged into houses in the Kucha Mohtar Khan area and attacked the residents while searching for a few local youths with whom they had an argument earlier. The incident, which began a little after midnight and continued till around 12.45am on Monday, led to panic in the locality. The accused, who were brandishing knives, firearms and rods, damaged over two dozen vehicles. Four persons, including a girl, sustained injuries because of the ruckus. The residents claimed that they heard at least half a dozen rounds being fired, while the cops claimed they recovered only four empty cartridges. According to police, a call regarding a quarrel was received around 1am on Monday. When the cops reached the location, a large crowd had gathered and some damaged vehicles and empty cartridges were found. The locals informed the cops that the accused youths even barged into a few houses. Padam, whose house was ransacked, stated that his family members were sleeping when they heard loud bangs on the door. “My younger brother Suraj, along with his wife and a four-year-old kid, was sleeping on the ground floor. Initially, I thought the children were bursting crackers but within minutes, the accused broke open the door and barged into our house. They were asking for some people about whom we had no clue. They damaged our LED television as well,” he said. “My brother’s son has been scared ever since it happened. Such an incident had never occurred in our area,” added Padam. Based on Suraj’s complaint, a case was later registered. Monika Bhardwaj, DCP (North), said a criminal of Model Town area, Lalit Yadav, had got into an argument with the youths of Kucha Mohtar area. “The youths fled and hid in their houses. Lalit and his associates later went on a rampage damaging vehicles, breaking into houses and firing rounds while searching for them. A case under sections of attempt to murder, trespassing, rioting, arms act among others has been registered. We have arrested three of his associates and raids are being carried out to nab the remaining accused,” added the DCP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/masked-men-run-riot-in-north-delhi-area-attack-locals-3-held/articleshow/77600270.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Rajkot||Kidney to pay off debt: Cops arrest another money lender||Palanpur: Cops have arrested another money lender in connection to the shocking case of Khoda village wherein a teacher was forced to sell his kidney to pay off his debt.A day after the police arrested money lender Harsh Bhati, it arrested another money lender Deva Rabari, a native of Tharad taluka’s Morila village, on Monday.Both Bhati and Rabari have been booked under various sections of the Gujarat Money Lenders Act 2011 for allegedly harassing teacher Ramji Purohit who sold off his kidney for Rs 15 lakh.According to police, Purohit had borrowed Rs 3 lakh from Bhati, who is also a teacher hoping that he would be charged affordable interest rate.But Bhati allegedly started demanding higher interest rate. In order to pay off his interest amount, Purohit had approached Rabari from whom he borrowed Rs 4 lakh on higher rate of interest.As pressure mounted to pay off his debt, Purohit had begun hunting for kidney buyers on his cell phone. His search ended when a kidney buyer from Sri Lanka agreed to pay him Rs 15 lakh for his kidney which was extracted through an operation in January 2015.Even after he paid off his debt, the money lenders continued making fresh demands.The cops have registered a complaint against four accused of which two are yet to be arrested. “The two other accused were not involved in money lending but they had thrashed and threatened the teacher. They have been booked under section 323 and 506 (b) of the Indian Penal Code and will be arrested soon,” said police inspector J B Chaudhary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/kidney-to-pay-off-debt-cops-arrest-another-money-lender/articleshow/77598803.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ahmedabad||Check credentials of doctor: AHNA||Ahmedabad: After at least three cases of alleged malpractice surfaced against Dr Vipul Shantilal Patel, a city-based intensivist, Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), has written to the Gujarat Medical Council (GMC) to check his medical degrees. AHNA had earlier written to the city police commissioner about the alleged overcharging from an elderly couple by Dr Patel even after the state government had fixed the ceiling for Covid-19 treatment. “In another instance that has come to our notice, an elderly woman, whose son is settled in Australia, was admitted to a city-based hospital. Dr Patel allegedly demanded fees higher than the one fixed by the government and insisted on taking the amount in cash,” said an ANHA official. “The woman’s son has already written to Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) about the incident. We are pursuing the matter as the instances are tarnishing the image of medical fraternity that is working tirelessly during the pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/check-credentials-of-doctor-ahna/articleshow/77600271.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||UPRERA seeks action against 24 developers, LDA||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) is among 25 real estate developers which have allegedly not complied with the orders of the UP Real Estate Regulatory Authority (UPRERA) in last two years. UPRERA has sent the list to respective district administrations where headquarters of these developers are located so that notices are issued to them for the recovery of penalties imposed on them. The Authority has imposed a total penalty of Rs 72 crore on these developers. Nine such developers are from Noida, seven from Greater Noida, five from Lucknow, three from Ghaziabad and one from Agra. The regulatory authority had received around 3,500 complaints related to refunds, compensation and delay in possession over the past two years. After conducting hearings, in which the complainants as well as developers were heard, UPRERA ruled in favour of buyers and directed developers to comply with orders within a stipulated time. UPRERA chairman Rajive Kumar said penalties had been imposed on developers which did not follow the orders. “When these developers also defaulted in payment of penalties, we sent their names to the administration of districts where their offices are located. We have recommended that the penalty amount should be recovered from them, and if required, by auctioning their assets.” “In the list, two Noida-based private developers are top two defaulters with non-compliance of 491 and 408 orders, respectively. A Lucknow-based private builder did not follow 392 orders. LDA with non-compliance of 210 orders and a penalty of Rs 8.7 crore figures at number 11 on the list,” he added. LDA secretary MP Singh claimed that the directions of the regulatory authority were always followed and added that he had no information about non-compliance of so many orders. “If it is true, LDA would have not agreed to the conclusion drawn by UPRERA in these cases. We will check our records and proceed as per law. We will also put our side before the district administration if it issues a recovery notice,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uprera-seeks-action-against-24-developers-lda/articleshow/77601474.cms||Pranchal Srivastava
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||AP reports nearly 7k cases, 82 deaths||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 6,780 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, the lowest single-day case total in the last three weeks. The cumulative caseload now stands at 2,96,609. The last time the state reported less than 7,000 new cases was on July 27. As many as 82 patients succumbed to the disease on Monday, taking the toll to 2,732. Even though there has been no consistent decline, the daily new cases have settled around 7,000 to 10,000 mark for the last three weeks, mirroring some stabilising trend. As many 7,866 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Monday, outnumbering the fresh infections. There are currently 84,777 active cases with 2,09,100 recoveries. The recovery rate has improved to above 70 percent. Anantapur has the highest recovery rate of near 82%, while Vizianagaram has the lowest of 49%. East Godavari reported 911 fresh cases on Monday, followed by Guntur (776) and West Godavari (724). In a welcoming sign, Krishna district registered only 135 new cases. Anantapur became the third district to cross the 30,000 case mark on Monday after Kurnool and East Godavari districts. Among the 82 deceased on Monday, 13 are from Prakasam, 10 from East Godavari, eight from Chittoor, seven each from Guntur and Kadapa, six each from Srikakulam and West Godavari, five each from Anantapur, Kurnool, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram, three from Krishna district and two from Nellore. Andhra Pradesh has so far conducted 29 lakh tests with an overall case positivity rate of 10.21 percent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-reports-nearly-7k-cases-82-deaths/articleshow/77600274.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: In last 5 months, these volunteers helped bury 149 dead Covid patients||JAIPUR: For the past 148 days, a group of volunteers from different backgrounds has buried 149 bodies in the city’s two graveyards — Ghat Gate and Shastri Nagar. A 20-member group came into existence in the first week of April when the city-based graveyards committees refused to bury the dead due to the pandemic. Backed by the local administration, the volunteers who call themselves as ‘Covid-19 dead body burial group’ comprising students, social activists, clerics and businessmen carry out all tasks from collecting bodies from SMS and RUHS mortuaries, digging 8-foot grave and burying bodies following all rituals. Social activist Anwar Shah faced an unprecedented situation on April 6 when Jaipur reported its first death. The graveyard committees and locals objected to the burial and deceased family was not available due to the lockdown. The issue reached the State Waqf Board (A body under the minorities department) which called the protest unlawful. It still didn’t help as the caretakers did not provide any help like allotting space and digging the grave. “That was the time I decided that I have to stand up against this stigma and volunteered to bury the bodies. The effort yielded results and now we have a strong team with a clear division of work,” said Shah, who is an educationist. So far, they have buried 114 at Ghat Gate and 35 at Shastri Nagar graveyard. The entire process takes 3-4 hours and sometimes a complete day. “The local administration has our number and they call up in an event of any death of any Muslim person. Thereafter, our two volunteers in PPE kits reach the mortuary, takes family consent and under police escort takes the body in an ambulance to the grave. Simultaneously, a team of three volunteers do the digging of the grave by JCB machine, offers death prayers, change clothes of the deceased and release the body into the grave,” said Naim Rabbani, a hotelier and volunteer. Patience is required to discharge this social work, says Riyazuddin Khan, who is incharge of a JCB machine. “There were days when we have to wait for the whole day as understaffed hospital staff has to mandatory fulfil many protocols which are time-consuming and sometimes the family members delay our work waiting for the relatives to visit,” said Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/group-that-helps-to-bury-dead-covid-patients/articleshow/77600272.cms||Shoeb Khan
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||PU-CET registration extended||Chandigarh: Panjab University has extended the date for registration, fee payment, information and photograph upload, for admission to PU-CET(UG) - BPharmacy and BSc (honours school) under the framework of choice based credit system, till August 20, said professor Prince Sharma, dean sciences, university. However, the last date for filling the admission form will remain the same as before — August 24. The whole subsequent schedule will also remain the same. The students, while registering, will be able to pay the fee online, but not by bank challan. For more information, go to the site cetug.puchd.ac.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-cet-registration-extended/articleshow/77600299.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Covid mortality rate in first half of August is 1 per cent||JAIPUR: Though the Covid graph is constantly moving up, mortality rate has dipped to 1 per cent in August. Till Monday morning, 206 persons had lost their lives to Covid in August while 19,906 persons were found infected. In July, the mortality rate was 1.1% as 267 people died of the virus and 24,069 tested positive. The situation started turning bad after the state government ended the lockdown and started unlocking it from June 1. The worst month in terms of highest mortality rate remained June as 219 persons had died while 9,183 tested positive. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the overall mortality rate is 1.4% and the government was making efforts to prevent even a single death. From August, the health department has started giving boost to plasma therapy besides providing expensive injections and combination of tocilizumab and remdesivir to needy patients. The Rajasthan Medical Services Corporation has made the procurement of tocilizumab and remdesivir and the infections are being made available at all the district hospitals. Also, the health department has added 1,300 ventilators to the existing critical care facilities across the state. Jaipur has reported highest number of Covid deaths as 235 persons have lost their lives battling against the virus, followed by Jodhpur (87), Bharatpur (65), Bikaner (60) and Ajmer (59). Moreover, the recovery rate in the state has also increased to 75%, which means that out of 100 persons tested positive for Covid in the state, 75 persons have defeated the virus and recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-mortality-rate-in-first-half-of-august-is-1/articleshow/77600278.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Dehradun||Amid widespread damage caused by downpour, Uttarakhand records 6% rain deficit in August||Dehradun: Even as Uttarakhand witnessed large-scale destruction this monsoon season, killing as many as 49 people since monsoon showers started, the state has recorded a 6% rain deficit in August, according to the regional meteorological centre. Between August 1 and August 16, the Himalayan state has received 219.5mm rainfall against a normal of 233.7mm, registering a total departure of -6%, as per the data computed by the Met office. During this period, Bageshwar received the maximum rainfall of 594.9mm against the normal of 157.6mm, with 277% excess rainfall. It was followed by Chamoli, Pithoragarh and Udham Singh Nagar districts, which witnessed 26%, 25% and 8% surplus rainfall respectively. Barring these four districts, the remaining nine districts, including state capital Dehradun, experienced rain deficit. Uttarkashi and Pauri Garhwal top the list in this regard, having recorded 53% less than normal rainfall each, followed by Champawat district with 46% deficit, Rudraprayag (-30%), Tehri (-22%), Almora (-14%) and Dehradun (-12%). According to Bikram Singh, director, regional meteorological centre, uneven rain distribution is to blame for the overall rain deficit. “While some districts like Bageshwar received excess rains, others didn’t get enough. As far as cumulative rainfall in the state is concerned, Uttarakhand is currently staring at a 13% rain deficit, having recorded 655.4mm rainfall against the normal 750.7mm between June 1 to August 12.” Rains have been wreaking havoc in Uttarakhand from late May this year. Apart from the 49 people who have been reported dead in rain-related incidents, 18 have been injured and five continue to be missing. The maximum number of people (34) have perished in flash floods, followed by 12 in landslides and two in lightning strikes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amid-widespread-damage-caused-by-downpour-uttarakhand-records-6-rain-deficit-in-august/articleshow/77597643.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Erect statues of Nandi Yellaiah: Cong tells T||Hyderabad: The Congress on Monday demanded Telangana government to build a memorial and install statues of eight-time former MP and Dalit leader Nandi Yellaiah at Ramnagar in the city, where he was born, and also at Siddipet and Nagarkurnool, the two parliamentary constituencies he represented. A meeting was organised here to condole the death of Nandi Yellaiah, popularly known as ‘Dalitha Bandhava’. Leaders from the Congress, left parties, Telangana Inti Party and others lauded him as a true Gandhian, who had always believed and followed the democratic, secular and social justice principles of the Congress. The meeting was presided over by AICC secretary V Hanumanth Rao, who volunteered to finance and install one of the statues. “He was a loyal Congressman. We shared a good rapport,” he said. Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy expressed concern over rising commercialisation of politics in the state as well as at the Centre and said youngsters should take inspiration from the life of Nandi Yellaiah and make politics a better place. “It is difficult to find leaders like Nandi Yellaiah, who epitomised values, honesty, integrity in public life, sincerity and loyalty for the party. These values and discipline are missing,” Uttam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/erect-statues-of-nandi-yellaiah-cong-tells-t/articleshow/77600345.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Goyal group demands syndicate meet, holds protest||Chandigarh: Navdeep Goyal-Ashok Goyal group have demanded an urgent syndicate meeting by vice-chancellor (VC) Prof Raj Kumar to discuss the fresh date of voting for all senate constituencies. A delegation of the Goyal group on Monday met the VC, asking to show the material on the basis of which he decided to postpone the polling date. Sources said the delegates demanded the syndicate meetings be called in the next three days. Members suggested tentative dates of all elections should be tabled in meeting. The VC assured he would soon call a meeting. Later in the day, as the group was not given the documents, they staged a protest at the registrar office. Six syndicate members sat in the registrar office, saying till they get the documents, they will not leave the office. The VC said his office will decide whether to provide documents or not by Tuesday. Ashok Goyal, one of the syndicate members on protest, said the VC office was misleading them. An official release on August 15 said following the advice of UT adviser Manoj Parida, vice-chancellor Prof Raj Kumar pushed the date of elections of all constituencies by two months or till the ministry of home affairs revises its Covid-19 guidelines, or permission is granted by the administration. Professor Karamjeet Singh, registrar-cum-returning officer, PU, said only the date of polling was changed and the rest of the schedule remained the same. He said the new dates would be announced after receiving suitable directives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/goyal-group-demands-syndicate-meet-holds-protest/articleshow/77600277.cms||Aarti Kapur
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Not many takers for vocational courses in schools||CHANDIGARH: Vocational subjects have again failed to get good response from Class XI candidates. This year, 1,247 students have for vocational stream, against 1,755 seats in 18 skill courses offered in government schools of UT Chandigarh. Except for six vocational subjects, all others have received less than 50 applications. In fact, some of the skill courses have received as less as two applications. The subjects that have received highest number of applications include information technology and web technologies — which has received highest number of forms, 361 — shorthand (English), office procedures and practices, typography and computer applications, beauty and wellness, electronic technology, electrical technology, fashion studies, textile design, design, automobile technology and AC and refrigeration. Yoga too got good response, it received 138 applications this year. Only two applications were received by retail and marketing. Other unpopular courses are taxation, cost accounting, shorthand (Hindi), financial market and management, tourism, food nutrition and dietetics and front office operations . None of the vocational subjects have applicants who scored above 96%. While in five course — food production, front office operations, fashion studies, textile design, design, beauty and wellness, yoga, shorthand (English), and Information technology have received forms from applicants who have scored between 90% and 95% marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/again-not-many-takers-for-vocational-courses-only-1247-applied-for-1755-seats/articleshow/77600313.cms||Kamini Mehta
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Anganwadis add two lakh new enrolments||JAIPUR: The women and child development department has added over two lakh new enrollments in anganwadi centres (AWC) in the last two months from families who have either migrated intra-state or from other states. Over three lakh women have also been enrolled in various schemes from the migrant families. "The enrollment of children in 3-6 years age group has shot up substantially. Our AWCs, Asha Sahayoginis, AWC Sahayakis and Mahila Sathio (panchayat level) develop the first contact with the migrant families. They have been constantly carrying out surveys and identifying those who are eligible to take benefit of our schemes. This is a reason that beneficiaries from migrant families have been swelling with each passing day," said Dr Krishna Kant Pathak, secretary, women and child department. The department is providing relief to these children on two fronts: providing supplements and early childhood education. The AWCs have been delivering food grains to all children enrolled in the AWCs at the doorsteps. While they will start delivery of reading material and are looking for ways to teach them. Additional five lakh women have joined the league of 40 lakh women receiving the benefits given to lactating and pregnant mothers in the state. Figures say that total 15 lakh migrants have arrived from outside the state. For children in the age group of 6-14 years of age, the state education department has directed its teachers to ensure that migrant child to get admission in the government schools. A multi-fold strategy has been planned for the rehabilitation of these children. The district education officers have been directed to identify these children during the survey along with the dropouts and enrol them in schools. "The admission to these children will be given on the basis of their previous class or learning outcomes," said an education department source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/anganwadis-add-two-lakh-new-enrolments/articleshow/77600305.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Video of ‘tiger’ goes viral, forest officials say it’s a leopard||VADODARA: A viral video of a big cat on the edge of a jungle said to be that of a tiger kept the forest officials in the Mahisagar district on their toes. The location where the video was recorded on Monday evening is very close to the place where a tiger was spotted. The video was recorded by a village sarpanch near the Ghatawada village of Kadana taluka. The area is the same where a tiger was clicked by a school teacher and the sighting was eventually confirmed using pugmarks as well as cameras in February last year. The tiger was then found dead in May, with starvation believed to be the reason. The video was forwarded to deputy superintendent of police N V Patel amongst others. Patel sent it to the forest department. “A person known to me spotted the animal and claimed it was a tiger. The forest department can ascertain what the animal is,” he said. The forest department rushed its personnel to the place where the big cat was spotted. They believe that the big cat was not a tiger, but a leopard from a mating pair that had been spotted in the area. “It may have been spotted from the roan nearby and the video was made viral. Our staff rushed to the site to ascertain what the animal was,” said deputy conservator of forests R D Jadeja. It is not the first time that such videos have led to rumours in the area. In May too, a similar incident had taken place and the presence of a tiger was eventually ruled out. However, several residents of Mahisagar district believe since several years now that tigers exist in the jungles there. Watch Tiger or leopard! Viral video gets officials confused||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/video-of-tiger-goes-viral-forest-officials-say-its-a-leopard/articleshow/77598930.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chennai||Employees looking for homes put premium on hygiene||CHENNAI: Aditi Agarwal from Siliguri has been surfing the internet for the past week looking for paying guest accommodation, hostels and co-living spaces in Chennai after her company asked her to report to work in October. The city has been slowly bouncing back as offices are opening with 75% workforce. However, finding accommodation is not easy. The pandemic has ensured that the checklist goes beyond safety, security and amenities. “Covid is the only thing in my mind. Cleanliness and sanitation are major concerns. I am not looking for PGs and hostels as they will not be sanitized regularly. Other concerns include my flatmates and their contacts,” Aditi said. Royal Women’s Hostel said they are getting enquiries about accommodation but nobody wants a bunk bed anymore. Usually, job offers come with a seven-day free accommodation to help employees search for a place to stay. “But now, we will have to report a week earlier to fulfill the quarantine norms before the date of joining and hope we test negative for the virus,” said Richa Bagla who has been asked to report to her company in September. “Finding accommodation in normal times is a tedious task and the pandemic has brought in new fears,” said Richa. Lack of public transport and fear of using cabs have made professionals look for accommodation within walking distance from their offices. Co-living spaces such as Zolo, Oyo, Stanza, Zostel, Nestaway that were usually only used by senior executives and temporary visitors are now the most sought after by young professionals. Shreyas Pandit, vice-president, head of services, Nestaway Technologies, said from May 2020 the business has gone up by 30%. “Traffic on rental websites is back to pre-Covid levels. We witnessed that although people moved to their hometowns, they did not vacate their homes. This is because being in a city is an economic imperative. We predict that the demand will be back to normal by December 2020 since a lot of people has already started to return to the cities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/employees-looking-for-homes-put-premium-on-hygiene/articleshow/77600310.cms||Komal Gautham
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Amid pandemic cloud, Mahmudabad’s royal Muharram rituals to be livestreamed this year||LUCKNOW: The Muharram rituals of Mahmudabad Fort in Sitapur, which are over 200 years old, will be broadcast live for the first time in view of coronavirus pandemic. The decision to take various processions and sermons at Qila Mahmudabad to different social media platforms to limit physical attendance was taken by the erstwhile Raja and the local community on Monday. Famous for its traditions the world over, people from different countries visit Mahmudabad especially during Muharram. The month of mouring which is expected to begin from either August 21 or August 22, commemorates the martyrdom of Imam Husain (Prophet Mohammad’s grandson) and his companions in Karbala, Iraq, in 680 AD. Beginning with what the commerorations will look like, a virtual meeting was held between the mutawalli of Waqf Maharaja Sahib, erstwhile Raja of Mahmudabad Mohammad Amir Ahmad Khan, mutawalli of Waqf Madrassa Ahmadiyyah, Prof Ali Khan Mahmudabad, staff from the waqf and representatives of three local Anjumans—Haideri, Sajjadiya and Abbasiya. “All government mandates of Covid-19 will be followed. There will be no procession or presence of outsiders this year. Only those living on the premises will attend the sermons and rituals,” said Prof Khan. “Since no procession will be taken out of the Qila, as was the tradition, all sacred mementos will be kept in the Shahnasheen (sanctum). Some of those who perform ‘marsiyas’ (elegies written on Karbala) and ‘nauhas’ (poems set to tune) are residents and their mourning of the tragic event will be livestreamed,” he added. The Muharram of Mahmudabad receives participation not only from Sunni Muslims but also from Dalits who have for several years performed the act of ‘Chowki Bharna’ where they walk barefoot from one Imambara to another with incense sticks in their hands and reciting poetry in Awadhi local dialect called ‘Dahey’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/amid-pandemic-cloud-mahmudabads-royal-muharram-rituals-to-be-livestreamed-this-yr/articleshow/77601549.cms||Yusra Husain
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Neighbours thrash woman, mother||Panchkula: Neighbours allegedly thrashed a woman and her mother with blunt weapons over some old rivalry in Kalka, prompting the police to register a case on Monday. Pragati, a resident of Dharampur, said she was going to her house after purchasing grocery around 10 am on Sunday. When she reached near her home, she found her neighbor Laxman Buhari and his wife Priya along with three other persons standing on the road. The three allegedly attacked the woman with iron pipes. When the victim’s mother Saroj came out of her house to help her, the accused allegedly attacked her too. The accused fled when villagers rushed to their help, threatening to kill her the next time, the victim alleged. Police registered a case under Sections 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 323 (punishment for voluntary causing hurt), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint) of the IPC at the Kalka police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/neighbours-thrash-woman-mother/articleshow/77600316.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur airport’s new plan to ensure shops, eateries sustain during tough times||JAIPUR: In order to facilitate shops, eateries and other establishments, the Airports Authority of India, Jaipur, has allowed them to pay rent proportionate to passenger footfall at the airport. Since the passenger footfall is almost one-fourth compared to what it was prior to the Covid-19 outbreak, these shop owners will have to pay only one-fourth of the rent. So, their rent would be calculated based on the footfall prior to Covid-19 to the footfall now. During Covid-19, a majority of the people who had shops or stores at the Jaipur airport were unable to pay their rent due to poor passenger footfall since June. Some of them were even planning to wind up their operations. While the flights’ movement was restored when Vande Bharat flights and domestic flight operations resumed, passengers under heavy restrictions were not purchasing anything from the shops at the Jaipur airport. Post Covid-19, when their income remained negligible, many of the traders having shops, eateries and other business establishments were planning to wind up operations. “We have introduced a formula for the month of June, July and August, under which they will have to pay the rent proportionate to the monthly passenger footfall. This will certainly ease them,” Jaideep Singh Balhara, director, Jaipur Airport, told TOI on Monday. He added that they have been in the thick and thin of the Jaipur airport, thus there was a need to give them something which would help them in sustaining. “Also, during pandemic, if we were adamant of charging what we used to charge, many of them would have winded up their operations. And, this finally goes against the passenger facilities. I hope with this formula they will not only continue, but will also sustain,” said an officer. Explaining the formula, a senior officer, said, “Suppose in June, 2019 we had a passenger footfall of 15,000 people on a day which remained 3,000 during June 2020, this year. In this circumstance the shop owners will have to pay 1/5 of what they were paying,” the officer explained. Traders are happy with this formula and are now willing to continue with their operations at the Jaipur airport. “This is understandable and easy for us. We have got intimation from the authorities and now we will deposit the rent as required,” said a trader at the Jaipur airport. Likewise, passengers who are still unwilling even to have a coffee at the airport still want these shops to continue. “At least we can have some water, soft drinks or chips while we are in transit and waiting for the boarding,” said a passenger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-airports-new-plan-to-ensure-shops-eateries-sustain-during-tough-times/articleshow/77600314.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 18, 2020||Chennai||1.12 lakh e-passes issued, vehicles flood Chennai||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency (TNeGA) on Monday issued a record 1.12 lakh auto-approved e-passes to individuals after the state government relaxed restrictions for passes for inter-district travel. Any individual applying for an e-pass will get it after submitting either Aadhaar card or ration card details. “There was a heavy load on the system following which there was a glitch for about 15 minutes or so. Later, it was resolved. Other than that, the process went on without any interruptions since the e-passes were auto-approved for individuals,” a state government official told TOI. According to the official, the passes were issued under the individual category. He said this was the highest figure in a day till date. But the district wise data was yet to be compiled. “It was almost evenly distributed across districts,” the official said. “Work-related travel was one of the prominent category, followed by marriage-related travel. These two categories probably will account for the highest number of passes issued, almost 50%,” the official said, while adding that the district collectors must have been holding back marriage parties for long. Authorities expect the number of applications for e-passes to come down on Tuesday. “Right now, these passes are auto-approved. But the government may review the decision in the coming days. We will wait and watch on further course of action,” the official said. The number of e-passes issued could be gauged by the 19,000 vehicles that entered Chennai through the two major toll plazas at Paranur and Sriperumbudur till 6pm. Officials the number was double of that witnessed during the lockdown before the e-pass norms were relaxed. With more people from southern and western districts getting their e-passes approved on Monday afternoon, the influx is likely to increase by another 80%-100% by late night on Monday, an official with National Highway Authority of India said. The increase in traffic resulted in congestion at toll plazas on GST Road and Chennai–Bengaluru national highway, and choked Vandalur and Perungalathur where vehicles piled up for over a mile on Monday morning. At the Paranur toll gate, people could be seen returning with their household items packed into boxes. “Not only cars, people returned to Chennai for work on their bikes,” said a police officer. Tamil Nadu Lorry Owners Association member G Ganesh, based out of Singaperumalkoil, said the traffic congestion from 4am affected movement of essentials like milk and vegetables into Chennai. Further, police were not deployed in adequate numbers to handle the situation, especially since some people thought the e-passes were now not required. These people were made to wait on the roadside, apply for passes and then enter Chennai. “The situation could be the same for the next 15 days as more than 30 lakh vehicles had left Chennai during the lockdown,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1-2l-e-passes-issued-vehicles-flood-chennai/articleshow/77600344.cms||D Govardan
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali: Woman, 6 men booked for attempt to murder||MOHALI: The police here have booked a 34-year-old woman along with six other unknown miscreants for attempt to murder. The woman has been identified as Jinder Kaur, a resident of Peer Muchalla, Dhakoli. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Deepak Rana, the investigating officer of the case, said “Jinder owns a very big house in Dhakoli and she had given rooms on rent. Just outside her house, she has set up a shop for fast food and runs it along with two more people” Rana told TOI that the incident took place on Sunday when Sukhwinder who lives in the same area told the miscreants to move their shop somewhere else, as it encroached on the road, making it difficult for the commuters. This has caused a fight to break between both the parties. “Jinder’s partners, who are yet to be identified, started to fight with Sukhwinder and one of them attacked him with a knife on his head first and then on his shoulder. Sukhwinder received 10 stitches. Meanwhile, another victim, Navjot, intervened to stop the fight, and the second guy attacked him with a knife. Three to four people from Jinder's house thrashed them too,” added Rana A case has been registered at the Dhakoli police station, no arrestes have been made so far, added the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-6-unidentified-accomplices-booked-for-attempt-to-murder/articleshow/77600340.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Active cases spiral, infection count over 62,000||JAIPUR: Fourteen per cent of all Covid cases have been reported in the last seven days as the state reported biggest single-day jump of 1,334 new infections on Monday taking the cumulative tally to 62,630. For the fifth consecutive day, the state has reported the highest single-day spike, which took the overall active cases to 14,089. In the last 24 hours, 11 persons lost their lives to the virus taking state’s toll to 887. Two persons died in Kota taking its toll to 55, three persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 235, three persons died in Bikaner taking its fatalities to 60 and two persons died in Banswara taking its Covid casualties to 4 and Ajmer reported its 60th Covid fatality. For the first time all the districts have contributed in the biggest single-day spike of new infections. While three districts reported more than 100 cases, five districts reported more than 50. Districts which reported new cases are Jodhpur (252), Alwar (198), Jaipur (151), Ajmer (71), Udaipur (70), Bikaner (69), Sikar (69), Bhilwara (58), Dholpur (42), Rajsamand (39), Kota (35), Chittorgarh (30), Bharatpur (27), Banswara (20), Barmer (20), Karauli (19), Nagaur (19), Jhunjhunu (17), Bundi (13), Dungarpur (13), Pratapgarh (13), Pali (11), Sawai Madhopur (10), Jaisalmer (9), Jhalawar (9), Sriganganagar (9), Dausa (9), Churu (8), Tonk (7), Sirohi (6), Hanumangarh (5), Baran (4) and Jalore (2). In Jaipur, 49 different places have reported 151 new cases which include, Mansarovar (15), Jhotwara (10), Vidhyadhar Nagar and Malviya Nagar each cases each. On the brighter side, 1,050 persons recovered from the ailment taking the tally of such cases to 47,654. Currently, Jaipur has the highest (2,119) active cases, followed by Kota (1,735), Jodhpur (1,767) and Alwar (1,455).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-cases-spiral-infection-count-over-62k/articleshow/77600336.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Man robbed by cops held for illegal business||NEW DELHI: The owner and two employees of a financial services company who were robbed by three policemen and their five associates in Rajokri have been arrested for allegedly running an illegal call centre and duping investors. They have been arrested on the charges of cheating and under the IT Act following an inquiry by the telecom department, said an officer. Police have also found that the arrested cops had come to know about the illegal business and were trying to extort money from the owner. DCP (southwest) Devender Arya said the owner, Naveen Sehrawat, and his associates, Dinkar and Anuj, all residents of Rajokri, were running the call centre under the garb of a financial assistance service that offered to help people with investment. “As there is no formal complaint, we are yet to establish the amount of money pocketed through the call centre,” said Arya. The accused had taken up a room on the first floor of a house at Rajokri village to run the racket. Police got to know about the call centre when they went to collect CCTV camera footage from the company. Sehrawat tried to mislead the cops when he was asked to show the telecom department’s permissions to run the call centre. The department found that the call centre had used VoIP technology instead of regular lines to make calls. The cops have asked for the phone numbers to which calls were made.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-robbed-by-cops-held-for-illegal-biz/articleshow/77622399.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Orphanage rape case: Three in police custody for questioning||HYDERABAD: Patancheru police on Monday took into custody three accused in the rape and murder case of a minor at a city orphanage. Police initially demanded four-day custody of the accused — a 54-year-old technician at a pharma company, the organiser of the orphanage, and her assistant — but were granted two days by a local court. The accused were taken into custody from Sangareddy prison after medical examination. Before the minor was sent home in March, 80 girls were staying at the orphanage. As of now, there are 40 girls residing there. The victim, in her statement before women and child welfare department (WCWD) officials, had said that the technician would sexually assault her in the fifth floor of the orphanage after offering her fruit juice laced with sedatives. “We have recorded statements of some of the girls from the orphanage but so far none have confirmed being a witness to any incident of sexual assault involving the victim. We are still talking to other girls,” said a police official. The investigators are yet to receive the post-mortem report as analysis of viscera is yet to come from the forensic lab. As part of the investigation, the accused may be taken to the orphanage. . “We have taken the three accused into custody for questioning for two days,” Patancheru DSP P Rajeshwar Rao said. The incident came to light when a zero FIR was registered at Bowenpally police station after the girl approached cops with her relative on July 31. Based on the FIR, Ameenpur police of Sangareddy district had registered a rape case on August 1. The girl was shifted to a special home for girls in Nimboliadda on August 3 and subsequently to Niloufer hospital where she succumbed on August 12 while undergoing treatment. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/orphanage-rape-case-three-in-police-custody-for-questioning/articleshow/77600796.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Don’t let Telangana turn into Rajasthan: HC on lake encroachments||HYDERABAD: Delivering a note of caution that lax district collectors like the one heading Rangareddy district may deprive the state of its leftover lakes, the high court on Monday told the state government not to allow Telangana to become a desert state like Rajasthan by sacrificing its lakes to encroachers. “Also do not allow Hyderabad to be converted into a toxic city like Benguluru whose beautiful 1,038 lakes have been reduced to a pathetic 138 chemical lakes now,” said the high court bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy while hearing a petition filed by social activist Lubna Sarwath. Talking about the Khajaguda lake, she said it is encroached upon by the state authorities themselves and the lake is being filled to lay roads in the name of beautification. “We asked the district collector to furnish us a list of lakes in Rangareddy district. We also sought to know from him whether a lake protection committee was formed. We asked him to inform us about the encroachment of lakes along with the instances of state encroachments. Nothing has been done till now,” the judges said. Wondering as to why the Rangareddy district administration is lax, they sought to know, “Why can’t the collector inspect lakes?” At this, advocate general BS Prasad sought two weeks’ time and said the government would instruct the collector to visit the lakes. “Unless you (government) protect the lakes, a bleak future is staring at us,” the judges said. MV Pratap Kumar, amicus curiae, brought to the notice of the court the conflicting extents shown in HMDA’s Khajaguda lake maps about its area, FTL level, etc. “There is a need to undertake a joint exercise by irrigation, HMDA, GHMC and revenue officials to arrive at correct FTL figures and actual extents. The kasra pahanis show us the true extent in which these lakes were located,” he said. The judges said the lake protection committees must have the local DSP as a member to arrest the trend of lake encroachments. They further observed that maps showing differing extents of Khajaguda lake must have been the handiwork of some officials who are hand-in-glove with encroachers. “Reducing the FTL extent would help encroachers. The government should come out with stringent measures to help protect the lakes,” they said before posting the case to August 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-let-t-turn-into-rajasthan-hc/articleshow/77600737.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Cops crack Mohali murder case, 1 held||Mohali: The police here cracked a murder case that occurred on June 30 and arrested the accused, who turned out to be victim’s friend. The accused is identified as Sonu Singh, who hails from Uttar Pradesh. On June 30, Raja Ram, a resident of Amb Saab Colony, was found murdered in Mohali, near the YPS rotary. Passerbys saw the body lying and informed the police. According to the police officials, the 25-year-old victim was attacked several times on his head by a hand pump handle, which was recovered near the spot. Sources revealed that the accused and Raja Ram were friends. “On the fateful day, they both were consuming alcohol together and were dancing together. Then they started fighting with each other over some silly thing. In a fit of rage, Sonu attacked the victim with the handle of the hand pump that was lying nearby and fled from the spot. Station house officer of Phase VIII police station, inspector Rajneesh, said “The case was cracked in two weeks’ time and Sonu was arrested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-crack-mohali-murder-case-1-held/articleshow/77600349.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Pontiff seeks Rs 200 crore special package for go-shaalas||Udupi: Sri Vishvaprasannatirtha Swamiji of Sri Pejavara Adhokshaja Mutt has written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman seeking a special package of minimum Rs 200 crore for ‘Go-shaalas’ in the wake of the Covid crisis. In a letter, the pontiff stated that the mutt has been running go-shaalas in about 45 acres in Neelavara, Kodavoor, and Hebri villages of Udupi district for the past 33 years. “We have been looking after more than 3,000 cows of which some are old and weak or deserted by their owners or saved from slaughtering with the blessing of our guru Vishweshateertha Swami and the help of philanthropists, devotees, and local donors,” he said adding the maintenance cost is approximately Rs 35 lakhs per month. There are other mutts, temples, and many others who run such centres in the country, saving lakhs of cows and spreading the values of Indian culture and organic agriculture, he noted. “Since Coronavirus has affected our national economy and the income of temples and mutts, we are finding it difficult to look after the innocent cows. The donations from philanthropist devotees have stopped. Added to this, heavy rains have affected the supply of fodder. We are fully aware that you have other emergencies and to attend to various types of calamities. At the same time, we request you to formulate policies and plans to help registered go-shaalas in the country,” he said, requesting a grant of Rs 200 crore. He also asked the minister to ensure easy measures are directed so that the go-shaalas get this grant easily. A copy of the letter has been sent to chief minister BS Yediyurappa, Union ministers Prahlad Joshi, DV Sadananda Gowda and Suresh Angadi, MP Shobha Karandlaje, MLA Ragupathi Bhat, Udupi deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha and BJP’s national chief organising secretary BL Santhosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pontiff-seeks-rs-200-crore-special-package-for-go-shaalas/articleshow/77601021.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Fearing dad’s ire, law student ends life after car accident in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Scared of facing his father after the car he was driving toppled, a 20-year-old law student committed suicide at his residence on Anekal Main Road in the wee hours of Monday. Kaushik, from Hosur, was a student of Alliance University. He and his friend Rahul had sustained minor injuries in the accident. Kaushik had expressed fear over facing his father’s wrath for having caused the accident before taking the extreme step, police said. The student had been staying in Hosur post the pandemic outbreak. On Sunday, he and his friends from Hosur visited Anekal and consumed alcohol. After the party, the group returned to Hosur, but Kaushik said he wanted to drink more. He drove back to Anekal ignoring his friends’ advice and took along his friend and neighbour Rahul. Kaushik was driving his Mahindra XUV towards Anekal when he lost control of the vehicle — it toppled thrice around 8pm. As Rahul and Kaushik didn’t suffer major injuries, locals arranged for an auto and suggested they go to hospital. However, the duo headed to Kaushik’s Anekal house. Kaushik wasn’t carrying the house keys and broke open the door to enter. While Rahul slept in the room, Kaushik slept in the hall. He later locked Rahul’s room from outside and hanged himself from the ceiling. Rahul, who woke up later, screamed for help realising he had been locked. Neighbours heard him and alerted police. Anekal police said they have registered a case of unnatural death. Kaushik’s father, a contractor, arrived in Anekal to receive his son’s body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fearing-dads-ire-student-ends-life-after-car-accident/articleshow/77599909.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Mysuru||In Chamarajanagar, more than 100 Covid Warriors infected||Chamarajanagar: It is not just cops, but more and more government staff who constitute the frontline of Karnataka’s defence against the pandemic – doctors, nurses, paramedical personnel, ASHA workers, pourakarmikas – are testing positive for the novel coronavirus across the state. In Chamarajanagar, the number of Covid-19 warriors who have contracted the infection has breached the 100 mark – 109, to be precise as on Sunday. Although more than half of these frontline warriors have recovered, and have, in fact, resumed their duties, several others are still undergoing treatment, while a cop attached to the Kuderu police station in the district has succumbed to the infection. Although Chamarajanagar, counted among the state’s backward districts, has performed commendably well in containing the pandemic and boasts an impressive recovery rate – 65% – the number of people pressed into Covid-19 duty testing positive for the novel coronavirus remains a cause for concern. Taking cognisance of their plight, the district administration has set up a dedicated facility for the treatment of Covid-19 warriors at the Government Engineering College. A 50-bed isolation ward with essential life support equipment has been arranged at the college to ensure the speedy recovery of the Covid-19 warriors. A cop at the Rampur police station, who recovered from the pandemic and is back to his duties, is very sanguine about the chances of recovery. He enjoined on the people to take utmost care of themselves, and take all the medicines prescribed by the doctors. Social activist Mangala Somashekhar called on the government and the public to express their appreciation for the Covid-19 warriors, who, in addition to staking their life in the line of duty, were in a constant state of worry about transmitting the infection to their friends and loved ones. “Their invaluable services need to be recognised by the government,” Mangala said. Chamarajanagar district health officer Dr MC Ravi said that, more than 60 of the Covid-19 warriors who had been infected had recovered. “By resuming their duties, they have sent a very positive message. We have instructed Covid-19 warriors with diabetes and other co-morbidities to take additional care. But in India, the mortality rate for Covid-19 is very low,” Dr Ravi told TOI. He said that the district administration had felicitated those Covid-19 warriors who had managed to beat the infection, and returned to their respective stations. “They were given a certificate and a memento on the occasion of Independence Day,” Dr Ravi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/in-chamarajanagar-more-than-100-covid-warriors-infected/articleshow/77600245.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Hopes of two remaining fishermen’s survival fade||Udupi: Hopes of survival of two fishermen, reported missing after their country boat ‘Sagara Shri’ crashed into the breakwaters near Koderi fishing jetty in Byndoor taluk on Sunday, is fast receding. Search operations that were halted at 9pm on Sunday commenced on Monday. Rescuers located the bodies of Nagraj Kharvi, 55, at Hosahithlu near Navunda, and Laxman Kharvi, 35, at Hadaragoli. Both the victims are from Uppunda, The body of Nagraj was located early in the day, while that of Laxman hours before the search operation ended at 9pm. Nagraj, along with Manjunath Kharvi, Laxman Kharvi and Shekar Kharvi, fishermen from Navunda, were part of a group of 11 fishermen who had gone fishing in the boat. R Chethan, SP of Coastal Security Police (CSP), said after professional divers from Murudeshwar, who were deployed to locate the fishermen in the area, drew blank, a drone was flown to scout the area. DIG S B Venkatesh, commander of Coast Guard (Karnataka), said Indian Coast Guard pressed its fast-patrol vessel (FPV) that was patrolling the high seas off Karnataka and Kerala coasts to trace the missing fishermen. Sandeep G S, police inspector of Gangolli station, said the FPV was coordinating with CSP. Citing accounts of surviving fishermen, Sandeep said Nagraj, who had managed to clamber on board the battered boat after it capsised, was the last one to drown. The police official did not discount the possibility of fishermen who drowned getting ensnared in heavy fishing nets on the boat that could have dragged them down. The seven fishermen, who managed to swim ashore, were treated in a hospital and also discharged after first-aid. Fisheries minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari, in a Facebook post, expressed concern at the development and offered condolences to the bereaved families. Noting that he has drawn the attention of the chief minister to the incident, Poojari said the fisheries department will provide financial assistance to the distraught families and that he would meet them personally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/hopes-of-two-remaining-fishermens-survival-fade/articleshow/77601078.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Assembly session in T from Sept 7||Hyderabad: Amid fears of spurt in Covid-19 cases, the legislative assembly session will be held from September 7. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao discussed the issue of holding the assembly session with ministers at a review meeting here on Monday. The state government has to call for an assembly session before September 20 as the rules mandate that a session be held at least for a day within six months from the last day of the previous session. The last assembly session was held in March first week and ended abruptly in the third week due to Covid-19 pandemic. A senior government official said fool-proof measures and safety precautions would be taken. “We will also check with parliament secretariat on how they intend to conduct the monsoon session. Since some MLAs and a minister had tested positive for the virus, we will take utmost care,” he said. Some important bills like Revenue Act and GHMC Act are expected to be introduced in the assembly for clearance. The CM wants the session to be held for at least 20 days since several issues need to be discussed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/assembly-session-in-t-from-sept-7/articleshow/77600354.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||21-year-old hangs self over marital discord||Hyderabad: A 21-year-old BPO employee, A Trinayani, ended her life over alleged domestic harassment at her house in Keesara on Sunday night. According to police, Trinayani fell in love with Akshay Kumar, a photographer, and had married him against the wishes of her family in November 2019. On Sunday night, Akshay Kumar and Trinayani slept in separate rooms of their house in Rampally due to marital discord. On Monday morning, when Akshay Kumar woke up, he found that Trinayani locked the bedroom door from inside and he tried waking her up by knocking on the door. “As she did not respond for a long time, Akshay opened the window door and found her hanging from the ceiling fan with a sari. He immediately informed neighbours and the police,” Keesara in-charge SHO Sudheer Krishna said. In their complaint, Trinayani’s family alleged that she ended her life due to domestic harassment. “There was no suicide note but according to the family, she was upset about Akshay not earning much and spending money on liquor. There were arguments between the couple about his behaviour,” the inspector said. A case was registered against Akshay under IPC sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 498-a (subjecting married woman to cruelty).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/21-year-old-hangs-self-over-marital-discord/articleshow/77600862.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: MLA T Raja Singh sticks to his stand on Rohingya Muslims||HYDERABAD: BJP legislator T Raja Singh, who is in the eye of a storm over his remarks on Rohingya Muslims, stuck to his stand and said they should be sent away from the country. He also said his official FB page was hacked in 2018, but the social media giant has not responded to his repeated requests to look into the matter. Speaking to TOI on Monday, the MLA alleged that some local leaders patronise the Rohingya. “I stand by my earlier remarks that Rohingya Muslims should be sent away if they are indulging in anti-national activities. They are patronised by leaders here,” he said. Raja Singh had made the remarks in August 2018, calling Rohingya Muslims as terrorists and that they should be shot. These remarks were carried in a section of the media then. Pressed further if he stood by his communally-sensitive remarks, he said two leaders give shelter to ‘anti-national’ elements. “They say many things, but no one says a word against them. I speak only in the interest of the nation,” the legislator said. The Goshamahal MLA said Congress was training its guns on BJP to gain popularity in the social media. “Rahul Gandhi does not have anything to do as a politician right now. He might utter something. But, we cannot take them seriously,” he said. Raja Singh was referring to Rahul Gandhi’s tweet which read, “BJP & RSS control Facebook & Whatsapp in India. They spread fake news and hatred through it.” The MLA said FB did not respond to his pleas after his account was hacked during the election season in 2018. Sharing a copy of the complant he had lodged with the cybercrime police, he said he has not received any response from either FB or police. “I do not have any FB account now. Many of my followers or party activists may be running pages on my name or posting videos and I cannot be held responsible for that. I do not have any control on them,” he said. Raja Singh, however, refused to comment on a recent report in a US publication on how Facebook deliberately ignored disruptive content from right-wing leaders and workers in India. In the report published on Friday last, the US newspaper quoted unnamed FB insiders who claimed that one of the India policy executives intervened in an internal communication to stop a permanent ban on the BJP MLA from Telangana after he allegedly posted communal, divisive content.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mla-raja-singh-sticks-to-his-stand-on-rohingya-muslims/articleshow/77600747.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Broker sentenced to life for rape of 4-year-old||HYDERABAD: A property broker was convicted on Monday by a local court for the rape of a four-year-old girl under Shalibanda police station limits in 2015. The accused was sentenced to life in prison and pay a fine of Rs 45,000 to the survivor. Footage from CCTV cameras installed by the accused’s wife, who had been suspicious of her husband, had played a key role in identifying him. The survivor, along with her family, had been tenants in the accused’s residence. The accused would lure the minor by offering chocolates. “When local police came to know about it, a criminal case was registered and he was arrested. In this case, CCTV footage played an important role in solving the case,’’ additional public prosecutor K Pratap Reddy told TOI. The investigating officer from Shalibanda police station, Mohammed Tajuddin Ahmed, who is presently Rachakonda traffic additional deputy commissioner, said that the case was taken up as suo-motu. Special judge for trial of Pocso cases, Suneetha Kunchala, in her verdict said the accused was convicted under section Pocso Act and directed him to undergo life imprisonment. The judge also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 of which Rs 45,000 will go to the survivor. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/broker-sentenced-to-life-for-rape-of-4-yr-old/articleshow/77600843.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hubballi||100 families moved to relief camps as flood water enters villages in Belagavi||Belagavi: Several villages in Belagavi are flooded and low-lying areas in Kalyana-Karnataka region are inundated following heavy rain in the catchment areas of major rivers, forcing the authorities to evacuate nearly 100 families. The reservoirs across Malaprabha, Krishna, Ghataprabha and Tungabhadra rivers both in the state and neighbouring Maharashtra steadily increased outflow till late morning and are maintaining the same flow as rain has subsided a little. Malaprabha water entered several villages namely Sunnala, Ulagoppa, Hampiholi, Avaradi, Munavalli in Ramadurga and Savadatti taluks in Belagavi district. Ramadurga-Surebana road has been closed as bridge has gone under water. Naviluteetha dam across Malaprabha has been releasing 26,864 cusecs of water, while inflow is at 37,383 cusecs. Incessant rain at Khanapur taluk resulted in the swelling of water in the river. Belagavi deputy commissioner MG Hiremath said five villages in Ramdurg taluk are flooded and over 100 families have been moved to relief centres. He said there is no need to panic as rain has subsided considerably and water level in Malaprabha is receding. He further informed that Munavalli village in Savadatti has also been effected but not to the extent of other villages. Besides, Koyna dam at Satara district in Maharashtra is releasing 55,000 cusecs of water and there was no increase since Monday afternoon. The outflow from reservoirs like Hidkal dam in Belagavi to Ghataprabha river is 66,350 cusecs. Low-lying areas along the banks are inundated and people have moved out to take shelter at homes of relatives. Meanwhile Gokak Falls is in its full splendour. There was a minor landslide near Belagavi-Hubballi railway track at Khanapur near Shivathana railway station. Venkatesh Bulla, a disaster management official from Raichur said two bridges in the district are inundated and three island villages, Omkargadde, Madaragadde and Halgadde in Krishna river have lost connection. This is due to release of 2.50 lakh cusecs of water from Almatti dam in Vijayapura and 2.70 lakh cusecs of water from Narayanapura dam in Yadgir. There are around 14 families and they have decided to stay back at their places. However, rescue teams are kept ready. In Yadgir some of the low-lying areas are inundated. —— Pic:Sunnal village in Ramadurga taluk flooded following water release from Malaprabha dam. - PIC MAILED||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/100-families-moved-to-relief-camps-as-flood-water-enters-villages-in-belagavi/articleshow/77599808.cms||Shreyas HS
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||City goes easy on Onam, Ganesh Chaturthi festivities this year||Chandigarh: Festive season is round the corner, but the virus has the city captive still. As a result, this year like many festivals so far, festivities around Ganesh Chaturthi and Onam, which are falling on August 22, are quite subdued. City-based Marathis and Malayalees, who usually celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi and Onam in a big way for 7-10 days, had not only cut down on the days of celebration, but also other associated activities, like decorations, daily gatherings for cultural events and food. Ganesh Chaturthi will be celebrated on August 22, with Sthapna of the idol, and Visarjan on August 24. Onam will be celebrated from August 22 to September 2. Onam feasts by various South Indian organisations around the Tricity, which were a regular feature for the last 40 years, were also cancelled this year. Rajeev Kumar, president Sree Ayappa samajam Chandigarh, said, “Every year, the celebrations starts 10 days before the Onam. We used to make Athappookkalam (floral decoration) for 10 days in front of our houses and temples. Various cultural programmes and get-to-gathers are held. Scrumptious food were made on the Onam day. Thiruvathira dance by young ladies added colour to the celebrations last year. Onam feasts have also been cancelled as gatherings are not allowed.” Every year, Marathis living here used to get a five-foot idol of Ganpati from Pune. It used to be made of special material and was eco-friendly. However, this year they had to settle for a locally made two-foot idol. “The one we used to have was made of Sadu ki Mitti and was brought from place called Pen near Pune,” said MB Sane, president of Maharashtra Mandal in Sector 19, Chandigarh. Also this year there will be no procession for the visarjan to Ghaggar, as the idol will be immersed at the mandal itself. The mandal did not even print cards due to the pandemic this year. “We are organising a small festivity this year so that the tradition continues. There will only be prayers and people will be able to do darshan from afar.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-goes-easy-on-onam-ganesh-chaturthi-festivities-this-year/articleshow/77600350.cms||Kamini Mehta
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Int’l drug operation busted, Rs 47 cr worth contraband seized||Hyderabad: Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths from Hyderabad and Mumbai busted an international narcotics racket and seized Rs 47 crore worth drugs along with Rs 50 crore worth of raw material. The team arrested three gang members from Hyderabad and Mumbai who were manufacturing narcotic substances with an intention to distribute them in India and abroad. On the intervening night of August 15 and 16, DRI officers had raided a chemical factory on city outskirts and seized 142.6 kilos of Mephedrone, 31 kilos of Ephedrine, 250 kilos of raw materials procured for manufacturing of Mephedrone from the premises. Meanwhile, the team in Mumbai intercepted a consignment of drugs sent from Hyderabad. “The consignment was cleverly loaded in a private passenger bus as cargo with no one accompanying it to ensure that even if the consignment was caught, no individuals could be linked,” a DRI official said. However, the team conducted a series of swift follow-up raids in Mumbai based on details of people who booked the cargo and those who were supposed to receive it. On August 16, a raid was conducted at the premises of recipients in Mumbai and a drug manufacturing laboratory was found in a residential premises from where 58 kilos of Mephedrone and 10 kilos of Ketamine were seized. The gang has a network of distributors both in India and abroad, a DRI official said. In total, DRI seized 210 kilos of Mephedrone, 10 kilos of Ketamine, 31 kilos of Ephedrine, whose combined worth was around Rs 47 crore and 250 kilos of raw materials worth Rs 50 crore. DRI also arrested the mastermind behind operations at the chemical factory in Hyderabad and two of his associates in Mumbai. The team also seized cash in rupees, US dollars, and Euros worth Rs 45 lakh in total. “The main accused who was arrested by DRI in 2017 for manufacturing of drugs and is currently out on bail, has been illegally manufacturing drugs at a chemical factory and along with his associates, distributing them in India and abroad. Payments for raw materials and drugs have been made through hawala channels,” said a DRI official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/intl-drug-operation-busted-rs-47-cr-worth-contraband-seized/articleshow/77600853.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||‘No funds to revive Chennapuram lake’||Hyderabad: Jawaharnagar mayor Kavya Mekala says there are no funds to revive Chennapuram lake. With only Rs 5 crore revenue from property tax, the municipal corporation has its hands tied. The lake needs at least Rs 1 crore to be revived and protected from encroachment, says Kavya. With the available funds, desiltation work has been underway for the past six months. Chennapuram lake suffers from illegal occupation and hyacinth growth. “The lake, which was about 25 acre, has been reduced to 16 acre. I want to protect the lake with the help of the government,” said Kavya, who assumed office this year. A detailed project report is being readied. The major source of funds for the Jawarharnahar municipal corporation is property tax. Officials say about Rs 5 crore property tax is earned but it is not sufficient after staff salaries, electricity and other development needs of the area are taken care of. “There are nearly two lakh people living here in Jawarharnahar. We don’t have proper drainage and roads facilities, which too are a priority,” the mayor adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-funds-to-revive-chennapuram-lake/articleshow/77600740.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||ACP suspended for misconduct||Hyderabad: Telangana DGP M Mahendar Reddy on Monday suspended Vanasthalipuram ACP S Jayaram for misconduct. According to police sources, an internal inquiry was ordered by the DGP after receiving information about the ACP’s alleged misconduct in relation to a complainant. There were also allegations about intervention of officials in private land issues. “Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat supervised the inquiry and submitted a report to the DGP indicating that that the official had acted in violation of rules while dealing with a woman complainant,” said a senior police official. Based on the report, DGP issued suspension orders on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/acp-suspended-for-misconduct/articleshow/77600866.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bangalore University colleges, students feel 10-day revision window may be too short||BENGALURU: With Bangalore University announcing finalyear exam dates for undergraduate programmes as per UGC guidelines, students and colleges are gearing up for the challenge. However, many feel 10 days of revision classes — from September 1-10 — may not be enough for preparations. Students, particularly in science branches, believe the period is not sufficient to cover the practicals and theory lessons they have missed. BU, which was trifurcated in 2018, will witness its last undivided batch of UG students sitting for the final exams. Around 60,000 freshers and 50,000 repeaters will appear. Practicals will follow theory exams, which will be held from September 12. The UGC directive is to complete exams by September-end. Bengaluru Central University has released dates for postgraduate exams. Colleges admit students are facing problems. “So far, students were taking online classes lightly hoping exams will be cancelled. Now they are worried and asking for classes. The higher education department had promised almost a month of physical classes but it was later reduced to 15 and now 10, which includes a Sunday. This is hardly enough for us to do any justice to students,” said BG Satyaprakash of GT Group of Institutions. Implementation of social distancing is also a worry. “There are 27 students in a practical batch. If you split them into 14 and 13, the number of practical exam sessions will increase and completing portions in 10 days won’t be possible. We will have the same problem for theory classes, where we have batches of 60. This will mean we need more lecturers or time to complete the classes within 10 days,” said a microbiology lecturer of a government college. Many private colleges in the city have started issuing circulars asking final-year students to start returning so that they can complete the quarantine period by the time exams start. “Fifty per cent of our students are from outside the state. They need to be back and complete the isolation period. They need to start planning their return,” said Kavyasree R, principal, Oxford College for Science. Yet another concern is lack of hostel availability as many have been turned into quarantine facilities or Covid Care Centres. “My students have expressed concern over where they would stay as the hostels are being used as quarantine centres,” said a lecturer. Some lecturers fear some students may not turn up for the exams. “It’s not just about the confidence level. It’s also about travel, stay and the risk involved,” said a lecturer from a government college. While teachers believe exams are necessary, they hope UGC had given them some more time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bu-colleges-students-feel-10-day-revision-window-may-be-too-short/articleshow/77599818.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
August 18, 2020||Hubballi||NWKRTC driver donates plasma for a patient in need||HUBBALLI: A driver with the North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), who triumphed against Covid-19, has become something of a local celebrity by volunteering to donate his plasma. Furthermore, he is also encouraging other people who have recovered from the infection to step forward to donate their plasma. Misconceptions about risks associated with the donation of plasma persists among those who have recovered from Covid-19 thereby hampering efforts in treating infected patients. Manju Hangaraki, 38, is a driver at the NWKRTC City-1 depot, said that he had expressed his wish to donate plasma to a blood bank. “In the meanwhile, I learnt that there was a patient in need of ‘A+’ plasma, and I volunteered to donate,” Hangaraki told TOI. Prakash Gokavi, a technician at a blood bank, said, “Hangaraki asked us to record his act of donation, during which he asked other patients who had recovered to donate their plasma. He has emerged as a role model for patients who have been cured of Covid-19.” Hangaraki’s colleague Siddu Hubballi said that the former’s gesture had made all the staff at NWKRTC a proud lot. NWKRTC Hubballi city division controller Vivekanand Vishwadanya said that drivers such as Hangaraki were the pride of the corporation. “Neither did he ask for a leave to go donate plasma nor seek concession of any kind. This gesture he performed when he was at leisure,” Vishwadanya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nwkrtc-driver-donates-plasma-for-a-patient-in-need/articleshow/77599918.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 18, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Congress unit demands DNA test of rape accused BJP MLA||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand Congress unit on Monday demanded a DNA test of Dwarahat BJP MLA Mahesh Negi who has been accused by a woman of rape. Congress state chief Pritam Singh said, “The matter is serious in nature. A woman has accused an MLA of sexual exploitation. The complainant has also delivered a baby girl and claims that the accused is the biological father of the child. The woman wants a DNA test and we see no harm in it. A DNA test is mandatory to bring out the truth.” He added that the accused MLA’s wife has alleged that the complainant was trying to blackmail her husband but “if she was just blackmailing, then why did the wife go to meet this woman without informing the police?” Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana added, “We are not against any individual or political party but if an allegation has been made against an MLA, the lawmaker needs to come out with the truth. In this case, the allegations of the BJP MLA's wife and also those made by the woman must be probed.” The state women’s commission has also written a letter to SSP Almora stating that the accused woman has claimed a threat to her life. The commission, in its letter, asked the SSP to take the required steps to safeguard the complainant and give feedback to the commission by August 29. Earlier on August 14, Rita Negi, the wife of the accused BJP MLA had registered a complaint at Nehru Colony police station of Dehradun against a woman and three of her relatives of blackmailing her MLA husband and demanding Rs 5 crore from him. However, the accused also handed over a complaint to the police station alleging that the BJP legislator raped her and claimed that he is the father of her girl child. The woman went on to post a video on social media in which she claimed that the MLA had been sexually exploiting her for two years. Denying allegations that she was blackmailing the MLA, the woman said that all she wants is the DNA test of the legislator. The woman is married and claims that the DNA sample of her child did not match with her husband. Therefore, she has demanded the DNA test of the MLA. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-demands-dna-test-of-rape-accused-bjp-mla/articleshow/77597678.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 18, 2020||Dehradun||HC gives U’khand govt six weeks to decide over setting up panel to look into Van Gujjar issues||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday directed the state government to come up with suggestions on the constitution of a committee to look into the problems faced by the pastoral nomadic Van Gujjar community within six weeks. The directions from the bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice N S Dhanik came while it was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by an NGO ‘Think Act Rise Foundation (TARF)’ which alleged that the community lacks basic rights and is often forcefully evicted by forest and police personnel. Van Gujjars mainly live in and around the Rajaji Tiger Reserve, which straddles the states of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. In 1983, when the hill state was part of UP, around 1,400 families of the community living in these areas were rehabilitated, but they are still waiting for land rights to be granted, according to the PIL. The plea also said that Van Gujjars who have continued to live in the forests do not possess basic identification documents like Aadhaar card and have no access to facilities such as electricity connections or schools. The local administration and the forest department has often tried to evict families from the forests, it added. Arjun Kasana, secretary of TARF, who appeared in court on behalf of the NGO, told TOI that the court held that the rights of the Van Gujjars must be considered adequately and a permanent solution be found to the problems that the community is facing. Kasana added that the bench has directed the state government to come up with a detailed response within six weeks, including names of those who should be among the members of the committee. “The court said the state government’s response shouldn’t only be limited to the concerns raised in our petition. Instead, the court has asked the state government to look at all aspects,” he said. Notably, in 2018, the high court had ordered removal of all Van Gujjars who had encroached upon forest land. However, the Supreme Court had granted a stay against implementation of the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-gives-ukhand-govt-six-weeks-to-decide-over-setting-up-panel-to-look-into-van-gujjar-issues/articleshow/77597686.cms||Prashant Jha
August 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Govt plans to remove hurdles between Lingaraj Temple & Bindusagar||Bhubaneswar: The government is planning a barrier-free access between the 11the century Lingaraj Temple and Bindusagar lake. “People can watch Chandan Yatra at Bindusagar directly from Lingaraj Temple. Other temples in between like Bindhyabasini, Bhawani Shankar, Sukasari and Mohini will also be visible. Historical records suggest that about 350 years ago, there was nothing between Lingaraj Temple and Bindusagar except some temples. There was no other permanent structure in between,” said a statement from the chief minister’s office. This is part of the Lingaraj Temple Heritage Development Project under Ekamra Plan which chief minister Naveen Patnaik wants completed within a year. The state government has earmarked Rs 150 crore for the project in the 2020-21 financial year. Sources said efforts will be made to create a spiritual and ecological ambience in and around Lingaraj Temple. After the redevelopment, space will be created to accommodate over two lakh people during Maha Shivratri. At present, only 10 to 15,000 people can be accommodated in front of the temple. The new plan will also facilitate pilgrim management during other festivals like Ashokastami Rath Yatra and Kaudia Yatra. The Ekamra plan has a range of proposals to redevelop various existing facilities and create new ones. These include an orientation centre, parking, food plaza, bhajan mandap, renovation of heritage tanks and drainage system and waste management. It is expected the heritage redevelopment will enhance the attraction of Bhubaneswar as a tourist site and claim for a UNESCO Heritage Site will be stronger. EoM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/govt-plans-to-remove-hurdles-between-lingaraj-temple-bindusagar/articleshow/77598962.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Multi-subject classes in government schools from next year||LUCKNOW: On the lines of private schools, UP government has come up with the multiple subject classroom structure for kids enrolled in primary schools across the state. So when schools reopen, teachers will have to teach all subjects on a daily basis unlike earlier when classes were held only for one subject. To make up for the loss due to Covid-induced lockdown, the number of school hours has also been increased. From the session in 2020-21, school will be from 8am to 2pm (earlier it ended at 1pm) till September 30. From October 1, school will begin from 9am and end at 3pm (earlier it was 2pm). Besides, in a first, primary kids and teachers will get 15 days of winter vacation from December 31 to January 14. Earlier, there wasn’t any. Summer vacation for next year is scheduled from May 20 to June 15. Earlier, the school would reopen on July 1. The time table prescribes a minimum of 240 days of teaching in a year. Basic education minister (independent charge) Satish Dwivedi said, “Till now, there was no concept of winter vacation in our schools. Now, we have cut 15 days from summer vacation and adjusted them in winter when conditions are extreme.” According to government orders, each period will be of 40 minutes with the first 15 minutes for prayer and yoga. Teachers have been asked to report 15 minutes early and remain in school for another 30 minutes after it is over. “This is for the safety of children. Teachers should be present to welcome students,” Dwivedi said. To make teaching and learning effective, teachers have been asked to prepare their lessons a day in advance, and revise the topics taught the previous day. Student assessment tests will be conducted every fortnight. In addition, the number of registers to be maintained by schools has been cut short to 14 from 40. This includes school diary, attendance register for teachers and helpers, enrolment register for students and others. Teachers have been asked to apply for leave online. If they are missing from school without approval of senior officials, there will be loss of pay. The time-table, said officials, is a result of a study undertaken by the department in 10 districts in January. One major finding was that teachers were spending only 13 hours in classroom in a week. The framework was developed after discussions with education officers at various levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/multi-subject-classes-in-govt-schools-from-next-yr/articleshow/77601572.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Vijayawada||UPI-based payment system launched at village and ward secretariats in AP||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy launched UPI-based digital payment services in village and ward secretariats from his Tadepalli camp office on Monday. The payment services, taken up in association with National Payment Corporation of India and Canara Bank, would be available in 15,004 village and ward secretariats across the state. Jagan said taking governance to the doorsteps of people is the motto of the government, which has already been providing 545 services with the help of the secretariats. “The country is watching the state for its administrative reforms and the functioning of the secretariats and volunteers. There will be a volunteer for every 50 families. They would be the face of this government and take its services to the doorsteps of people,” the CM said. Panchayat raj and rural development minister Peddireddy Ramchandra Reddy and principal secretary Ajay Jain were present at the launch. Canara Bank MD LV Prabhakar and NCPI CEO Dilip Asbe participated in the programme through video conference. The chief minister also laid the foundation stone for JNTU (Kakinada) engineering college building at Narasaraopet via video link. “The government has been making efforts to revive the education sector in the state. Our priority is to improve infrastructure in public educational institutions not as mere expenditure but as an investment in human development,” Jagan said. Youth, particularly those studying in public schools and colleges, can excel only when there is right infrastructure, the CM said. “An engineering college was set up in Narasaraopet in 2016. The previous government failed to provide permanent buildings and labs till the first batch students reached the final year. Rs 80 crore has now been sanctioned for construction of permanent buildings for the college, which is a dream project for the backward region of Palnadu in Guntur district,” he said. He added that the government will grant another Rs 40 crore for additional facilities in the college in the next financial year. “We will complete all buildings as early as possible and shift the campus to our own premises,” Jagan said, adding that 1,100 posts would be filled up in the universities out of which some would be spared for JNTU college in Narasaraopet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/upi-based-payment-system-launched-at-village-and-ward-secretariats-in-ap/articleshow/77598947.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Flood-like situation improves, but IMD warns of more rain from today||BHUBANESWAR/KORAPUT/KENDRAPADA: The flood-like situation seen in parts of the state on Sunday showed signs of improvement as rain eased on Monday. Chief secretary Asit Tripathi reviewed the situation on Monday and said collectors of 10 districts had been asked to submit rain damage report. “Except Malkangiri, the situation in other districts is normal now,” he said. Revenue minister Sudam Marandi said the government would assess the damage in the districts and provide assistance once the collectors submitted their reports. Communication between Malkangiri district and the state capital was restored on Monday after water receded from the NH-326 near Pangam. However, several other roads and low-lying bridges remain inundated. Malkangiri town’s communication with Kalimela and Motu along the NH-326 remains affected with water flowing over bridges at Kangurukonda and Kanyashram respectively. “The situation is improving. The water is taking time to recede to the Godavari, so parts of Motu tehsil remain inundated,” said collector (Malkangiri) Manish Agarwal. Agarwal said some people who had gotten stranded on the NH-326 were rescued and given food on Monday. “Fire services personnel are clearing the highway. If required, people staying in low-lying areas will be evacuated,” he said. A number of places in Jagatsinghpur, Kendrapada and Jajpur districts are also waterlogged. Waterlogging was reported from Paradip, Kendrapada town and Jajpur town. “The Chandikhola and Balichandrapur markets in Jajpur district have turned into pools. Pedestrians braved knee-deep water on the roads,” said Pradip Prusti of Balichandrapur. Water filled hundreds of houses and government offices in Chadikhola. Scores of vehicles were seen submerged in front of the road transport office there. Many thatched houses have collapsed in Patarajpur, Sunguda, Palei, Achutabasant, and Anaka GPs in Barachana block in Jajpur. In Paradip, slum dwellers were the worst affected. “We found our huts under water and had to take shelter in a nearby building,” said Bijaya Mandal of Sandhakuda slum in Paradip. Locals of Musadiha, Dalesahi, Balisahi, Lokanathapada and Joribala areas near the port also struggled with waterlogging. In Kendrapada town, the area in front of the tehsil office was under water. Locals of Kansara, Bagada, Kalapada, Angulei and other villages under Kendrapada block have been forced to live under virtual house arrest as the roads have turned into slush. Debaprasad Bal, executive officer of Kendrapara municipality, said “We are clearing drains to ensure there is no waterlogging. Pumping of rainwater from residential areas is on.” Meanwhile, the IMD has predicted more rain for the state from Tuesday because of a fresh low pressure over the Bay of Bengal on Wednesday. Director of the IMD’s regional centre in Bhubaneswar, H R Biswas, said most places in north Odisha would get rainfall for 2-3 days from Tuesday. The IMD has forecast light to moderate rain or thunder showers in many places over north Odisha and some places over south Odisha on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/flood-like-situation-improves-but-imd-warns-of-more-rain-from-today/articleshow/77598975.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Vijayawada||VMRDA to construct guesthouse for govt||Visakhapatnam: Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) has been tasked with the construction of a state guesthouse in Visakhapatnam. Earlier, the state government had constituted a committee under the chairmanship of the district collector that identified a suitable site near the Greyhounds Hill in Kapuluppada, located some 30 kilometres from the airport off the Beach Road. The proposed campus is approximately 30 acres. The VMRDA has already released a ‘request for proposal’ (RfP), inviting bids from the firms to provide architectural services and project management consultancy services, for the guesthouse project. During the earlier reviews of protocol expenditure, it was observed that a large expenditure is incurred towards accommodation and hospitality facilities for the want of government guesthouses suitable for VVIPs, VIPs and other guests. Even though the government has plans to develop new and additional guesthouses in a phased manner in several cities and districts across the state, the proposed guesthouse project in Visakhapatnam has gained significance amid the government’s plans to set up executive capital. Meanwhile, speculations are rife over establishing the major government offices, including the chief minister’s office, around the Greyhounds Hill area in Kapuluppada. VMRDA metropolitan commissioner P Koteswara Rao said the selected bidder will prepare the master plan and architectural and engineering designs. “They will also provide consultancy services throughout the trajectory of the project till the date of completion,” said Koteswara Rao. He said the firm will prepare budget estimates and other strategies for the project implementation. The first task of the consultant will be to prepare a master plan for the given site. Thereafter, they have to work on detailed architectural and engineering design for all components identified in the final master plan of site. These shall be followed by detailed interior designs and project management consultancy services. The master plan will cover all the components such as proposed building blocks, zoning, parking proposals, landscape designs, models and 3D visualisation, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vmrda-to-construct-guesthouse-for-govt/articleshow/77598974.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 18, 2020||Goa||Two flights from Gulf bring back stranded Indians||PANAJI: Stranded Goans continued to return to Goa with two flights landing at Goa International Airport on Monday from the Gulf region. The flights from Muscat and Dubai brought back 103 passengers and 23 passengers respectively, with all protocols being followed, said Goa Airport Director Gagan Malik. Malik said that the flight from Muscat was the 10th Vande Bharat Mission flight. “The flight landed at Goa today (Monday) early morning, bringing in 102 adults and one infant, stranded Indians, this time from Muscut. All assistance and required protocols were duly followed,” Malik added. An earlier flight from Dubai had just 23 passengers, who were repatriated through the efforts of various agencies. “Expeditious movement while adhering to all health protocols was ensured by all agencies,” said Malik. On an average at least two repatriation flights land at Goa International Airport, bring back stranded Indians. Prior to these two flights, one had landed on August 10. The flight, the 31st direct repatriation flight to Goa, brought home 168 adults and two children who were stranded in Dubai. Meanwhile relief flights for foreigners continue to depart from the Indian Navy controlled airbase. AAI has put in place a contactless process for departing passengers and arriving passengers. Around 85 relief and repatriation flights have been handled by Goa Airport aside from the daily scheduled domestic flights. Meanwhile, AAI has also shifted the Customer Use Self Service (CUSS) kiosks to the departure concourse where there is enough space for passengers to maintain social distance. Passengers can print their boarding card without going to the check-in area and can now directly proceed for security checks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-flights-from-gulf-bring-back-stranded-indians/articleshow/77601597.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Dehradun||Activist’s wife accuses him of hiring man to kill her||Dehradun: The wife of Trilok Chandra Soni, locally hailed as ‘Vriksha Mitra’ (Friend of Trees), has accused him of hiring a man named Vijay Darshan for thrashing her and later killing her. Taking cognisance of the startling accusations, Jharna Kamthan, secretary of state commission for protection of child rights, has asked the Uttarakhand police to initiate a probe into the matter at the earliest. The complainant, Shakuntala Raj is a government teacher at a Hathibarkala-based all girls school. In her complaint, she has alleged that she was kidnapped by a man on the directions of her husband Soni. She added that the accused also attacked her with a sickle while in an inebriated state on July 29. Shakuntala has sought safety for herself, her parents, siblings and her children from the commission while adding that she has the call record details of her husband which proved that he was the mastermind of the entire episode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/activists-wife-accuses-him-of-hiring-man-to-kill-her/articleshow/77597702.cms||Shivani Azad
August 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Vizag’s new police chief assumes office||Visakhapatnam: Manish Kumar Sinha took charge as the city’s new police commissioner from the outgoing ADG- rank officer RK Meena on Monday. The IG-rank officer said he would continue to focus of the areas prioritised by Meena. DCPs Iswarya Rastogi, Suresh Babu and ADCPs Anand Reddy and others welcomed the new police chief. Speaking to media persons, the 2000 batch IPS officer said he would study the conditions and requirements of the public before taking any action, adding that land grabbing and encroachments issues would be addressed immediately. Sinha assured that he and his staff would be ready to support the public round- the-clock. “We will ensure to enhance trust in police services and build confidence in public,” he said. Sinha said he would be at the service of the public and maintain law and order in the Port City. He said Visakhapatnam is a peaceful city and police would always be available for the safety of the people. He indirectly warned land grabbers stating that police would take stern action against any anti-social element, including land grabbers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vizags-new-police-chief-assumes-office/articleshow/77598963.cms||Siva G
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Education department hears St Xavier’s, parents in complaint over fee||NAGPUR: After failing to get any response from St Xavier’s School, Hingna, on their demand to reduce fees in view of Covid-19 pandemic, several aggrieved parents lodged a complaint with the state education department’s Complaints Redressal Committee. The panel led by senior official Satish Mendhe heard both sides at length on Monday and also accepted their written submissions, and then reserved its verdict. “It will take some time to deliver judgement, as we’ve heard five cases today related to different issues,” Mendhe told TOI. Principal Shashi Bala told TOI she would like to wait for the education department verdict before commenting on the dispute. TOI had reported on the parents’ protest in front of the school after the management rejected their demand to reduce fees by 50% in view of the crisis faced by all citizens due to pandemic and lockdown.The parents had requested not charging fees for activities like sports, computers, library, laboratories and building maintenance. The request was rejected without hearing their grievances. During Monday’s hearing, parents were represented by Santosh Kosarkar and Prafulla Mete while the principal made submissions on behalf of the school. “We first approached the management on June 8, and they assured to look into it, but did nothing. When we approached them again last month, they refused to talk. We went one more time, but instead of hearing us out, they prohibited us from entering school premises and called the police. We were forced to lodge the complaint, as the school disconnected the online education link for those who failed to pay fees from August 5,” Kosarkar told TOI. He said some parents were really in dire straits after losing jobs or facing massive deduction in salaries. “All these years, the school earned massive profit from our salaries, but we never objected. Their transactions are never audited. We’re ready to pay the fees, but only for tuition charges and not for activities like sports, which are totally stopped.” Parents charged the school with inculcating the habit of online classes among students and then disconnecting it for want of fees. “Due to them, we’ve an extra burden of buying new mobiles or laptops and also taking new broadband connections. Parents who lost jobs or are getting reduced salaries, from where will they bring all these gadgets? It’s a complete fraud on the part of the school,” they alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/edu-dept-hears-st-xaviers-parents-in-complaint-over-fee/articleshow/77600382.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 18, 2020||India||Karnataka to move HC for recovery of damage cost from rioters||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government will move the high court for permission to appoint a claims commissioner to assess and recover the cost of public and private property damaged during the August 11 rioting in east Bengaluru. The decision was taken on Monday at a meeting convened by chief minister BS Yediyurappa with home minister Basavaraj Bommai, advocate general Prabhuling Navadagi and senior police officers. "In accordance with a Supreme Court order, the appointment of a claims commissioner by the high court is necessary for the purpose of assessing the damage caused and recovery of the cost from the culprits," Bommai said. The meeting also decided to constitute a three-member team of special prosecutors to enable effective and speedy trial of cases pertaining to the riots, Bommai said. He said the police would invoke the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act wherever possible, besides the Goonda Act. Congress legislator Akhanda Srinivasamurthy, whose house was torched by the rioters, hasn't named anyone in his complaint. "But we have enough evidence to conduct an inquiry into the incident of arson," Bommai said, appealing to the MLA to cooperate with the police. Srinivasamurthy met the CM on Monday and sought a CBI probe into the rioting and protection for himself. "The government has provided security for my house, but not to me," he said later. He also requested the government to provide compensation to neighbours whose vehicles were set ablaze by the rioters. Srinivasamurthy was accompanied by BJP MLA and former minister Aravind Limbavali, triggering speculation that he might join the saffron party. He ruled out leaving Congress. "My father was in Congress, and I will also remain in Congress forever. Congress is in my blood." Rejecting the demand for a CBI or NIA investigation, home minister Bommai said, "The state government has already ordered a magisterial inquiry. Besides, police are investigating the case." On the possibility of banning SDPI and PFI for their alleged role in the rioting, the minister said his department was collecting information on the involvement of the two organisations in prior incidents of violence. "The matter will be placed before the cabinet which will take a final call."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-to-move-hc-for-recovery-of-damage-cost-from-rioters/articleshow/77602955.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Goa||Bio-luminescent mushrooms make monsoon appearance in Goa’s forests||KERI: Very few are aware that in the forests of the Western Ghats in Goa there are bioluminescent mushrooms. While walking in the dense forests of the Mhadei Wildlife Sanctuary, the Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary or the Mollem National Park at night, the mushroom can be spotted by the faint bluish green or violet light they emit from their mycelium and fruiting bodies. Gajanan Shetye, a wildlifer from Keri-Sattari, said, “Species of bio-luminescent mushrooms called mycena genus fungi produce a faint glow, like the glow worm.” Scientists working on these mushrooms found that they glow in the dark to attract spore-spreading bugs so that it can reproduce and colonise new food sources. “Bio-luminescence has thus far been reported in approximately 50 species of fungi, what we find in Goa are mycena species, they particularly grow in the rainy season. Luminescence occurs at 21C to 27C, hence it is mostly found in tropical climates. In Goa, Mhadei and Mahavir wildlife sanctuaries have a good distribution of this species,” Aasavari Kulkarni, a researcher from Honda, told TOI. Sanskruti Naik from Mencurem, Bicholim taluka, who visited Sacorda recently saw the mushrooms. “I was very fascinated as I was unaware about mushrooms that glow in the dark. I saw the bases of wild trees and a rotten stump emitting a faint blue-green light. It was mesmerising.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bio-luminescent-mushrooms-make-monsoon-appearance-in-goas-forests/articleshow/77601591.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Road repairs to be taken up soon||Hyderabad: The roads and buildings department will soon take up repairs of all the roads, causeways, culverts and bridges damaged due to heavy rains in the state for the last four days. At a meeting on Monday, Roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashant Reddy directed officials to identify, on a war-footing, the extent of damages caused to the roads and bridges due to incessant heavy rains and submit a report to him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/road-repairs-to-be-taken-up-soon/articleshow/77600369.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Vij police object to actor Ram’s tweets on Swarna Palace fire||Vijayawada: City police have objected to Tollywood actor Ram Pothineni’s tweets on the Swarna Palace Hotel fire. ACP A Surya Chandra Rao, who is heading the investigation, has said that the actor doesn’t have enough knowledge on the issue. P Ramesh Babu, who was named as the main accused in the case, is the actor’s uncle. “He (Ram) is saying that it was a quarantine centre run by the government that the hospital took over. Quarantine is different from Covid Care Centre (CCC). If he knows something and has evidence we will question him and consider any valid documents,” Surya Chandra Rao stated. Police sources said they would issue a notice under 160 CrPC to the actor to interrogate him if they find him holding information about Ramesh’s whereabouts. “Action would be taken against anyone who interferes with the investigation,” he said. In a series of tweets, the actor alleged a ‘huge conspiracy’ in the investigation into the Swarna Palace fire. He said the hotel was initially listed as a quarantine centre by the government, and later converted into a CCC by Ramesh Hospitals. “Had this fire accident taken place three weeks earlier when it was run by the government, who would they blame,” his tweet reads. He also tried to clarify on behalf of Ramesh on the fee controversy stating, “the billing was done directly by Swarna Palace Hotel as they were responsible for the management. Doctors are not responsible for the fire safety.” Meanwhile, Ramesh Babu is still on the run and around eight police teams are on the lookout for him across Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vij-police-object-to-actor-rams-tweets-on-swarna-palace-fire/articleshow/77599004.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Trichy||Two minor girls sexually abused in separate incidents||TRICHY: A 14-year-old girl was raped by three youngsters, including an 18-year-old boy in Thiruvanaikovail area in Trichy city on Sunday. In another incident, a 55-year-old man sexually assaulted a seven-year-old girl in Ponneripuram. In her complaint to the all women police station, Srirangam, the 14-year-old said that three neighbours trespassed into her house when she was alone on August 14 and raped her. Police registered a case against the three under Sections 5 (g) (gang penetrative sexual assault) and 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (Pocso) Act, 450 (house trespass) and 376 (rape) of IPC. Acting on the complaint, police launched an investigation and identified the culprits as A Varatharajan, 21 and T Thiruppathi, 21 and the 18-year-old boy from Thiruvanaikovil. Police arrested the three and produced them before a court on Monday. They were remanded in judicial custody. The girl was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy for medical examination. In the other incident, the AWPS, Golden Rock, booked N Ekkim alias Suber Ali, 55, of Ponmalaipatti on charges of touching the private parts of the girl with sexual intent. According to a complaint from the girl’s mother, their relative was running a restaurant at Ponneripuram. The accused was working in the restaurant and was staying in one portion of their house. The girl had gone to the bathroom around 11am on Sunday when Ali sexually assaulted her by touching her private parts. The girl escaped from him and informed her mother. Acting on a complaint, police booked him under the sections 7 and 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The accused was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-minor-girls-sexually-abused-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/77600393.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Positivity rate on a decline in Ganjam, health experts hopeful of good tidings soon||Berhampur: The Ganjam district on Monday saw 243 new Covid cases, bringing the total number of cases there to 15,010. One more person died, taking the death toll of the disease to 155. The positivity rate in the district has declined from 14.89 per cent on August 1 to 3.5 per cent on August 12, going up slightly to 3.6 per cent on August 16, sources said. The recovery rate, which stood at 79.12 per cent on August 8, has increased to 83.82 per cent on August 15. The decline in the positivity rate has taken place at a time the testing rate has gone up. The daily samples tested by the district has stayed between 6,000 and 8,000 over the past few days. “Strict enforcement of social distancing, mandatory wearing of masks and cooperation of the people are some of the reasons behind the decline in the positivity rate in the district,” said collector Vijay Amruta Kulange. “Creating awareness and increasing levels of precaution among the people have helped us bring down the positivity rate of Covid-19. Now we are focusing on increasing tests by conducting camps in different places. We appeal to the people to come forward for the Covid test,” said the collector. Health experts believe the district has turned the corner. “If this trend continues, I hope the district will be free of Covid-19 very soon,” said a private practitioner. “The declining positivity rate is a good sign but the district administration needs to test more and more people to make the district Covid-free,” added Radha Madhab Tripathy, former principal of MKCG Medical College. Tripathy said there were still many hidden cases in the district. “Many of these patients will not go for voluntary testing because of the stigma attached to Covid. We need to counsel people to remove the fear associated with the disease,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/positivity-rate-on-a-decline-in-ganjam-health-experts-hopeful-of-good-tidings-soon/articleshow/77598991.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Dehradun||Landslide at Kempty market near Mussoorie disrupts traffic movement||Mussoorie: A landslide at Kempty market, near the Kempty Falls (about 17 km from Mussoorie), disrupted traffic movements on the Mussoorie-Yamunotri highway (NH-707A) on Monday morning. The landslide damaged several shops in the market while obstructing traffic movement for more than an hour. Later, the road was cleared of debris by the Public Works Department (PWD). “Large boulders fell down on our shops causing a lot of damage while also blocking the highway,” said a shopkeeper from Kempty market. Notably, Kempty market has been witnessing frequent landslides for over a month now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landslide-at-kempty-market-near-mussoorie-disrupts-traffic-movement/articleshow/77597735.cms||Anmol Jain
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||German firm keen to invest in defence corridor||LUCKNOW: Under its ‘Invest UP’ initiative, the state government on Monday held an interaction with German defence manufacturing company Rheinmetall which has expressed interest in investing in upcoming defence corridor in UP. The company specialises in manufacturing of automotive parts, military vehicles, autocannons, anti-aircraft defence systems, artillery, mortars, tank guns, munitions, ammunition, fuze systems (part of a device that initiates function) and electronics. The government will provide potential investment locations to the company through Google Map, details of land banks, infrastructure around each plot and the policy incentives available that will be offered to them. In the virtual meeting, led by MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh, discussions were held on the investment potential in UP. The German company was represented by CEO of Rheinmetall Electronics Division Susanne Wiegand and CEO of Rheinmetall Air Defence Fabian Ochsner. Singh informed the potential investors that besides manpower, UP provides abundant infrastructure in the form of expressways, highways and airports. “UP’s policies across different sectors offer major incentives to investors, making the state a highly sought after investment hub,” Singh said and offered other defence opportunities in the state like setting up of a centre of excellence, incubation centres and defence manufacturing units as part of the Centre’s ‘Make in India’ initiative. “The state government will provide full support to any potential investor to ensure they are able to conduct business in a smooth manner,” he said. Additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal elaborated the state government’s policies to attract investment. “Other than basic infrastructure, presence of numerous ordnance factories along with large MSME base in the state will act as ancillary units for big defence units,” he said. He also spoke about defence corridor and its investment potential. “There are six nodes along this corridor with a proposed area of 5071.9 hectares. Major progress has already been made in land acquisition across all nodes. The industry will be supported through strong defence ecosystem with five ordnance factories and three units of Hindustal Aeronautics Ltd (HAL),” he said. Infrastructure and Industrial Development Commissioner (IIDC) Alok Tandon informed the Rheinmetall representatives about UPEIDA and its role in land allotment and other facilitation services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/german-firm-keen-to-invest-in-def-corridor/articleshow/77601596.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Trichy||Efforts on to bring down positivity rate: Health secretary||TRICHY: State health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan has appreciated the Trichy district administration for bringing down the positivity rate in the district to 5.9 while the state rate stands at 8.5. He attributed the success to fever camps. Convening a review meeting with collector S Sivarasu and other officials at the collectorate here on Monday, Radhakrishnan exuded confidence of bringing down the positivity rate in districts with high positivity rate. The health secretary said that Cuddalore, Ariyalur, Krishnagiri, Nagappattina, Ranipet, Thiruvannamalai, Chengalpattu, Tiruvarur, Tenkasi, Theni and Karur districts would be given special focus to reduce the positivity rate which stands at 10. “We have advised the districts and discussed the strategies like aggressive testing, high risk category contact tracing and isolation in those districts. The districts having low positivity rate have been asked to continue with their strategy,” Radhakrishnan said. He also inspected the Covid care centre (CCC) at Bharathidasan University in Khajamalai in Trichy. He said that Tamil Nadu was the only state in the country testing all the 38 lakhs samples so far through real time-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). “Tamil Nadu has 1.29 lakhs beds in both government and private hospitals. Though several private hospitals which have reserved 10,242 beds provide Covid-19 treatment, people are choosing only a few private hospitals giving an impression of beds shortage,” he said appealing to the people to make use of government hospitals equipped with all the facilities. Radhakrishnan also listed out that the government hospitals in Tamil Nadu have 3,500 ventilators. In Trichy, 136 ventilators are available with government hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/efforts-on-to-bring-down-positivity-rate-health-secy/articleshow/77600408.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Goa||Air travellers served ‘kadha’ on arrival||VASCO: In a new initiative for passengers arriving at Goa International Airport, the Airport Authority of India (AAI) have formally started medicated tea (kadha ) service on a complimentary basis. The medicated concoction may help boost passenger's immunity, said panchayat minister and Dabolim MLA Mauvin Godinho as he inaugurated the service on Monday. The ingredients of the kadha include ginger, crushed black pepper, green cardamom, cloves, cinnamon seeds, tea leaves, bay leaves, mint leaves, honey and lime. Goa Airport director Gagan Malik said, “The kadha service was initiated for our staff in association with CISF on a no profit- no loss basis which received a good response. Later, we decided to even give it to our arriving passengers sending a message that AAI cares for its passengers.” Godinho while inaugurating the stall said, “Ayurveda has a deep root in India, but we Indians do not respect anything unless we see other countries doing it. Kadha gives an immunity boost, which helps in fighting Covid-19.” He appreciated airport authorities and AAI for their work from the time the pandemic broke out in reaching and getting at least 20,000 people home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/air-travellers-served-kadha-on-arrival/articleshow/77601615.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Highest death spike of 51 takes Punjab toll to 862, 1,492 test +ve||Chandigarh: Punjab continued to reel under the Covid-19 pandemic as it yet again registered a record number of new cases and deaths in a day on Monday, with 51 people dying of the virus and 1,492 people being found infected with it. The state’s casualty count rose to 862 and the number of confirmed cases to 32,695. When this report was filed, 38 people were on ventilator support and 345 on oxygen support. The virus claimed the lives of 14 people in Ludhiana and six in Patiala, five in Jalandhar, three each in Tarn Taran, Ferozepur, Fatehgarh Sahib and Bathinda, two each in Sangrur and Amritsar, and one each in Pathankot, Moga, Mohali, Kapurthala, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Faridkot and Barnala. Jalandhar got the highest number of new cases, 298. It was followed by 220 cases in Ludhiana, 153 each in Ferozepur and Bathinda, 130 in Patiala, 91 in Moga, 65 in Mohali, 62 in Barnala , 55 in Ropar, 50 in Amritsar, 38 in Muktsar, 36 in Gurdaspur, 32 in Faridkot, 25 in Sangrur, 21 in Fazilka, 19 in Nawanshahr, 16 in Kapurthala, 12 in Fatehgarh Sahib, eight in Pathankot, six in Mansa, and one each in Tarn Taran and Hoshiarpur. In all, 749 people were discharged, taking total recoveries to 20,180. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/highest-death-spike-of-51-takes-punjab-toll-to-862-1492-test-ve/articleshow/77600403.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Amritsar||Covid patient ends life by jumping off hospital building in Amritsar||AMRITSAR: A 46-year-old coronavirus patient allegedly committed suicide by jumping off the second floor of the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital (GNDH) here on Monday morning. The man, identified as Swaran Singh of Saidhpur village near Bhikhiwind in Tarn Taran district, was a drug addict and admitted to Covid-19 isolation ward after he tested positive on August 15. GNDH medical superintendent Dr Raman Sharma said Swaran went to the bathroom around 7.50 am and jumped from the balcony after breaking a window pane. He was rushed to the emergency ward for treatment but he died after some time due to a serious head injury. Swaran was an opium and alcohol addict, he said. “I examined him on Sunday night and prescribed some treatment. He didn’t have any depression, suicidal tendency or any such symptoms,” he said. Amritsar additional deputy commissioner Himanshu Aggarwal, who is also the nodal officer for Covid centre, said the deceased was even provided psychiatric counseling after he complained of sleeplessness. Following the incident the hospital administration is mulling installing iron grills on the window panes to prevent such incidents in the future. Aggarwal said, “We have asked the hospital management to assess the idea of closure or covering the windows, balconies, ventilators of the wards with grills while ensuring proper circulation of air.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/covid-patient-ends-life-by-jumping-off-hosp-building/articleshow/77600432.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Goa||Protest against double-tracking||VASCO: Goencho Ekvott, an organisation recently formed to protest against the South Western Railway’s (SWR) double tracking project in Goa, held an awareness campaign and a protest on Independence Day. “It saw spontaneous protests in all villages through which the double tracking of SWR has been planned,” Orville Rodrigues, founder of Goencho Ekvott, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/protest-against-double-tracking/articleshow/77601605.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||VIP facility for Azam Khan in jail: Activist||LUCKNOW: An inquiry headed by deputy inspector general, prison headquarters, was conducted into allegations that Rampur MP Azam Khan and his family lodged in Sitapur jail were getting VIP treatment. The complaint was made by a social activist to the Uttar Pradesh government. The Samajwadi Party MP from Rampur, who surrendered in Rampur court, was sent to jail in a case of forgery. Khan was shifted to Sitapur jail along with his wife and son on February 27. Taking cognisance of the letter, the government asked DG prisons to begin an investigation. The inquiry was handed over to DIG, prison headquarters, Sanjeev Tripathi. In his report, Tripathi has said the allegations are baseless. He has also asked the complainant to appear in person on August 20 to UP prison headquarters and record his statement. Tripathi said he would talk about the case after this exercise was complete. The letter alleged that the Khan family was being provided with lavish food, phone call facility, and meetings with “criminals”. Along with the Rampur MP, cops had also arrested Alle Hasan, chief security officer of Jauhar University. Police had registered 53 cases against Hasan .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vip-facility-for-azam-in-jail-activist/articleshow/77601613.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Trichy||Toll plazas in Trichy witness rush||TRICHY: On the first day after the Tamil Nadu government relaxed the restrictions for inter-district travel without e-pass, vehicular movement on National Highways (NH) saw a significant increase. The number of vehicles towards Chennai from central and southern districts was reported to have increased. People were permitted inter-district travel from Monday by applying for e-pass by providing personal identification cards. On the day one, vehicular movement on NHs, particularly on Trichy-Chennai, Madurai-Trichy and Trichy-Thanjavur highways saw a significant surge. “The number of vehicles heading to Chennai was more. All the 12 lanes of our toll plaza are functioning. Vehicles from southern districts are heading to Chennai too,” a source in Samayapuram toll plaza said. NHAI sources said that more cars were hitting the roads than commercial vehicles compared to the past week. According to Valavanthankottai toll plaza sources on the Trichy-Thanjavur NH, movement of vehicles towards Trichy from the delta districts has increased. “Perhaps the passenger vehicles are heading to Chennai via Trichy. Our workers are pursuing the Covid-19 precautionary measures as the traffic is gradually increasing,” an NHAI source told TOI. Ponnambalapatti toll plaza sources on Trichy-Dindigul NH said that the vehicular movement has been improving gradually, traffic towards Dindigul was found to have increased. Private cab operators said that they are upbeat over the e-pass relaxation in the absence of public transportation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/toll-plazas-in-trichy-witness-rush/articleshow/77600433.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 18, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand hoteliers demand rapid antigen tests for visitors to boost tourist arrivals||Mussoorie: Facing economic losses due to a significant dip in tourist footfall, Uttarakhand hoteliers have demanded the state government to initiate rapid antigen tests for inbound tourists while also allowing entry of tourists with negative rapid antigen test reports to boost tourist arrivals in the state. Sandeep Sahni, president of the Uttarakhand Hotel Association, told TOI that tourists complain of difficulties in getting their RT-PCR tests done as a doctor prescription is required for the same. “In such a scenario, tourists carrying negative antigen test reports must be allowed to enter the state and stay in hotels. This would boost tourism and provide relief to the tourism industry that is reeling under the impact of Covid-19,” said Sahni. In a similar vein, Sanjay Aggarwal, secretary of Mussoorie Hotels Association, said, “The state government must initiate rapid antigen tests at the state borders for tourists and those testing negative must be allowed to stay in hotels.” Hoteliers pointed out that other states have either initiated rapid antigen tests or were allowing tourists freely and that Uttarakhand must follow suit in order to support its tourism industry. “Goa and Gujarat have already started rapid antigen tests for people coming from outside. Our state must follow suit,” said Praveen Sharma, board member of North India Hotel and Restaurant Association and a hotelier from Kumaon. SP Kochhar, owner of Hotel Madhuban in Dehradun, said, “The tourism industry has suffered badly in the past five months. Any step which can help in giving a boost to the industry is welcome. We understand that safety measures are crucial and thus, we suggest that rapid antigen tests can be made mandatory. We are also following the basic safety precautions like recording body temperature and sanitisation of luggage whenever a guest comes to the hotel.” Hoteliers say that less than 10% of the hotels in the state have reopened so far as the tourist turnout remains abysmal. And though the hotels were allowed to operate in June itself, it was mandated for tourists from outside the state to undergo compulsory quarantine period or produce Covid-19 negative reports. Hotel owners feel that these restrictions are limiting tourist numbers in the state. (With inputs from Abhijeet Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hoteliers-demand-rapid-antigen-tests-for-visitors-to-boost-tourist-arrivals/articleshow/77596694.cms||Anmol Jain
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Govt transfers health secy, 4 IAS officers||Chandigarh: Amid alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, Punjab government on Monday transferred health secretary Anurag Agarwal along with four other senior IAS officers. An government spokesperson said Agarwal has been transferred and posted as additional chief secretary power and has also been given the addition charge of additional chief secretary new and renewable energy sources and chairman-cum-managing director, Punjab State Transmission Corporation Ltd. Hussan Lal has been posted as principal secretary, health. K A P Sinha, principal secretary finance, has been given the additional charge of principal secretary, food, civil supplies and consumer affairs. Jaspal Singh, principal secretary planning, in addition animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries, has been given the additional charge of principal secretary elections. K Siva Prasad, principal secretary, transport, has been given the additional charge of principal secretary, sports and youth services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-transfers-health-secy-4-ias-officers/articleshow/77600445.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Goa||Pre-primary schooling proving a challenge for parents||PANAJI: Some states have banned online live teaching sessions for primary schoolchildren. In Goa too, the directorate of education (DoE) is laying more stress on passing on worksheets to primary school students, using which they can continue their learning at home during the pandemic. But the functioning of pre-primary schools in Goa is yet to be fully brought under the DoE’s ambit. In this scenario, most pre-primary schools in the state are conducting online teaching. For standalone pre-primary schools, it is a matter of survival to keep themselves relevant till the time schools reopen. Parents do not deny that they prefer that the learning is kept going. But, they also admit that it is a challenge for them to assist learning in children in the three to six age group. Most pre-primary schools are conducting at least an hour of live teaching, to be followed up by parents with several pages of homework. “From 9.30am to 10.30am, there is a live teaching class. After this, we are expected to take the child through pre-recorded videos up to 12.30pm. Firstly, teaching is a skill, not everyone possesses it, and further it is even more difficult for parents to complete these tasks with children who are aged 6 or younger. And we are given homework to be done on subjects like phonetics, which some parents may not be well-versed with themselves,” said a parent based in North Goa. As DoE is yet to take stock of operations in pre-primary schools, in many cases, parents said the fees have either not been reduced or have been brought down by a meagre sum, though parents are burdened with completing most of the teaching tasks. Many pre-primary schools also continue to advertise online seeking students for the academic year 2020-21. One such poster by a pre-primary school in South Goa even encourages parents to enrol students in the playgroup, which includes children aged three or lower, promising ‘online classes till schools reopen’. “Some learning is better than no learning. But I see that the objective by the school is to finish the portion and children who are learning to read and write cannot catch up with the speed. The approach should be to see that the child learns,” said a parent of a kindergarten student. Subjects prescribed for pre-primary include English, mathematics, general knowledge, poetry, dance and craft. “In many cases, parents have to go to work and it is left to the grandparents at home to sit through the class with the child. These grandparents may not be conversant with technology. This is one challenge of online teaching for children of kindergarten. Secondly, these kids are too young. Technology has some limitations and even online classes become one-way conversation. If you unmute, then there is disturbance in the class,” said Panaji-resident Dr Siddesh Pai, parent of twin girls, who are enrolled in a kindergarten.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pre-primary-schooling-proving-a-challenge-for-parents/articleshow/77601611.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Farmer kills self at DC office, BKU blames minister||MANSA: A farmer allegedly committed suicide by consuming a poisonous substance at the Mansa deputy commissioner’s office on Monday. In a suicide note he left behind, he accused the Punjab revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar of visiting his village on August 15, when he was not feeling well and had tested Covid-19 positive, said a farm body. Balbir Singh (55) of Kotda Kalan village in Mansa, in the handwritten suicide note, demanded strict action against Kangar and Mansa DC for accompanying the minister. Balbir, who was village president of newly formed farmer organisation Bharti Kisan Union Mansa, had reached the deputy commissioner office complex on Monday to lodge his protest where he is learnt to have consumed a poisonous substance. The people at the office informed the police, which took him to the civil hospital from where he was referred to Guru Gobind Singh Medical College, Faridkot, where he was declared brought dead. Gurpreet Kangar, after presiding over an Independence Day function at Mansa, visited village Kotda Kalan to inaugurate government smart school. He was accompanied by MLA Nazar Singh Manshahia, DC, SSP and many others. Bharti Kisan Union Mansa president Bogh Singh claimed that the district administration had ensured assembly of a large number of persons, including some students, against the guidelines, putting life of many in danger. “Many persons were not wearing masks. When the government is making big announcements for people not to come out, why did the minister come when he was not feeling well and not even was wearing mask? We demand Rs 10-lakh compensation, a job to a member of the family and waiver of loans against the family. We will not allow the post-mortem till our demands are met,” he said. Balbir is survived by wife, a son, daughter in law and two grand-daughters. The family owned 3 acres of land. His son, Amandeep Singh, said they wanted justice for the death of his father. Mansa deputy commissioner Mohinder Pal, who is in quarantine, said, “The minister knew about his medical condition. It is here that he got tested and report was received late on August 15. If we had known that the minister is positive, there was no point in attending any function”. Mansa senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surendra Lamba said, “We have seen the suicide note. It will be looked into by speaking to the family members of the farmer about his health condition to know if he was stressed. Police are looking into the issue. Anything could be said only after the statement of the family is recorded,” he said. Minister Kangar, who is in isolation, was not available for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmer-kills-self-at-dc-office-bku-blames-min/articleshow/77600441.cms||Neel Kamal
August 18, 2020||Trichy||After Madurai, Trichy AIADMK pitches for second capital||TRICHY: A day after Madurai AIADMK camp passed a resolution seeking Madurai as the second capital of Tamil Nadu, a similar demand was put forward by their counterparts here to name Trichy as the second capital. Citing that AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran’s aspired to shift the state’s capital to Trichy, senior functionaries and former ministers from the central region have decided to formally approach the party high command with the demand. Revenue minister R B Udhayakumar had proposed Madurai to be declared as the second capital stating Chennai is becoming congested. Even as AIADMK founder MGR had initiated efforts to crown Trichy as the second capital since the 1980s and developed a satellite township at Anna Nagar on Trichy-Pudukkottai NH, the swing in choice of location has disappointed AIADMK cadres. “Our leader MGR’s dream project was to make Trichy as the second capital and we cannot accept any changes in that proposal. We are unhappy over the change in demand,” a former AIADMK councillor said. The demand placed by Madurai AIADMK unit has caused an uproar on social media platforms too. #TrichySecondCapital trended for a while on Twitter with people recalling MGR’s attempts and availability of land and water resources in Trichy compared to Madurai. Trichy-based former AIADMK agriculture minister Ku Pa Krishnan, welcoming the second capital demand, said that Trichy is a more appropriate location owing to its geographical centre than Madurai. As the AIADMK camp in Trichy including ministers was silent over its Madurai counterparts’ sudden second capital demand, locals urged the ruling party leaders to voice their opinions. “People have requested us to take the demand for making Trichy as second capital to the notice of chief minister. Through the proper channel, we will convey the demand to our high command,” said P Kumar, former MP and secretary of Trichy suburban-south AIADMK. The same view was put forward by former minister and Trichy suburban-north AIADMK district secretary M Paranjothi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/after-madurai-trichy-aiadmk-pitches-for-second-capital/articleshow/77600443.cms||Deepak Karthik
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya set for a star-studded Ramlila this year||LUCKNOW: A host of popular actors, including Bhojpuri stars and Bharatiya Janata Party MPs Manoj Tiwari and Ravi Kishan, will perform in this year’s Ramlila in Ayodhya. While Tiwari will be seen in the role of Angad, Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan will enact the role of Lord Ram’s brother Bharat. Actor Vindu Dara Singh, who has essayed the role of Lord Hanuman like his father Dara Singh on television, will be seen in the same avatar. Both Tiwari and Kishan have performed in Ramlilas in the past, but this would be the first occasion when they would be seen on stage in Ayodhya. The name of actor Shahbaz Khan of the Chandrakanta fame is doing the rounds for the role of Ravan. Ace actors Ashutosh Rana and Raghubeer Yadav may also become part of the mega project which is being steered by the Uttar Pradesh government. Ramlila begins on first Navaratra and concludes with the killing of demon king Ravan by Lord Ram on Dussehra. However, this year’s Ramlila is likely to be shown virtually owing to Covid restrictions. State information, tourism and culture departments are in talks with Delhi-based Lav Kush Ramlila committee, that organises the annual 10-day event at the Red Fort, for the Ayodhya show. Help of Sanskar Bharti, the RSS cultural wing, has also been sought. “The idea for a grander Ramlila in the temple town came up in a recent webinar on Ayodhya, which was attended by actors Raja Bundela and Vindu Dara Singh besides a host of intelligentsia. The conclusion was that while many experiments and improvisations are done with Ramlila, the original Avadhi version often gets lost. Therefore, the government has in principle decided to create a benchmark with this year’s event,” said director Ayodhya Shodh Sansthan director YP Singh. Singh said the project aims at producing a 3-3.5 hours-long Ramlila in the most genuine way. “The production will be recorded and showcased from multiple platforms on regular and social media. The effort will be promoted on popular platforms like Twitter, Instagram and Facebook too,” Singh added. The announcement of the cast is expected soon, sources said, adding that Mumbai-based dress designer Vishnu Patil and action director Kumar Dev Gora will also be a part of the project. “Ayodhya is close to the heart of every believer of Lord Ram across the world. Therefore, anything associated with it has to be world class. This will be the first Diwali in Ayodhya after the bhoomi pujan of Ram temple and the government wants it to be the most memorable one,” said a senior government officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-set-for-a-star-studded-ramlila-this-yr/articleshow/77601625.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 18, 2020||Bareilly||Covid cases in Bareilly crosses the 5,000 mark||Bareilly/Meerut/Agra: At least 114 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from Bareilly on Monday even as two persons succumbed to the deadly virus, according to additional chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar. With these new cases, Bareilly district tally has now crossed the 5,000 mark. With 30 patients discharged from hospital, the total active cases dropped to 1,983 in the district. Bareilly has reported a total of 5,088 cases, including 97 deaths. In Meerut district, at least 49 cases were found positive on Monday, taking the tally to 2,880. Also, one more death took the toll to 104, said Meerut's chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar. Moreover, at least one death was reported in Agra district on Monday. A 57-year-old woman died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Resident of Shamshabad block's Rajpur Chungi locality, the woman was a patient of renal failure, and she died following respiratory failure. According to the health department, the Covid-19 patient died due to co-morbid condition. So far, 103 Covid-19 patients have died in Agra district. Meanwhile, 35 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 2,353. As many as 35 Covid-19 patients were discharged. Of the 2,353 cases reported, 81.9% have been declared "cured and discharged". There are now 322 active Covid-19 cases in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/covid-cases-in-bareilly-crosses-the-5000-mark/articleshow/77597783.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Goa||GFP urges PM to drop Pramod Sawant as CM||PANAJI: Making a direct charge against the government for permitting drug trade to flourish in the state, Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to drop Pramod Sawant as chief minister. GFP Siolim MLA Vinod Paliencar said that BJP MLAs Michael Lobo or Vishwajit Rane could be appointed as the chief minister. Referring to the pictures of small-time bollywood actor Kapil Jhaveri with Sawant and other BJP members, Paliencar said that the pictures prove the government’s link with the narcotics trade. Jhaveri was among the 23 people arrested during a raid on a rave party where drugs worth Rs 9 lakh were also recovered. “I appeal to the Prime Minister that if the chief minister is involved in drug trade then there is a need to drop him from the post and any other minister from the cabinet who is capable can be picked,” said Paliencar while addressing a press conference. “There is Vishwajit Rane, Michael Lobo, any of them can be made chief minister. Sawant’s involvement can be seen in this drug trade.” The former water resources minister also said that police officials at the Anjuna Police station are in cahoots with the drug mafia. “First Micky Pacheco used to say that there is a politician drug nexus, but here we can see that the government and the drug peddlers are together. Drug trade is flourishing with the blessings of the government and the raid proves it,” said Paliencar. He also said that Goa Police went ahead with the raid only because DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena, who just took over, does not know about the links between the government and the drug dealers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-urges-pm-to-drop-sawant-as-cm/articleshow/77601637.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Goa||Raid proves BJP’s drug biz link: Congress||PANAJI: The raid conducted by Goa police’s crime branch on Sunday proves yet again the BJP’s links with drug traffickers, the state Congress said on Monday. Displaying pictures of senior BJP office bearers, including chief minister Pramod Sawant rubbing shoulders with small time Bollywood actor Kapil Jhaveri, the Congress demanded that Sawant should step down. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that increasingly proof is emerging that the BJP treats the drug trade as “family business”. “The chief minister has no right to sit on the chair of the chief minister if he cannot stop drugs and rave parties in the state,” said Chodankar. “To make money for itself the government wants to destroy Goa’s future generation. All the businesses were shut, hotels are shut, but rave parties are going on.” The Congress said that the drug trade and prostitution is flourishing along the North Goa coastal belt with the “blessings” of BJP office bearers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/raid-proves-bjps-drug-biz-link-cong/articleshow/77601633.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Goa||28 inmates, 5 staffers at Colvale jail test positive for Covid-19||PANAJI: As many as 28 inmates – undertrials and convicts - at Colvale Central jail and five staffers have tested positive for Covid-19. “All inmates have been placed in isolation within the jail premises as they were all asymptomatic,” said a senior jail official. “There is an in-house doctor who has been in touch with the health officer attached to the Colvale primary health centre (PHC). The condition of inmates under isolation is being watched,” he said. The Covid-19 infection at the jail premises was suspected after one of the jail guards who was on duty on Sunday, tested positive. The two inmates who subsequently complained of fever were immediately sent for testing and their reports returned positive. A total of 415 inmates at the jail were subjected to antigen testing on Monday as also others including jail guards, Indian Reserve Battalions (IRB) personnel and close contacts of persons who tested positive. Most of the inmates who tested positive are serving terms under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The NDPS cell was sanitised after the two inmates tested positive on Sunday. Three teams of doctors from North Goa district hospital and Candolim PHC conducted the antigen tests. The officer said they have completed testing of all inmates, and some staff who have been in contact with the inmates. If required, more tests of staffers will be conducted on Tuesday. The official said that they feared the number would have gone up which would have been a problem, even though there is an arrangement to accommodate 100 inmates in isolation. “They need to be given escorts in the event of hospitalisation. Things would become complicated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/28-inmates-5-staffers-at-colvale-jail-test-ve-for-covid/articleshow/77601675.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Trichy||Release list of upgraded schools, demands forum||TRICHY: The forum for education development in Tamil Nadu has urged the government to release the list of schools that will be upgraded this year. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced upgrading 10 elementary schools to middle schools and 50 middle and high schools each in the state to high and higher secondary schools respectively this academic year. The admission to class I, VI and IX started from Monday and class XI admissions will start from August 24. But there has not been any announcement yet on upgrading of these schools. Officials from the school education department said that upgrading schools didn’t happen last year too. While the requests are pending for over a year, officials say that no decision has been taken yet in this regard. “The delay in releasing the list of upgraded schools has put schools in a fix. Primary schools that await upgrading are unable to accept admission for Class VI. Similarly, middle schools could not admit students to Class IX for not being official upgraded as high schools,” said forum coordinator S Moorthy. “Students who have passed Class V and Class VIII in primary and middle schools respectively this year are in a quandary whether they should switch to other schools or wait in the same school for upgradation,” said Moorthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/release-list-of-upgraded-schools-demands-forum/articleshow/77600447.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||May consider limited lockdown, no suspension of economic activity: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Expressing concern over another surge in Covid cases and deaths per million in Punjab, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Monday said he was not averse to imposing harsher measures to contain the virus. Though he did not rule out a lockdown, especially in areas with a spike in cases, Amarinder made it clear economic activity would not be allowed to suffer. Earlier, Montek Singh Ahluwalia, who is heading the expert group on revival of the state’s economy, said any measures to check Covid spread should not impact economic activity. During a meeting of his cabinet, held through a videoconference, to review the Covid situation, Amarinder, in response to a suggestion from expert health advisory committee chairman Dr K K Talwar, said the state government, if needed, would consider going in for strong measures. Montek also reiterated, while briefing the cabinet on the group’s initial recommendations, that there was no suggestion made on withdrawal of free power to farmers, as was being projected by a section of media. He clarified this on the chief minister’s remarks that a lot of misinformation was being spread on this count. Montek said the group was in favour of diversification to reduce dependence on paddy, and wanted Punjab to spend 20% more per year, for the next 5 years, on developing public health infrastructure. The said the group’s recommendations would be sent to all ministers and a detailed discussion would be held thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/may-consider-limited-lockdown-no-suspension-of-economic-activity-capt/articleshow/77600454.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Trichy||No orders received for Ganesha idols this year||TRICHY: Idol makers in Kondaiyampettai in Trichy have said they have not received any orders so far from the organizers of Ganesh Chaturthi festival this year following the ban on installing Ganesha idols in public places due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Usually, they would get orders for 2,000 idols from Trichy and neighbouring districts every year. However, this year, even if the government lifts the ban, it will not be possible to make the idols in such short notice as the festival is falling on August 22, they said, adding they have made small idols meant for pujas at home. “The sculptors usually start receiving orders two weeks ahead of the festival from their customers. However, this year no one came to place an order,” C Suresh, a sculptor from Kondayampettai near Thiruvanaikoil. “Normally, we start the preparatory works to make Ganesh idols meant for procession, which are installed in public places, after Pongal festival and would start the process of making them from March. Uncertainty about the festival made us sit idle all these days”, he said. “Around 100 families are engaged in idol making. Since they get orders from neighbouring districts too, they would easy sell 2,000 pieces. But the pandemic has left these families penniless,” he added. “It takes at least 20 days to complete a 20-feet idol. We need at least two full days even for painting. So, even if the government lifts the ban, it is impossible to make procession idols within a short period,” Suresh added. “We usually get the orders for the idols ranging between 5 feet and 20 feet that costs from Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000. However, as per the government instruction, we are making only small size idols ranging from 0.5 to 1.5 feet using clay to install inside houses. That would be the only earning for us this year,” said Jaisankar, one of the sculptors from Mela Kondayampettai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-orders-received-for-ganesha-idols-this-year/articleshow/77600457.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Car set ablaze after dispute, three hurt||VIJAYAWADA: Unidentified miscreants set a car ablaze while three persons were sitting inside near Novotel Hotel on Monday. Three persons – Krishna Reddy, Gangadhar and Nagamalli — suffered ghastly injuries and were rushed to Vijayawada GGH. According to Patamata police, the incident happened around 3.30 pm. The survivors told police that they were sitting in the car and were discussing a land dispute with another person identified as Venugopal Reddy. When tempers flared between them, Venugopal walked out of the car in the middle of the conversation with the vehicle keys. They added that Venugopal returned with a few of his associates and locked the car doors and poured petrol all over the vehicle and set it on fire. The victims managed to unlock the doors and escape. Meanwhile, a fire tender reached the spot and doused the flames. Deputy commissioner of police Harshvardhan Raju too reached the spot and investigated the scene. An attempt to murder case was registered against Venugopal, a search for whom has been launched. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/car-set-ablaze-after-dispute-three-hurt/articleshow/77599037.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Over 85% Covid positive patients have at least one comorbid condition||LUCKNOW: In an assessment undertaken by the state medical education department over 85% of the Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at the state medical colleges were found to be suffering with at least one comorbid condition. “This has added immensely to the challenge of extending quality care to patients. Doctors have to treat associated disorders along with Covid-19 which makes monitoring extremely rigorous,” said additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube. Experts said that comorbidity refers to the existence of multiple medical conditions in the same person. “Comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac ailments, renal diseases, etc, not only prolongs a patient’s stay in the hospital, they retard recovery process as the body has too many things to handle,” explained Dr SNS Yadav, former CMO Lucknow and specialist in renal diseases. Trends from the state surveillance team indicate that diabetes was the commonest co-morbidity seen in Covid-19 patients followed by hypertension and cardiac ailments. Sources said that about 25% of the patients had more than one co-morbid condition. Officials said that efforts were being made to provide additional work force to the medical colleges in wake of the rising load. “To meet the requirement, the National Health Mission has been asked to spare a certain group of people for medical colleges. Then, we also liberalized the discharge policy for mild and moderate patients to accelerate the cycle of admissions and discharges,” said Dr Dube. Meanwhile, 4,186 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,58,701. As per health bulletin, 41.6 % (or 1742) of the total cases came from just seven districts, including Lucknow (595), Kanpur (429), Varanasi (198), Ballia (155) Prayagraj (144), Lakhimpur Kheri (116) and Moradabad (105). Officials stated that 4,376 persons were discharged from hospitals, leaving the state with 50,893 cases of active infection. The state also recorded a total of 69 deaths, taking the total to 2,515. Kanpur, which tops the list of Covid casualties, saw ten deaths which took the district total to 309. Lucknow and Moradabad followed next with eight and six deaths respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/over-85-ve-patients-have-at-least-one-comorbid-condition/articleshow/77601643.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||More curbs in Jalandhar, Patiala, Ludh||Chandigarh: In the wake of alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, Punjab government has imposed additional restrictions in Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala from August 18 till further orders. A government spokesperson said it was felt necessary to impose additional restrictions on certain activities in all cities of the state and accordingly additional restrictions had been imposed within municipal limits. He added movement of individuals for all non-essential activities shall remain prohibited from 9pm to 5am in these areas. But, essential activities like operation of multiple shifts, movement of persons and goods on national and state highways and unloading of cargo and travel of persons to their destinations after disembarking from buses, trains and aeroplanes would be permitted. Similarly, all industries running into two-three shifts would remain open. He added restaurants, hotels and other hospitality units would remain open till 8.30pm. Apart from this, shops and shopping malls would remain open till 8 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/more-curbs-in-jalandhar-patiala-ludh/articleshow/77600461.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Record 887 positive, 12 dead in Haryana; recoveries cross 40,000||CHANDIGARH: With record 887 new cases in a day, Haryana’s Covid-19 tally rose to 48,040 on Monday. The day also recorded the highest death toll and recoveries in the state. While 12 persons died, taking the total to 550, 1,009 patients recovered, pushing the number of cured cases to 40,610. Now, the recovery rate is 84.53%. There are 6,880 active cases, of whom 127 are on oxygen support and 23 on ventilators. Most of the critical patients are in Faridabad, Rohtak and Sonipat medical facilities. Panchkula district reported maximum four deaths, Yamunanagar two and Faridabad, Ambala, Jhajjar, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Nuh one each. Faridabad district reported maximum new patients during the day (107), followed by Gurugram (97), Panipat (81), Ambala (71), Rewari (71), Yamunanagar (62), Rohtak (58), Kurukshetra (51), Karnal (46), Mahendergarh (41), Sonipat (39), Charkhi Dadri (34), Kaithal (31), Hisar (29), Panchkula (15), Jhajjar (12), Bhiwani (12), Nuh (9), Fatehabad (9), Palwal (6), Sirsa (5) and Jind (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/record-887-positive-12-dead-in-haryana-recoveries-cross-40k/articleshow/77600464.cms||Manvir Saini
August 18, 2020||Kolkata||Bike taxis without yellow number plates under lens in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The death of an app-bike passenger — the first this year and also probably one of the first reported cases ever in this city — has led the Kolkata traffic police to decide to write to the transport department yet again, seeking help in monitoring their movements. The cops have hinted that they might speak to the app-bike providers soon to try and ascertain if any specific interventions are required. The cops are likely to ask all app-based bike aggregators to ensure they get the bikers to use yellow number plates. TimesViewAvoidable accidents add to the pressure on the already-overburdened health facilities. They also up chances of the virus’s spread by increasing avoidable people-to-people contact. Cops, of course, will bolster road-safety measures. But safe driving practices, which are anyway important, become even more so now.Cops said that any app bike, that does not have a yellow number plate, will now be prosecuted. The cops have also warned of strict action against private two-wheeler owners. “We understand that the Covid situation has led to an exponential rise in two-wheelers in the city. Many of them are being allowed to run with temporary papers. But anyone breaking the law will have to face consequences. Repeat offenders will face compounded cases where the fine amounts will be big,” said an officer at Lalbazar. The fresh action being contemplated after the death of Sujay Maiti (34), who met with a fatal accident on the EM Bypass, late on Friday night while returning to Kasba from CIT Road. Maity, who hails from Namkhana in South 24 Parganas, was on an app-bike when it skidded on the wet Bypass and hit the divider. When Maiti was trying to get up, a truck hit him from behind and dragged his body. Amir Hossain, who was riding the app bike, escaped with mild injury. “It is difficult to identify such bikes on the road. From riding dangerously to not even having a driving licence — the complaints have kept mounting. Similarly, bikes that are used to deliver food, too, have been found to be flouting laws. We are now noting down the number plates of these bikes and maintaining data to find out repeat offenders,” said an officer from the Jadavpur traffic guard. Lalbazar has also asked all police stations to be aware at night after repeated complaints that certain bikers, especially in the Phoolbagan-Narkeldanga area, were rashly riding their two-wheelers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bike-taxis-without-yellow-number-plates-under-lens/articleshow/77600466.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 18, 2020||Varanasi||UP: Over 85% Covid positive patients have at least one comorbid condition||LUCKNOW: In an assessment undertaken by the state medical education department over 85% of the Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at the state medical colleges were found to be suffering with at least one comorbid condition. “This has added immensely to the challenge of extending quality care to patients. Doctors have to treat associated disorders along with Covid-19 which makes monitoring extremely rigorous,” said additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube. Experts said that comorbidity refers to the existence of multiple medical conditions in the same person. “Comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac ailments, renal diseases, etc, not only prolongs a patient’s stay in the hospital, they retard recovery process as the body has too many things to handle,” explained Dr SNS Yadav, former CMO Lucknow and specialist in renal diseases. Trends from the state surveillance team indicate that diabetes was the commonest co-morbidity seen in Covid-19 patients followed by hypertension and cardiac ailments. Sources said that about 25% of the patients had more than one co-morbid condition. Officials said that efforts were being made to provide additional work force to the medical colleges in wake of the rising load. “To meet the requirement, the National Health Mission has been asked to spare a certain group of people for medical colleges. Then, we also liberalized the discharge policy for mild and moderate patients to accelerate the cycle of admissions and discharges,” said Dr Dube. Meanwhile, 4,186 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,58,701. As per health bulletin, 41.6 % (or 1742) of the total cases came from just seven districts, including Lucknow (595), Kanpur (429), Varanasi (198), Ballia (155) Prayagraj (144), Lakhimpur Kheri (116) and Moradabad (105). Officials stated that 4,376 persons were discharged from hospitals, leaving the state with 50,893 cases of active infection. The state also recorded a total of 69 deaths, taking the total to 2,515. Kanpur, which tops the list of Covid casualties, saw ten deaths which took the district total to 309. Lucknow and Moradabad followed next with eight and six deaths respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/over-85-ve-patients-have-at-least-one-comorbid-condition/articleshow/77605161.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 18, 2020||Trichy||English medium schools most sought after in Trichy||TRICHY: Government and government aided schools offering English medium were the most sought after on the first day of school admissions in Trichy on Monday. Though the admissions were delayed this year because of Covid-19, the pandemic failed to dampen the enthusiasm of parents looking to ensure a seat for their children in the school of their choice. Many schools in the city witnessed good response with some managing to fill over 100 seats on the first day of admission. Interestingly, government schools which offered English medium of instruction and good infrastructure found many takers. T Rajarajeswari, headmistress of corporation middle school, Beema Nagar, said that nearly 100 students joined their school on Monday. She said English medium in government schools was a huge attraction for parents seeking admission for their children. “Parents have become messengers of the school,” said H Pushpalatha, a teacher from corporation primary school in Edaimalaipattipudur. Admitting 101 students on Monday including 62 students in class I, she said many parents said that they heard about the quality of education in the school and chose to get the kids admitted here. “Some them have even shifted their wards from private schools,” she added. K Asha Devi, headmistress of government middle school in Pirattiyur, said that the school has admitted 56 students on Monday, including 26 in LKG. “Due to popular demand for English medium classes, we are exclusively imparting education with English as medium of instruction,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/english-medium-schools-most-sought-after-in-trichy/articleshow/77600463.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 18, 2020||Gurgaon||Covid-19: Record 887 positive, 12 dead in Haryana; recoveries cross 40,000||CHANDIGARH: With record 887 new cases in a day, Haryana’s Covid-19 tally rose to 48,040 on Monday. The day also recorded the highest death toll and recoveries in the state. While 12 persons died, taking the total to 550, 1,009 patients recovered, pushing the number of cured cases to 40,610. Now, the recovery rate is 84.53%. There are 6,880 active cases, of whom 127 are on oxygen support and 23 on ventilators. Most of the critical patients are in Faridabad, Rohtak and Sonipat medical facilities. Panchkula district reported maximum four deaths, Yamunanagar two and Faridabad, Ambala, Jhajjar, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Nuh one each. Faridabad district reported maximum new patients during the day (107), followed by Gurugram (97), Panipat (81), Ambala (71), Rewari (71), Yamunanagar (62), Rohtak (58), Kurukshetra (51), Karnal (46), Mahendergarh (41), Sonipat (39), Charkhi Dadri (34), Kaithal (31), Hisar (29), Panchkula (15), Jhajjar (12), Bhiwani (12), Nuh (9), Fatehabad (9), Palwal (6), Sirsa (5) and Jind (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/record-887-positive-12-dead-in-haryana-recoveries-cross-40k/articleshow/77609225.cms||Manvir Saini
August 18, 2020||Faridabad||Covid-19: Record 887 positive, 12 dead in Haryana; recoveries cross 40,000||CHANDIGARH: With record 887 new cases in a day, Haryana’s Covid-19 tally rose to 48,040 on Monday. The day also recorded the highest death toll and recoveries in the state. While 12 persons died, taking the total to 550, 1,009 patients recovered, pushing the number of cured cases to 40,610. Now, the recovery rate is 84.53%. There are 6,880 active cases, of whom 127 are on oxygen support and 23 on ventilators. Most of the critical patients are in Faridabad, Rohtak and Sonipat medical facilities. Panchkula district reported maximum four deaths, Yamunanagar two and Faridabad, Ambala, Jhajjar, Kurukshetra, Kaithal and Nuh one each. Faridabad district reported maximum new patients during the day (107), followed by Gurugram (97), Panipat (81), Ambala (71), Rewari (71), Yamunanagar (62), Rohtak (58), Kurukshetra (51), Karnal (46), Mahendergarh (41), Sonipat (39), Charkhi Dadri (34), Kaithal (31), Hisar (29), Panchkula (15), Jhajjar (12), Bhiwani (12), Nuh (9), Fatehabad (9), Palwal (6), Sirsa (5) and Jind (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/record-887-positive-12-dead-in-haryana-recoveries-cross-40k/articleshow/77609226.cms||Manvir Saini
August 18, 2020||Goa||Goa seeks relaxation in forest act for eco-tourism||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday appreciated the Centre’s Nagar Van scheme even as he urged Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar to reduce the minimum area for urban forests from the proposed 10ha to four to five hectares for Goa. The state does not have such large chunks of land in urban areas, the chief minister said. He also sought the Union minister’s intervention in the relaxation of the Forest (Conservation) Act to allow for promotion of hinterland eco-tourism in Goa. It will bring more synergy between people and environment, Sawant said. Javadekar chaired an online conference of all state forest ministers on Monday to discuss new schemes related to the protection and conservation of forests and wildlife. During the conference, Sawant informed the Union minister that the state has planned to set up 50 nurseries in schools within a year under the School Nursery Scheme. He also assured Javadekar of the state government’s full support for the implementation of the National Transit Pass System for transportation of various forest produce with the objective of ‘One Nation One Pass’. Sawant invited Javdekar for the Goa Bird Festival which will be organised in January next year. He informed the Union minister about the GOVAN project aimed at achieving conservation through livelihood intervention. This is a joint venture between the state’s forest department and Goa State Biodiversity Board, launched for sustainable harvesting, value addition and marketing of forest produce involving local communities. Among the proposals put up the chief minister were considering Goa for a LiDAR survey as it is a small state with approximately 68% forest and tree cover, and including the Mhadei in the River Rejuvenation Scheme. While welcoming Project Dolphin launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 15, the chief minsiter said that Goa would like to join the project to strengthen the efforts of the Centre towards protection and conservation of dolphins. Goa coastal waters have a significant population of humpback dolphins. The Union minister assured to consider the proposals put up by Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-seeks-relaxation-in-forest-act-for-eco-tourism/articleshow/77601647.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Over 85% Covid positive patients have at least one comorbid condition||LUCKNOW: In an assessment undertaken by the state medical education department over 85% of the Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at the state medical colleges were found to be suffering with at least one comorbid condition. “This has added immensely to the challenge of extending quality care to patients. Doctors have to treat associated disorders along with Covid-19 which makes monitoring extremely rigorous,” said additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube. Experts said that comorbidity refers to the existence of multiple medical conditions in the same person. “Comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac ailments, renal diseases, etc, not only prolongs a patient’s stay in the hospital, they retard recovery process as the body has too many things to handle,” explained Dr SNS Yadav, former CMO Lucknow and specialist in renal diseases. Trends from the state surveillance team indicate that diabetes was the commonest co-morbidity seen in Covid-19 patients followed by hypertension and cardiac ailments. Sources said that about 25% of the patients had more than one co-morbid condition. Officials said that efforts were being made to provide additional work force to the medical colleges in wake of the rising load. “To meet the requirement, the National Health Mission has been asked to spare a certain group of people for medical colleges. Then, we also liberalized the discharge policy for mild and moderate patients to accelerate the cycle of admissions and discharges,” said Dr Dube. Meanwhile, 4,186 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,58,701. As per health bulletin, 41.6 % (or 1742) of the total cases came from just seven districts, including Lucknow (595), Kanpur (429), Varanasi (198), Ballia (155) Prayagraj (144), Lakhimpur Kheri (116) and Moradabad (105). Officials stated that 4,376 persons were discharged from hospitals, leaving the state with 50,893 cases of active infection. The state also recorded a total of 69 deaths, taking the total to 2,515. Kanpur, which tops the list of Covid casualties, saw ten deaths which took the district total to 309. Lucknow and Moradabad followed next with eight and six deaths respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/over-85-ve-patients-have-at-least-one-comorbid-condition/articleshow/77605162.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 18, 2020||Allahabad||UP: Over 85% Covid positive patients have at least one comorbid condition||LUCKNOW: In an assessment undertaken by the state medical education department over 85% of the Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment at the state medical colleges were found to be suffering with at least one comorbid condition. “This has added immensely to the challenge of extending quality care to patients. Doctors have to treat associated disorders along with Covid-19 which makes monitoring extremely rigorous,” said additional chief secretary, medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube. Experts said that comorbidity refers to the existence of multiple medical conditions in the same person. “Comorbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac ailments, renal diseases, etc, not only prolongs a patient’s stay in the hospital, they retard recovery process as the body has too many things to handle,” explained Dr SNS Yadav, former CMO Lucknow and specialist in renal diseases. Trends from the state surveillance team indicate that diabetes was the commonest co-morbidity seen in Covid-19 patients followed by hypertension and cardiac ailments. Sources said that about 25% of the patients had more than one co-morbid condition. Officials said that efforts were being made to provide additional work force to the medical colleges in wake of the rising load. “To meet the requirement, the National Health Mission has been asked to spare a certain group of people for medical colleges. Then, we also liberalized the discharge policy for mild and moderate patients to accelerate the cycle of admissions and discharges,” said Dr Dube. Meanwhile, 4,186 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,58,701. As per health bulletin, 41.6 % (or 1742) of the total cases came from just seven districts, including Lucknow (595), Kanpur (429), Varanasi (198), Ballia (155) Prayagraj (144), Lakhimpur Kheri (116) and Moradabad (105). Officials stated that 4,376 persons were discharged from hospitals, leaving the state with 50,893 cases of active infection. The state also recorded a total of 69 deaths, taking the total to 2,515. Kanpur, which tops the list of Covid casualties, saw ten deaths which took the district total to 309. Lucknow and Moradabad followed next with eight and six deaths respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/over-85-ve-patients-have-at-least-one-comorbid-condition/articleshow/77605163.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 18, 2020||Trichy||No bias against TN candidates in recruitment: Southern Railway||TRICHY: Southern Railway has clarified that there was no discrimination against candidates from the state for the recruitment for job vacancies in Southern Railway. There are 21 Railway Recruitment Boards (RRBs) functioning across the country including Chennai. On February 3, 2018, notification CEN No 01/2018 was published by RRB for the post of Assistant Loco Pilot (ALP) and Technicians. This was a common notification published by all 21 RRBs for filling the vacancies across various zonal railways and production units. For the post of ALP, candidates with minimum ITI or diploma or engineering degree are eligible and three stages of computer based tests were conducted. For the post of Technicians, only ITI certificate holders in the relevant field are eligible and two stages of computer based tests were conducted. Candidates with engineering or diploma degree are not eligible for the post of technicians, said a statement issued on Monday. With respect to Notification CEN No.01/2018 stated above and through which the vacancies of Southern Railway and ICF including GOC workshop is filled up, RRB Chennai has confirmed that of the total candidates applied, 51% are from Tamil Nadu. A total of 3,218 candidates were selected for the post of ALP and technicians. Of the total selection, 17% are from Tamil Nadu. This is largely due to the fact that most of the candidates are not eligible for the post of technicians as majority of them are diploma holders or engineering graduates. But for the post of ALP, 53% of the candidates selected are from Tamil Nadu, it said. Of the total selected candidates, 541 candidates for technician posts were allotted to Ponmalai workshop at Trichy after due process. At Ponmalai Workshop the allotted candidates were called for certificate verification from August 4 onwards. Scrutiny of documents was carried out duly adhering to laid down safety protocols of social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/no-bias-against-tn-candidates-in-recruitment-southern-rly/articleshow/77600460.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Goa||Loliem wants power lines to go underground||POINGUINIM: Trees falling onto a 11kV power line passing through a forested area in Loliem-Polem during spells of heavy rain and wind have led to frequent power outages in the area, affecting over 4,000 villagers. To resolve the issue, citizens have long been demanding that the underground cable network, which has reportedly been laid from the Muthal sub-station up to Mashem, be connected to the 11kV overhead line at Mashem bazaar that is just 100m away. The area’s former assistant electricity engineer, Pradip Naik, had assured that work on the same would be completed before Ganesh Chaturthi. However, junior engineer Amrutraj Gaude told TOI that personnel of the electricity department have been busy attending to power failure complaints over the past week, due to which work on connecting the underground cable network to the overhead line at Mashem bazaar had to be put on the back-burner. “We will, nevertheless, try our best to complete the work on a priority,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/loliem-wants-power-lines-to-go-underground/articleshow/77601673.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||FDCM turns wasteland into garden, nursery from scrap||NAGPUR: Earlier a dumping ground for nearby bar owners and wasteland for others, a small patch of forest land on Hingna road has now been converted into garden and nursery of medicinal and aromatic plants by the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM). The entire garden has been developed from scrap and waste material like vehicle tyres, cooler tanks, almirah drawers, water tanks and cement pipe pieces used as planters. Debris of tiles dumped after construction of FDCM building has been used to carve the pathway, giving it a beautiful mosaic look. The Rs17 lakh project was commissioned by PCCF (HoFF) N Rambabu on August 7. The project, a brainchild of Imtienla Ao, chief general manager (CGM), medicinal plants, said, “More than 70 species of medicinal and aromatic plants and air purifying plants have been planted in the garden and nursery.” “The garden has been given an aesthetic look by beautifully painting the scrap. Chairs made out of tyres comfort the visitors while all the dumped glass beer bottles have been used to set up raise beds for periwinkle plants,” said range forest officer (RFO) Trupti Thakur. “The saplings have been labelled mentioning their importance and scientific names, thus also serving the purpose of education through the garden and nursery,” said another RFO Kalpana Chinchkhede. According to Chinchkhede, the air purifying plants can be easily grown in homes and have been selected on the basis of Nasa Clean Air Study. “These species are effective in cleaning specific air pollutants and have been chosen to grow in Nagpur climate. The said species are also available for sale in the nursery,” she said and added that as these saplings can be planted indoor and act against pollutants like xylene, benzene, toluene, ammonia etc, on day one itself several saplings were sold. “Most of the saplings that were sold included lemon grass and snake plant, which is very effective to contain indoor pollution and is also easy to maintain. We will make these saplings available for common public,” said Thakur. Chinchkhede was instrumental in conceptualizing ‘best from waste’ theme along with CGM Ao and landscape expert Tianaro Pongen. She also created Warli painting on the dilapidated wall and the spot has become a selfie point. CGM Srinivas Rao and GM Rishikesh Ranjan and other officers and staff were also present at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fdcm-turns-wasteland-into-garden-nursery-from-scrap/articleshow/77602303.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 18, 2020||Kochi||Swapna Suresh wielded ‘considerable influence’ in Kerala CM's office, ED report||KOCHI: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s former principal secretary M Sivasankar has revealed that he travelled with gold smuggling scam prime accused Swapna Suresh to Gulf countries on multiple occasions, the Enforcement Directorate said in its remand report submitted to the special court for PMLA cases. ED, which is probing the money trail in the case, also told the court on Monday that Swapna had opened a bank locker with a third person on the instructions of Sivasankar and that it was used to store proceeds of crime. “On further questioning of Sivasankar, it is revealed that during April 2017, A-2 (Swapna) had travelled to the UAE with Sivasankar. Further, during April 2018, A-2 had travelled to Oman and met Sivasankar who was on a trip to Oman in the same period and they returned together to India from Oman. It is further revealed that during October 2018, A-2 and Sivasankar travelled together to UAE and returned together and this particular trip was coupled with the visit of the chief minister of Kerala to UAE for seeking assistance of Indians there for flood relief in Kerala,” the remand report said. Agency sources told TOI that Swapna shared the commission received for the Life Mission project with two officials in the UAE consulate. “A total funding of about Rs 18 crore would’ve been received for the project. Swapna, along with an accountant and another person at the consulate, were supposed to get Rs 3.6 crore, or 20% of the fund, as commission. We are in the process of collecting details of the assets of the accused,” an official said. ED’s report said Sivasankar was 'fully aware that the integrity of Swapna Suresh was dubious' and that she had 'considerable influence in the office of the chief minister'. Sources said the agency also questioned Venugopal, the chartered accountant who shared the bank locker with Swapna. Cash and gold were recovered from the locker by NIA, which is probing the terror funding angle in the case. Sivasankar had introduced Venugopal to Swapna, according to them. Meanwhile, Swapna's counsel Geo Paul apprised the court that she developed chest pain while in ED custody. There was a slight variation in her ECG taken at the hospital and a doctor has recommended an echocardiogram, it was told. Paul sought an order to ensure treatment. The court remanded the accused to judicial custody till August 26. Superintendent of Kakkanad district jail was directed to ensure Swapna receives treatment. The court will hear her bail plea on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-went-on-trips-to-gulf-nations-with-swapna-ed/articleshow/77597828.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Local traders go online to sell prasadam, puja items||Visakhapatnam: Given that Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations this year will have to be tailored as per the contingencies of time, a few local businessmen have gone online to help buyers not only access puja items but also prasadam. These local online sellers are providing one kg undrallu, 10 pieces poornalu, 10 pieces garelu, one kg lemon rice, 500 grams of sweet pongal and 500 grams of ravva kesar as one ‘family pack’ prasadam. Along with it pooja items such as Ganesh idol , akshada rice, (coloured rice) incense sticks, betel leaf, areca nut, sandalwood, camphor, coconut, kumkum, turmeric, pooja book, 250 grams of laddoos, nine varieties of fruits, three varieties of flowers, sweets and others are being provided at a cost of Rs 1,000. Moreover, for the first 500 customers, the online sellers are offering silver-coated peetham worth around Rs 500. These small businessmen are leveraging social media websites and messaging platforms to reach its market. Speaking to TOI, a local online seller A Ramesh said they are getting good response from the public. “We will be taking orders three days before the festival, which is on August 22, because we have to prepare the prasadams in large quantities and deliver 12 hours before the festival,” he said. Speaking to one of his customers, a homemaker Y Swati of Lawson’s Bay Colony, said, “Given the prevailing pandemic we are forced to go online. Usually, markets are crowded ahead of festival days and there would be no social distancing. So it is better to get the same material online, given not only is it safe but also all of them will be door-delivered.” But this new business model has only worsened the competition for small-time sellers who usually look forward to festivals to make good money. They were already hit hard with online retail and grocery giants luring away customers with their discounts. Meanwhile, given the curbs set on the festival such as no pandals or big idols, many people such as lighting and sound workers, pandal constructors, tent suppliers and idol makers have little to no work this year. Nistala Sarma, a priest, told TOI that usually he used to conduct poojas in seven to 10 pandals or houses during Ganesh Chaturthi. But, this year he has received no calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/local-traders-go-online-to-sell-prasadam-puja-items/articleshow/77599061.cms||Siva G
August 18, 2020||Shimla||18 found infected, 114 recover in HP||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 18 new positive cases of Covid-19 on Monday, while 114 patients recovered. With this, the total number of cases reported in the state rose to 4,174. Among the new patients, six are from Solan, three from Chamba, and two each from Kangra, Shimla, Sirmaur and Una and one from Bilaspur. Of all 114 recovered patients, 21 are from Chamba, 20 from Solan, 17 each from Sirmaur and Una, 13 from Mandi, nine from Kangra, eight from Hamirpur, six from Shimla, and three from Bilaspur. At the time of filing this report, 1,281 cases were active, 2,834 patients had recovered, 17 patients had died and 40 patients had migrated out of the state. Till the time this report was filed, 1,80,357 people had been tested for the virus. Of them, the samples of 1,76,001 have been negative and 182 are awaited. Bilaspur has got 182 cases, of which 63 are active. In Chamba, of the total 295 cases, 97 are active. Hamirpur has recorded 414 cases, of which 65 are active and four have died. Kangra has got 616 cases, of which 118 are active, three have died and two have migrated out of state. In Mandi, 119 of the total 317 confirmed cases are still active. Also, six patients have died in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/18-found-infected-114-recover-in-hp/articleshow/77600477.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana health dept tracks mobile data to watch cases||Chandigarh: The Haryana health department has been keeping watching the movements of Covid-19 positive cases by tracking their mobile phones. As per the procedure, Covid-19 positive cases are tracked down immediately by the authorities, if they try to move out of the quarantined area. According to additional chief secretary (department of health Haryana) Rajeev Arora, they have tracked thousands of Covid-19 patients through this methodology to contain the spread of deadly virus. He, however, confirmed that all this is done with due permission from the home department of the state and in compliance with the guidelines of the department of telecommunication (DOT). Haryana food & drugs administration commissioner Ashok Kumar Meena, who has also been appointed nodal officer for the purpose, said that on getting details from the director general health services office about the quarantined persons required to be monitored, a request is immediately sent to home department for permission to track the specific numbers. “On getting a nod from the home department, the numbers are shared with the DOT for tracking,” Meena explained. He further stated that whenever the person under scanner moves out of the quarantine area, he is immediately caught and told to follow the 14-day quarantine protocol. “Initially, the numbers of violators were very high but after the Covid cases realised about being tracked, the number of violations of quarantine protocol has come down. If a person continues to breach the quarantine protocol despite tracking down and advise, we register a case under the NDMA (National Disaster Management Act) against the concerned person,” he added. When asked about shortlisting the cases for tracking, Meena said first of all they track only confirmed cases to ensure they do not spread the virus by breaching quarantine. In the second category, they are tracking primary contacts (till their testing is not done), but the numbers of such cases are comparatively low. s||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-health-dept-tracks-mobile-data-to-watch-cases/articleshow/77600501.cms||Ajay Sura
August 18, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu reports 120 Covid-19 deaths, 5,890 new cases||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,890 Covid-19 cases and 120 deaths on Monday. The cumulative death toll touched 5,886. The state has 54,122 patients still under treatment. While 16% of the cases are still active, the recovery rate was close to 82%, the overall case fatality rate in the state was 1.6%. However, rate of recovery and case fatality are not uniform across the state. On Monday, six districts – Ariyalur, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, Thoothukudi and Villupuram – did not report any death. All 37 districts reported cases. So far, 11 districts have a case fatality rate higher than the state average and 13 districts had recovery rate higher than the state average. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan, said the state was working out protocols in districts where case fatality rate and positivity rates are high. “We are increasing testing capacity and bed facilities. So we can test, isolate and treat more people,” he said. On Monday, Chennai, reported 1,185 cases and 24 deaths. Its neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (308), Chengalpet (224) and Kancheepuram(174) together reported 706 cases and 14 deaths. The other seven northern districts reported 945 cases and 22 deaths. While Cuddalore reported 390 cases, Ranipet (151) and Villupuram (138) also reported cases in three digits. Ranipet reported seven deaths. The 10 southern districts together recorded 1,413 cases and 28 deaths. Theni had 279 cases, Kanyaumari 209, Virudhunagar 212, Dindigul 154, Tenkasi 147, Madurai 136, Tirunelveli 100, Tuticorin 75, Sivaganga 54 and Ramanathapuram 47. Tuticorin reported six deaths and Kanyakumari five. The western districts reported more cases and deaths compared to those in the central zone. Together the eight western districts logged 1,002 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore had the second-highest number of fresh cases and deaths after Chennai -- 393 cases and 10 deaths. There were 268 cases in Salem and 137 in Erode. While Tiruppur and Namakkal reported 70 and 65 cases each, Dharmapuri and Nilgiris had 28 and 27 cases. With 14 Krishnagiri added the lowest number of fresh cases in the zone. The central districts added 627 cases – a majority in Pudukottai (164), Trichy (121) and Thanjavur (113). Nagapattinam reported 10 cases, the lowest in the state. At least ten people whose deaths were reported on Monday had no comorbidities. A 53-year-old patient from Trichy admitted to a private hospital with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and end-state liver disease died on Monday. Doctors his death was caused by septicaemia and multi-organ failure and he “incidentally” tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tn-reports-120-covid-19-deaths-5890-new-cases/articleshow/77603280.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu reports 120 Covid-19 deaths, 5,890 new cases||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,890 Covid-19 cases and 120 deaths on Monday. The cumulative death toll touched 5,886. The state has 54,122 patients still under treatment. While 16% of the cases are still active, the recovery rate was close to 82%, the overall case fatality rate in the state was 1.6%. However, rate of recovery and case fatality are not uniform across the state. On Monday, six districts – Ariyalur, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, Thoothukudi and Villupuram – did not report any death. All 37 districts reported cases. So far, 11 districts have a case fatality rate higher than the state average and 13 districts had recovery rate higher than the state average. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan, said the state was working out protocols in districts where case fatality rate and positivity rates are high. “We are increasing testing capacity and bed facilities. So we can test, isolate and treat more people,” he said. On Monday, Chennai, reported 1,185 cases and 24 deaths. Its neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (308), Chengalpet (224) and Kancheepuram(174) together reported 706 cases and 14 deaths. The other seven northern districts reported 945 cases and 22 deaths. While Cuddalore reported 390 cases, Ranipet (151) and Villupuram (138) also reported cases in three digits. Ranipet reported seven deaths. The 10 southern districts together recorded 1,413 cases and 28 deaths. Theni had 279 cases, Kanyaumari 209, Virudhunagar 212, Dindigul 154, Tenkasi 147, Madurai 136, Tirunelveli 100, Tuticorin 75, Sivaganga 54 and Ramanathapuram 47. Tuticorin reported six deaths and Kanyakumari five. The western districts reported more cases and deaths compared to those in the central zone. Together the eight western districts logged 1,002 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore had the second-highest number of fresh cases and deaths after Chennai -- 393 cases and 10 deaths. There were 268 cases in Salem and 137 in Erode. While Tiruppur and Namakkal reported 70 and 65 cases each, Dharmapuri and Nilgiris had 28 and 27 cases. With 14 Krishnagiri added the lowest number of fresh cases in the zone. The central districts added 627 cases – a majority in Pudukottai (164), Trichy (121) and Thanjavur (113). Nagapattinam reported 10 cases, the lowest in the state. At least ten people whose deaths were reported on Monday had no comorbidities. A 53-year-old patient from Trichy admitted to a private hospital with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and end-state liver disease died on Monday. Doctors his death was caused by septicaemia and multi-organ failure and he “incidentally” tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tn-reports-120-covid-19-deaths-5890-new-cases/articleshow/77603279.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Puducherry||Tamil Nadu reports 120 Covid-19 deaths, 5,890 new cases||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,890 Covid-19 cases and 120 deaths on Monday. The cumulative death toll touched 5,886. The state has 54,122 patients still under treatment. While 16% of the cases are still active, the recovery rate was close to 82%, the overall case fatality rate in the state was 1.6%. However, rate of recovery and case fatality are not uniform across the state. On Monday, six districts – Ariyalur, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, Thoothukudi and Villupuram – did not report any death. All 37 districts reported cases. So far, 11 districts have a case fatality rate higher than the state average and 13 districts had recovery rate higher than the state average. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan, said the state was working out protocols in districts where case fatality rate and positivity rates are high. “We are increasing testing capacity and bed facilities. So we can test, isolate and treat more people,” he said. On Monday, Chennai, reported 1,185 cases and 24 deaths. Its neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (308), Chengalpet (224) and Kancheepuram(174) together reported 706 cases and 14 deaths. The other seven northern districts reported 945 cases and 22 deaths. While Cuddalore reported 390 cases, Ranipet (151) and Villupuram (138) also reported cases in three digits. Ranipet reported seven deaths. The 10 southern districts together recorded 1,413 cases and 28 deaths. Theni had 279 cases, Kanyaumari 209, Virudhunagar 212, Dindigul 154, Tenkasi 147, Madurai 136, Tirunelveli 100, Tuticorin 75, Sivaganga 54 and Ramanathapuram 47. Tuticorin reported six deaths and Kanyakumari five. The western districts reported more cases and deaths compared to those in the central zone. Together the eight western districts logged 1,002 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore had the second-highest number of fresh cases and deaths after Chennai -- 393 cases and 10 deaths. There were 268 cases in Salem and 137 in Erode. While Tiruppur and Namakkal reported 70 and 65 cases each, Dharmapuri and Nilgiris had 28 and 27 cases. With 14 Krishnagiri added the lowest number of fresh cases in the zone. The central districts added 627 cases – a majority in Pudukottai (164), Trichy (121) and Thanjavur (113). Nagapattinam reported 10 cases, the lowest in the state. At least ten people whose deaths were reported on Monday had no comorbidities. A 53-year-old patient from Trichy admitted to a private hospital with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and end-state liver disease died on Monday. Doctors his death was caused by septicaemia and multi-organ failure and he “incidentally” tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/tn-reports-120-covid-19-deaths-5890-new-cases/articleshow/77605452.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Srikakulam dist administration bars public celebration of Vinayaka Chavithi this year||Visakhapatnam: Srikakulam district administration has barred celebration of Ganesh festival this year in public places. Confirming this to TOI, collector J Nivas said “We dont know about the statewide plans, but we have decided to take this decision keeping in view the safety of the people.” “People shall be encouraged and advised to celebrate the festival at their homes. If anyone violates the instructions, strict action will be taken against them as per the AP Epidemic Act,” Nivas added. The collector has issued instructions to all allied departments like police, revenue and municipalities to ensure that the festival is celebrated at homes and no pandals and idols are set up in public places. People have also been denied permission to organise processions keeping in view the current restrictions on religious gatherings to prevent further spread of the coronovirus.  According to the police, every year they receive nearly 200 applications for setting up pandals in public places, but this year no permission would be granted. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/srikakulam-dist-administration-bars-public-celebration-of-vinayaka-chavithi-this-year/articleshow/77599106.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 18, 2020||Bareilly||Seven inmates of govt boys’ observation home test positive for Covid-19||Bareilly: Seven inmates of government boys’ observation home have tested positive for Covid-19 in Bareilly. According to officials, they are asymptomatic and have been isolated in other rooms of the home. Earlier, 73 inmates of the shelter home for women had tested positive. Health officials said that after jails, they have been collecting samples of inmates housed in all homes in the district.The inmates who have been tested positive for the virus are under-trial.Additional chief medical officer Dr Ashok Kumar said, “Seven inmates have tested positive and have been isolated in the government boys’ observation home as they are asymptomatic. Doctors have been deployed for daily visits here for treatment of patients and medicines have also been provided. If their condition worsens, they will be shifted to a hospital.”“Of the total 142 inmates here, seven have tested positive while 60 others will be tested for Covid-19 on Tuesday. They have been isolated and their condition is stable. The home has been sanitized,” an official said.ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/seven-inmates-of-govt-boys-observation-home-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77595715.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu reports 120 Covid-19 deaths, 5,890 new cases||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,890 Covid-19 cases and 120 deaths on Monday. The cumulative death toll touched 5,886. The state has 54,122 patients still under treatment. While 16% of the cases are still active, the recovery rate was close to 82%, the overall case fatality rate in the state was 1.6%. However, rate of recovery and case fatality are not uniform across the state. On Monday, six districts – Ariyalur, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, Thoothukudi and Villupuram – did not report any death. All 37 districts reported cases. So far, 11 districts have a case fatality rate higher than the state average and 13 districts had recovery rate higher than the state average. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan, said the state was working out protocols in districts where case fatality rate and positivity rates are high. “We are increasing testing capacity and bed facilities. So we can test, isolate and treat more people,” he said. On Monday, Chennai, reported 1,185 cases and 24 deaths. Its neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (308), Chengalpet (224) and Kancheepuram(174) together reported 706 cases and 14 deaths. The other seven northern districts reported 945 cases and 22 deaths. While Cuddalore reported 390 cases, Ranipet (151) and Villupuram (138) also reported cases in three digits. Ranipet reported seven deaths. The 10 southern districts together recorded 1,413 cases and 28 deaths. Theni had 279 cases, Kanyaumari 209, Virudhunagar 212, Dindigul 154, Tenkasi 147, Madurai 136, Tirunelveli 100, Tuticorin 75, Sivaganga 54 and Ramanathapuram 47. Tuticorin reported six deaths and Kanyakumari five. The western districts reported more cases and deaths compared to those in the central zone. Together the eight western districts logged 1,002 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore had the second-highest number of fresh cases and deaths after Chennai -- 393 cases and 10 deaths. There were 268 cases in Salem and 137 in Erode. While Tiruppur and Namakkal reported 70 and 65 cases each, Dharmapuri and Nilgiris had 28 and 27 cases. With 14 Krishnagiri added the lowest number of fresh cases in the zone. The central districts added 627 cases – a majority in Pudukottai (164), Trichy (121) and Thanjavur (113). Nagapattinam reported 10 cases, the lowest in the state. At least ten people whose deaths were reported on Monday had no comorbidities. A 53-year-old patient from Trichy admitted to a private hospital with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and end-state liver disease died on Monday. Doctors his death was caused by septicaemia and multi-organ failure and he “incidentally” tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-reports-120-covid-19-deaths-5890-new-cases/articleshow/77603277.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu reports 120 Covid-19 deaths, 5,890 new cases||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,890 Covid-19 cases and 120 deaths on Monday. The cumulative death toll touched 5,886. The state has 54,122 patients still under treatment. While 16% of the cases are still active, the recovery rate was close to 82%, the overall case fatality rate in the state was 1.6%. However, rate of recovery and case fatality are not uniform across the state. On Monday, six districts – Ariyalur, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, Thoothukudi and Villupuram – did not report any death. All 37 districts reported cases. So far, 11 districts have a case fatality rate higher than the state average and 13 districts had recovery rate higher than the state average. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan, said the state was working out protocols in districts where case fatality rate and positivity rates are high. “We are increasing testing capacity and bed facilities. So we can test, isolate and treat more people,” he said. On Monday, Chennai, reported 1,185 cases and 24 deaths. Its neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (308), Chengalpet (224) and Kancheepuram(174) together reported 706 cases and 14 deaths. The other seven northern districts reported 945 cases and 22 deaths. While Cuddalore reported 390 cases, Ranipet (151) and Villupuram (138) also reported cases in three digits. Ranipet reported seven deaths. The 10 southern districts together recorded 1,413 cases and 28 deaths. Theni had 279 cases, Kanyaumari 209, Virudhunagar 212, Dindigul 154, Tenkasi 147, Madurai 136, Tirunelveli 100, Tuticorin 75, Sivaganga 54 and Ramanathapuram 47. Tuticorin reported six deaths and Kanyakumari five. The western districts reported more cases and deaths compared to those in the central zone. Together the eight western districts logged 1,002 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore had the second-highest number of fresh cases and deaths after Chennai -- 393 cases and 10 deaths. There were 268 cases in Salem and 137 in Erode. While Tiruppur and Namakkal reported 70 and 65 cases each, Dharmapuri and Nilgiris had 28 and 27 cases. With 14 Krishnagiri added the lowest number of fresh cases in the zone. The central districts added 627 cases – a majority in Pudukottai (164), Trichy (121) and Thanjavur (113). Nagapattinam reported 10 cases, the lowest in the state. At least ten people whose deaths were reported on Monday had no comorbidities. A 53-year-old patient from Trichy admitted to a private hospital with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and end-state liver disease died on Monday. Doctors his death was caused by septicaemia and multi-organ failure and he “incidentally” tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-reports-120-covid-19-deaths-5890-new-cases/articleshow/77600552.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu reports 120 Covid-19 deaths, 5,890 new cases||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,890 Covid-19 cases and 120 deaths on Monday. The cumulative death toll touched 5,886. The state has 54,122 patients still under treatment. While 16% of the cases are still active, the recovery rate was close to 82%, the overall case fatality rate in the state was 1.6%. However, rate of recovery and case fatality are not uniform across the state. On Monday, six districts – Ariyalur, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, Thoothukudi and Villupuram – did not report any death. All 37 districts reported cases. So far, 11 districts have a case fatality rate higher than the state average and 13 districts had recovery rate higher than the state average. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan, said the state was working out protocols in districts where case fatality rate and positivity rates are high. “We are increasing testing capacity and bed facilities. So we can test, isolate and treat more people,” he said. On Monday, Chennai, reported 1,185 cases and 24 deaths. Its neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (308), Chengalpet (224) and Kancheepuram(174) together reported 706 cases and 14 deaths. The other seven northern districts reported 945 cases and 22 deaths. While Cuddalore reported 390 cases, Ranipet (151) and Villupuram (138) also reported cases in three digits. Ranipet reported seven deaths. The 10 southern districts together recorded 1,413 cases and 28 deaths. Theni had 279 cases, Kanyaumari 209, Virudhunagar 212, Dindigul 154, Tenkasi 147, Madurai 136, Tirunelveli 100, Tuticorin 75, Sivaganga 54 and Ramanathapuram 47. Tuticorin reported six deaths and Kanyakumari five. The western districts reported more cases and deaths compared to those in the central zone. Together the eight western districts logged 1,002 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore had the second-highest number of fresh cases and deaths after Chennai -- 393 cases and 10 deaths. There were 268 cases in Salem and 137 in Erode. While Tiruppur and Namakkal reported 70 and 65 cases each, Dharmapuri and Nilgiris had 28 and 27 cases. With 14 Krishnagiri added the lowest number of fresh cases in the zone. The central districts added 627 cases – a majority in Pudukottai (164), Trichy (121) and Thanjavur (113). Nagapattinam reported 10 cases, the lowest in the state. At least ten people whose deaths were reported on Monday had no comorbidities. A 53-year-old patient from Trichy admitted to a private hospital with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and end-state liver disease died on Monday. Doctors his death was caused by septicaemia and multi-organ failure and he “incidentally” tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tn-reports-120-covid-19-deaths-5890-new-cases/articleshow/77605455.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Pune||CCTV footage helps Pune cops crack Rs 8 lakh theft case||PUNE: CCTV footage of the registration number of a car used in the August 9 thefts of a music player and Rs8 lakh from two parked cars has led to the arrest of a Taloja-based criminal. The police have launched a hunt for the accomplice of the suspect, 24-year-old Sahil Qureshi. The accomplice is on the run with the Rs8 lakh cash. Qureshi and his accomplice had first stolen the music system from a car in Vishrantwadi on the night of August 9. The same night, they stole a bag containing Rs8 lakh in cash from a car belonging to a civil contractor, parked outside a housing society in Maharshinagar. The Vishrantwadi and Swargate police were investigating the two thefts, when they found CCTV footage showing both the men in the same car committing the theft. From the vehicle’s number, the police traced its owner, who told them that he had sold the car to Qureshi. “We obtained his cellphone number and, while analysing the call records, realized that he had been arrested for similar incidents in 2018. We reached his house at Taloja in Navi Mumbai and arrested him,” sub-inspector L R Satpute from the Vishrantwadi police said. “We analysed footage from 120 CCTV cameras to trace the routes used by Qureshi,” he said, adding, “We have recovered five music systems. He has been remanded in police custody till Tuesday.” The Swargate police said they would initiate the process of seeking Qureshi’s custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cctv-footage-helps-cops-crack-rs-8-lakh-theft-case/articleshow/77600462.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu reports 120 Covid-19 deaths, 5,890 new cases||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 5,890 Covid-19 cases and 120 deaths on Monday. The cumulative death toll touched 5,886. The state has 54,122 patients still under treatment. While 16% of the cases are still active, the recovery rate was close to 82%, the overall case fatality rate in the state was 1.6%. However, rate of recovery and case fatality are not uniform across the state. On Monday, six districts – Ariyalur, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Nagapattinam, Thoothukudi and Villupuram – did not report any death. All 37 districts reported cases. So far, 11 districts have a case fatality rate higher than the state average and 13 districts had recovery rate higher than the state average. Health secretary J Radhakrishnan, said the state was working out protocols in districts where case fatality rate and positivity rates are high. “We are increasing testing capacity and bed facilities. So we can test, isolate and treat more people,” he said. On Monday, Chennai, reported 1,185 cases and 24 deaths. Its neighbouring districts, Tiruvallur (308), Chengalpet (224) and Kancheepuram(174) together reported 706 cases and 14 deaths. The other seven northern districts reported 945 cases and 22 deaths. While Cuddalore reported 390 cases, Ranipet (151) and Villupuram (138) also reported cases in three digits. Ranipet reported seven deaths. The 10 southern districts together recorded 1,413 cases and 28 deaths. Theni had 279 cases, Kanyaumari 209, Virudhunagar 212, Dindigul 154, Tenkasi 147, Madurai 136, Tirunelveli 100, Tuticorin 75, Sivaganga 54 and Ramanathapuram 47. Tuticorin reported six deaths and Kanyakumari five. The western districts reported more cases and deaths compared to those in the central zone. Together the eight western districts logged 1,002 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore had the second-highest number of fresh cases and deaths after Chennai -- 393 cases and 10 deaths. There were 268 cases in Salem and 137 in Erode. While Tiruppur and Namakkal reported 70 and 65 cases each, Dharmapuri and Nilgiris had 28 and 27 cases. With 14 Krishnagiri added the lowest number of fresh cases in the zone. The central districts added 627 cases – a majority in Pudukottai (164), Trichy (121) and Thanjavur (113). Nagapattinam reported 10 cases, the lowest in the state. At least ten people whose deaths were reported on Monday had no comorbidities. A 53-year-old patient from Trichy admitted to a private hospital with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and end-state liver disease died on Monday. Doctors his death was caused by septicaemia and multi-organ failure and he “incidentally” tested positive for Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tn-reports-120-covid-19-deaths-5890-new-cases/articleshow/77603282.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid challenge: National judo champion decides to close gym||Ludhiana- The Covid-19 outbreak in Ludhiana has affected the life of another national judo player, Aryan Kumar, (22), who is struggling to continue with his sports activities under the present challenging conditions as he is finding it difficult to earn money from his profession of providing gym training to budding players. With the constant rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the district, the three-time national champion has decided to shut down his gym training centre at Focal Point here as he had failed to get adequate response from local sports enthusiasts and has started looking for some alternative option to sustain his living expenses. The poor financial conditions of his family has changed his priorities, who has forgotten his dream of becoming a national or international player after the government imposed several phases of lockdown owing to the outbreak of Covid-19. Aryan had first hogged limelight when he got selected for the first time in the north zone judo championship in 2019 after winning a gold medal in the Punjab judo championship, which was held in Delhi last year. Expressing his disappointment over the grim scenario, Aryan said, “My family is reeling under severe financial crises for the past five months because my father is a daily wager who couldn’t afford the basic expenses of our family as there are seven to eight members in our family and we have been facing several hardships to manage our household expenses.” “Moreover, my core profession of running a gym training centre is presently facing losses in the past five months as earlier it was closed owing to certain restrictions and now we have got permission to keep them open. But now people are not showing their interest in rejoining the training centre.” He further said that, “I want to continue my sports activities and make my country proud one day, but the situation has made the situation adverse against all budding sports lovers of the city in the past few months as most of them are sitting idle at their home and looking after some alternative job, which is really disappointing. I have also given up my dream job of running a gym in the district as I have been left with no option but to take up something different till the situation becomes normal.” “Moreover, the state government should bring out some concrete policy for national champions as they have the potential to bring medal at various national or international tournaments but they need to get financial support from all working bodies of sports ministry on priority basis,” Aryan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-challenge-national-judo-champion-decides-to-close-gym/articleshow/77599086.cms||RAHUL TAWAR
August 18, 2020||Dehradun||Flesh trade on rise in Haridwar as lockdown takes a toll on poor families||Haridwar: Flesh trade is becoming rampant in the holy city of Haridwar, especially since the pandemic lockdown, according to police, who believe the number of sex workers in the city has risen rapidly in the past few months. Recently, police arrested nine sex workers from different areas of the city within a week. Almost all of them come from poor families who were forced to get into the trade to make ends meet. Police officials said they have also been trying to involve social activists to counsel sex workers. SHO, City police station, Amarjeet Singh told TOI, “There are around 30 sex workers active in the city area. We’ve arrested nine of them. Some of them are in the profession for a long time, but many have joined after the lockdown rendered them economically vulnerable. Most are married women between 20 and 30 years, and have joined the trade to ensure their family’s survival.” According to police, most of the sex workers belong to other states, live on rent with their families in slums, and haven’t disclosed the nature of their new work to their families. A police official said that among the sex workers they have interrogated are those who earlier used to sell knick knacks to tourists during festivals and even those who used to work as domestic helps and lost their source of livelihood during the pandemic. “We did not find evidence of human trafficking in the case(s) so far, but our probe is on. The arrested sex workers said they all worked individually. Still, we’ve asked hoteliers and guest house owners not to let out rooms without IDs. We are also trying to involve social workers to counsel these sex workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/flesh-trade-on-rise-in-haridwar-as-lockdown-takes-a-toll-on-poor-families/articleshow/77597874.cms||MS Nawaz
August 18, 2020||Pune||‘Common sense’ helped this housing society in Pune stay safe||PUNE: As soon as nationwide and local Covid-19 restrictions set in, office-bearers of the massive Brahma Skycity housing society in Dhanori swung into action to keep residents safe. But they were careful — their measures did not bring lives to a complete standstill. “Our initiatives and responses were based on common sense. That’s how we kept residents safe,” said Manoj Ratanpure, the secretary of the housing society’s management committee. “When the lockdown was announced, we immediately asked our security staff not to let anyone enter the housing society’s gates without a valid reason. There were temperature screenings as well. And we asked people at risk to quarantine themselves,” he said. Most of these measures continued well after the lockdown, residents said. Ratanpure and his colleagues also decided not to give into panic and disallow “anything and everything”. They allowed entry of delivery personnel from e-commerce companies — after a screening. These delivery personnel were asked to ensure social distancing protocols. They also asked shops within their society to stay open so that residents didn’t have to step out too far for essentials and risk exposure. “There are some stores located in our complex and we ensured the units, which includes one vegetable stall, a grocery outlet and a clinic were accessible to residents. We also organised health screenings at this clinic,” Ratanpure added. There was even an exhibition of apparels, complete with all precautions, within the complex recently. It was organised in collaboration with a large retail chain. These proactive measures ensured that essentials, and some luxuries, continued despite widespread restrictions outside. There were mangoes coming in along with vegetables — all sold through the carefully organised stalls. And unlike many other housing societies, which completely barred the entry of domestic helps (even from non-containment zones), residents here allowed them in, but only after health screenings. For these screenings — at the clinic inside the complex — they tied up with a healthcare chain. “We decided to allow domestic helps to work at the apartments so that residents, particularly senior citizens, were not impacted. Of course, we asked them to get screened by a doctor,” said Ratanpure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/common-sense-helped-this-hsg-society-stay-safe/articleshow/77600485.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Vijayawada||In flood-hit Godavari dists, focus turns to relief camps||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy on Monday instructed officials to be on high alert in the wake of the flood situation in the two Godavari districts and provide necessary relief to affected people. During a review meeting on the flood situation with collectors of East and West Godavari districts, the chief minister said there should be preparedness from the side of officials and succour should be provided to people living in low-lying areas. The chief minister said people in relief camps should receive all possible help and there should be no difficulty in procuring essential commodities. Keeping in mind the ongoing Covid-19 outbreak, officials should exercise additional precautions and disaster response teams should be placed at vulnerable points and expenditure should not come in the way of providing help to the needy, the chief minister said. East Godavari district collector D Muralidhar Reddy said that 161 villages in 13 mandals have been affected by the floods and in Amalapuram, 12 villages have been affected. Sixty-three relief camps have been set up so far. “Masks and sanitizers have been made available in relief camps and people are being tested for Covid-19 wherever necessary. Medical camps are also being set up and nutritious food is provided and with the possibility of communication system getting affected, we are keeping satellite phones ready. We have 14 launches (mechanised boats) for ferrying essential goods. The crop loss has to be assessed after the floods recede,” he said. West Godavari district collector Mutyala Raju said 30 villages in seven mandals have been affected and drinking water is being provided. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams have been stationed at three places and the elderly and pregnant women are being evacuated, he said. Primary health centres are equipped with generators while medicines for snake bite have also been stored. At four places near Polavaram where the river bank is weak, sand bags have been placed to strengthen and prevent breaches, added the collector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/in-flood-hit-godavari-dists-focus-turns-to-relief-camps/articleshow/77599122.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Goa||Goa’s death toll at 111 as 7 more succumb to coronavirus||PANAJI: Goa’s Covid-19 death count rose to 111 with seven deaths reported on Monday. Two persons — a 67-year-old woman from Curchorem and a 35-year-old man from Chimbel — were brought dead to hospital and found positive in post mortem examination. Three persons — a 83-year-old from Siolim, a 91-year-old from Ponda and a 76-year-old woman from Baina– having comorbid conditions died while undergoing treatment at the Goa Medical college (GMC) and Hospital, Bambolim. Two women – a 64-year-old from Cuncolim and a 56-year-old from Aldona – who also had comorbid conditions succumbed to the virus at Covid hospital in Margao. The state’s tally of active cases increased to 3,825 with 355 new cases detected on Monday. As many as 283 patients were declared cured and discharged. While asymptomatic patients are discharged after ten days for quarantine, health minister Vishwajit Rane last week appealed to cured patients to remain in home isolation after being discharged from covid centres as a measure of abundant caution. The health centre that witnessed steep rise in cases on Monday was Margao urban health centre with its tally of active cases jumping to 480 as over 50 new infections were reported. Cases reported from Cansaulim primary health centre (PHC) rose to 104, active caseload of Ponda PHC reached 199, whereas Dharbandora health centre’s count stood at 126. Ponda and Dharbandora centres have seen a significant rise in their numbers owing to infections detected among industrial workers and their families. In North Goa, community health centres of Pernem and Valpoi witnessed a marginal rise in cases and their numbers stood at 158 and 146 respectively. Cases reported within the jurisdictions of Porvorim PHC rose to 166 with addition of over 20 new infections. The tally of Primary health centre at Candolim rose to 93 while that of Colvale to 91.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-death-toll-at-111-as-7-more-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/77601718.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Pune||PMPML to start services in PMC and PCMC areas||PUNE: Around 450 buses of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) are expected to hit the road from next week, with Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar giving the green signal to the transport body to start the services from August 22. However, senior citizens and children below 10 years would not be allowed to board the buses for now, officials said. “We will start the services in both the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) areas. An in-principle approval for the same has come from the commissioners of the both the corporations. A final meeting with them is scheduled this week and we hope to start the services from next week. While we are targeting to start the services from August 22, there might be a delay of a few days,” a senior PMPML official told TOI. The PMPML buses went off the roads on March 25 owing to Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Since then, while the PMPML has been running more than 200 buses only for those engaged in essential services, most buses have been lying idle, resulting in the transport body suffering a loss of more than Rs100 crore. “The CMD had a talk with Pawar regarding resumption of services for the general public. The minister agreed and asked him to talk to the commissioners and come up with a proper plan. The transport body has around 1,800 buses and we will utilise 25% of the capacity for now. However, we expect to ramp it up to 50% in the coming days,” the official pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-start-services-in-pmc-and-pcmc-areas/articleshow/77600546.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 18, 2020||Meerut||BJP leader murder: Kin demand CBI probe as Baghpat SP shifted, say ‘not satisfied with police inquiry’||Meerut: Days after former BJP district president Sanjay Khokhar was shot dead in Chaprauli area of Baghpat, his sons met UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and demanded a CBI inquiry into their father’s murder. The meeting, however, coincided with the shifting of the Baghpat SP. The SP is the third police officer who has been transferred from Baghpat since Khokhar’s murder on August 11. Chaprauli police station SHO was suspended as the immediate fallout of the crime, while additional SP Anit Kumar was transferred a day later. Now, Baghpat SP Ajay Kumar is transferred to Mirzapur. Abhishek Singh, who had a stint with the Special Task Force (STF), will shortly take over Kumar in Baghpat. Although police have arrested three of the five accused named in the FIR, the family says they are “dissatisfied with the inquiry”. Speaking to TOI, Khokhar’s son Akshay said, “We met the CM on Sunday and demanded a CBI inquiry into the murder, as we are not at all satisfied with the police inquiry. Ever since we filed an FIR, police did not even bother to apprise us of any development. It seems they are disinterested. It is through newspapers or well-wishers that we are getting information in bits and pieces. We want a thorough inquiry to know who all are involved in the murder.” According to Akshay, at least five men hiding in the fields came out and shot his father dead from a close range. They shot Khokhar in his head and chest and he died on the spot. Police suspect personal enmity as the reason behind the murder. Khokhar’s family, however, lodged an FIR against five people, including four identified — Nitin Dhankad, Mayank Dalad, Vineet Kumar and Ankur Sharma — and one unidentified. Two of them were arrested shortly after the murder while Dhankad, who had a few days ago released a video on social media pleading his innocence, was arrested on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bjp-leader-murder-kin-demand-cbi-probe-as-baghpat-sp-shifted-say-not-satisfied-with-police-inquiry/articleshow/77597888.cms||Sandeep Rai
August 18, 2020||Goa||Coal probably fuelling push for Mollem projects: Madhav Gadgil||PANAJI: Noted ecologist and chairman of Western Ghats Ecology Experts’ Panel (WGEEP), Madhav Gadgil said that he suspects that the three linear projects, including highway and railway line expansion, are being pushed through ecologically sensitive Mollem national park and sanctuary areas to facilitate coal transportation from Vasco port. “The coal berths at the Vasco da Gama port that are promoting the interests of some very influential parties have been a matter of great controversy over the past few years. This coal needs to be rapidly and cheaply transported, and it seems very likely that the controversial linear projects through the ecologically sensitive Mollem area are driven by these considerations,” he said. Gadgil and his team had submitted its recommendations in the WGEEP report for protection of Western Ghats and other measures to the ministry of environment, forests and climate change in August 2011. “These recommendations were made nine years back without considering some important factors, especially airports and seaports. I have now realised that these are very critical issues for the Western Ghats. In Goa itself, there is a proposal for the Mopa airport,” he said. The government has maintained that Mopa airport is suitable to cater to future growth and will boost the economy and facilitate carge movement. Critics have said the project is not economically viable but is being promoted to promote real estate interests under guise of public interest. “The surplus land would then be made over to other influential parties to set up hotels and resorts as has happened with Delhi and many other airports,” Gadgil said. Further, he said that it is vital to consider increasing threats from climate change, at this stage. “The Arabian Sea is getting warmer year by year and has now become warm enough that for the first time ever a supercyclone, Nisarg hit the west coast at Raigad district of Maharastra on June 3. Over the years, there are bound to be more on the west coast, even hitting Goa and, for all we know, may destroy the Vasco da Gama port,” he said. The WGEEP panel had suggested classification of the Western Ghats into zones of three levels of ecological sensitivity. The ecologically most sensitive localities were to be categorized as ESZ1, those with medium level of sensitivity ESZ2 and those with lower levels of sensitivity ESZ3. Wildlife Sanctuaries and National Parks are included in ESZ1. “We had suggested that there should basically be no interference of any sort in the ecologically most sensitive zone ESZ1,” Gadgil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coal-probably-fuelling-push-for-mollem-projects-gadgil/articleshow/77601712.cms||Paul Fernandes
August 18, 2020||Pune||Water flows from Panshet for first time this monsoon||PUNE: The continuous spells of rain in the catchment have increased the water levels in most dams in he district closer to their full capacities. The irrigation department on Monday released water from 12 of the 26 major dams in the Bhima basin, including Khadakwasla and Panshet that supply water to Pune city. The stock in Panshet went up to 99% on Monday evening, which led to discharge of water at the rate of 2,000 cusecs. Water was discharged for the first time from Panshet this monsoon. This increased the release from Khadakwasla to 9,416 cusec to accommodate the water flowing in from Panshet dam. The collective storage in four dams supplying water to Pune reached up to 25.82 TMC (88.6%) of the total storage capacity of 29.15 TMC on Monday evening. An irrigation department official said water discharge from Khadakwasla might go up by Tuesday if the rainfall in the catchment continued, as there was no more storage space in Panshet. Panshet, with its total storage capacity of 10.65 TMC, is the key dam for Pune. The dam’s storage had depleted to 20% during summer. The catchment of this dam has recorded over 1.500mm rainfall so far. The storage in Pavana dam that supplies water to Pimpri Chinchwad also witnessed a fairly good increase. It rose to 6.26 TMC (73.6%) on Monday evening with the catchment receiving over 30mm rainfall. Among the other major dams that discharged water into various rivers were Mulshi, Vir, Andra, Gunjawani, Vadivale, Kasarsai and Kalmodi. Stocks in all these dams were above 95% of their respective storage capacities. The irrigation department official said alerts have been issued in all the areas near the rivers in Pune district and citizens have been told to shift to safer places because of the rising water levels. “We have also updated the municipal corporations and councils located near the rivers to take precautionary measures,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/water-flows-from-panshet-for-first-time-this-monsoon/articleshow/77600545.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 18, 2020||Meerut||Minor girl abducted, gang-raped by classmate & his 2 friends in Saharanpur||MEERUT: A 16-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and gang-raped by three youths, including one of her classmates, in Saharanpur district. The alleged incident took place on August 15 when the girl was going to her friend’s house. According to the complaint, two accused met her on the way and asked her to accompany them. “When she refused, they threatened her. Since she knew one of them, she accompanied them,” a police officer said. They took the girl to a nearby home, where another accused was also present, and allegedly raped her. The girl was rescued when some neighbours heard her screams, police said. All the three accused, Chand, Nawed and Azeem, were booked for gang rape. One of them has been arrested. Saharanpur’s superintendent of police (City) Vineet Bhatnagar said, “The victim was sent to medical examination and her statement has been recorded. One of the accused, who is also a classmate of the victim, has been arrested. Efforts are being made to trace others.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/minor-girl-abducted-gang-raped-by-classmate-his-2-friends-in-saharanpur/articleshow/77597897.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||No ‘low-ranking civil servants’, let tech hands run operations: Railway engineers||LUCKNOW: The simmering squabble between Indian Railways' officers from technical and non-technical backgrounds reached the ministry when general secretaries of five associations of engineers wrote a letter demanding that only officers with technical background be allowed to run the operations. To buttress their point in the letter, dated August 12, representatives of the engineering wing termed non-technical officers as “low-ranking civil servants who enter service after several attempts and at an old age”, and demanded that only officers with technical background should manage the railways. The development comes in the backdrop of the railway ministry’s plan to conduct a separate examination for Indian Railway Management Services to revamp cadre and end the tussle between top rung officials from technical and non-technical backgrounds. At present, recruitments to Indian Railway Accounts Service, Indian Railway Personnel Service and Indian Railway Traffic Service are made through UPSC civil services exam while those for technical services are done through UPSC’s Engineering Services Examination. At present, recruitments to Indian Railway Accounts Service (IRAS), Indian Railway Personnel Service (IRPS) and Indian Railway Traffic Service (IRTS) are made through UPSC civil services examination while those for technical services are done through UPSC’s Engineering Services Examination (ESE).The letter has five signatories at the level of general secretary of railway engineering associations like IRSEOA (Indian Railway Service of Engineers Officers Association), IRSEEOA (Indian Railway Service of Electrical Engineers Officers Association), IRSSOA (Indian Railway Store Service Officers Association) and IRSMEOA (Indian Railway Service of Mechanical Engineers Officers Association). According to sources, the letter is a counter argument to a letter submitted by general secretaries of IRTS, IRAS and IRPS associations to the principal secretary to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). Non-technical officers have argued that merging or restructuring of all railway services into one service — Indian Railway Management Service (IRMS) — would be detrimental to smooth operations of railways. They recommended dual structure of non-technical (IRTS, IRAS and IRPS) and technical services (engineering services). At present, out of 16 general managers of railway zones, only three are non-technical. In the Railway Board, out of nine, only three senior officers have non-technical background. “Railways is a technology-driven organisation and at present 72% of Group A organised services (IRSE, IRSME, IRSEE, IRSSE and IRSS) constitutes of core engineers recruited through Engineering Services Examination (ESE), while 28% officials of non-technical services (IRTS, IRAS and IRPS) are recruited through civil services examination out of whom 60% are also engineers,” the letter from technical officers said. The engineering association recommended that recruitments for the entire IRMS should be done through ESE in which only engineers are recruited. “UPSC may conduct separate examination for IRMS, on the lines of Indian Forest Services (IFS), where candidates may be asked to write the examination in their core competence. This will ensure that only those candidates enter the service who have consciously opted for IRMS. This will bring in willing officers rather than low-ranking candidates, who enter IRMS after several attempts and at an old age,” the letter added. A senior railway official, who did not wish to be named, said: “This year, not a single person was recruited for IRMS, thanks to the engineering association lobby. Engineers are recruited to ensure safety of railway operations, and if they occupy administrative posts, safety aspects will also get affected as there will be no check on them. Civil servants are trained to ensure good administration, while engineering service requires a different set of skills.” “Court cases and summons are increasing as more administrative posts are being given to officers with technical background. There are separate HR, operations & accounts wings in organisations to maintain checks and balances. If all these are merged, the entire system will collapse,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-low-ranking-civil-servants-let-tech-hands-run-ops-rly-engrs/articleshow/77601714.cms||Arvind Chauhan
August 18, 2020||Kochi||When cops in PPE kits seized two churches in Kerala||KOCHI: Following a two-day long coordinated effort by Ernakulam administration and rural police, Marthoman Church at Mulanthuruthy was taken over by the administration at 5am on Monday. Later at 10.30am, district administration took over Onakkoor Sehion Church near Piravom. The early morning exercise was executed after meticulous planning considering the pandemic situation, said police sources. Rural police sealed off Mulanthuruthy town late by Sunday night to avoid more gatherings at church premises. At the same time, those who were already inside the church since Friday, conducting prayers as a mode of protest, were allowed to stay. A force of 300 policemen reached the spot on Monday morning. To avoid, intermingling of the reserve force, they were asked to stay ready near their vehicles. “As many as 100 personnel were on the field and 50 were clad in PPE kits. 20 of them were women. They were able to clear the crowd within 30 minutes so that court order could be executed,” said an officer. As gates of the church were locked, police broke open the locks to gain access to the church compound. “There was no lathicharge and no one was injured. After evicting them, we told them to go home, instead of recording their arrest. However, some insisted that they be arrested. Around 65 such persons were arrested and immediately let off on bail,” said an officer, adding that people cooperated at Onakkoor and 22 persons were arrested there. However, Jacobite faction alleged police excess as bishops, priests and the faithful were dragged away from the spot. Jacobite faction at Kothamangalam Valiyapally hoisted a black flag on the church’s flagpole to register protest and it also faced severe criticism by Jacobite faction members on social media. Media cell chairman of Jacobite faction Kuriakose Mar Theophilose said in a statement that police made use of Covid restrictions to seize the church. “We begged for time till 10am when high court was set to consider the issue, but the RDO and police officials did not listen. In the melee, several people including two metropolitans and a child sustained injuries. Five metropolitans were arrested,” he said. Police said the churches were locked and keys were handed over to district administrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-in-ppe-kits-take-over-two-churches-in-ernakulam/articleshow/77597881.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Pune||‘Corona-free’ autos in Pune try to drive infection fear away||PUNE: A total of 100 autorickshaws, proclaiming to be ‘Corona-mukta’ or Corona-free, have hit the city streets in a bid to instill confidence among commuters to use three-wheelers. Nitin Pawar of Rickshaw Panchayat, the largest autorickshaw union in the city, said that the initiative was a joint move by the union and district administration to encourage use of three-wheelers. Around 70,000 autorickshaws are registered in Pune and close to 25,000 in Pimpri Chinchwad, but only 40% of them ply in both the areas owing to lack of passengers. “The autorickshaws which have been chosen for the initiative have undertaken proper safety measures. We have joined hands with several social organisations and ensured that the drivers get hand sanitisers, masks and face shields, which they need to wear while driving. The gap between the driver’s seat and passengers has to be covered with the material used to make inner linings of bags,” he said. “Also, all drivers have been provided with spray guns containing sodium hypochlorite solution, which they need to spray on seats before and after each trip preferably in front of passengers. Such autorickshaws will also sport ‘Corona-mukta’ stickers,” Pawar added. “Things have been bad for autorickshaw drivers and we hardly get a maximum of two-three passengers daily. We hope that this initiative will help people feel safe and our ridership will grow,” an autorickshaw driver said. “Around 60% drivers are without work. They are either sitting at home, gone back to their villages or have taken to selling vegetables. Moreover, with the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) expected to start services soon, we will be in a further difficult situation,” another driver said. However, many commuters said that they were still not confident of travelling in autorickshaws. “Many people travel throughout the day in autorickshaws. I have doubts whether the drivers sanitise the vehicles after every trip. People will be confident about travelling in autorickshaws only after Covid-19 cases start dwindling in Pune. Till then people will be wary of using public transport lest something happens,” said Anwar Shaikh, a working professional from Kothrud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corona-free-autos-try-to-drive-infection-fear-away/articleshow/77600500.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Need a local rescue force in Idukki, says sub-collector||IDUKKI: Experts in the field of geology said that the landslide at Pettimudy in Idukki, which claimed 58 lives on August 7, is one of the deadliest in Kerala’s history in terms of casualty over the past two decades. The other major ones that happened in the recent past are as follows. On August 8, 2019 a major landslide at Kavalappara near Nilambur in Malappuram claimed 59 lives (48 dead, 11 missing) while the one in Puthumala, Wayanad killed 17 others. In November 2001 at Amboori, the natural disaster claimed 39 lives. Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan – in an interim report submitted to the government on August 15, stressed on the need for strengthening local rescue teams in the wake of increasing landslides in the district. “Landslide is a major issue here and over the past three years, Idukki saw massive destruction triggered by landslides. Hence we need to be better prepared and if a local rescue force with good equipment is trained and ready, it will help immediate rescue operations,” he said. Assistant professor at University of Kerala’s geology department Sajin Kumar KS said, “To minimize loss, there is a need to install an array of automatic real-time rain gauges and identify threshold value of rain that triggers a landslide based on previous events (threshold value varies according to a place). Based on real-time monitoring of rain and the derived threshold, an early warning can be issued.” Idukki geologist Biju Sebastian said Geological Survey of India will study the landslide at Pettimudy and submit a report to government. Meanwhile, search and rescue teams did not locate anything on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/need-a-local-rescue-force-in-idukki-sub-collector/articleshow/77597893.cms||Sandeep Thomas
August 18, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP stages series of protests in show of strength against liquor mafia||Ludhiana: In a big show of strength the district unit of the BJP, Ludhiana, staged a series of protests against the Punjab government, accusing the state government of inaction against the liquor mafia in the case of hooch tragedy, which claimed lives of over 100 persons. Different teams of the BJP protested in all six constituencies, including north, central, west, east, Atam Nagar and south. The protest saw a huge gathering of the workers at several spots, including Jalandhar bypass, where the BJP workers had even erected a tent for the protest. At one or two spots traffic snarl ups were also witnessed due to the dharna. Meanwhile, in the evening Ludhiana police registered FIRs against more than 100 office-bearers and workers of the party. Division number 5 police lodged FIR against prominent BJP leaders Kamal Chatly, Pushpinder Singhal, Sunil Moudgil, Davinder Singh Ghumman and several others, while division number 7 registered FIR against BJP’s Naval Jain, Kailash Chaudhary, Gurdeep Singh Sodhi and several others. Another FIR was registered by Salem Tabri police station against Parveen Bansal, Mahesh Dutt Sharma and about 50 others. Sahnewal police station too registered an FIR against 15 BJP workers and leaders. All FIRs have been registered under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC and several sections of the disaster management act. Giving more information about the protest, Pushpindar Singhal, district president of BJP, said, “As per instructions of our senior leaders, including state president Ashwani Sharma, a series of protest was organised by the district unit of the BJP in all constituencies of Ludhiana. The main purpose for staging this protest was to wake up the Punjab government, which is virtually sleeping on the issue of the murder of 120 innocent Punjabis by liquor mafia. We were forced to resort to protest in order to get justice for the families of the victims who till now have been ignored by the government. By such inaction of the government it is clear that the Congress is trying to save people who are under its political patronage and have executed this genocide by supplying hooch to the innocent people” Singhal added that, “Our entire team of leaders and workers came out in large numbers on Monday to raise their voice against the atrocities of this government and to show solidarity with the families of the victims and to let them know that the BJP was standing with them shoulder to shoulder and we will go to any extent to ensure that the guilty are given strictest of punishment. In the north constituency our senior leaders Parveen Bansal and Kartendu Sharma led the protest, in central constituency it was led by Gurdev Sharma Debi and Ashwani Behl. The protest in west constituency was led by Kamal Chatly and Yogender Makol. At all spots it was ensured that proper social distancing and safety norms in the wake of coronavirus are followed and no inconvenience is caused to the public.” Others present in the protest included Yashpal Janotra, Sunita Sharma, Mahesh Sharma, Rohit Sikka, Deepak Gupta, Rajinder Sharma, Ajay Gupta, Harish Saggar, Dinesh Sarpal, Santosh Kalra, Sunil Mehra, Inder Aggarwal,, Om Parkash Ratra, Yashpal Chaudhary, Rajkumar Atwal, Sukhjeev Bedi, Kailash Chuadhary, Naval Jain among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-stages-series-of-protests-in-show-of-strength-against-liquor-mafia/articleshow/77599107.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Water level crosses 18ft, third flood alert issued||Rajahmundry: With the flood situation in East and West Godavari districts turning from bad to worse, a third flood warning was issued at Sir Arthur Cotton barrage in Dowlaiswaram on Monday evening. The water level of Godavari at the barrage has crossed 18.20 feet and likely to further rise, while 19.69 lakh cusecs of water is being released into the sea from the barrage. At Bhadrachalam, the water level had reached 61.60 feet by Monday evening and was still rising as incessant rains continue in the catchment areas. Several island and low-lying villages in Konaseema have been cut off from the mainland. With water levels showing no signs of receding, more and more villages are getting marooned in the four submerged mandals in East Godavari district. In West Godavari, 19 villages in Polavaram mandal are completely cut off from the mainland. Over 22,000 people have already been evacuated from the affected villages. Besides shelter homes, evacuees are being housed in school buildings. Amalapuram sub-collector Himanshu Kaushik said 51 villages have been affected by the floods, while 12 villages are partially inundated. “The situation is under control, but the next two days are going to be crucial,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/water-level-crosses-18ft-third-flood-alert-issued/articleshow/77599137.cms||Samson Raj
August 18, 2020||Pune||Trio use car for burglary in Wakdewadi||Pune: Three well-dressed burglars came in a white car, struck at a locked flat in a three-storeyed building near the Wakdewadi riverside and fled with cash and valuables worth Rs65,000 in the wee hours of Sunday. The owner (60) of the flat lodged a complaint with the Khadki police later in the day. Sub-inspector Vikas Shinde of the Khadki police said the man’s relatives, who stay in the same building, woke up around 3am and heard some noises. He looked outside and spotted a white car and the trio. The burglary then came to light, he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-use-car-for-burglary-in-wakdewadi/articleshow/77600527.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Meerut||UP: SI probing dowry suspended for inappropriate videos, texts||MEERUT: A UP police sub-inspector of Bulandshahr district was suspended following a probe into claims of inappropriate texts and videos sent by him to a woman complainant in a dowry harassment case which he was investigating. Another investigating officer was appointed to carry on with the case proceedings, police said on Monday. Several Whatsapp chat screenshots of the conversation between the accused SI and the woman complainant has been widely shared on social media. The SI has been identified as Ajay Prakash Singh, a police outpost in-charge in Bulandshahr district. According to the Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Kumar Singh, he was made aware about the incident following which a probe was initiated and allegations against the accused SI making inappropriate video calls was found to be true. "I received information through personal sources that a SI was sending inappropriate videos and texts to a woman complainant. I had not received any official complaint from the complainant but a preliminary probe was conducted and allegations were found to be true. The accused policeman was suspended and another officer was deputed to probe into the harassment case," the SSP Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/si-probing-dowry-suspendedfor-inappropriate-videos-texts/articleshow/77597914.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bareilly||CBI catches UP Prathama Gramin Bank GM taking Rs 50,000 ‘bribe’||Bareilly: A general manager (GM) of Prathama UP Gramin Bank was caught red-handed by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) sleuths while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 50,000 at his residence in Moradabad's Ramganga Vihar area on Sunday night. The bank GM has been arrested and a probe ordered. The CBI team was at the GM’s home to conduct a search. According to the sleuths, the team had received complaints from a Ghaziabad-based private company which had accused the official of taking bribes on pretext of filing tenders for loan recovery. A sum of Rs 5 lakh and LED TV has been recovered from the GM’s house. Speaking to media persons on Monday, a CBI official confirmed that Ravi Kant, the GM of the bank at Civil Lines in Moradabad, was caught taking a bribe. The official said that the accused had demanded Rs 50,000 from a recovery agency for a tender and was caught during the CBI raid. The CBI official added, “A Ghaziabad-based firm had earlier lodged a complaint against the bank GM of taking bribes to accept tenders. He was under the scanner ever since. The CBI anti-corruption team during an inspection caught the accused taking Rs 50,000 bribe from another private firm for accepting tenders.” Several teams from CBI reached the bank's headquarters which is also the main branch of Moradabad district in the Civil Lines area on Sunday. The CBI teams conducted raids at the GM’s residence and the process of interrogating the accused and his family members was initiated. It lasted for several hours. The accused was later arrested and taken to Ghaziabad for further interrogation. “The accused will be appearing before the CBI court in Ghaziabad. Bank records are also being scanned and an investigation is underway,” the CBI official added. The merger of two rural banks - Sarva UP Gramin Bank, Meerut, and Prathama Gramin Bank, Moradabad - led to the creation of this bank on April 1, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cbi-catches-up-prathama-gramin-bank-gm-taking-rs-50000-bribe/articleshow/77597909.cms||Maria Khan
August 18, 2020||Pune||Sawai favourite Pt Jasraj always a special vocalist||PUNE: Hindustani classical vocalist Pandit Jasraj, who breathed his last in the US on Monday aged 90, had a strong bond with the city that spanned 55 years. He is believed to have sung for the first time at the Sawai Gandharva festival in 1965 (raga Nat Bhairav). He held sway over the audience at the festival over the years when he sang ragas Lalit, Jog, Darbari, Anand Bhairav, and others. Shriniwas Joshi, son of late Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, recalled when the maestro came for the festival in the late 1990s. “My mother was unwell and couldn’t attend the concert. So, he came home the next day and sang for her,” he said. Other artistes said he was encouraging to young musicians, open minded and loving. His disciple Sanjeev Abhyankar said, “Guruji used to say ‘Jisko Poona ne sun liya, usko duniya ne sun liya.’ He was especially happy that the first programme of ‘Jasrangi’ – his invention (co-singing of a male and female artist two different ragas at the same time) in 1992 was held in Pune.” Prominent vocalist Ulhas Kashalkar said for 60-70 years, he ruled over listeners’ hearts. “He established his own identity by coming up with an attractive style. His singing had this unique appeal of pleasing common listeners and musicians as well. His biggest contribution is the sheer volume of new listeners that he gave to classical music.” Veteran Kirana gharana vocalist Prabha Atre said, “Jasraj was one of the few who concentrated on music as an art form. Being associated with devotional music, he knew how to project words.” Popular singer Rahul Deshpande said, “He was the last of the great classical singers. The last Roman. I was in my teens when he came as a chief guest to a competition. His blessings, and the energy he gave me will remain with me.” Abhyankar said, “When the art is intellectual, it is bound to be somewhat complicated. Guruji’s greatness lies in the fact that listeners felt it is simple. He had a universal appeal with his limitless ability.” Sheil Sadwelkar, his neighbour in Kondhwa, said, “He came to Pune last February. While saying goodbye, he said he was not sure where we would meet again. Despite his falling health, this comment was quite uncharacteristic. We feel like orphans now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sawai-favourite-pt-jasraj-always-a-special-vocalist/articleshow/77600549.cms||Amit Karmarkar
August 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru riots: Bent on recovering costs, govt seeks a claims commissioner||BENGALURU: The government will soon move the Karnataka high court, seeking permission to appoint a ‘claims commissioner’ to assess and recover damages caused to public and private property during the August 11 violence in east Bengaluru. A decision to this effect was taken on Monday at a meeting chaired by chief minister BS Yediyurappa with home minister Basavaraj Bommai, Advocate-General Prabhuling Navadagi and senior police officers. “As per a Supreme Court order, appointment of a claims commissioner by the HC is necessary for the purpose of assessing damages caused and recovery from the culprits,” Bommai said, while insisting the government will recover damages from the rioters. “So, we will approach the HC soon.” The state also decided to constitute a three-member team of special prosecutors to enable effective and speedy trail of cases pertaining to the riots, Bommai said. He said police will invoke provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act where possible, besides the Goonda Act. Bommai said legislator Akhanda Srinivasamurthy, whose house was gutted in the riots, has not named anyone in his complaint. “But we have enough evidence to conduct an inquiry into the house-burning incident,” Bommai said, while appealing to Srinivasamurthy to cooperate with the police. Rejecting the demand for a CBI or NIA investigation, Bommai said: “The state government has already ordered a magisterial inquiry. Besides, police are also investigating the case.” He said a special team led by senior IPS officer Sandeep Patil has been formed for the purpose. On banning SDPI and PFI, the minister said the home department is currently collecting information on the involvement of these organisations in such incidents in the past. “The matter will be placed before the cabinet which will take a final call,” he said.  Beleaguered Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy met chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Monday and sought a CBI probe into August 11 riots besides protection for himself. “The government has provided security for my house, but not for me,” Srinivasamurthy said. “I asked the CM to provide personal security and to also order a CBI inquiry into the riots.” He also requested the government to provide compensation to his neighbours, whose vehicles were burnt by rioters. Incidentally, Srinivasamurthy was accompanied by BJP MLA and former minister Aravind Limbavali when he met the CM, triggering speculation that he might join BJP, but Srinivasamurthy said, “There is no question of me leaving Congress. My father was in Congress and I will also remain in Congress forever. Congress is in my blood.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-riots-govt-to-approach-hc-to-appoint-claims-commissioner/articleshow/77598462.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Meerut||Missing for over a week, ‘abducted’Bijnor girl rescued, youth arrested||Bijnor: Missing under mysterious circumstances for over a week, police on Monday rescued a girl from Afjalgarh area and arrested the youth who had allegedly kidnapped her. Following a complaint lodged by the girl’s father against the youth — hailing from a different community — and his parents after she went missing on August 8, police booked the trio under sections 363 (punishment for kidnapping), 366 (kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage, etc) and 120b (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and pressed into action five teams and also alerted all police stations in the district about the missing girl. According to police sources, as the matter was related to different communities, several outfits were trying to paint it with the communal colour. And thus, sensing the gravity of the situation, superintendent of police (rural) Sanjeev Tyagi formed five teams to rescue the girl and arrest the youth. The breakthrough, however, came on Monday. The SP said, “Police have arrested the accused for seducing and kidnapping the girl, while his family members will be arrested for helping the youth abduct the girl. Police are searching for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/missing-for-over-a-week-abductedbijnor-girl-rescued-youth-arrested/articleshow/77597905.cms||Harveer Dabas
August 18, 2020||Goa||AIIMS team coming to Goa to treat Shripad Naik for Covid-19||PANAJI: A team of doctors from the AIIMS, New Delhi, will arrive in Goa on Tuesday to treat Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik who tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The team will comprise heads of the anaesthesiology and pulmonary medicine departments. A statement issued by the department of information and publicity on Monday said that the minister is presently on high flow nasal oxygen (HFNO) to maintain his oxygen saturation level. He was administered the first dose of convalescent plasma under the supervision of a transfusion medicine specialist who recently joined Goa from AIIMS. “He is responding well to the plasma therapy,” the statement added. Naik was admitted to Manipal Hospital, Dona Paula, on Thursday. He is currently being treated by a team from GMC and Manipal Hospital. CM Pramod Sawant visited the hospital and interacted with Naik’s family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aiims-team-coming-to-goa-to-treat-shripad-for-covid-19/articleshow/77601730.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Another CBI case against textile company directors||Ludhiana: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has slapped another case on the directors of already troubled city-based textile conglomerate, SEL Textiles Limited. The case was registered for cheating a consortium of 10 Indian banks of Rs 1,530 crore. The Saluja family, including Ram Sharan and both his sons, Neeraj and Dhiraj, who are directors in SEL Textiles Limited, has been named as accused in the FIR along with several others. As per sources in the CBI, a search was also conducted at homes and offices of the directors, but no arrests have been made so far. Some public servants too have been booked under sections 120-B, 403, 420, 467, 468 and 471 of the IPC and Section 13(2)r/w13(1)(d) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. The FIR was registered by CBI on August 6 on the complaint of the Central Bank of India, in which it was alleged that the company and its directors indulged in criminal conspiracy to defraud the banks and divert loan funds with an intention to misappropriate them between 2009-13, causing a loss of Rs 1,530 crore to 10 public sector banks of the consortium. As per the complaint, SEL also did huge non-genuine transactions with a Canada-based company, Aarti Impex, which has been named in Panama papers. According to complainant Vinod Kumar Malik of the Central Bank of India, “In 2009, SEL Textiles Limited had availed different loans worth Rs 40.2 crore from our bank. The credit limits were under the consortium banking arrangement and our bank was its leader and Allahabad Bank a member. Thereafter, the company approached our Focal Point, Ludhiana, branch on several occasions for enhancement of cash credit (CC) limits for working capital requirement and also availed several term loans. Various credit limits and enhancements were given over the passage of time and overall Rs 1,530.99 crore plus interest is due from the company to the consortium. A forensic audit report in 2017 was submitted by M/s GSA & Associates, chartered accountants, through which the lenders came to know that the company had diverted huge funds of the banks for wrongful acts.”Malik also said in his complaint, “Some of the major observations that came to the fore in the report included opaque and recalcitrant approach towards lenders; inadequate disclosures at the time of forensic audit, giving credence to wilful default impression; diversion of short-term funds for long-term uses as well as re-routing of money from business for acquiring unproductive assets; and delay in realisation of sales proceeds from select parties leading to continuous increase in levels of sundry debtors from a few big customers and they all appear to be suspected related entities or acting in concert, controlled directly or indirectly by the company.”Earlier in November 2019, the CBI had registered a case against SEL Manufacturing Company, in which there were several other directors besides the Saluja trio, on the complaint of Bank of Maharashtra. The bank officials had claimed that the firm had defrauded their institution of Rs 113.55 crore by resorting to various mala fide activities, such as diversion of funds, not utilising the loan for the purpose for which it was sanctioned, improper reporting of the financial data and other charges. At the time too, raids were conducted at various premises of the company. Repeated attempts to contact the Salujas and other officials of the company remained futile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/another-cbi-case-against-textile-company-directors/articleshow/77599193.cms||Mohit Behl
August 18, 2020||Kolhapur||81 test +ve in Satara village in a day, dist reports 443 cases||Kolhapur: The Satara district administration has turned its focus on the Rajewadi Nigdi village, where 81 people were found Covid-19 positive on Monday. As many as 443 positive cases have been recorded in the district since Sunday night. There have been nine Covid fatalities. Officials said the administration has put up a camp for rapid antigen tests in the Rajewadi Nigdi village, located in the Parli valley on Satara-Sajjangad road. Antigen tests were conducted on 150 people there and 81 of them were found positive, the officials said. More tests will follow. Till a few days ago, the village did not have any Covid-19 cases. Officials said a family in the village had organised a religious function at their home, which was attended by many local residents. A guest from Pune, who was Covid-19 infected, had also attended the function. Officials suspect the guest may have been the source of infection. Meanwhile, Karad tehsil added 73 new cases, including 34 patients from the town. Satara tehsil added 201 cases, which included the 81 patients from Rajewadi Nigdi. A large number of patients (50) were also reported from the Satara town. Wai tehsil identified 44 new cases, including six from Udtare village. Maan tehsil added 24 patients, including 18 from Mhaswad village. Khatav and Koregaon tehsils reported 34 and 28 cases, respectively. Cases were also found in Patan, Mahabaleshwar tehsil. Khandala added 22 cases. Satara district’s tally has now risen to 10,157 cases. As many as 5,707 patients have been discharged so far and there are 4,144 active cases. So far, 306 deaths have taken place in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/81-test-ve-in-satara-village-in-a-day-dist-reports-443-cases/articleshow/77727614.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||132 zones denotified between Aug 13 to 17||Visakhapatnam: The number of Covid-19 denotified zones in Visakhapatnam district has risen to 171 over the last few days, a significant rise from 39 denotified zones between July 7 and August 12. Between August 13 to 17, 132 containment zones were denotified after no new Covid-19 cases was reported in these areas for 28 days. The district as on August 17 has 222 active and very active containment zones (no new cases between five to 13 days) and 515 dormant zones (no new cases in the last 14 days). Twenty-five zones were denotified on June 21. The next denotification (98 zones) took place on August 12. In another encouraging trend, the number of new positive cases in the district appears to have stabilised over the last fortnight. Special officer for Covid-19, north-coastal AP, Dr PV Sudhakar said, “There seems to be a slight stabilising trend in the occurrence of Covid-19 cases. The daily new cases have not crossed the 1,000-mark since August 3. In fact, on August 16 and 17, new cases reported were 512 and 519 respectively, though daily 3,000-4,000 tests are being conducted. But we have to watch if this stablising trend sustains for a month or so.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/132-zones-denotified-between-aug-13-to-17/articleshow/77599167.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 18, 2020||Goa||Purohits offer DIY worship solutions for Ganesh Chaturthi||MARGAO: ‘Bhatmam’, the most sought-after person during Ganesh Chaturthi won’t be available to invoke Ganpati Bappa in Goan homes this Chovoth. With the Covid-19 pandemic casting its shadow over the festival, purohit associations in the state have decided against visiting homes to conduct pujas during the festival. To tide over the situation, a do-it-yourself (DIY) concept is now beginning to gain ground, with purohits themselves offering services of virtual pujas and e-garhane (prayer) for their yajmans (patrons). ‘Koti koti rupe tujhi, koti surya chandr tare Kutthe kutthe shodhu tula, tujhe anant devhare’ (Millions are thy forms, so are the sun, the moon, the stars. Where shall I search for thee, thy altars infinite) “Nothing explains better than this famous Marathi verse, the presence of God in nature,” says Sandeep Tengse, a Margao-based veteran purohit.  “Faith is the essence of ‘bhakti’. With all these restrictive SOPs in place and social distancing norms, it will only be prudent to take solace from this verse and limit the celebrations to the bare minimum. The presence of Ganpati can be invoked easily if one does it by utmost faith and belief. Do all the rituals yourself, pour all your feelings into them, keep other superfluous stuff aside, and you will please Ganesha like never before.” People have largely reconciled to the new norm of observing Chovoth minus the learned purohit’s chants and the air of authority that he otherwise lends to the rituals. “Bhakti is nothing but expression of devotion and not some rocket science,” says Maruti Aiyer, managing trustee of Shree Ganapati Murugun temple at Ravanfond, Margao. “It’s the faith that matters and people have accepted changes that have been warranted by this pandemic situation.” Aiyer should know. The temple trust has been providing pourohitya service to some over 100 households in and around Margao during Ganesh Chaturthi by sourcing purohits from Gokarna and other places for the past many years. This year, the service has been suspended. Aiyer advises that the celebratory mode of the festival be toned down significantly. “Keep it a low-key affair restricted only to the immediate family members. Install a Ganesha idol, do the puja yourself, chant a shloka or two, or say a prayer, and then perform the immersion the next day. Ganesh Chaturthi came to acquire celebratory mode after Lokmanya Tilak started Sarvajanik Ganesh Chaturthi with the purpose of galvanising masses for the freedom struggle,” Aiyer explains. Some enterprising purohits are now encouraging people to switch over to DIY mode – right from carving clay idols to “infusing life” into it (pranpratishtha), to performing the pujas and conducting the visarjan. Somyaji Suhota Apte, a Mapusa-based agnihotri Brahmin, has even uploaded videos demonstrating step-by-step instructions in doing all the rituals of the two-day festival. And for those who are apprehensive about visiting the Ganpati chitrashalas for buying Ganesh idols for the fear of getting infected, Apte’s advice is to carve the idol the DIY way, too. “Dig out a handful of clay from your backyard, mix it in some cow dung and water, shape it into the elephant-headed deity, and your Ganpati idol is ready,” Apte said. As for visarjan, Apte says immersing the idol in a nearby well will do the trick. And in case of any doubt, Apte even encourages people to call him on helpline 9921626266 and seek clarification for free. He has already circulated his DIY video tutorials to some of his yajmans, and for the rest, he has offered to perform the pujas online through video conferencing apps. For the digitally challenged, though, he has made large format cutouts of puja texts to read from and follow while doing the rituals. Tengse, too, has created short 5-10 minute audio files of pujas that he intends to share with his clients with DIY instructions. He also intends to conduct virtual pujas on request. “The key to the DIY mode of Ganesh Chaturthi,” Tengse says, “is for the yajman to become a Brahmin during the festival and perform the pourohitya. Affirm to yourself that you have acquired the nobility of a Brahmin and then discharge this duty to the best of your ability. Become the embodiment of God and invoke the divinity within you. Leave the rest to the ever benevolent Ganpati.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/purohits-offer-diy-worship-solutions-for-ganesh-chaturthi/articleshow/77601741.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
August 18, 2020||Chennai||Psychiatrists to stick to remote therapy for now||CHENNAI: A majority of psychologists and psychiatrists switched from in-person to teletherapy due to the Covid-19 lockdown. While they were hesitant at first because it was ‘not real’, now most are planning to continue with it even after the lockdown ends. “It is convenient and people don’t have to travel long distances because help is now available over a call and any time they want,” said Dr Rupali Shukla, a psychologist. Dr Rupali said in the past three months she has witnessed a rise in the number of clients, including from remote parts of the state. “This has helped bridge the gap of communication and we are now able to reach out to more people than before. I plan to continue with it,” she said. At least 15 therapists in and around the city said they are planning to continue with remote therapy or teletherapy which is done over video calls or platforms like Skype or Zoom, and have in-person meetings only when required or will have a combination of both. They have found that this therapy can be just as effective as meeting in person. Dr Yamini Kannappan, a consultant psychiatrist at Kauvery Hospital, said remote therapy has helped her get multiple insights and a window to their client’s homes and the people they are surrounded with. She cited one such instance where she saw a client, a senior citizen, being harried by the caretaker, after which she brought the whole family and the caretaker on video conference, educated them and helped them have conversations. “This wouldn’t have been possible in a regular scenario,” she said. Dr Yamini said she has been receiving calls from the remote parts of Tamil Nadu and states like Rajasthan. “We wouldn’t have accepted these patients over call but for this pandemic. Now we are able to help them and also our previous patients who’ve had relapses by giving e-prescriptions, helping them get their medicines,” she said. A recent study in BMC Psychiatry said remote therapy has the potential to remove barriers including time and economic constraints, caring responsibilities, psychological or physical impairment, and most important concerns regarding the potential stigma of attending outpatient appointments. However, a few feel that it has downsides. Srinivasan Jayaraman, clinical psychologist at Rainbow Children’s Hospital said it is difficult to assess a client on a digital platform. “From the way they sit, hold their hands or talk, these are cues to assess the person. And it is a lot more challenging to spot them online,” he said. He said that during in-person meetings the people feel a lot more secure, and getting privacy can be an issue at home. “Remote therapy is helpful, but there is nothing like real observations and conversations. It makes a lot of difference,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/psychiatrists-to-stick-to-remote-therapy-for-now/articleshow/77600576.cms||Aditi R
August 18, 2020||Goa||Porvorim’s Covid count rising as people not following norms: Official||PANAJI: After months of keeping Covid in check in Porvorim, the infection count crossed the century mark last week. Health officials pin the blame on people who fail to follow social distancing norms. Most cases are in the central part of Porvorim, Betim, Salvador do Mundo. In Betim, the health official said, migrant workers form a majority of those who tested positive. Many have also tested positive in police quarters and government quarters. On Monday, Porvorim’s active cases jumped to 166. The primary health centre conducts 70 to 100 antigen tests a day. “Some people are careless and irresponsible. We have two cases wherein people in home isolation were found to be roaming around,” he said. In one instance, he said three members of a family in Betim tested positive, and they were in home isolation. “We found they had been moving in the village. Now, imagine how many people they may have met,” he said. Another case, he said, was reported from Salvador do Mundo. A man had tested positive under RTPCR tests. “He disputed the result and had a fight with health staff,” he said. The man then went to the North Goa district hospital for a second test. “He had antigen tests there which came negative. Finally, we moved him to a Covid care centre as an antigen test can throw false negatives. Luckily, his family members are negative,” he said. There have also been cases wherein people who work in Porvorim but live elsewhere get tested in Porvorim. “Ideally, contacts should be tested at the facility nearest to their residence so that they avoid contact with others.,” he said. Cases have come to their notice wherein people who work in Porvorim but reside elsewhere, choses to visit Porvorim health centre for testing when they happened to the contacts of a positive person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/porvorims-count-rising-as-people-not-following-norms-official/articleshow/77601863.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Pune||Concerns grow over safety at NEET, JEE exam centres||PUNE: Most students, parents and teachers backed the Supreme Court’s decision to not defer the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test for admission in medical courses and Joint Entrance Examination for engineering courses. JEE Main is scheduled between September 1 and 6, and NEET is likely on September 13. Suyash Chitale, a student appearing for NEET, said, “Till now, it was confusing and we had lost focus on studies. Now, with the court ruling, there will be some direction to the studies for the entrance test.” Parent Rajni Nair is worried about the precautions. “Some exam centres take excellent precautions, while others are not that good. The exam conducting bodies must ensure enough space between two students and the place is sanitised after every exam. If needed, increase the exam centres but the safety of my child is of prime importance.” Vaibhav Bakliwal, director of Bakliwal Tutorials, said the apex court’s judgment was a wise one. “Students who are well prepared are happy. We hope students will take the necessary precautions and give their best,” he said. Durgesh Mangeshkar, director of IITians Prashikshan Kendra, said most students are happy but some parents are concerned about the safety. “NTA and IIT should have given the option of a tougher online proctored exam. Either come to the centre or give a tougher exam at home was one way to resolve it or an online proctored exam for all. But NTA is not confident of the proctoring technology as yet,” he said. Lalit Kumar, director of Prime Academy, said it is the best judgment as there is no possibility of the pandemic going away for months. “Students are struggling to keep the momentum because of so many changes in the exam dates. NTA should increase the number of exam centres and slots to ensure social distancing. They can reduce the duration of the exam and make arrangements to avoid parents gathering outside the gate,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/concerns-grow-over-safety-at-neet-jee-exam-centres/articleshow/77600561.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
August 18, 2020||Pune||Pune cops issue code of conduct for mandals and citizens||PUNE: The city police will not allow any procession for the installation of Ganesh idols and also for their immersion during the Ganesh festival, which begins on August 22. Joint commissioner of police Ravindra Shisve on Monday issued a code of conduct for all Ganesh mandals as well as citizens for the festival being held under the shadow of the Covid-19 spread. The police will also not allow the mandals, who have temples of their own, to erect pandals on public roads/places. Instead, they should install Ganesh idols in the temples. "The mandals, which do not have temples of their own, will be allowed to set up small pandals. The pandals should be set up in a way that they do not hamper free movement of vehicles," Shisve said. Police said a minimum number of people must be present at the time of installation of the Ganesh idols in temples and during immersion. The mandals are required to conduct the immersion rituals in or around their temple and must follow social distancing norms. They must keep sanitizers for use by visitors. The PMC will not construct any temporary facilities for immersion of idols, the code stated. The mandals will not be allowed to organize programmes like food donation (Anna Daan) and Mahaprasad, which usually attract large gatherings. Similarly, stalls won’t be permitted near Ganesh temples, the code stated. The mandals can issue digital passes or tokens to facilitate visits by devotees, the police said, adding that the temples can use online platforms for relaying Aarti and other rituals. Police said household Ganesh idols will have to be immersed in the houses only. The mandals will have to employ five security guards or volunteers to keep an eye on activities in and around the temples. Police patrolling teams will keep an eye on temples, the code read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-issue-code-of-conduct-for-mandals-and-citizens/articleshow/77600590.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chennai||Adolescents turn cheap labour for spinning mills in Tirupur||CHENNAI: After four months of straining their savings during the lockdown when Muniyandi and Vengaiyammal from Kongavaram in Tiruvannamalai district heard of a ‘recruitment drive’ they were only too eager to join. But what the recruiters were looking for were not the couple, but their children. The daily wage earners could not say no. They sent their son and daughter studying in Class XII and X along with 10 other children from the village to a spinning mill in Tirupur. Read the entire story on TOI+https://timesofindia.indiatimes.com/india/spinning-mills-of-tirupur-are-drawing-in-children-as-labour/articleshow/77612658.cms||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/adolescents-turn-cheap-labour-for-spinning-mills-in-tirupur/articleshow/77600620.cms||V Mayilvaganan
August 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Riddled with potholes, Swargate underpass a cause for worry||Pune: The Swargate underpass, connecting Shankarsheth Road to Sarasbaug, has once again developed multiple potholes, posing a risk to the thousands of motorists using the facility on a daily basis. Many regular commuters have blamed patchwork fixes in the past for this recurring problem, while civic authorities said the onus of maintaining the underpass was on Maharashtra Road Development Corporation (MSRDC), which developed it. TimesViewCome monsoon, and the grade separator at Swargate, linking Shankarsheth Road to Sarasbaug, turns into a bumpy patch due to potholes. The problem is not confined to just the monsoon — the underpass often becomes slippery due to overflowing drainwater. It is high time the officials appointed a body of technical experts to find a permanent solution, rather than getting shoddy patchwork done through local contractors.The main aim of the underpass was to ease congestion at the busy Jedhe Chowk, but Pruthviraj Varma — a regular commuter — on the road, said driving through the underpass was a nightmare. “The stretch is so bumpy that it is dangerous to ride/drive at more than 30kmph,” Varma said, adding, “As soon as we get a few spells of rain, the potholes reappear. Many are filled with water and it becomes difficult to gauge their depth. It is scary to drive in such conditions, especially since there aren’t any lights in the underpass.” Mahesh Jain, another frequent commuter, said, the authorities need to identify and fix the root cause of the problem. “The civic body needs to undertake some serious repair work,” Jain said. The police too have written to PMC about leakages, waterlogging and potholes in the underpass about 15 days ago “We hope work is undertaken soon,” Suraj Rajguru, assistant police inspector of Swargate traffic division, said. PMC officials, however, said it was the MSRTC’s job, as it had developed the underpass. “Many leakages need to be fixed. An open stormwater drainage channel frequently gets choked by garbage. This causes waterlogging on the road. Coupled with vehicular traffic, this causes the road surface to erode,” the PMC official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/riddled-with-potholes-swargate-underpass-a-cause-for-worry/articleshow/77600618.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 18, 2020||Goa||Arpora party: Photos of ‘actor’ with CM, others emerge, sparks furore||PANAJI: A day after Goa police busted a drug-fuelled party at Arpora and arrested 23, a controversy erupted over photos of main accused Kapil Jhaverri with leading state politicians. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who is one of those Jhaverri is spotted with, said that police would take strong action against him irrespective of his meeting him. Jhaverri, who claims to be a Bollywood actor, organised the Saturday night party, according to police. When police raided the premises, they seized cocaine, MDMA, ecstasy and charas worth Rs 9 lakh. A day later, photos emerged of Jhaverri with politicians. There were photos with art and culture minister Govind Gaude, GTDC chairman Dayanand Sopte, Rajya Sabha MP Vinay Tendulkar and Congress functionary Ramakant Khalap. Meanwhile, crime branch quizzed event organiser Shailesh Shetty in connection with the party. SP Shobhit Saxena said that Shetty used to host parties along with Jhaverri, and confirmed the former was questioned by the police. The SP said that those accused of curfew violations would be questioned from Tuesday. Reacting to the controversy around the photos, Sawant told TOI there would be no compromise with the investigation. “Being CM, several people come and meet me,” he said. “He too may have met me, but this does not mean he will be left scot-free. Whatever action needs to be taken against him will be strongly taken.” His office, too, strongly defended him. “The said picture may have been of a courtesy call last year by Jhaverri, after the CM had taken over. A large number of persons had called on the CM then,” chief minister’s office (CMO) said. Tendulkar too explained the photo with a similar line. “Like him, several people come to meet me and click photos with me,” he said. “There are several people who come to meet me every day and we don’t know everybody’s background.” Gaude, too, tried to distance himself from the controversy. “My photo alongside Kapil Jhaverri is made viral with false info,” he tweeted. “He had sought an appointment to invite me for the inauguration of a branch of a credit society. As minister of co-operation, I refrain from any act of endorsement. I had refused the invitation on these grounds.” Khalap said he was introduced to Jhaverri through a common friend. “They requested a photograph and I obliged,” he said. “Such requests for a photograph are routine. I know nothing about the gentleman except that he is a cine actor.” After the raid on Saturday night, police said that Jhaverri organised the party by contacting “customers” over the phone, and the guest-list was limited to his close circuit. Jhaverri had come to Goa at the end of May with a foreigner woman. “The government has a policy of zero tolerance to drug trafficking,” the CMO said. “The CM, in a tweet on August 16, complimented Goa police for their swift action of cracking down on illicit drug traficking. The action of the police is a manifestation of the government’s resolve to end the menace of drug trafficking in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/arpora-party-photos-of-actor-with-cm-others-emerge-sparks-furore/articleshow/77601761.cms||Murari Shetye
August 18, 2020||Surat||Rough diamond import decline 82% in April-July: GJEPC||Surat: Import of rough diamonds in the country has registered a sharp decline of 82% between April-July following the suspension of international flights and travel restrictions imposed in the mining countries to contain the spread of Covid-19. According to the figures released by the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), the gross import of rough diamonds between April and July this year declined to $712 million compared to $4 billion during the same period last year. Industry sources said that the diamantaires voluntarily curtailed rough diamond imports in the month of June to build pressure on the mining companies to reduce the prices and ease their inventories. The export of polished diamonds in April-July declined 47% to $2.7 billion compared to $5 billion during the same period in previous year. A De Beers sightholder told TOI, “Majority of the diamond units in Surat are yet to restart operations due to the operational restrictions. The big diamond units are operating with skeletal staff and the production is less than 25% of the total capacity. The stocking of rough diamonds is likely to start in the first week of September for the upcoming festival season.” Vipul Shah, vice-chairman of GJEPC told TOI, “The demand for diamonds is gradually increasing from China and US and we are hopeful of increased demand in the Indian market as well during Diwali.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rough-diamond-import-decline-82-in-april-july-gjepc/articleshow/77599223.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Cases decline in Krishna district||Vijayawada: The number of Covid-19 cases is on the ebb in Krishna district. The district registered only 135 new cases on Monday, taking the tally to 12,479 cases The district, which was initially second in state in terms of number of cases, has now moved to the last place. Earlier, the district competed with Kurnool and Guntur districts in terms of caseload and had the highest death rate — around 3%. It had touched the 250 cases per day mark in June when other districts were registering only 100 to 150 cases per day. Vijayawada alone accounted for 65% of cases— Venu Lanka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cases-decline-in-krishna-district/articleshow/77599196.cms||Venu Lanka
August 18, 2020||Ludhiana||White car gang makes off with woman’s gold bangle||TNNLudhiana: The white car gang is on the prowl again. It snatched a gold bangle from a woman in Chaura Bazaar on Monday morning.Rekha, along with her advocate husband, Rakesh Kumar Gupta, had gone to pay obeisance at a temple in Samrala. On way home in Samrala near Police Colony, they stopped to buy vegetables in Chaura Bazaar.“When they were buying vegetables, a white car with three women and a male driver stopped near Rekha. A woman sitting in the car greeted Rekha and caught hold of her hand. Within no time, another woman cut off a bangle from Rekha’s arm. She tried to cut off another bangle, but failed. Rekha’s husband, who practices in Samrala Civil Court, thought she knew the women. The gang then sped away towards Khanna side,” said a cop.The couple then intimated the police.Cops are scanning the footage of CCTVs installed in the area to trace the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/white-car-gang-makes-off-with-womans-gold-bangle/articleshow/77599197.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chennai||Covid cases surge in Ambattur, Mogappair,but hygiene, surveillance non-existent||CHENNAI: Mani, a photocopy shop owner in Ambattur zone, was at work on Sunday when a traffic policeman from Asiad Colony asked him to make a few copies of a report. It was only after seeing the report that Mani realised the latter was Covid positive. He informed a corporation official but the latter escaped. This is a reflection of the situation in Ambattur, where one third of the total reported cases were reported in the last 16 days. It now has most positive cases in the city. From March to August 16, it had 7,604 cases — 3,195 in July, 2016 since August 1 and 84 deaths. Mogappair remains a major hotspot. In wards 92 and 93, shops and eateries on Padikuppam Main Road, Pari Salai and Bazaar Road function well past 9pm, sparking fears of new clusters emerging. Umanath V, a resident, said there was no social distancing in fish market and meat shops since the lockdown eased. “Officials are slack and door to door surveillance is not regular,” he said. There were just 2,014 fever camps since May 8 and only 20 a day in June and July with 600-odd participants, while Anna Nagar and Kodambakkam held 30-40 camps with almost 4,000 participants daily. Several ground level officials blamed the lack of inter-departmental coordination. “The number of sanitary officers in Anna Nagar and Kodambakkam is higher than this zone. Every day inspections and meetings are not being held,” said one official. In April and May, Ambattur was at the bottom. “There is nothing unusual about this zone seeing a surge. It is normal in a pandemic for cases to come up in areas not affected,” said Dr P Ganeshkumar, scientist, ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology. Assistant city health officer Mahalakshmi said procedures followed in other zones are followed here. “But since mobility has increased, infections will rise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-cases-surge-in-ambattur-mogappairbut-hygiene-surveillance-non-existent/articleshow/77600602.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 +ve Ayali in quarantine till Aug 25||Ludhiana: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA Manpreet Ayali has been infected with coronavirus since August 12. He disclosed this via a post on his Facebook page, in which he said he had got himself tested after facing mild symptoms. Speaking to the TOI, Ayali said, “I had cough and fever since last week, after which I got myself tested and the result came positive. Ever since my report came on August 12, I isolated myself from the rest of my family members, who luckily have tested negative. I am doing fine, but as per protocol will remain in isolation till August 25.”Ayali added, “I appeal to the public to take all precautions and adopt safety measures, like masks and sanitisers, as cases are on the rise in Ludhiana. In case someone has symptoms, (s)he should immediately go for the test. And in case the person is positive, (s)he should not panic but consult doctors.”Several leaders belonging to Ludhiana were infected with Covid-19 and have successfully recovered too. Some of them included Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar, former BJP district president Ravinder Arora and BJP’s state treasurer Gurdev Sharma Debi. Sharing his experience, Ravinder Arora, who has fully recovered, said, “The mantra to combat Covid-19 is that one should not be scared at all. My younger daughter, our servant and I had tested positive and now all of us have recovered. Despite my liver problem, I fought the virus and now people are taking advice from me. Along with medication, people should take ayurvedic remedies like kadha, steam and doing gargles multiple times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-ve-ayali-in-quarantine-till-aug-25/articleshow/77599220.cms||Mohit Behl
August 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Couple attack, rob cabbie of pick-up van||Times News NetworkLudhiana: A couple allegedly robbed a driver of his pick-up van near Jandiyali, Chandigarh Road, on Sunday midnight. A five-year-old child accompanied the man-woman duo.Dalbir Singh, 32, a resident of Mohali, said in his police complaint, “On Sunday, a couple booked my van (PB 65 BA 0557) for Ludhiana, where, they said, they were shifting. I reached their house in Lalru, Mohali, on Sunday afternoon. I loaded the furniture on the van and left with the couple and their child, who was about five years old.” The couple had told him that their destination was near Samrala Road. “But when they reached near Jandiyali on Chandigarh Road around midnight, they asked me to stop the van. As soon as I pulled over, they hit me with a wooden rod, threw me out and sped away with the van.” Some commuters saw the driver lying unconscious on roadside and called up the police, who took him to a nearby private hospital. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-IV) Kuldeep Sharma said, “The condition of the injured driver is stated to be stable. A police team has been sent to Mohali to collect information about the couple. Besides, CCTVs installed on Chandigarh Road are being scanned to trace them. A case has been registered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/couple-attack-rob-cabbie-of-pick-up-van/articleshow/77599210.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Goa||Drug-fuelled parties being held in private villas in Goa: Michael Lobo||PANAJI: Science and technology minister Michael Lobo said on Monday that drug-fuelled parties are being held at private villas and bungalows in the state, and asked chief minister Pramod Sawant to ensure regular raids to crack down on them. Warning that if the government shies away from tackling the menace, “Goa will become like Punjab”, the minister said that even in the state’s interiors, parties are being organised in guesthouses and farmhouses that are closed. “I have already appraised the CM that just like the raid conducted by the crime branch in the Arpora case, similar raids should be continuously conducted. We will not tolerate anyone selling drugs in the coastal belt,” the Calangute MLA said. He was referring to a party on Saturday night which was busted by Goa police, who seized cocaine, ecstasy, MDMA and other drugs worth Rs 9 lakh. Lobo has also requested Sawant to convene a meeting of MLAs of constituencies along the north Goa coastal belt and police. He also said the police must maintain strict vigil along the coastal belt and the interiors and conduct raids, especially on weekends. Commenting on an earlier party, a farewell organised by a 22-year-old Russian woman that ended in a violent altercation, Lobo said that if not for the fight, the party would not have come to light. Many of those who attended those party are children of prominent business families. “When children of businessmen are involved in such activities, parents don’t want cases to be filed against their children,” he said. Reacting to the charges made by the opposition and citing the Arpora case, Lobo said, “If the raid had not been conducted, it would mean the government, the crime branch and the anti-narcotics cell are not functioning,” he said, “If police does not work, then allegations are directly cast on the government. In this case, the government acted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drug-fuelled-parties-being-held-in-pvt-villas-in-state-lobo/articleshow/77601770.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Power supply hit, energy department on alert||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state energy department sounded a high alert in view of the increasing flood threat in East and West Godavari districts. As per official statistics, power supply was disrupted in 133 villages and to 10,908 non-agricultural and 1,528 agricultural services in the two districts. Two 11 kV feeders in West Godavari district and 916 distribution transformers (835 in East and 81 in West Godavari) have also been affected. Officials of the energy department said work to restore electricity has been undertaken on a war-footing in the affected mandals. State energy minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy reviewed the power supply situation in flood-hit areas with state officials on Monday. Speaking to officials over the phone on the situation in East and West Godavari districts, the minister said chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy is continuously monitoring the situation. “No official should leave the villages until the entire power restoration operations are completed in view of the increasing flood in the Godavari river,” said Srinivasa Reddy. Energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli briefed the minister about restoration works. “Power supply has been affected in 133 villages in East and West Godavari districts due to inundation of lines and consequent collapsing of poles. The power supply will be restored when the water recedes as there is no approach road to some villages,” said Srikant. APEPDCL CMD Nagalakshmi S said discom staff have already restored all 11 kV feeders and 907 distribution transformers out of 916 affected distribution transformers. “The cost of damage is yet to be ascertained,” said Nagalakshmi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/power-supply-hit-energy-dept-on-alert/articleshow/77599214.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC demolishes dilapidated buildings near Hussainsagar||HYDERABAD: With water level in Hussainsagar rising due to the heavy rains lashing the city, the GHMC demolished old and dilapidated buildings on Monday and asked people residing in areas around the lake to vacate their houses to avoid any untoward incidents. The water level in Hussainsagar rose to 513. 490 metres above the full-tank-level (FTL) capacity of 513.4 metres on Monday, however, by 10 pm, the water level dipped to 513.440 metres. A compound wall in Masjid Banda in Serilingampally zone, a dilapidated house in Malakpet, an old building in Amberpet, and a dlapidated wall in Ramanthapur were demolished. The GHMC officials have identified community halls to shelter people living in low-lying areas of Ashok Nagar, Liberty Circle, Himayatnagar, and Domalguda, which are in the vicinity of Hussainsagar. “Arrangements have been made to move residents to function halls in safer areas in case of an emergency.,” said GHMC. Meanwhile, a resident of Ashok Nagar said that the GHMC has failed to desilt the nala near her house. “If water gushes into cellars, the official who failed to desilt the nala should be held responsible, ,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-demolishes-dilapidated-buildings-near-hussainsagar/articleshow/77600630.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hubballi||Situation perilous in North Karnataka as rivers gush||Bagalkot/Vijayapura: The submerged Kudala Sangama, an immensely popular pilgrimage in Bagalkot district, perfectly illustrates the perilous situation that the many villages in North Karnataka are currently facing, owing to the alarming rate at which the waters of the Krishna and Malaprabha rivers are rising. Consequently, many villages in the region are faced with the prospect of battling a spate. At the Lal Bahadur Shastri Dam in Almatti, the outflow was in excess of two lakh cusecs, while the Narayanapur Dam in Yadgir district reported outflow of 2.7 lakh cusecs on Monday. Meanwhile, the authorities have sounded an alert, asking residents not to venture close to the rivers un Vijayapura, Bagalkot and Yadgir districts. Meanwhile, following the release of more than 25,000 cusecs from the Navil Thirtha Dam in Belagavi district has put nearly 34 villages in Badami and Hungund taluks in Bagalkot district at risk. The submergence of a bridge connecting Govinkoppa and Konnur is an indication of the threat that Karlakoppa, Beeranur, Haganur among other villages in Bagalkot district are faced with. The district administration has called on residents of the villages to relocate to safer places in view of the prevalent situation. The situation is far grimmer in Lakhampur village in Gadag district, which was submerged following the sudden release of waters of the Malaprabha River from the Navil Thirtha Dam. Residents, including children and the elderly, were forced to spend Sunday night by the side of the road, seeking shelter inside tractors and other vehicles. Although the district administration had asked Lakhampur villagers to relocate, the residents could do little since no alternative arrangements had been made for their accommodation. The residents said that officials had failed to set up a rehabilitation centre despite instructions to that effect by Gadag district in-charge minister CC Patil. In Dharwad district, Imamsab Karimsab Belagai, 72, who slipped into a stream while lugging two logs of wood at Benne Halla, was rescued by Pradeep Annigeri, a constable with the City Armed Reserve. Annigeri helped Belagai ashore using a rope that he obtained from the locals. Incessant rain for the past three days in Dharwad resulted in the Neer Sagar Reservoir in Kalghatgi taluk filling to the brim (38ft). The dam, built across the Neer Sagar Lake, provides water to Hubballi and Kundgol, has been filled for the second year running. Meanwhile, heavy rain inundated the Dharwad-Kalghatgi road rendering commute on the thoroughfare nigh impossible. In Haveri, normal life continued to be disrupted in Hanagal, Hirekerur, Shiggavi taluks on Monday, with roads resembling wide swimming pools, water standing up to a height of three feet. Residents in low-lying areas have been advised to relocate to safer areas along with their livestock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/situation-perilous-in-north-karnataka-as-rivers-gush/articleshow/77599828.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana custodial death remains wrapped in mystery||Ludhiana: Even as the SHO of Division Number 5 police station and two assistant sub-inspectors have been booked for illegal detention of recovery agent Deepak Shukla, 26, who died in police custody, and contempt of court, the mystery still continues over the death of Shukla.Although the lodging of FIR against the three cops — SHO sub-inspector Richa Sharma, and ASIs Charanjit Singh and Jaskaran Singh — gave the bereaved family some hope for justice, they have also approached the Punjab & Haryana high court, which has sought a status report from the state government over the custodial death of Deepak.Deepak Shukla of Ahmedgarh Mandi in Sangrur district was arrested by the Division Number 5 police on February 22 in a car theft case. On February 24, he was presented before the court, which ordered to send him to judicial custody till March 9. But, the cops took him back to the police station and kept him in the lockup and allegedly tortured him through the night. On February 25, Shukla was sent to Ludhiana Central Jail, where he died the next day.The kin of the deceased have alleged that the cops were demanding Rs 1.25 lakh from them for releasing Deepak, but as they failed to oblige, they gave him a brutal thrashing, which caused his death.Deceased’s father Vinod Shukla said, “This is our first victory that SHO and ASIs have been booked. They had kept Deepak in custody going against the court order. The police had also kept Deepak’s wife Preety in custody for one night and released her after taking a bribe of Rs 25,000.” Vinod said now it is clear that the cops deliberately took Deepak back to the police station, but it is not clear why they did so. “The truth must come out,” he stressed. Deepak’s uncle Rakesh Shukla said, “We have the copy of judicial inquiry, in which the investigating officer-cum-judicial magistrate has stated that there is a need to investigate the role of police officials in the merciless beating of Deepak, his death and the bribe allegedly demand for his release. The judicial magistrate has confirmed that Deepak died in mysterious circumstances. The autopsy report also states that he had injuries and bruises on his body.” The aggrieved party moved the high court on July 1, seeking a murder case against the cops and a CBI probe. The court has asked for a status report in the case by October 6, the next date of hearing. The National Human Rights Commission and the Punjab State Human Rights commission too have sought a status report from the government and the police, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-custodial-death-remains-wrapped-in-mystery/articleshow/77599201.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 18, 2020||Nashik||Pvt labs trace 153 patients, can resume Covid testing||Nashik: The private labs have finally traced 153 patients, who had tested Covid positive but as the labs did not take down the addresses and contact numbers of the patients, they could not be traced. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had traced around 100 patients with the help of its staff. But 153 were still to be found. So, the NMC had directed five of the 13 private labs to stop testing until they get the addresses of the 153 people who had undergone testing in these labs and tested positive but could not be contacted as the labs had failed to record their details properly. But as these five private labs were able to trace them, the NMC has allowed them to resume testing of Covid-19 suspects. The negligence on part of the labs was a cause of worry as it was urgent to trace the Covid patients in order to contain the spread of the infection. Moreover, the NMC seals the residential areas of the patient and traces high and low-risk contacts based on the information given by the patients. “As patients have been traced and their information have been rectified by the private labs, we have given permission to these private labs to conduct Covid testing. They have also promised that they would record complete information of the people while taking their throat swabs, said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pvt-labs-trace-153-patients-can-resume-covid-testing/articleshow/77597969.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 18, 2020||Surat||LCJ inmate dies of coronavirus||Surat: A 70-year-old man lodged in Lajpore Central Jail (LCJ), died of Covid-19 during treatment at New Civil Hospital on Sunday. The deceased was hospitalised on August 14 after developing health complications. Jivan Gamit, a resident of Valod in Tapi district, was declared dead by doctors at NCH. He was under treatment for Covid-19 infection. He developed health complications on August 14 and during tests he was found to be infected with coronavirus. His body was sent for cremation as per protocol. Officials said Gamit was suffering from heart disease. “We are conducting random rapid tests regularly but nobody had tested positive,” said Dr KLN Rao, ADGP (prisons). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lcj-inmate-dies-of-coronavirus/articleshow/77597966.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Ludhiana||City continues to breathe good quality air||IT’S BETTER THAN PAST MANY YEARSLudhiana: Despite the Unlock, the industrial hub recorded less pollution in July and August (in the first 15 days) as compared with the corresponding period in the past many years.The air pollution is measured in terms of Air Quality Index (AQI). It includes the values of combination of many air pollutants like respirable suspended particulate matter (RSPM), oxides of nitrogen (NOx), sulphur dioxide, ozone, carbon monoxide, benzene and xylene, among others.March, April and May, too, registered cleaner air.As per the data, the average AQI from March 24, when curfew was imposed in Punjab due to Covid-19, till the month-end was 35.6; for April and May, when the lockdown was in force, it was 48.8 and 79.06, respectively. The average AQI in June (when the Unlock started) was 87.44 and it was 70.53 in July and 52.66 in the first 15 days of August. It shows that the months after lockdown and Unlock saw AQI in good (below 50) and satisfactory (below 100) categories.This year’s air quality is better when compared with the data of previous years. The average AQI in April was 48.8 this year, 116.16 in 2018 and 89.5 in 2019. The AQI for May was 79.06 this year, 185.55 in 2018 and 97.5 in 2019.After Unlock 1, the average AQI for June was 87.44 this year, 151.25 in 2018 and 103.4 in 2019. For July, the value was 70.53 this year and 73.96 and 84.41, respectively, in 2018 and 2019. The first 15 days of August saw an average AQI of 52.66. It was 65.69 and 88.6 in 2018 and 2019, respectively. The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) authorities said there were multiple factors for the positive change.“First, industrial activity is just 60% of pre-Covid times. Secondly, there is less vehicular movement as people are moving out only if it’s necessary. Other factors are: less operation of public transport, including trains, and good and timely monsoon,” said Sandeep Behl, senior PPCB officer in Ludhiana.  “Apart from essential services, other activities are not fully operational. This, too, has had a positive effect on AQI in the district,” PPCB officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-continues-to-breathe-good-quality-air/articleshow/77599248.cms||Shariq Majeed
August 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Families moved to safer places||Kolhapur: The rising water levels of Panchganga river have prompted the Kolhapur civic authorities to shift residents of low-lying areas to safer locations. Officials said the river has touched the alert mark of 39 feet, it is expected to rise further and cross the danger mark of 43 feet by early Tuesday morning. By Monday evening, five families from Sutarwada were shifted to Chitradurg Mutt. KMC’s chief fire officer Ranjit Chile said, “We have started round-the-clock vigilance in the low-lying areas. A team of five has been deployed for every locality to keep citizens alert and address their concerns, if any. This will be second time this season that the river will cross the danger mark.” The residents of Jamdar Club were worried as the major road passing along Panchganga ghat may get submerged as the river water level touches 39 feet. The road gets closed and some families there have to shift to safe location as early as possible. Similar is the situation at Bapat Camp. The fire department has also advised people from other areas to remain indoors as gusty winds may uproot trees and weak structures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/families-moved-to-safer-places/articleshow/77597975.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nashik||City records lowest death rate of 2.35%||Nashik: The district has reported 15 deaths due to Covid-19 on Monday, including five in Nashik city, taking the total number of casualties to 704, of which 400 are in the city. The city has touched the 400-mark of Covid-19 deaths. But the city has also recorded the lowest death rate of 2.35% on Monday, against the lowest death rate of 2.39% on August 15 and 2.99% on July 31. A total of 831 fresh Covid patients, including 587 from Nashik city, have been reported in the district in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 25,288. As many as 1,020 patients were discharged in the district on Monday, including 797 from Nashik city. There are 4,633 active cases, including 2,608 in the city.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-records-lowest-death-rate-of-2-35/articleshow/77597995.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Virus snuffs out 13 lives in dist, 230 +ve cases reported||TNNLudhiana: Seventeen persons, including 13 from Ludhiana, died of Covid-19 on Monday, when 230 patients from the district and 17 from outside tested positive here. The health department said two patients from Jalandhar and one each from Sangrur and Barnala also succumbed to the virus here.Those who died at Rajindra Hospital in Patiala included a 55-year-old woman from Mundiyan Kalan with BP, a 50-year-old woman from Lakhowal Kalan in Samrala with coronary artery disease, a 45-year-old man from Chet Singh Nagar, who besides being Covid positive had coronary artery disease, and a 32-year-old man from Mahavir Jain Colony. Those who died at various city hospitals included a 76-year-old man from New Kidwai Nagar with diabetes, BP and coronary artery disease, a 60-year-old man from Kidwai Nagar, a 66-year-old woman of Basant Vihar, who was obese and had anaemia, a 52-year-old man from Pratap Chowk with diabetes and BP, a 72-year-old man from Friends Colony with diabetes, BP and liver problem, a 55-year-old man from Hairon Kalan in Khanna, a 41-year-old man from Smart Colony, a 39-year-old woman from Bhagwanpura, a 72-year-old Giaspura man, who had BP issues. The health department officials said with this, the district toll has reached 254 and 58 outsiders have died here so far.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said of the pending reports received on Monday, 151 were positive, of which 149 were from Ludhiana and two from Fatehgarh Sahib.He said of the 96 reports received from private hospitals and laboratories, 81 were from Ludhiana, five from Sangrur, two each from Moga, Jalandhar and Amritsar and one each from Bathinda, Barnala, Faridkot and Ferozepur. The officials said of the 230 cases reported, 34 were from the flu corner, 70 were positive cases’ contacts, 29 from OPD, 18 healthcare workers, two travellers, four pregnant women, 47 from tracing process, and three SARI cases, besides 18 undertrials.With this, the district case count stood at 6,823 and that of outsiders at 740.The civil surgeon said 2,142 samples were sent for testing on the day. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said there were 2,017 active patients in the district at present and 418 persons were sent for home quarantine on Monday. The number of recovered patients so far is 4,549.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/virus-snuffs-out-13-lives-in-dist-230-ve-cases-reported/articleshow/77599232.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Surat||Two drain openings could give entry to small animals: Forest dept||Surat: In a startling revelation, two drain openings have been found at the Surat airport premises from where, it is believed, small wild animals such as foxes could enter the operational area. This was found during an inspection by the forest department last week. The forest department conducted the inspection under the direction of deputy conservator of forest, Puneet Nayyar, after two dead foxes were found from the airport runway in December last year. Though no traces of wild animals were found inside the airport premises during the inspection, the forest officials have asked the airport authorities to fix mesh grills on the open drains to prevent the intrusion of wild animals. Talking with TOI, Nayyar said, “The open drains were found on the Dumas side of the airport. These drain openings could be the possible entry for the wild animals into the operational area. Though we are yet to find out the exact route of intrusion or the wild life sighting inside the airport premises, the airport authorities have been asked to put up mesh grills on the drain openings.”Nayyar added, “Even last year during routine inspection, the airport authorities were asked to put mesh on the drain opening. We will again visit the airport next month to review the compliance by the airport authorities.” TOI in its report dated June 6, 2020 had published a report over the recovery of two fox carcasses at the runway in December-2019. The airport authorities had refused to share the incident report under the Right to Information Act (RTI) application filed by social activist, Rajesh Modi. Ideally, the death of an animal listed under the scheduled category of Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, has to be reported to the forest department before disposal. However, the airport authorities had allegedly disposed the fox carcasses without informing the forest authorities. Earlier, in April 2019, four jackals were spotted on the operation side of the airport and were rescued by the forest department. “We have not received satisfactory reply from the airport authorities over the carcasses of the foxes found from the runway in December 2019. We are awaiting the reply from the authorities over the same,” said Nayyar. When contacted Airport director, Aman Saini told TOI, “To ensure safe operations at airport, joint inspection of operational area was carried out with the team of forest officers to check wildlife and birds. No wildlife animals were sighted into the operational area. There is no openings in the airport area and it is not possible for the wildlife animals to enter through the drains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/two-drain-openings-could-give-entry-to-small-animals-forest-dept/articleshow/77599388.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Lucknow||CM sets up special unit for women & child safety||Lucknow: In order to ensure effective disposal and control over incidents of crime against women and children, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday constituted a Women and Child Safety Organisation and designated an additional director general of police (ADG) rank officer to exclusively look after women and child development, and safety. The move comes at a time when the state has been rocked by multiple cases of rape and murder involving women and children in the last few days. “Though the chief minister has overhauled the police set up in districts where recent incidents of crime have been reported, he decided to set up a separate unit which will focus on early arrest of accused in cases of crime against women and children, speedy investigations into such cases and regular and effective follow-ups in courts to ensure speedy justice,” said a senior official associate with the process of constitution of the special unit. As per the present outline, the special unit will look after all existing helplines and organisations dealing with control of crime against women and children. This will include regular monitoring of Anti-Romeo squads and that of women helpline by the new organisation. “Things like 1090 helpline, Mahila Samman Prakosht, Mahila Suraksha Prakosht will be merged for better monitoring and implementation of policies and laws,” said a senior official. About deputing an ADG rank officer to look after the organisation, sources said no new post will be created for this but the officer assigned the job will be required to keep a close watch on all units and issue orders where necessary for prompt action in crimes related to women and children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-sets-up-special-unit-for-women-child-safety/articleshow/77601784.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Complainant against Naveen P lost bike too||BENGALURU: Mobs which went on the rampage, leaving a trail of destruction in their wake on the night of August 11, did not spare a two-wheeler belonging to a man who filed a criminal complaint against Naveen P, nephew of Pulakeshinagar legislator Akhanda Srinivasmurthy. Firdose Pasha, 30, had filed a complaint against the Congressman’s nephew accusing him of uploading a derogatory cartoon on Facebook. It was this post which had triggered the violence in east Bengaluru. A resident of Modi Road in DJ Halli, Pasha had gone to DJ Halli police station to file the complaint over the social media post and had parked his Honda Activa in the compound. “I reached the station around 7.30pm and parked my scooter inside,” said Pasha, a used vehicle dealer. “I filed a complaint against Naveen and stepped out only to find a huge crowd. Unable to take my scooter out, I remained inside the police station. The mob soon entered the station premises and set several vehicles, including mine, on fire around 9pm. Pasha says he could not file a complaint on the loss of his two-wheeler that night since the police were too busy dousing fires and controlling the situation. He eventually filed a complaint on August 14. Pasha says the scooter cost Rs 75,000. Police confirmed Pasha filed a complaint against Naveen around 7.45pm on August 11. He told police that he found Naveen had posted a derogatory cartoon on Facebook and requested cops to take legal action. DJ Halli police have registered a criminal case against unknown people under various sections of IPC and Karnataka Prevention of Destruction and Loss of Property Act 1981. A probe is underway. Police booked Naveen under IPC sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth and etc) and 295A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings or any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs). Police arrested Naveen around 2am on August 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rioters-torched-bike-of-man-who-filed-complaint-against-naveen-too/articleshow/77598558.cms||Santosh kumar.B
August 18, 2020||Goa||Bicycle-borne poders must register, display boards: FDA||PANAJI: The directorate of food and drugs administration has once again made registration compulsory for bicycle-borne sellers of traditional bread (poders). This has been done “to ensure safe and wholesome food is made available to consumers”, the directorate stated. “All individual bicycles distributing bread are required to display an information board on each bicycle with details like name of the bakery, FSSAI registration number and contact number, under the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006,” director Jyoti Sardesai said. The directorate has also made it compulsory for traditional bakeries to obtain either a registration certificate or a licence under the food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, and adhere to the sanitary and hygenic norms stipulated under Schedule 4 of the food Safety And Standards Act, 2006. The department has asked consumers to be vigilant and report violations. The directorate has been appealing to traditional bakers over the years to get its members to register and display boards with the FSSAI license and other details, following representations regarding non-registration of bakeries operating under unhygienic conditions. Despite multiple appeals, several traditional bakers continue to function sans registration. President of the All Goa bakers association Agapito Menezes says there are around 600 traditional bakers and confectioners in the state mostly registered in Salcete, Mapusa, Panaji and Marcel. “The association has always supported registration and putting up display boards. Some find it difficult to register because their landlords don’t give them the NOC which is required for the panchayat to issue them a license,” he says. Many bakers have moved into confectionery over the years due to profitability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bicycle-borne-poders-must-register-display-boards-fda/articleshow/77601782.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Differences buried: Muslim body helps in cremation of dead Hindus||NAGPUR: In a fortnight, ambulance run by Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, a leading organization of Islamic scholars, has made six rounds bringing bodies to Hindu crematorium in Kamptee. The town which has emerged as a hotspot of Covid infection has seen 39 deaths so far. In a clockwork precision, Jamiat’s volunteers dressed in personal protection gear get the body out, place it on the pyre, which is later lit by the deceased’s kin. On one of the days, two bodies were brought to the crematorium in quick succession. The Jamiat, which is a century-old body of Muslim clerics, is backed by two other organizations in the work. Earlier, last rites of Covid patients from Kamptee were conducted in Nagpur by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials. This left the kin pained as they did not get even a chance to pay last respects, leading to Jamiat’s intervention. What began with a service to ensure that Muslim families could bury their dead at least at the Kamptee graveyard was quickly extended to Hindus on the request of local BJP leaders. “Jamiat, Muslim Foundation and Safa Baitul Mal have joined hands in the service. Two months ago, we got permission from the authorities in Nagpur to bring bodies of Muslims to the graveyard here. One day, there was a request from a local leader to help one Hindu family too, we obliged and continued for others too,” said Islahudin Ansari of Muslim Foundation. On Saturday, the ambulance brought body of Murari Sharma, a priest, who died in a private hospital near Kamptee. The deceased’ son Gopal Sharma said his father was normal till the last day when doctors reported that he had developed sudden breathlessness. The ambulance service led to timely help, he added. On Monday too, the body of a 62-year old woman was brought to Kamptee from Mayo Hospital at Nagpur. “The service was prompt and they reached in no time and carried out all the work,” said Ramesh Nekate whose friend died of Covid. “I had requested the Jamiat to help Hindu families also and they readily agreed. They have set a perfect example of communal harmony in the town. Even political workers are appreciating their work, irrespective of their party affiliations. We plan to hold a function to honour them after the situation normalizes,” said Rajesh Dubey, former BJP member of Kamptee Municipal Council. “During the lockdown days, we began with distributing food packets. Later, as Covid cases increased, we saw that private ambulance operators were charging as much as Rs10,000 for a trip from Nagpur. Poor could not afford it. Safa Baitul Mal provided us its ambulance free of cost, and we began the service,” said Ansari. “On getting calls from Hindus, we consulted the clerics who said it’s noble to help in such times, no matter what religion they are from. Since then, we are promptly answering all such calls ” said Mohammed Arshad, also a former corporator. Arshad said the workers do everything except the rituals which are done by the kin. Apart from Hindus, the volunteers have helped in burial of 20 Muslims till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/differences-buried-muslim-body-helps-in-cremation-of-dead-hindus/articleshow/77600638.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 18, 2020||Goa||State election commission defers municipal polls by 3 months||PANAJI: With Covid-19 cases increasing in the state, the state election commission (SEC) on Monday postponed polls for 11 municipal bodies, scheduled for October 18, by three months. The commission has also suggested conducting online polls. The commission said that they have not still decided on holding the zilla panchayat election, which was to be held on March 22, but was deferred due to the pandemic. The SEC is prepared to hold both the elections on the same day. “We thought it is just not advisable to go ahead with municipal elections,” SEC R K Srivastava said. “We don’t want to put people — voters, election and security staff — at risk by going ahead with the election process. So we thought it prudent to postpone it by three months,” K Srivastava told reporters. “Gujarat has conducted elections online, and Madhya Pradesh has experimented with it,” Srivastava said, adding that the government is examining their proposal for online polls. The state election commissioner said that if the election had to be held in October as scheduled then returning officers (RO) and assistant returning officers (ARO) would have to be appointed in advance to prepare and notify the electoral roll for all the different wards by September 3. “When we reviewed the situation last month, we found that the deputy collectors, mamlatdars and revenue officers are busy in the management of the Covid crisis on a 24x7 basis and cannot be spared for election duties. The commission thought that it would not be right to burden them with additional responsibility. That is one important consideration why we cannot appoint ROs and AROs,” he said. Srivastava said that the SEC had proposed holding the municipal election in December 2019. The SEC, he said, always prepares much in advance for an election as not only does the process take time, but the government also takes time in carrying out the delimitation of wards and notification of reservation of vacancies. “On January 7, the government gave us the go ahead for the elections. The delimitation of wards was also notified. However, as we were progressing, not only Goa, but the entire country was hit by the novel coronavirus pandemic. We were hoping to hold the elections on time if things improved because that is the primary responsibility of the SEC,” Srivastava said. The tenure of the existing municipal council ends on November 14. Last month, there was a public outcry when SEC announced the dates for the municipal polls. Left with no option, the chief minister said that the government had not conveyed the date for the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-election-commission-defers-municipal-polls-by-3-months/articleshow/77601798.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Rising Godavari raises flood alarm||Hyderabad: With the Godavari river at Bhadrachalam crossing the danger mark on Monday, thousands of people were shifted to rehabilitation camps in the district due to heavy rains. The third warning was issued on Sunday itself as the water level had reached 53 ft. By 8 pm on Monday, the water level reached 61.4 feet. Due to incessant rains, roads were blocked at many places including the Bhadrachalam to Khammam road and Bhadrachalam to Chattisgarh road. The flooding in villages left 24 villages without power but it was restored in 19 villages. The remaining villages are likely to be supplied power on Tuesday. With the Godavari water levels expected to touch 65 ft, people were moved from the villages that are likely to be affected, to rehabilitation camps. “The next three days are crucial,” Bhadradri-Kothagudem district collector told officials to ensure that everyone was shifted to the camps. The collector ordered that notices be served on the tahsildar and MPDP when he noticed that proper arrangements were not made for the people at the rehabilitation camp at Burgampahad mandal market godown despite being alerted three months ago on a possible situation arising where people would have to be shifted to rehabilitation camps. In Warangal town, 15 rehabilitation camps were organised, according to ministers Errabelli Dayakar Rao and Sathyavathy Rathod. As many as 4,500 people were moved to safety from 97 colonies. “It is due to illegal constructions and lakes being occupied for the last 50 years that Warangal is suffering today,” Dayakar Rao said. A large number of roads were damaged in Warangal because of the rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rising-godavari-raises-flood-alarm/articleshow/77600639.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 18, 2020||Chennai||Few takers for Madurai as Tamil Nadu’s second capital||CHENNAI: The demand for a second capital for Tamil Nadu is taking centre stage again. Ever since former chief minister and AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran floated the idea of having Trichy as capital, the idea of a second capital has caught the fancy of politicians over the years. Enthused by local sentiments and the Andhra Pradesh government’s recent plan to have three capitals, some members of the Edappadi K Palaniswami cabinet are now pushing for Madurai as the second capital, especially when assembly elections are eight months away The historic city with strong links to Tamil language and culture and the capital of Pandyas, came alive when MGR held the fifth edition of World Tamil conference in 1981. Now, amid turmoil in the ruling camp over the chief ministerial candidate for the assembly election, revenue minister R B Udayakumar, who heads AIADMK’s Madurai west district, on Sunday passed a resolution urging the high command to make the temple city a second capital. Cooperation minister Sellur K Raju backed him saying, "MGR’s dream was to make Madurai, the second capital and Trichy, the first capital. But Kalaignar (former DMK chief M Karunanidhi) opposed it." Highly-placed government sources, however, dismissed such an idea. "It is illogical. It is not financially prudent to have two sets of infrastructures for two capitals. It is impossible to shift the entire Secretariat to another capital for six months," said a senior officer. The government or the AIADMK may make clear its stand on the two-capital plan soon. Those backing it argue the capital status for Madurai would help the southern region develop on several fronts — industries, employment, health and education. The Madurai bench of the Madras HC has jurisdiction over 14 southern districts, and the upcoming AIIMS in Thoppur, will add to its importance. With a crore population and expanding periphery, the Chennai administration is struggling to cope. The city is looked upon for every administrative decision. The decentralisation of the judiciary helps common man get instant justice, Udayakumar told TOI. "Similarly, when there are two capitals, development is guaranteed in the south. It is really a challenge to attract investments here despite incentives being offered. The special status of a capital will give it heft," said the minister. Madurai has a state-of-the art integrated terminal that was opened in 2010. But the Tamil Nadu chamber of commerce and industry headquartered in Madurai is struggling to get Bi-lateral Airport Service Agreements with countries for foreign airliners. The opposition, DMK, dismissed the ministers’ demand as ‘random’. Madurai Central MLA Palanivel Thiagarajan said, "In my maiden speech in 2016, I asked Jayalalithaa to make Madurai a world class city, a promise she made. I made three requests, including completion of the underground drainage system, fixing traffic issues and restoration of Vaigai which is dumped with sewage and debris. They have not fulfilled their leader’s vision nor heeded to my request," the legislator said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/few-takers-for-madurai-as-tns-second-capital/articleshow/77600631.cms||Julie Mariappan
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: After hype, Moazzam Jahi market comes a cropper||HYDERABAD: Days after the renovated Moazzam Jahi Market was inaugurated by the state government, a visit to the site by TOI found that the market was inaugurated even though a few works were pending. On Monday, water was seeping through the roof and running down the walls at several places. The courtyard, central dome of the market, the meat market and other shops in the market were the most affected due to the rains. The visit showed that works pertaining to two impermeable layers of lime were pending and the small gaps between a pillar and roof of the heritage structure are yet to be filled. However, the GHMC officials expressed confidence that the works will be completed within a month. “Once the works are completed, there will be no leakages,” said a GHMC official. A source in GHMC said that as the deadline for market inauguration was August 14, the market was inaugurated despite the pending works. “The aim was to make the market operational on Independence Day, so despite the works pending, the market was inaugurated,” said a GHMC official. Meanwhile, heritage conservationists questioned the credibility of the contractor. “Before taking up renovation work, the track record of the consultant and contractor should be checked,” said Anuradha Reddy, convener, INTACH, Hyderabad. Shahid Sajjad, a conservation activist, said that the government did not follow the procedure of the HMDA regarding restoration and conservation of monuments. “When the managing director of the consultant was questioned if Moazzam Jahi Market was his first heritage project, he had replied that his agency had restored more than 100 old temples in undivided Andhra Pradesh,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-hype-mj-market-comes-a-cropper/articleshow/77600652.cms||Nabinder Bommala
August 18, 2020||Nashik||8 Ganesh mandals to install one idol||Nashik: As many as eight prominent Ganesh mandals in the city have decided to celebrate Ganpati festival jointly by installing only one idol due to the current situation. The big eight Ganesh mandals have been celebrating the festival at the B D Bhalekar ground near Kalidas Kala Mandir for the past 30 years. For the first time, the Ganesh festival will be a low-key affair. Ganesh Barve, the president of Shri Raje Chhatrapati Ganeshotsav Mandal, said the office bearers had a meeting in this regard and decided to install one idol in the view of the increase of Covid cases. He added that there will be no decorations instead they will focus on social projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/8-ganesh-mandals-to-install-one-idol/articleshow/77598010.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 18, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand Sanskrit Edu Board declares Class X, XII results||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand Sanskrit Education Board (USEB) declared its results for both Class X and XII on Monday. The overall pass percentage of Class X students for this academic year (2019-20) was 98.47%, higher than that of last session (2018-19). Likewise, the overall pass percentage of Class XII students also rose from last academic year to 97.08% this session. A total of 837 students cleared exams in Class X and as many as 732 students passed Class XII. The toppers for Class XII were Harshit Joshi, Aman Semwal and Aditya Todriya and those for Class X were Anurag Badola, Damodar Joshi, and Mayank Malasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-sanskrit-edu-board-declares-class-x-xii-results/articleshow/77598018.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fresh low pressure likely over Bay||Visakhapatnam: A fresh low pressure area is likely to form over the Bay of Bengal on Wednesday (August 19), according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday. The existing low pressure which has brought widespread rainfall across coastal Andhra Pradesh and Odisha for the last one week, has now weakened. In fact, the low pressure had formed close to the Andhra Pradesh coast, but later moved in a northward direction towards Odisha before weakening over the sea. “Now, the fresh low pressure is expected to form over northern Bay of Bengal. It is likely to strengthen over the subsequent 24 hours and then move westwards. It is too early to predict rainfall pattern and its impact on the state,” said S Stella, director, IMD, Amaravati Centre. The director further said that there will be no heavy rainfall over the state but thunderstorms and lightning are expected to occur at isolated places over north-coastal and south-coastal Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Yarravaripalem in Chittoor district received the state’s highest rainfall of 21.25 mm while Machilipatnam in Krishna district received 21 mm of rainfall on Monday. Chintalapudi in West Godavari district and Kirlampudi in East Godavari district received nearly 19 mm of rainfall while there was no rainfall in the north-coastal districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fresh-low-pressure-likely-over-bay/articleshow/77599259.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Surat||Audio clips abusing Indian saints goes viral in Surat||Surat: Two audio recordings in which a person can be heard making insulting remarks against saints have gone viral on social media. The unidentified person can also be heard making remarks about an adult magazine and ‘brahmacharya’ (celibacy). The text message which is being circulated along with the audio clips claims that the recordings are of Shivendra Gupta, vice-chancellor of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU). Gupta, who distanced himself from the audio recording, said it is concocted. He claimed that he is being defamed. It should be noted here that Gupta’s term as VNSGU VC is ending this month. He is trying to retain the post. The audio clips were widely circulated in higher education circles on Monday. The speaker in the clip is heard calling all the saints “crooks”. “Can't Dayanand see the injustice and exploitation being done to a child working in the Ashram,” the speaker is heard saying. The person can also be heard comparing serial killers of United States with ‘Babas’ in India stating that both have equal IQ of 130. “I told the baba that he is capable of becoming a serial killer,” the person can be heard in the clip. “It is a concocted and doctored audio. It is not my voice and I have no relation to it. It could be a conspiracy against me,” said Gupta, adding that recently some people had even sent emails to many individuals demanding things on his behalf. “I am also trying to find out how the audio with a voice which is similar to mine has gone viral,” he said. Sources in VNSGU said that it was possible that the audio clip would have got recorded when a group of citizens were having discussion to rent an auditorium for free. “It is however not clear when and where the discussion took place,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/audio-clips-abusing-indian-saints-goes-viral-in-surat/articleshow/77598035.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chennai||Over 8,800 tribal families in Tamil Nadu to get solar-powered homes under scheme||CHENNAI: Darkness of the evenings, heat of summer and exposure to the elements are all too familiar to M Kaliyamma of Keelpoonachi tribal hamlet in Anamalai Tiger Reserve Forest. Living without electricity in tin sheet houses, the settlement of 47 families is among the least developed areas in TN. A few kilometres away, the Kallar tribal settlement comprising 22 families displaced a year ago following a landslide waits for homes. “We pleaded with the officials to help us to return to our village. The officials promised us to build houses for us near our village. We hope to return soon,” said J Rajalakshmi, a resident. The lives of Kaliyamma and Rajalakshmi could change with the chief minister's solar-powered greenhouse scheme allotting 8,803 concrete houses to be built for tribal families. Under the project, a total of 20,000 houses will be built in this fiscal. These settlements fall under Coimbatore region, the district with the highest number of tribal families in need of basic amenities in the state. The residents of the tribal villages are excited at the prospect of living in a solar powered house as it would mean realisation of their long awaited dream of using electricity. “There is a power connection a few yards from the house, but the officials did not extend it to our house,” said M Kaliyamma, mother of two school and college-going girls. “The children studying under a lamp and strain their eyes. We hope this struggle will soon,” said V S Paramasivam of TN Tribals welfare association. After two years of data collection on tribal families without proper housing facilities from district collectors and forest officials, the department of tribal welfare submitted a proposal to build houses for as many as 8,803 tribal families. It was aimed at 100% coverage of tribal families in the state. “We are going to cover the all tribal hamlets at one go to provide a concrete house and replace thatched huts. We are aiming to achieve the target by the end of this fiscal year,” director of rural development and panchayat raj K S Palaniswamy told TOI. The state allocated Rs 1.80 lakh towards civil work and Rs 30,000 for installation of solar panels and lightings for each unit. The tribal welfare department chips in and allocates Rs 90,000 for each beneficiary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/over-8800-tribal-families-in-tn-to-get-solar-powered-homes-under-scheme/articleshow/77600642.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Students, parents hassled as entry restricted in Kamptee cantt||NAGPUR: Students of St Joseph’s School, a 166-year-old institution inside the Kamptee cantonment, were left harried as they reached to collect the Class X marksheet and leaving certificate on Monday. Following Covid, the local military authority (LMA) has imposed restrictions on movement within the cantonment. Entry is only allowed on Monday and Thursdays. Being a Monday, entry was allowed but the students and parents had a tough time getting permission, which was withdrawn when the marksheet distribution was mid-way, said sources. Established in 1854, St Joseph’s is the first school set up in the cantonment. The teachers later came out of the gate and carried out the work, said the parents. “As many as 25 to 30% of the parents had to go back as they did not carry identity proofs along. Some students were also turned away by the sentries because they were not wearing school uniform,” said a school teacher requesting anonymity. Soon videos of the cantonment gate went viral in which the parents were seen insisting with the sentries to be allowed inside. The move left the residents of the cantonment and parents miffed. A senior teacher from the school told TOI it was due to army's orders that entry of students had to be stopped. "Early in the day, students were allowed to come in for collecting the documents. But then army officials sent a message that so many students can't be allowed to come in," said the teacher. There are 265 students enrolled in Std X. "Since army was not allowing students to come in, we went to the main entrance and started distributing the documents to ensure that no one was inconvenienced. Almost 90% of the students have been handed over the documents, as the others did not show up," the teacher added. A source said a month ago, school had to distribute the books by setting a table outside the cantonment gate. Rakesh Kanojiya, a resident of the Kamptee town whose child is in the primary school, said restrictions had prevented parents from going to the school even for paying fees or getting books. “The online classes started 20 days ago, but I had to pay the fees before that. Only because of the restrictions I could not reach in time and the school does not have online payment facility,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/students-parents-hassled-as-entry-restricted-in-kamptee-cantt/articleshow/77600655.cms||Shishir Arya
August 18, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city’s nCov doubling rate up from 13.5 to 18 days||Nashik: The rate at which Covid-19 positive cases are doubling in Nashik city has improved over the past month.According to the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials, the doubling rate in the city has gone up from 13.5 days around a month back to 18 days now.Till August 15, the city had recorded 16,381 positive patients — almost double of the 8,042 patients recorded till July 28.The NMC has started quick contact tracing of patients and has tripled the number of tests in comparison to a month ago. This has led to an improvement in the Covid-19 doubling rate in the city. Meanwhile, the recovery rate has also crossed the 75% mark.Of the 13,153 patients who have recovered till date, 6,895 have recovered in the past 19 days (between July 28 and August 16). Currently, the city has more recovered patients than active patients (2,823).The city recorded its first patient on April 6 and had only 48 patients till May 19. But the number of cases started increasing after the lockdown was relaxed.“We had sent out health teams to find suspected Covid patients and conduct their antigen tests. We brought the slums under control through screening of residents and also deployed teams to detect co-morbid patients. We have conducted over 40,000 antigen tests over the past 25 days,” said the NMC officials.“We are also doubling the number of fever clinics in the city from the present 35 to 70. Antigen tests of residents with fever will be conducted at these clinics. We expect the doubling rate to further improve to 22 days by August 30,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-citys-ncov-doubling-rate-up-from-13-5-to-18-days/articleshow/77598081.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||DRF rescues 120 people in Warangal||Hyderabad: With heavy rains lashing Warangal for the last few days, the teams of Disaster Response Force (DRF) despatched to Warangal from Hyderabad rescued 120 people in two days in the city. One of the most difficult operations was rescuing an elderly couple stuck in an inundated area. The rescue operation lasted around 90 minutes. “The operation was executed in the wee hours so it was more difficult. As the couple stuck were senior citizens, we had to take utmost care while moving them to a safe place,” said an official heading the DRF team. The three teams comprising 40 DRF personnel and equipped with specialised boats, pumps, generators, portable lighting systems among others, left for Warangal on Sunday. Specialised machinery and pumps have been placed at strategic locations in Warangal for ensuring quick response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drf-rescues-120-people-in-warangal/articleshow/77600645.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Petrol dealers allege fuel oil being mixed in diesel instead of bio-diesel||NAGPUR: Vidarbha Petroleum Dealers Association (VPDA) has alleged that a number of outlets licensed to vend bio-diesel have been selling spurious fuel instead. The government had allowed direct sale of bio-diesel for mixing with high speed diesel (HSD) from April 2019. This has led to a number of dealers selling fuel oil in the name of bio-diesel. Bio-diesel is a product made of agricultural and other non-petroleum products; while fuel oil is a refinery product used for running boats and small fishing vessels, apart from other industrial uses, said Amit Gupta of VPDA. This was pointed out to speaker of state assembly Nana Patole, following which a raid was conducted on a pump at Nagpur, which was later sealed. VPDA will be taking up the issue further with other authorities, Gupta said. The campaign by VPDA is on the lines of a statewide drive by Federation of All Maharashtra Petroleum Dealers’ Association (FAMPEDA), he said. “The government has allowed blending up to 20% of bio-diesel. However, the actual production of bio-diesel is not as much as the sales taking place these days,” added Vilas Salpekar, also a VPDA member. On the other hand, import of fuel oil has increased phenomenally, which indicates it is being used for illegal mixing. In 2018-19, fuel oil worth Rs 4,044 crore was imported. In 2019-20, this jumped to more than Rs11,000 crore, added Gupta. The mixing has also affected the regular petroleum vendors’ business. Blended diesel is available for Rs55 to 56 a litre, because fuel oil is cheap. Regular diesel on the other hand is priced at over Rs78 a litre. This has led to business coming down by at least 30%, he said. “We are not against bio-diesel but rampant mixing going on in the name of the green fuel. Bio-diesel costs Rs60 to 62 a litre,” said Gupta. There are over 450 registered bio-diesel vendors in the state out of which five are in Nagpur. The vendors are not part of the petroleum dealers’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/petrol-dealers-allege-fuel-oil-being-mixed-in-diesel-instead-of-bio-diesel/articleshow/77600691.cms||Shishir Arya
August 18, 2020||Dehradun||Fees India's steepest, U'khand med students want ‘bond’ system back||Dehradun: At Rs 4 lakh a year, medical education in Uttarakhand’s government colleges is the country’s most expensive. Having pulled through last time when the cost shot up eight times after they had been allotted seats, when they could not have switched colleges, the students say they can't afford it again. The government, which is preparing to set up three more medical colleges, says it can’t cover costs either. The students have now demanded a return to the “bond” system that subsidised education in lieu of five years’ practice in the remote hills. Last year, Ajay Dubey and his family had scraped together Rs 70,000 to pay for the first year of his medical education. The 19-year-old son of a daily wage labourer from Haridwar’s Pooranpur village had got through to the Government Doon Medical College — it was a proud moment for the family. But the bond facility at medical institutes was scrapped in two colleges in Uttarakhand — at Government Doon Medical College, with 175 seats, and Sushila Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani, with 125 seats. Fees shot up from Rs 50,000 to Rs 4 lakh in one go. And they had to find a way to pay. But if it was tough last year, it’s worse this time. “I got a loan of Rs 1 lakh from a sahukaar (money lender), another Rs 2 lakh from relatives and managed to pay the first year’s fee. This time, I had thought of applying for an education loan. But the loan was not processed because of the pandemic,” Ajay said, adding, “My father is the sole earning member of the family. I just cannot come up with Rs 4 lakh again.” With the bond facility gone, fees at these medical colleges is the highest in the country. “Government medical colleges in the country, like Baba Saheb Ambedkar Medical College (Delhi), Gao Medical College (Indore) and Andaman and Nicobar Medical College charge about Rs 1 lakh a year. Most others take between Rs 10,000 and Rs 40,000,” said Kalpit Arya, an MBBS student from Haldwani. With the demand for subsidised structures coming up again, Yugal Kishore Pant, director (additional secretary) of medical education in Uttarakhand, said reconsidering the decision was not possible because it is a matter of scale. “We run three medical colleges. Another (in Almora) is set to start session next year. Three more medical colleges have been sanctioned. Teaching about 1,000 students (in seven colleges) at subsidised rates will not be practically possible. The government is also investing in their education while charging Rs 4 lakh a year. And the students did know of the fees while taking admission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fees-indias-steepest-ukhand-med-students-want-bond-system-back/articleshow/77598057.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt looks to tame flood menace with new policy||HYDERABAD: Looking for a permanent solution to mitigate the flood situation in the state, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday directed the revenue, irrigation and other disaster management officials to prepare a policy to come up with flood management in Telangana. He also directed the officials to prepare a flood track sheet for every river in the state. “In the undivided state of AP, flood manuals were prepared and strategies were formulated based on the experiences and situation of the Andhra region. The then-government never bothered to prepare manuals for Telangana though the region experienced heavy rains and floods earlier too. We have to prepare these manuals based on the situation in Telangana now for a permanent solution,” the chief minister told officials at a review meeting on Monday. He said track sheets of every river should have estimates on water flows. “A track record on what happened when the river was in spate must be kept. Based on this, prepare a future strategy,” he told the officials. KCR said all the public representatives should remain in their respective districts and constituencies and monitor the situation and relief measures, and directed agriculture officials to prepare estimates about the crop damage. The CM said panchayat raj and municipal administration departments should obtain daily reports from the villages and urban areas on the prevailing situation. “The reports, through collectors and secretaries, must reach the chief secretary. Based on the reports, necessary action should be taken,” he said. “There should not be any loss of life due to the rains. The official machinery should understand that saving lives is the state’s priority. People should also be careful, as weather is not favourable. They should alert the officials, whenever they have a small problem or if there is a danger of floods. The officials should ensure that people do not stay in dilapidated houses,” the chief minister said. The chief minister said that tough the situation is under control, the coming three to four days are crucial. “There is a possibility of heavy rains due to the depression over north-east Madhya Pradesh, North Chhattisgarh and south-east UP,” he said, adding that special task force teams must be kept ready to combat emergencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-looks-to-tame-flood-menace-with-new-policy/articleshow/77600661.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt doing all it can on floods: HC||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Monday refused to take up suo motu the flood situation in the state, contending that it won’t disturb the relief and rescue operations being undertaken by the government. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said the state was doing what all it should do to mitigate the situation and refused to entertain the plea when advocate Chikkudu Prabhakar made a mention before the bench, asking it to take up the matter on its own. The judges pointed out that the Army was called and helicopters had been pressed into service to rescue the stranded people. “The chief minister himself is monitoring the situation and asking the officials and staff to be alert 24 hours. This is responsible governance. People from low-lying areas are being evacuated,” they said. Prabhakar said the lives of people, particularly Adivasis living on the banks of Godavari, Pranahitha and Penuganga rivers, along with those in Warangal were adversely affected. “Food and water have become scarce due to the floods,” he said. At this, the judges told him they were watching the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-doing-all-it-can-on-floods-hc/articleshow/77600684.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP reports 6,780 new Covid cases, lowest in three weeks||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 6,780 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, the lowest single-day count in the last three weeks, and 82 deaths. The cumulative caseload stands at 2,96,609 as of August 17. The cumulative death toll now stands at 2,732. The last time that the state reported less than 7,000 new cases in a day was on July 27. Even though there has been no consistent decline, the number of new Covid-19 cases reported every day has settled at between the 7,000 to 10,000-mark for the last three weeks, in an early sign that infection numbers may be stabilising. As many as 7,866 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Monday, overtaking the number of fresh infections. There are currently 84,777 active cases and 2,09,100 recoveries. Recoveries outpacing new infections over the last few days has improved the state’s recovery rate to above 70%. East Godavari reported 911 fresh cases on Monday, followed by Guntur (776) and West Godavari (724). In a welcome sign, Krishna district registered only 135 new cases. Anantapur became the third district to cross the 30,000 case mark on Monday, behind Kurnool and East Godavari districts. Among the 82 deceased on Monday, 13 are from Prakasam, 10 from East Godavari, eight from Chittoor, seven each from Guntur and Kadapa, six each from Srikakulam and West Godavari, five each from Anantapur, Kurnool, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram, three from Krishna district and two from Nellore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-6780-new-cases-lowest-in-3-weeks/articleshow/77599307.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chennai||Dalit civic chief prevented from hoisting tricolour in Tamil Nadu, again||CHENNAI: Since she was elected Athupakkam’s first panchayat president from the Scheduled Caste community in January, V Amurtham has been fighting oppression and caste discrimination in the panchayat. On Saturday, she was stopped from hoisting the National Flag by non-dalits at the panchayat elementary school, located in Tiruvallur district, about 40km from Chennai. She first got a call from school headmistress Dhanalakshmi on Saturday morning to hoist the flag to mark the Independence Day celebrations. As she was getting ready to go to the school, she got another call from the headmistress, requesting her not to attend the function, said Amurtham. “The headmistress said they would celebrate it on their own,” she added. Since the school building is adjoining the panchayat office, the panchayat office-bearers conduct the flag-hoisting ceremony only at the school and not at the panchayat office, she said. “This is not the first time that I am facing discrimination,” said Amurtham and recalled an incident that unfolded on Republic Day this year at the panchayat elementary school in the same village. “I was invited to hoist the National Flag on Republic Day. I went to the schoolwith my husband (Venu) and son. When I stepped onto the podium, the former panchayat president (V Haridoss) abused me in front of everyone. The headmistress was shocked and I was perplexed. I stepped down immediately,” she said. Tiruvallur collector Maheswari Ravikumar told TOI that the district administration has not received any complaint regarding caste discrimination in the panchayat. She, however, said an inquiry would be conducted and appropriate action would be taken, if anyone was found guilty of ill-treating the panchayat president. Haridoss was panchayat president for three terms and is a member of the parents-teachers’ association. “I don’t know about the problem between them. But the former panchayat president did not allow Amurtham to hoist the flag on Republic Day. Instead, he hoisted the flag himself,” said headmistress Dhanalakshmi. She disconnected the line when asked about Saturday’s incident. Panchayat secretary M Sasikumar also said Amurtham was not allowed to hoist the flag on Republic Day. Amurtham had won the local body election after it was reserved for SC (woman). It was a general category seat earlier. The sexagenarian, who has studied only till class III, said that she can sign but cannot read or write Tamil. Panchayat secretary Sasikumar, a native of the same village and who is working there for the last eight years, does not give proper answers to her queries, she said. “He will ask me to sign on papers, saying that salaries should be given to sanitation workers and other staff in the panchayat. But he will not give proper answers or produce the documents related to the panchayat’s expenditure,” said Amurtham. Vice president Revathy’s husband Vijay, who is also from a non-dalit community, allegedly intimidated Amurtham in her office. “He abuses me when I make inquiries about work going on in the panchayat. They have not allowed me to keep a name board in the panchayat office,” she added. Though Amurtham, with the help of her son, took the issue to the notice of the block development officer and lodged a complaint against the ill-treatment by panchayat secretary and vice-president’s husband, no action has been taken till date, she said. Haridoss and panchayat secretary Sasikumar denied the charges. Haridoss said there was lots of corruption in carrying out MGNREGA works and other development works in the panchayat. Since he raised the issues, they were trying to corner him by levelling charges of caste discrimination, he said. “If she was ill-treated, why was she silent all these days,” he questioned and denied discriminating anyone on caste lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dalit-civic-chief-prevented-from-hoisting-tricolour-in-tn-again/articleshow/77600722.cms||Shanmughasundarm j
August 18, 2020||Meerut||SP protests over pirated NCERTbooks racket linked to BJP leader||Meerut: Supporters of Samajwadi Party (SP) led by district president Rajpal Singh and senior leader Atul Pradhan held a protest at collectorate premises in Meerut.The protesting SP members demanded immediate arrest of BJP leader Sanjeev Gupta and his nephew Sachin Gupta who have been evading the law since the unearth of the huge consignment of pirated NCERT books from a godown in Meerut.A lot of ruckus ensued after protesters tried to take out a march from SP office on the Jail Road to collectorate and were prevented by the cops.Later in a memorandum to district magistrate Anil Dhingra, the SP placed several demands, including immediate arrest of main accused. "Role of senior leaders of BJP and office-bearers should be probed," the memorandum read.Notably, a joint team of Meerut STF and local police had raided a godown in Partapur area last Friday. Huge consignment of pirated NCERT books worth Rs 35 crore was recovered and a printing press purportedly belonging to Sanjeev Gupta was sealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sp-protests-over-pirated-ncertbooks-racket-linked-to-bjp-leader/articleshow/77727686.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Kolhapur||K’taka set to increase Almatti discharge||Kolhapur: The Karnataka government, in view of incessant rainfall in Krishna valley, is expected to further increase water discharge from Almatti dam to avoid floods in Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts. Minister of state for health Rajendra Patil-Yadrawkar, who represents Kolhapur district, had a telephonic conversation with Karnataka irrigation minister Ramesh Jarkiholi during which a request to increase the water discharge from Almatti dam by 50,000 cusec — from 2 lakh cusec to 2.5 lakh cusec. Jarkiholi has assured of better coordination over the issue of Almatti dam. Water discharge from Almatti has increased gradually for the past few days, which has given some relief to the people in Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts. On Sunday morning, water discharge from Almatti was at 1.27 lakh cusec while it was increased up to 1.50 lakh cusec in the evening. The discharge was further increased to 2 lakh cusec on Monday morning. Water discharge from Almatti has been a bone of contention between Maharashtra and Karnataka as its backwater comes back in Sangli, Satara and Kolhapur, increasing water level of Krishna river and its tributaries. All the major dams in three districts in Maharashtra, which are bordering to Karnataka, are currently releasing water. Rajapur barrage in Sangli, considered as the last reservoir in Maharashtra, is receiving around 1.35 lakh cusec of water, including 80,000 cusec from Krishna river and 15,000 cusec water from Warna and Panchganga rivers. The current water level at Rajapur barrage is 43 feet, while the warning and danger levels are at 53 feet and 58 feet, respectively. “The Almatti dam, built on Krishna river in Vijapur district, was getting 1,27,582 cusec water while discharge was more than 2 lakh cusec. Almatti, also known as Lal Bahadur Shastri dam, has a storage of 123 TMC. Its current water storage is 109 TMC,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ktaka-set-to-increase-almatti-discharge/articleshow/77598055.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Surat||Audio clips abusing Indian saints goes viral in Surat||Surat: Two audio recordings in which a person can be heard making insulting remarks against saints have gone viral on social media. The unidentified person can also be heard making remarks about an adult magazine and ‘brahmacharya’ (celibacy). The text message which is being circulated along with the audio clips claims that the recordings are of Shivendra Gupta, vice-chancellor of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU). Gupta, who distanced himself from the audio recording, said it is concocted. He claimed that he is being defamed. It should be noted here that Gupta’s term as VNSGU VC is ending this month. He is trying to retain the post. The audio clips were widely circulated in higher education circles on Monday. The speaker in the clip is heard calling all the saints “crooks”. “Can't Dayanand see the injustice and exploitation being done to a child working in the Ashram,” the speaker is heard saying. The person can also be heard comparing serial killers of United States with ‘Babas’ in India stating that both have equal IQ of 130. “I told the baba that he is capable of becoming a serial killer,” the person can be heard in the clip. “It is a concocted and doctored audio. It is not my voice and I have no relation to it. It could be a conspiracy against me,” said Gupta, adding that recently some people had even sent emails to many individuals demanding things on his behalf. “I am also trying to find out how the audio with a voice which is similar to mine has gone viral,” he said. Sources in VNSGU said that it was possible that the audio clip would have got recorded when a group of citizens were having discussion to rent an auditorium for free. “It is however not clear when and where the discussion took place,” said the source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/audio-clips-abusing-indian-saints-goes-viral-in-surat/articleshow/77599328.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Stringent action sought against private hospitals||Aurangabad: During the weekly meeting between the district administration officials and people’s representatives, the latter demanded stringent action against hospitals that are overcharging the patients under the garb of Covid-19 treatment. People belonging to different strata of the society along with NGOs and political workers have been raising the issue of overcharging by private hospitals. Thus, the issue was raised along with other points including antigen testing, plasma donation and upcoming Ganeshotsav during Monday’s meeting that was attended by Aurangabad MP Imtiaz Jaleel, MLA Sanjay Shirsath, MLC Ambadas Danve and Rajya Sabha MP Bhagwat Karad, among others. “We have registered a strong objection to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) denying to share plasma of a cured patient with Hegdewar hospital for treating a Covid-19 patient,” Jaleel said. Later, the administration agreed to hold a meeting with key officials from the health department for finding a solution to share the plasma with private hospitals. “The administration has agreed to issue a circular about the medicines required for treatment of of Covid-19. It has also been decided that last rites on Covid patients should be carried out at the crematoriums in respective areas instead of taking them to far off places,” Karad said. It was also decided that people should be convinced to have one Ganesh Mandal in each ward instead of the regular practice of every mandal installing their own idol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/stringent-action-sought-against-private-hospitals/articleshow/77598065.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Power supply hit, 7 towers washed away||HYDERABAD: Power supply to several villages and mandals was affected, on Monday, following heavy rains battering the state and leading to inundation of electric sub-stations and uprooting of poles at several places. Officials said seven major towers that supply power to 220 kV sub-stations were washed away in erstwhile Karimnagar district, while two sub-stations submerged in floodwater in Warangal district. “As a precautionary measure, power supply was disconnected to 54 villages in various districts after floodwater entered the villages. Supply was stopped to 248 transformers — 159 in TSNPDCL and 89 in TSSPDCL limits — because of inundation,” Telangana Transco and Genco CMD Prabhakar Rao said. He asked officials to restore power supply once rain water starts receding in the villages, while the distribution companies set up special control rooms to receive complaints on power-related issues. The CMD held a review meeting on the power situation with heads of Southern Power Distribution Company and Northern Power Distribution Company G Raghuma Reddy and A Gopala Rao respectively on Monday and directed them to restore supply in the flood-affected areas. He urged people to be cautious about snapped electric wires, transformers and inform officials about water entering their houses and apartments. “People having voltage problems can bring them to the notice of control rooms set up at the headquarters,” he said. People can call 1912/100 or local fuse call office or special control rooms Nos. 7382072104, 7382072106 and 7382071574 in TSSPDCL limits and 9440811244 and 9440811245 in TSNPDCL limits. The CMD, who also took stock of hydel power generation, said hydel power generation had started in irrigation projects like Upper Jurala, Lower Jurala, Srisailam and Nagarjuna Sagar by producing 1,200 MW. “With power demand coming down due to the wet spell, generation in KTPP, Singareni and KTPS thermal power plants has come down,” officials said. The CM also lauded the electricity department officials for ensuring continuous supply of power in the city during the heavy rains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-supply-hit-7-towers-washed-away/articleshow/77600695.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 18, 2020||Goa||Goa offered ISL venues cheap in exchange for free publicity||PANAJI: The state government has agreed to rent sports infrastructure in the state to organisers of the Indian Super League for a subsidised fee in exchange for promotion of Goa as a tourist destination. Football Sports Development Ltd (FSDL), the body that organises ISL, has already inked an agreement with the Sports Authority of Goa (SAG), which owns all three stadiums where matches will be played. All 95 matches of the ISL this season will be played in Goa, and the state government believes tourism can get a well-deserved push through the 11 channels which will broadcast the games. “The chief minister, sports minister and sports secretary were all very supportive of this idea of having ISL in Goa,” said SAG executive director VM Prabhu Desai. “Sport brings positivity, and even though the crowd won’t be allowed, at least initially, this is a major step towards promotion of Goa as a major tourist destination.” According to sources, sports secretary J Ashok Kumar first prepared a detailed note explaining the need for Goa to host the event, and how ISL could prove to be an image-building exercise for the state in times of the pandemic. The next edition of ISL, starting November, will be held behind closed doors. This would mean increased numbers for television and digital coverage. Last season, the league’s ‘cumulative reach’, according to Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), India’s official audience research organisation, was reported to be 168 million, and it had 261 million ‘impressions’. The league was broadcast on 11 television channels and in seven languages. “The organisers will have to showcase Goa in all its glory. There will be glimpses of Goa, and not just our beaches. We have so much more to offer. Imagine what 95 days of continuous television can do to the image of Goa. Churches, temples, beaches, places of historical importance should all get featured,” said Prabhu Desai. Matches will be played at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda, Tilak Maidan in Vasco and GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim. It was not immediately clear how ISL would meet Goa’s demands. According to sources, showcasing glimpses of Goa before, during and after every game is an option. Matches, interestingly, are also streamed on OTT platforms. When there was a tussle between Goa and Kerala to host the event, the first big sporting spectacle in times of a pandemic, the state went out of its way to woo the organisers. Access to high-ranking government officials was smooth, while even negotiations for a reduction in price for stadiums and training facilities did not face much resistance. “The state government understands the importance of blending sports and tourism. We decided that the event must come to Goa,” said Prabhu Desai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-offered-isl-venues-cheap-in-exchange-for-free-publicity/articleshow/77601856.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
August 18, 2020||Agra||Covid-19 positive prisoner who escaped fromjail in Agra arrested in MP’s Bhind district||Agra: A Covid-19 positive prisoner who had escaped from a temporary jail set up close to Hariparwat police station in Agra seven days ago was arrested in Bhind district of Madhya Pradesh and sent to jail there on Monday. Ravi, a resident of Nandlalpura village under Khandauli police station, was arrested on July 24 in connection with a mobile theft. He was produced in a local court, which sent him to the temporary jail. Ravi tested positive for Covid-19 on August 4 and was isolated in a separate room. In the morning of August 10, he came out of the room on the pretext of going to the toilet and escaped the temporary jail by climbing the wall. Police have been searching for him since then. Following a complaint lodged by the jail authorities, Ravi was booked under sections 223 (escape from confinement or custody negligently suffered by public servant) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Hariparwat police station. On August 14, a police team raided his residence in Nandlalpura village, but Ravi’s sister Vimlesh helped him evade police. Later, police arrested her and she was sent to jail. Hariparwat SHO Ajay Kaushal said, “Ravi was arrested in MP’s Bhind district. The MP Police claimed to have seized a knife from his possession. He was, later, sent to jail. We have, meanwhile, launched an investigation on how Ravi reached Bhind. He will be brought back to Agra, soon.” According to police sources, one of Ravi’s relatives is a constable posted at the kotwali in Bhind rural. Ravi was under pressure after the arrest of his sister, and thus, with the help of his relative, he made a plan to get arrested in MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-positive-prisoner-who-escaped-fromjail-in-agra-arrested-in-mps-bhind-district/articleshow/77598075.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Flood level may dip by today evening||VIJAYAWADA: While flood level at Munneru rivulet came down to 85,000 cusecs, Wyra, Katteleru and other rivulets upstream of Prakasam Barrage continued to overflow forcing officials to lifted all 73 gates on Monday, releasing 1.8 lakh cusecs of water. However, officials estimate that flood levels will come down by Tuesday evening. Penuganchiprolu, Nandigama and Kanchikacherla were particularly affected following floods in Munneru rivulet. Krishna district collector A Mohammed Imtiaz along with district SP Ravindra M Ravindra Babu and government whip Samineni Udaya Bhanu inspected the flood situation at Lingala village under Vathsavai mandal on Monday. “Preparedness of officials helped in restricting human and livestock loss. Flood level touched 1 lakh cusecs in Munneru after 2008. Tahsildhars and police monitored the situation every minute and took necessary measures. NDRF teams should also be appreciated as they saved the lives of five people who were stranded in the flood,” Imtiaz said. The collector directed officials to continue flood relief camps for people living in low-lying areas and arrange food for them. Local farmers requested the collector to help them get compensation for crop damage. Imtiaz directed agriculture authorities to prepare a detailed estimate of crop damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/flood-level-may-dip-by-today-evening/articleshow/77599319.cms||Venu Lanka
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur now has more deaths than rest of Vid combined...||Nagpur: Nagpur district has continued to register high number of Covid-19 deaths. Number of fatalities in the district crossed 500 mark on Monday. It took 141 days for first hundred deaths while next 400 happened in just 19 days.On Monday, 24 patients died taking the total to 512. Total number of deaths in 11 districts of Vidarbha is 950. Nagpur accounts for 53.89% of this. The number of deaths in district is more than combined figure of remaining 10 districts in the region.Akola was the first in Vidarbha to register 100 deaths. As of Monday, Akola had 140 deaths. Nagpur is 10th district in the state to cross 500 deaths. The gap in number of deaths in Nagpur and some others with more fatalities in the state is reducing fast. Mumbai was having 7,173 deaths followed by Thane- 3,351, Pune- 3,247, Jalgaon- 692, Nashik- 676, Solapur- 633, Raigad- 588, Aurangabad- 578 and Palghar- 502 as of August 16.Of total 512 deaths, 449 deceased were from the district of which 367 were from city and 82 from rural areas. Remaining 63 deceased were from other districts of Vidarbha and states like Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh but had tested positive and died in hospitals in the city.There were 126 deaths till the end of July. 386 deaths were registered in 17 days of August. The district had registered first positive case on March 11 and first death on April 5. First 100 deaths were recorded on July 29. In the 19 days since, 403 deaths were registered.Of the total 10 zones in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) area, Gandhibagh-Mahal zone with Mominpura, Juni Mangalwari, Timki, Golibar chowk etc continued to register high number of deaths. Ashi Nagar zone is having second highest deaths followed by Satranjipura zone, Mangalwari zone, Lakadganj zone, Nehru Nagar zone, Hanuman Nagar zone, Dhantoli, Dharampeth and Laxmi Nagar.In Nagpur rural, Kamptee tehsil is having maximum deaths followed by Nagpur, Parsheoni, Hingna, Saoner, Katol, Narkhed, Umred, Bhivapur, Ramtek, Kalmeshwar and Mauda tehsils. Kuhi is the only one not to register a single death.As per analysis of deaths by the NMC and district administration, a majority of deaths occurred due to late reporting to Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs). These deceased were tested for Covid-19 in later stage and admitted in DCHs in critical conditions. In some cases, the private hospitals had treated the deceased and later shifted them to government-run DCHs. Some even tested positive after death.NMC and Zilla Parishad have increased testing to a great extent to detect the cases in early stage and give treatment from initial phase to prevent deaths. Also, patients with symptoms are finding it difficult to get admission and treatment in government and private-run DCHs.477 deaths were registered in GMCH and IGGMCH and remaining 35 in private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-now-has-more-deaths-than-rest-of-vid-combined-/articleshow/77599336.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 18, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC buses to Nashik get overwhelming response||Nashik: The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation’s (MSRTC) bus services for picking up passengers from taluka headquarters and dropping them to the district headquarters have generated overwhelming response from the citizens. The services have been launched from talukas like Sinnar, Pimpalgaon, Nandgaon, Surgana to Mahamarg bus stand. “In the absence of any other mode of transportation, people are forced to use their personal vehicles. However, travelling becomes difficult for women during monsoon especially on two-wheelers,” Ranjeeta Kulkarni, a traveller from Nandgaon to the collector office, said. The MSRTC has started four buses every day with two starting in the first half of the day while the other tow began in the second half. “We have a large numbers of people who want to travel to Nashik — for job and business. On one hand the government is trying to bring back the economy on track, while on the other the MSRTC is not starting the bus services. There is secret private transportation going on and that is also endangering the spread of infection. If the MSRTC starts more buses the spread of infection will be automatically contained,” Rajeev Jadhav from Pimpalgaon said. The MSRTC, however, has no plans to expand its services for now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-buses-to-nashik-get-overwhelming-response/articleshow/77598080.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Heavy discharge from dams in Satara, Sangli||Kolhapur: Several villages in Satara and Sangli have been put on alert due to incessant rainfall and heavy discharge of water from the dams. Five major dams in Satara district and one in Sangli district were releasing around 90,000 cusec water by Monday evening, increasing water level of all the rivers and resulting into submersion of roads. Koyna, the biggest dam in the region, was discharging around 56,000 cusec water. The dam has almost 93 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) water storage as against the capacity of 105 TMC.  Koyna dam has been filled up to 88 % of its capacity but the irrigation authorities had clarified that more water is unlikely to be released immediately. Six gates of Koyna dam have lifted up to ten feet currently. Catchment areas of major and medium reservoirs in Satara district have been receiving incessant rains and most of them are filled to more than 80% of their capacity. Irrigation authorities said that water level of all the rivers will rise further due to continuous rainfall and discharge from the dams. Apart from Koyna, water is discharged from Tarali, Dhom, Urmodi and Kanher dams in the district. Total discharge from five dams, including Koyna, was more than 75,000 cusecs, according to the official information. While Satara district recorded 34 mm rainfall, Mahabaleshwar, which mainly comprise catchment area of Koyna dam, received 217 mm rainfall in 24 hours. Mahabaleshwar tehsil has received 2,714 mm rainfall in the current season. According to the official information, Nawja received 183 mm while total rainfall recorded in the current season is 3,937 mm. In Sangli district, Chandoli dam water discharge was 14,000 cusec as its catchment area in Shirala continues to have moderate rainfall. Shirala tehsil has received 51 mm rainfall in the past 24 hours. Chandoli dam has 31.50 TMC water while its capacity is 34 TMC. Two teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have already been deployed in Sangli district in view of the possible flood situation. NDRF teams have been deployed in Ashta in Walva tehsil and Sangli city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/heavy-discharge-from-dams-in-satara-sangli/articleshow/77598077.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||NEP may lead to closure of engineer, medical, law & agri varsities: IMA panel report||NAGPUR: The National Working Group (NWG), constituted by the Indian Medical Association (IMA) to study the ‘New Education Policy (NEP)’ regarding the medical fraternity, has warned that its implementation would led to closure of stand-alone universities for not only medical courses, but also for engineering, law and agriculture. In its report submitted to IMA president Dr Rajan Sharma, the group led by chairman Dr Vedprakash Mishra also flagged concerns over “hybridization” of medical education. “The concepts of giving power to fix fee structure, providing multiple entry and exit points and lateral entry to various medical courses ultimately aims to the only goal of permitting and legalizing cross-pathy. The modality would end up in generation of validated quacks and legalized quackery,” said Dr Mishra. Warning that backtracking on focused attention in the field of higher education will bring in deterioration in quality of education, the report mentioned it would be counterproductive on several counts both tangible as well as non-tangible. “Professional education having dedicated technical and health universities have streamlined courses, improved academics, encouraged research, brought in uniformity in students’ assessment in the respective sectors in all these years,” added Mishra. According to him, the entire arena of professional education, including legal, agricultural and technical education in NEP looks “sketchy’ and ‘lop sided”. “NEP envisages that all institutions offering either professional or general education must organically evolve into institutions offering both courses by 2030. Accordingly, the lifespan of modern medicine and medical education in its present form that’s in conformity with the global pattern, would be a bygone history after 2030,” he said. The NWG report mentioned that multiple entry and exit points will lead to loss of focus on core subject of study and precipitate further dilution of curriculum, teaching, training and learning. “This will operate as a vicious circle whereby, the utility and employability will be adversely impacted in a continual and ongoing manner,” he added. The NWG further warned that giving responsibility of fixing the curriculum and deciding on pedagogy to universities and colleges will take away uniformity in professional education. “This by itself is grossly contradictory to the core concept of exit examination embodied in this policy itself. The role of the apex nation body like National Medical Commission, which has been kept outside the purview of common regulatory modality so far, will be rendered to nullity,” he reasoned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nep-may-lead-to-closure-of-engg-medical-law-agri-varsities-ima-panel-report/articleshow/77600689.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Travel agents’ associations seek Jaganmohan Reddy’s help, bailout packages||VISAKHAPATNAM: The travel agents’ associations of Andhra Pradesh have estimated a revenue loss of Rs 2,000 crore till August and another estimated loss of Rs 3,500 crore by the year-end. They have written to chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy on Monday requesting him to rollout bailout packages for the industry. In the letter, month-wise average estimated percentage of revenue yield for the travel tourism industry has been mentioned along with a comparison for this year. It is mentioned that in the period from April to July, travel agents earned 45% of their annual revenue. However, for this year, the revenue earnings in these four months has been zero. Their next peak time for business is from September to January when they earn around 40% of annual revenue. As per estimates mentioned in the letter, this year they would earn only 4% of average annual revenue during this period, that too if the situation improves. “The travel industry is perhaps one of the worst-hit during the pandemic. No clients are booking holiday packages now. Although domestic flights have resumed, clients are booking their flights or accommodation through online travel portals. Many of the big travel agencies in the state are on the verge of bankruptcy,” said K Vijay Mohan, president of Andhra Pradesh Tours and Travels Association. In response, the state government has asked the travel agents to meet in Vijayawada on August 20 to discuss possible bailout packages. “We are concerned about inbound and outbound international travel. If the Union and state governments don’t take precautions, other countries might ban tourists to India and Indian tourists to their countries,” added Vijay Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/travel-agents-associations-seek-jagans-help-bailout-packages/articleshow/77599346.cms||Arpit Basu
August 18, 2020||Nashik||Onion wholesale price crosses Rs 1,000/quintal||Nashik: The average wholesale onion price at Lasalgaon APMC, the country’s largest wholesale onion market, have gone up by almost 53% in the past one week due to drop in supply as compared to demand. According to APMC officials, the average wholesale onion prices have increased by Rs 400 per quintal during last one week, from Rs 750 per quintal on August 10 to Rs 1,150 per quintal on Monday (August 17) due to drop in supply as compared to demand. “The arrival of onions, which were around 20,000 quintals around three weeks back, has now reduced to 10,000 quintal per day due to the incessant rain. Most farmers are not bringing their produce to the market. This has led to rise in average wholesale onion prices,” said APMC sources. Presently, onions arriving at the wholesale market are of summer onions, harvested in March and April. The summer onions have a shelf life of around six-seven months and farmers prefer storing onions in a bid to get a better price. They sell their stored onions as per requirement of their money. “The production cost for onions is around Rs 900 per quintal and farmers incur losses if they get the price below that. Most of the farmers have already sold their onion at the prices between Rs 400 and Rs 500 per quintal in the past five six months,” said Bharat Dighole, president, Maharashtra state onion growers’ association. Moreover, there are around 20% losses in the storage in terms of weight loss and rotting of onions. This year, the losses in storages are over 30% as onions in the storages of farmers have already started rotting. Hence, farmers are still incurring losses even though the average wholesale onion prices have touched Rs 1,150 per quintal mark, said Dighole. They want the state and union governments to procure onions at Rs 2,000 per quintal for the benefit of farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/onion-wholesale-price-crosses-rs-1000/quintal/articleshow/77598086.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 18, 2020||Nashik||Pawar healthy, tested -ve: Tope||Nashik: State health minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said NCP chief Sharad Pawar was tested for Covid-19 at Mumbai’s Breach Candy hospital on Sunday and the report came as negative. Talking to reporters at Parner in Ahmednagar district on Monday, Tope said Pawar got himself tested after two staff members at his Mumbai residence and three guards tested positive for the contagion. “He (Pawar) is absolutely safe and there is nothing to worry about regarding his health. The NCP chief has been urged not to go on any tour for some time,” Tope said, adding that efforts are on to trace all the high- and low-risk contacts of the five positive patients. Responding to questions regarding reopening of gymnasiums and religious places, Tope said the state government will not take any decision in haste. “The main challenge before us is to curb the spread of the infection. That is possible only if people observe safety protocols like maintaining social distancing. The state government would not hurry to unlock these establishments at this juncture where social distancing would be difficult to observe,” Tope said. On being asked about the suicide of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, Tope said there was no need to politicise the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pawar-healthy-tested-ve-tope/articleshow/77598097.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Environment ministry brings all regional offices under one roof, new set-up from Oct||NAGPUR: In a major move, the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) has reorganized its regional and sub-regional offices in the country from 29 to 19. Now, all the offices will be under one roof and called as integrated regional offices (IROs) to be headed by deputy director general of forest (Dy DGF) called as regional officer. The IROs will start functioning from October 1. TOI on May 12 was first to report this. Now, the IROs will include offices of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), Central Zoo Authority (CZA), Forest Survey of India (FSI) and Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB). In Nagpur, NTCA regional office will also be merged with MoEFCC office. Though the decision has been taken in a bid to provide synergy and strength, and make regional offices more effective, there is still ambiguity about the notification as to whom the CZA, FSI, WCCB and NTCA officials report. APCCF & regional officer, Nagpur, VN Ambade, said, “The orders relating to regional officers, administrative set up of the IROs, deployment of the staff and assets, budget allocation and ancillary matters will be issued soon.” Will the new set up hit tiger conservation? NTCA has three regional centres looking after 41 tiger reserves. These include Nagpur (17), Guwahati (10) and Bengaluru (14) spread in South, Central India and North-East. These offices will be now attached to the respective regional MoEFCC offices. “We have read the reorganization notification which is ambiguous. The mandate of NTCA is completely different and the conservation interests may not match with the regional empowered committees (RECs). We fear there should not be two power centres,” said a section of NTCA officials. Pleading anonymity, they said NTCA has been constituted under provisions of Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. “Can regional officers under the new structure be authorized under WPA?” they asked. FSI officials said, “Forest Survey of India being a specialized institution created for forest cover mapping and forest inventory, it should not have been split and brought under the ambit of regional offices.” As per the reorganization, the 19 IROs will be established through redeployment of human and other resources available with 10 regional offices of MoEFCC, 4 FSI offices, 3 NTCA regional centres, 4 regional offices of CZA, & 5 regional and 3 sub-regional offices of WCCB in an integrated manner. Each office will have representation from time to time. In the new set up, 10 existing regional offices at Shillong, Ranchi, Bhubaneshwar, Bengaluru, Chennai, Lucknow, Bhopal, Nagpur, Chandigarh and Dehradun will be headed by deputy DGF level officer (equivalent to APCCF rank). Seven out of nine new offices at Jaipur, Gandhinagar, Vijayawada, Raipur, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Guwahati will be headed by inspector general of forest (IGF) level officers (equivalent to CCF) drawn from NTCA and FSI. The remaining two offices at Jammu and Shimla will be headed by deputy IGF-level officer (equivalent to CF) drawn from above four organizations. The staff strength of 703 sanctioned posts at 29 regional offices and centres will continue and will be redeployed among the 19 offices. The issue was discussed at a meeting headed by director general of forests Sanjay Kumar on May 2. All regional environment ministry heads and NTCA, CZA, FSI and WCCB office in-charge working under MoEFCC attended. However, the reorganization will benefit CZA. “In the present set up, CZA has to hire experts for evaluation of zoos, which is not only time-consuming but costly too. This is delaying many processes for effective management and modernization of zoos. Each zoo has to be evaluated annually, but in 2019-20, 117 cases of evaluation are pending. Now, this process will be expedited.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/environment-ministry-brings-all-regional-offices-under-one-roof-new-set-up-from-oct/articleshow/77600730.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Free pulse oxymeters to save +ves from happy hypoxaemia||NAGPUR: The administration across six districts will distribute free pulse oxymeter — a key apparatus in Covid management — to all asymptomatic persons soon after they test positive or are under home isolation right now, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI on Monday. The decision comes in the wake of many positive cases turning severe to critical mainly due to happy hypoxaemia — a condition where oxygen saturation level drops without a patient realizing it. As per doctors, this is an accidental finding and those having happy hypoxaemia do not necessarily have breathlessness. It is easier to observe people with other symptoms, but asymptomatic Covid patients don’t realize or complain even in case blood oxygen level (SPO2) slips to 88% to 86%. The normal range is more than 95% and patient showing SPO2 below this level needs hospitalization as it indicates some problem in lungs. Kumar’s decision is likely to prove a game changer as several asymptomatic patients Covid Care Centres (CCCs) were hospitalized in time after their SPO2 level was detected below the normal range. SPO2 level is checked thrice a day in the CCCs. Officials from the CCCs said some patients had developed patches in lungs as much as 20% which could have proved fatal. “Most patients are elderly and vulnerable. It will help in early treatment, decrease mortality and morbidity. If all home isolated patients monitor their SPO2, it will help trace all happy hypoxaemia patients in the society and start treatment, ” officials said. Kumar said the project is being funded through district planning committee, mineral and SDRF funds beside large-scale industry sponsorship. The medical gadget, which costs between Rs800 to Rs4,000 depending on its make, will be procured at a negotiated rate of Rs600 per unit by the administration. “Within next three to four days, we will distribute the oxymeter just like we give them medicines through district and civic authorities,” said Kumar. The oxymeters will be given to a patient for 10 days and rotated to another home isolated patient. In case of more than one positive from a household, only one oxymeter will be given. Though it is expected that people who can afford will buy it, the administration won’t insist if the receiver is from below or above poverty line. “Whoever says he or she can’t afford, we will give it to them,” said Kumar. The division has over 10,000 active cases in six districts — Nagpur, Wardha, Gondia, Bhandara, Gadchiroli and Chandrapur. An estimated Rs60lakh would be needed if all of them require oxymeter. The move is likely to keep the flow of patients at CCCs under control as many who are unable to afford the oxymeter are getting admitted despite qualifying for home isolation. What is pulse oxymeter A portable fingertip gadget which measures SPO2 or oxygen saturation level in blood and pulse within a few seconds Normally, asymptomatic patients need to check their SPO2 twice a day At CCCs, it is done thrice a day by staff nurse and doctors Normal range of SPO2 is more than 95% Below 95% means oxygen in blood is not sufficient and patient needs oxygen supplement through hospitalization What is happy hypoxaemia People feel better despite having hypoxia which means lungs are infected or congested Hypoxia is a condition in which a part of lungs is not taking gaseous exchange (inspiration and expiration) In happy hypoxaemia, SPO2 level can slip up to 88 to 86% without patient realizing it||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/free-pulse-oxymeters-to-save-ves-from-happy-hypoxaemia/articleshow/77599344.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 18, 2020||Surat||Surat: 298 discharged, 168 more test positive||SURAT: The diamond city continues to discharge more Covid-19 patients than new cases. On Monday as many as 298 Covid-19 patients were discharged, whereas 168 new cases were reported. With 298 discharges, the total number of the discharged patients crossed 11,000 mark in the city. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), out of the 168 new cases, the highest cases were reported from Athwa (66) followed by Rander (25), Varachha (A) (19), Katargam (15), central (14), Udhna (13), and eight each in Varachha (B) and Limbayat zone. With 66 new cases, Athwa zone has now a total of 1,802 Covid-19 cases. Also, the total number of Covid-19 positive cases crossed 14,000 mark. Two patients succumbed to the virus on Monday taking the death toll to 576. Meanwhile, Surat rural reported 75 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday taking the total number of Covid-19 positive cases to 3,535 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/298-discharged-168-more-test-positive/articleshow/77598104.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||First to record 100 Covid-19 deaths, Akola flattens its curve||NAGPUR: After Mumbai, Pune and Thane– now Akola’s Covid-19 cases curve is flattening, at least initial statistics of August month indicate. While Nagpur and rest of Vidarbha region are reporting hundreds of new cases daily, Akola’s case count has reduced significantly despite the number of tests having increased. Case positivity rate of district has reduced to 11% from 18% in June. In August, Akola’s doubling rate is highest among all districts having municipal corporations in Maharashtra, claimed district authorities here. “Covid-19 case scenario in Akola Municipal Corporation area is quite in control. We are conducting more tests than ever in August. Still, number of cases has reduced now,” said District collector Jitendra Papalkar while sharing data from the central information system that shows Akola has conducted more than 10,000 tests in August alone. From August 9 to 16, Akola has conducted 3359 tests and 251 of them were positive. This means, the case positivity rate has been less than 8% in last ten days. Akola city has reached its projected peak and the Akola rural is nearing the peak figure of 6301. As per figures provided by the State health department, Akola city had the projected peak of 1,475) that it attained in July last week. Since then, the city is reporting less than 10 cases per day. Now, major chunk of cases in the district is coming from Akola’s rural parts. Akola has increased number of tests significantly in last 14 days. Still, number of cases has reduced. This could be a sign that the Covid-19 spread comes under control once the city/district reaches the projected peak. This has also been experienced in Mumbai earlier, followed by Pune and Thane. Akola is the only example in Vidarbha. In Nagpur, the projected peak figure is 18,902 (including city and rural). At present, Nagpur has reached nearly 16,000 cases. This means it is nearing the peak. If the model works then Nagpur is less than 3,000 cases from the spike after which the curve will start flattening. Another important district in Vidarbha, Amravati, is also heading towards peak. Amravati has reported 1,772 cases in 17 days of August and reached near 4,000 cases on August 17. The projected peak in Amravati is 10,000 cases, according to health department. For entire Vidarbha, the total number of cases will be 75,801. The region reached nearly 33,000 cases by August 17. At the present average of more than 1,000 cases per day, Vidarbha is set to reach the peak in September. After that, infection spread will be under control, just like in Akola city and now in district. Experts said new cases will continue and reporting will not stop after attaining the peak but the number of cases will reduce significantly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-to-record-100-covid-19-deaths-akola-flattens-its-curve/articleshow/77599351.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Bamu dean accused in cash-for-viva case||Aurangabad: The Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) on Monday set up an inquiry against the dean of Humanities for allegedly demanding money from a PhD candidate to arrange for the viva voce. Dean Prashant Amrutkar has been also sent on forced leave with immediate effect till further orders. Multiple audio clips of conservation between the dean and the PhD candidate have gone viral, creating ripples within the local academic circles. During the conservation, Amrutkar allegedly demanded around Rs 60,000, which was supposed to be paid to the external referee, to arrange for the oral exam. “The action (against the dean) has been taken as per directives from the vice-chancellor. We have received the audio clip of the conversation along with written letter through members of the management council,” Bamu registrar Jaishree Suryawanshi said. When contacted, Amrutkar said he had done nothing wrong and was being framed by the unions. “I was the HoD and went on to become the dean later. Those who are jealous of me are trying to frame me. I never sought money from the PhD candidate in question and the audio clips are bogus,” he said. Adding that he was dedicated to academics and research, Amrutkar said he was open to any inquiry. Student activist Tukaram Saraf said the Bamu should carry out an impartial inquiry into the incident. “It is a matter of grave concern if PhDs are being granted in lieu of money. An impartial and speedy inquiry is must restore the credibility of the process of awarding of PhDs at the Bamu,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bamu-dean-accused-in-cash-for-viva-case/articleshow/77598088.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Bhandara Covid patient 3rd in Vid to commit suicide||NAGPUR: A 50-year-old Covid-19 positive man ended his life in the toilet of isolation ward of general hospital in Bhandara on Monday. This is the third suicide of a Covid-19 patient in Vidarbha and first in Nagpur division. Earlier, two Covid patients had ended life in Akola and Washim, both in Amravati division of Vidarbha. The person who ended life on Monday was from Devada Khurd village in Mohadi tehsil of Bhandara district. He was admitted to the general hospital since August 14. His swab samples had tested positive on August 16. The person committed suicide by hanging self with a rope to a pipe joint in bathroom at around 6.30am on August 17, informed civil surgeon of Bhandara. Though no suicide note was found from the deceased, doctors said the patient was in depression since he was informed of being Covid-19 positive on August 16. Earlier to this, a 40-year-old Covid patient from Karanja Lad town in Washim district had committed suicide on July 31 due to stress and trauma after testing positive. The patient ran away from the isolation ward and later his body was recovered from a farm well at nearby village. First Covid suicide was reported on May 11 in Akola when a 30-year-old labour, originally from Assam, committed suicide by slitting his throat with broken glass of window.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhandara-covid-patient-3rd-in-vid-to-commit-suicide/articleshow/77599357.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Water supply affected in rain-hit areas||JAIPUR: All water pipelines in the low-lying areas of the city are buried in silt ever since Friday’s torrential shower, creating problems in water supply across the area. Public Health and Engineering Department (PHED) has started to supply water through tankers in the low-lying areas. One permanent tanker has been allotted to that place and the department is supplying tankers as per people’s demands. “There are severe problems in the low-lying areas as our pipelines are buried deep in the silt, in areas of Delhi Road, Jai Singhpura Khor and Sanganer. Our tankers have started functioning in those areas,” said Devraj Solanki, additional chief engineer at PHED. Jaipur Municipal Corporation along with district administration is working to get the roads cleaned. This will take some days and till then water supply will remain affected. Solanki explained, “It is the job of the municipal corporation to get the roads cleaned. We are just following the process. Once the situation is normal, we will test our pipelines and continue with the supply as usual.” Many people have ordered private tankers as well where the delivery of water is not done on time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/water-supply-affected-in-rain-hit-areas/articleshow/77600748.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Covid-19 shadow over Tirumala Brahmotsavams||Tirupati: The Srivari Brahmotsavams in Tirumala, also known as ‘Utsavam of the Vahanams’, is likely to be a low-key affair this time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. While as many as 450 different festivals are celebrated at the sacred abode of Lord Venkateswara every year, the annual Brahmotsavams occupies a special place in the hearts of millions of the Lord’s devotees. This year’s Brahmotsavams, to be celebrated from September 19 to 27, will in all probability be a silent and solemn affair. As the nine-day festival witnesses a huge turnout of devotees every day, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams normally starts planning and preparing for the Brahmotsavams at least three months in advance. The TTD trust board meeting, slated to be held in the last week of August, will take a decision on whether to conduct the annual Brahmotsavams with or without fanfare. The temple body has been observing all annual festivals at the ancient temple in ‘ekantham’ without the participation of devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/covid-19-shadow-over-tirumala-brahmotsavams/articleshow/77599363.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Heavy rain likely to mar festive spirit for Konkan returnees||Kolhapur: Heavy rain is likely to dampen the festive spirit of people returning to their hometown in the Konkan region to celebrate Ganeshotsav with their families as the downpour in the ghat areas may inundate several roads and lead to their closure. The state government has deployed some special trains to facilitate the movement of people working in Mumbai and different parts of the state to the Konkan region but has not got the desired response. Usually, there is huge traffic along the Mumbai-Goa expressway ahead of the festival as many people travel by buses or private vehicles. Therefore, many people, especially those from Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg, prefer the Mumbai-Pune-Kolhapur route to reach Konkan. The state government has taken the decision to waive toll-tax for the travellers along the Mumbai-Pune-Kolhapur route for 14 days from 20th August to September 4. This waiver is likely to attact many travellers to take this route. From Kolhapur, the state highways connect to Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. However, considering previous experience of rain, some sections of the roads may get submerged under water and the traffic has to be diverted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/heavy-rain-likely-to-mar-festive-spirit-for-konkan-returnees/articleshow/77598110.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Beed police bid adieu to star canine||Aurangabad: Beed police on Sunday bid farewell to their most reliable canine Rocky, who had a record of detecting 365 cases during service that lasted for nine years. The last respects to the canine were paid by all the police personnel, including superintendent of police Harssh Poddar. Poddar took to social media and announced about Rocky’s death through the official twitter handle of Beed police. “At 4 am today, Rocky, our canine companion and colleague passed away due to a long illness. He had helped us in solving many cases. The Beed police family is deeply pained by his demise. A tribute was paid to the brave dog,” read the tweet. Rocky played a key role in detection of murder, burglary, theft and dacoity offences committed in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/beed-police-bid-adieu-to-star-canine/articleshow/77598099.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Test 5,000 per day, next month very critical: Devendra Fadnavis||NAGPUR: Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis has suggested Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) should increase testing to 5,000 per day to control the spread and deaths due to Covid-19. He said the district was heading slowly towards peak, so next month will be very critical. Since the district registered first positive case of novel coronavirus 160 days ago, South-West Nagpur MLA Fadnavis held his first review meeting on the pandemic at the civic body. “Cases and deaths were fewer in the city in initial stage. They increased to a great extent in last couple of months, especially August. Number of Covid Care Centres (CCC) should be increased. In case any NGO wishes to develop and run CCC, then it should tie up with any non-Covid hospital. Sufficient and proper oxygen facility should be ensured in all hospitals. Facility of consultation with doctors should be made available to positive patients in home isolation through video conferencing. NGOs should be engaged in awareness and also coordination between patients and hospitals,” said the ex-CM. Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe has already set target to increase the testing capacity to 5,000 per day. In the meeting, he said at present 3,000 testing is being done. He also gave details about various proactive measures taken by the civic body. Mayor Sandip Joshi said need was to implement Aurangabad Pattern for controlling the pandemic. He also stressed the need for strengthening infrastructure and systems of NMC. Addressing media persons, Fadnavis said, “Ongoing dispute between NMC administration and public representatives was not proper.” He also said, “Nagpur’s population was 25 lakh and testing here is 3,000 per day. Mumbai’s population is over 2 crore and testing only at 3,000. In Pune, 7,000 tests are being done daily. It means testing is being kept intentionally low in Mumbai.” He added number of cases will increase steeply if testing is done in large number but the situation will improve, citing Delhi as an example. On the statement of ‘compounders know better than doctors’ by MP Sanjay Raut, Fadnavis said, “I don’t know in what mood he made the statement. Doctors are working very hard so he should not have made such a statement. He has hurt doctors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/test-5k-per-day-next-month-very-critical-fadnavis/articleshow/77599368.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||1,200 beds at Wardha for Nagpur’s mild & moderate cases||NAGPUR: Even as a 1,000-bed jumbo Covid hospital at Mankapur sports complex is being planned, and the civic body’s Indira Gandhi Rugnalaya added another 100 beds on Sunday, the district administration has decided to start shifting mild and moderate cases to Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College (JNMC) at Sawangi, Wardha. JNMC would be the second Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) of the Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences (DMIMS), whose Shalinitai Meghe Medical College (SMMC) has already started taking all types of Covid patients at its Hingna campus. SMMC DCH has 350 beds, with 56 patients currently admitted there. It has treated 367 patients. Since last week, GMCs have been shifting recovering patients to SMMC and Lata Mangeshkar DCHs. JNMC, around 80km from here, has 1,000 beds, including 100 ICU beds, 500 oxygenated beds, 400 ambulatory (for asymptomatic patients if needed), and 40 quarantine centre beds in five blocks at Sawangi campus. Ready since mid-April, JNMC DCH took its first Covid admission on May 5, and has since treated 178 patients, with less than 20 said to be serious. As on date, 86 patients are admitted. Wardha district has 403 total cases while over 200 are still active at JNMC and Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences’s 200-bed DCH at Sevagram. Keeping the under-utilization and low caseload in mind at Wardha, Nagpur district administration has proposed to divert Covid patients showing mild to moderate symptoms, as well as those on the path of recovery from severe stage, to JNMC DCH. Though concerns remain over transporting patients and relatives’ preference, the idea is to minimize load on GMCH and IGGMCH at Nagpur. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI on Monday that hospitals in both districts have to be considered as part of one unit. The plan follows the traditional pattern, where Nagpur is preferred medical hub for people from Wardha, Amravati and any other neighbouring places. “Just as there is no restriction on patients coming to Nagpur, those from here can go there too,” he said. Kumar added, “All hospitals should simultaneously start and become used to Covid management. If all patients flood one hospital, then there are problems. Basically, we plan to divide patients, and as per comfort of people, assign hospitals. For example, if a patient’s doctor is in Wardha but he is admitted at Nagpur, such a patient would like to go to Wardha instead,” he said. Kumar said no patients admitted to JNMC or MGIMS from Nagpur will have to pay since they would be covered by the state’s scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1200-beds-at-wardha-for-nagpurs-mild-moderate-cases/articleshow/77599365.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 18, 2020||Agra||Frequent power cuts hits manufacturing units in Agra dist||Agra: Frequent power outages across the district over the past few days has caused major losses to industries and manufacturing units. Industry owners have claimed that they are getting only 15 hours of supply a day due mismanagement by the state government-owned discom, Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited (DVVNL).Pointing out that Agra district should get 24-hour power supply as it falls under the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ), manufacturing industry owners said a large part of the district, especially rural areas, is not getting even 18 hours of supply a day. T N Agarwal, Agra Vyapar Mandal president, said, “Frequent power cuts are causing major losses to the factories and manufacturing units. Workers have to sit ideal for hours in small units. Running factories on generators means incurring huge expenses on fuel consumption. Discom authorities have not taken cognizance of the power cut problem for long. The situation has worsened over the past two weeks.”SP Singh Baghel, Agra MP, said, “Significant work has been done to improve power supply infrastructure over the past two years. The problem of frequent power cuts will be discussed with the discom administration. The problem will be sorted out in a time-bound manner.” On his part DVVNL chief engineer AK Chaudhary said, “Due to adverse weather conditions power supply has been cut to avoid a major fault. As soon as the weather gets better, normal supply will be restored. We are trying to ensure 24-hour power supply."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/frequent-power-cuts-hits-manufacturing-units-in-agra-dist/articleshow/77598105.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Amt’s Chhatri Lake chosen for tech watershed project||NAGPUR: In a first, Amravati in Maharashtra has been chosen by ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) to implement catchment area treatment plan in 9,555 hectare forest area with the help of LiDAR technology. For the first time LiDAR technology will be used to develop watershed management. LiDAR (light detection and ranging) is a popular remote sensing method used for measuring the exact distance of an object on the earth’s surface. The issue came up for discussion on Monday at a meeting when union environment minister Prakash Javadekar met forest ministers of all states including state’s Sanjay Rathod. He promised all support for the project. State PCCF (HoFF) N Rambabu said that the MoEFCC committee had held several meetings about the implementation of the detailed project report (DPRs) and forest area in Amravati division was finalized. “Maharashtra is among 26 states identified to implement the project from Central government funds,” Rambabu added. MK Rao, PCCF (information technology & policy), who proposed the project, said it will be implemented in the forest near Amravati’s well-known Chhatri Lake. “It fits into the criteria set by the MoEFCC which specifies that 40% of the area under the project should be open forest. The project will benefit ecology, economy and society at large.” Rao said under the project appropriate and feasible micro soil and water conservation structures consistent with site geography, topography accordance with ridge valley approach of watershed management will be built. “The watershed management will benefit flora and fauna and also locals,” he adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amts-chhatri-lake-chosen-for-tech-watershed-project/articleshow/77600778.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 18, 2020||Nashik||Organ transplant hit as Covid tests on brain dead delayed||Nashik: Patients in Nashik needing kidney, liver and heart have been desperately waiting for transplants as cadaveric organ retrieval has become impossible due to a lack of quick Covid-19 test reports of brain-dead patients, say doctors and social workers.Bhausaheb More, director of Rishikesh Hospital, a leading facility in cadaveric organ retrieval and transplant, said, “It is mandatory to conduct two Covid 19 tests on brain-dead patients before their organs are retrieved. By the time, the two reports arrive, the brain-dead patient is completely dead as his or her heart stops functioning.”More said the government has also put on hold live kidney transplants due to the compromised immune system of the transplant patient.Sanjay Rakibe, a social worker who is into the cadaver organ donation movement, said that in Nashik city alone, there are over 160 patients wait for kidneys, besides a number of people waiting for lever and heart. Organs are being retrieved from cadavers and transplants are done in Mumbai and Pune post lockdown as the Covid test reports of brain-dead patients are received fast there, which is not the case in Nashik. Social workers said that if the authorities concerned address the problem in Nashik, the process of retrieving organs from cadavers can be done here. Moreover, most of big hospitals where organ transplants are carried out have been converted into Covid facilities. As a result of this, it is become impossible for the hospitals to carry out both the responsibilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/organ-transplant-hit-as-covid-tests-on-brain-dead-delayed/articleshow/77598144.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Beds in many govt dist hosps near full capacity||Hyderabad: With cases mounting in certain districts, the district hospital in Sircilla which is the only government facility in the district, is now approaching its full capacity. They just have six beds vacant on Monday. District hospital in Nagakurnool has just five beds available while district hospital Kothagudem and MGM Warangal have no beds for a week now. MGM Warangal caters to both Warangal rural and Warangal urban districts. Together the two districts have seen 959 cases in the last one week alone, while the 255 beds in the MGM Hospital have remained occupied for over the last one fortnight now, with not a single bed available during the period.  Complaining about the condition, Vinithvellanki wrote on twitter, “@Eatala_Rajender sir... here in warangal every private hospital is charging 40,000 to 50,000 per day to treat a corona patient. How can a normal person pay that much when government beds are unavailable ?” District hospital in Nagakurnool has just five beds available while district hospital Kothagudem and MGM Warangal have no beds for a week now||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beds-in-many-govt-dist-hosps-near-full-capacity/articleshow/77600760.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nashik||Burglar fails to break into jewellery store||Nashik: An unidentified burglar tried to break the shutter of a jewellery store in the Saraf market area of Nashik Road on the intervening night between Sunday and Monday. This is the second incident of a burglar breaking into a jewellery store in the last five days. On early Thursday morning, burglars donning raincoats and face masks attempted to steal jewellery from two shops on Nashik Road and Bhadrakali Road. Senior inspector at Nashik Road police station Suraj Bijli said that CCTV footage showed a person trying to break the shutter of the jewellery store. The burglar could only manage to partially damage the shutter, after which he left the scene. “The images are very blurred to ascertain the identity of the burglar. Nonetheless, we are investigating the case,” said Bijli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/burglar-fails-to-break-into-jewellery-store/articleshow/77598114.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chennai||Admissions begin: Government, government-aided schools in Chennai witness good demand||CHENNAI: Several government and government-aided schools in the city were choked on Monday, the first day of admissions for Classes I to X. The rush, experts say, is because many of those who had lost jobs during the still-raging Covid-19 pandemic are keen on admitting their children to state-run institutions because of the low fees. Ashok Nagar Government Girls Higher Secondary School received 359 applications for Class VI. “To follow social distancing norms, we issued tokens to parents specifying the date and time to avoid crowding. Many wanted admissions for Classes VII to X, but our school has more than 550 students (across 10 sections) in each class and we can make admissions only if some students seek transfers,” said R C Saraswati, headmistress, adding that students from all types of schools were seeking admission. At Jaigopal Garodia Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Virugambakkam, many private school students were among the 300 who inquired for admissions for Classes VI to IX, said headmistress Shanthi. “Based on the inquiries, we expect more admissions compared to previous year.” Inquiries also came from other school students for Class XI. Thiru Vi Ka Higher Secondary School in Shenoy Nagar said it had decided to admit students even in Class X as many parents approached it saying they could not afford the fees at private schools. “For the past six years, we have not admitted any students in Class X as, generally, outside students will not do well in board exams. On humanitarian grounds, we have decided to admit students in Class X this year,” said headmaster K John. Many were being admitted even without the necessary documents he said. “We ask parents to give an undertaking that they will submit the documents when the situation returns to normal.” Presidency Girls Higher Secondary School headmistress M M Ramalakshmi said those keen on sports had approached her for admissions. “Our school has a volleyball court, throwball court, tracks for high jump and long jump.” The school is a model institution and many parents had been approaching it for admission to pre-kg, LKG and Class I, she said. “We are offering co-education till Class V and the school is exclusively for girls from Class VI,” she said. The Government Boys High School in Mogappair East has begun receiving queries from behalf of students of private schools in the area. “Even a parent of a student from a CBSE school called about the admissions,” said headmaster D Vijayakumar. Some Chennai schools received a relatively lukewarm response from parents. “Many families in our neighbourhood have migrated to their native places due to Covid-19. We receive queries over phone. The number of admissions will be more only if the public transport resumes and normalcy returns,” a headmaster from a corporation school said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/admissions-begin-govt-govt-aided-schools-in-city-witness-good-demand/articleshow/77600786.cms||A Ragu Raman
August 18, 2020||Goa||BMC finalises four spots for matoli bazaar||BICHOLIM: To avoid crowding of shoppers, the Bicholim Municipal Council (BMC) has finalised four seperate areas in the market for the Ganesh Chaturthi matoli bazaar. Vendors will have to sell their wares only at the spots which are marked by the municipal authorities. Speaking to TOI, BMC chairperson Rajaram Gaonkar said, “This decision was taken at a special meeting held on Monday, to avoid crowds in the market area owing to Covid pandemic. At these four spots, there should be no difficulty for people in maintaining proper social distancing.” Gaonkar urged the public to strictly wear masks while coming to the matoli bazaar. “The BMC will impose fines if anyone is found without masks and not adhering to the prescribed norms of social distancing,” he said, while adding that “the people should not drop their guard, as cases have spiked all over Bicholim taluka”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bmc-finalises-four-spots-for-matoli-bazaar/articleshow/77601940.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Over 76 villages remain cut off in flood-hit Gadchiroli; Sironcha gets 81.2mm rains||NAGPUR: Around 76 villages in South Gadchiroli remained cut off from other areas in the district on Monday though flood waters receded in the worst-hit talukas of Bhamragarh and Sironcha. On Monday, Sironcha received 81.2mm rains when the district average was 23.1mm. In view of the flood situation, state disaster management, relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar conducted a review meeting. “I have directed district administration to conduct panchnama of the damage caused by the floods and submit a proposal before the government for providing compensation to the residents at the earliest,” said Wadettiwar, who also extended an additional budgetary sanction of Rs5 crore for Covid management in the district. “We have sent additional boats to Bhamragarh taluka for rescue and relief and instructed the administration to take all possible measures to tackle the situation,” said the minister. He also extolled the flood management measures undertaken under collector Deepak Singla. National highway number 63 connecting Sironcha-Asarali-Jagdalpur remained closed after Somanpalli nullah overflowed submerging the road which connected Telangana with Chhattisgarh via Maharashtra’s Gadchiroli in Central India. Road between Alapalli and Bhamragarh remained closed for the third day after Parlakota river overflowed. In Aheri taluka too, water level of Indravati continued to flow dangerously above the normal level. In Sironcha, villages beyond Somanpalli nullah remained disconnected with water level rising in Pranhita and Godavari rivers and also 65 gates of Medigatta barrage in Telangana being opened releasing excess water leading to heavy floods in catchment areas. The road connecting Asaralli-Somanpalli was also remained closed for traffic. A wide crack was spotted on a bridge over Nethur nullah near Madarama between Sironcha and Aheri after water receded. Many villages also lost connectivity after almost half of the bridge over Attibagu nullah in Sironcha was swept away, it’s learnt. Other roads like Rompalli-Zinganoor too remained closed after Koretogu nullah was flooded. Similarly, road connecting Hemalkasa and Karampalli was submerged. The connecting road between Kasansoor-Koti-Bhamragarh-Kawanta too had to be closed for traffic after Arewada nullah started overflowing. Wadettiwar also said work on Parlakota bridge would start after the monsoon. “Bridges between Etapalli and Sironcha and three between Alapalli and Bhamragarh too have been sanctioned and work shall start soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-76-villages-remain-cut-off-in-flood-hit-gadchiroli-sironcha-gets-81-2mm-rains/articleshow/77600743.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 18, 2020||Rajkot||Pregnant forest guard, hubby killed in Gujarat||RAJKOT: A woman forest beat guard, who was pregnant, and her husband, were found mysteriously murdered in the thick forest area of Barda wildlife sanctuary in Porbandar district, on Monday. The bodies of Hetal Solanki, who was deputed in Godhana beat, her husband Kirti (32), and a daily wager Naga Agath (42), were found on the rocks of a waterfall near Sarmaniya Vav in the forest. Kirti was a teacher in Ratdi village primary school near Porbandar. The couple and the daily wager had gone missing on August 15 and her car was found in a village where the hilly forest area begins. Severe injury marks inflicted by some sharp weapon were found on the bodies, but the motive of the murder is still being investigated. This is the first instance of a woman forest beat guard being murdered in Gujarat. Hetal had passed out of the Gujarat Forest Rangers College in Rajpipla in 2017. She was deputed in this beat about a month-and-a-half ago. On August 15, Kirti’s father Govind, who lives in Patdi in Surendranagar district, kept trying their mobile phones, but couldn’t get through them. Worried, he informed the local Bagvadar police station. On August 16, teams of Ranavav and Kutiyana police station launched a massive search operation that involved 200 cops and drones too. Senior police officials said that Hetal had gone into the forest area as part of her duty as beat guards have no fixed working hours. However, the reason for taking along her husband is not known yet. The bodies were from nearly 3 km far from where their car was found and all bodies were lying at a distance of around half a km from each other. They were also slightly decomposed. Talking to TOI, Porbandar superintendent of police (SP), Ravi Saini, said “There are head injuries on all the three bodies. It’s difficult to say how deep the wounds are but we have called forensic experts for postmortem.” “We are trying to ascertain if multiple weapons were used to know if the number of people involved in this murder.” According to sources, Barda is a den of illicit country-made liquor brewing and illegal tree chopping too. Police are interrogating several people including those working for the forest department and some members of the notorious Dafer gang, to get more clues. Chief conservator of forest, wildlife circle, DT Vasavada told TOI: “We are also cooperating with the police and strictest action will be taken if anyone from the forest department is found involved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/pregnant-forest-guard-hubby-killed-in-barda/articleshow/77599407.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Shimla||Heavy rain, multiple landslides in Kangra; 2 jawans killed in car crash||DHARAMSHALA: Two Army jawans died on Monday when the car they were travelling in skidded and crashed into a tree amid heavy rains on the Pathankot-Mandi national highway here, police said. The crash took place around 18 km from Dharamshala on the national highway early morning with car driver Vinay sustaining injuries, who was admitted to Tanda Medical College, they added. The deceased soldiers were identified as Des Raj of Jaisinghpur and Ravi of Baijnath. The duo were on their way to catch a train at Pathankot to join back for duty after their leave. The area surrounding Kangra has been experiencing very heavy rain since Sunday night with Gaggal recording the maximum rainfall in Himachal Pradesh with 127 mm followed by Nagrota Surian with 71 mm, Guler with 62 mm and Jogindernagar with 56 mm. The heavy rains led to landslides that disrupted vehicular traffic as several roads were blocked. Debris due to heavy landslide in Shimla-Matour National Highway 88 near Samela tunnel led to halting of vehicular traffic. Apart from this, Sameerpur-Kangra Link Road, Old Kangra contact road and Rajal-Nandrul-Kangra Road have also been closed due to damage to the roads. There was no traffic movement since morning on Dharamshala-Gaggal main road due to a landslide near Skoh. Authorities said efforts are underway to restore the route. (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/heavy-rains-multiple-landslides-in-kangra-2-jawans-killed-in-car-crash/articleshow/77600795.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Mangaluru||All four missing fishermen found dead||Udupi: All the four fishermen, who went missing after their country boat ‘Sagara Shri’ crashed into the breakwaters near Koderi fishing jetty in Byndoor taluk on Sunday, were found dead on Monday. Rescuers located the bodies of Nagraj Kharvi, 55, at Hosahithlu near Navunda, early in the day, and that of Laxman Kharvi, 35, at Hadaragoli, hours before the search operation ended at 9pm. The bodies of the other two — Manjunath Kharvi and Shekar Kharvi — washed ashore at Gangibail late on Monday night. Nagraj, along with Manjunath Kharvi, Laxman Kharvi and Shekar Kharvi, fishermen from Navunda, were part of a group of 11 fishermen who had gone fishing in the boat. R Chethan, SP of Coastal Security Police (CSP), said after professional divers from Murudeshwar, who were deployed to locate the fishermen in the area, drew blank, a drone was flown to scout the area. DIG S B Venkatesh, commander of Coast Guard (Karnataka), said Indian Coast Guard had pressed its fast-patrol vessel (FPV) that was patrolling the high seas off Karnataka and Kerala coasts to trace the missing fishermen. Sandeep G S, police inspector of Gangolli station, said they coordinated with CSP in the operation. Citing eyewitness accounts of surviving fishermen, Sandeep said Nagraj, who had managed to clamber on board the battered boat after it capsised, was the last one to drown. The seven fishermen, who managed to swim ashore, were treated in a hospital and also discharged after first-aid. Minister mounrs deaths Fisheries minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari, in a Facebook post, offered condolences to the bereaved families. Noting that he has drawn the attention of the chief minister to the incident, Poojari said the fisheries department will provide financial assistance to the distraught families and that he would meet them personally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/all-four-missing-fishermen-found-dead/articleshow/77599452.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat’s own canyon in Kutch 1.25 lakh years old||RAJKOT: Some portions of Shah Rukh Khan-starrer ‘Raees’ were shot here and it has been the favourite among photographers, soon-to-be couples for pre-wedding shoots and adventurists, thanks to the spectacular background. Located just four km from Bhuj, the sandstone gorge along Khari River, however, does not figure in the list of India’s best canyons. But one is sure to rush there if told that this gorge is as many as 1.25 lakh years old, almost at the same time when modern human species (homo species) started evolving. For the first time, Kutch University’s geologists jointly with the Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR) and Jammu University, used an intricate mathematical model to calculate the age of this gorge. This method has been used for the first time in India for dating any landscape form. The research reveals that the Khari gorge started forming when strongly favourable wet climate prevailed in Kutch along with the strong tectonic activities associated with the Katrol hill fault and Kutch mainland fault. The research paper was recently published in the reputed Elsevier journal - Quaternary International. Explaining the significance of this research, M G Thakkar, head of geology department, said, “This mathematical model can now help scientists find the date of origin of a riverbed landscape.” While the gorge formation started 1.25 lakh years ago, it got the present shape before 8,000 years. “We found and used the data of water flow during the strong monsoon conditions, erodibility or the strength of the sandstone in which the gorge developed and tectonic cycles that displace the sandstone vertically and horizontally. All parameters were compared and using a common formula with the time factor suggested that the gorge formation started around 1.25 lakh years,” Thakkar told TOI. Along with Thakkar, geologists Girish Kothyari, Gaurav Chauhan, Ajay Taloor, Chirag Jani and Abhishek Lakhote were part of the study. Kothiyari added that the cosmogenic dating method which is globally prevalent for landscape dating is not as accurate as this one as there are variations with the rock types especially in sandstone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gujarats-own-canyon-in-kutch-1-25l-years-old/articleshow/77599480.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
August 18, 2020||Chennai||Nalini Sriharan ill-treated in Vellore jail, her mother tells HC||CHENNAI: Rajiv Gandhi assassination case life convict Nalini Sriharan’s mother has moved the Madras high court alleging ill-treatment of her daughter in Vellore central prison. Claiming that her daughter Nalini’s life is in danger, she wanted her to be transferred to Central Prison at Puzhal, near Chennai. Admitting the plea moved by S Padma on Monday, a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice R Hemalatha directed the state government to file its response in a week. According to Padma, she made a representation to the Vellore central jail authorities on February 22 requesting the transfer of Nalini to Puzhal, as it would be easy for her to meet Nalini at least once a week. “Subsequent to the representation, the government announced lockdown, which continues till now. During lockdown, my daughter Nalini was ill-treated by prison officials and she was not allowed to even talk to her lawyer through WhatsApp video call, while other similarly placed prisoners were allowed,” Padma said. “While talking to my daughter on video call, she told me that her life in prison was miserable because of continuous ill-treatment perpetrated by certain prison officials and that her suffering could not be explained in words,” Padma added. “Since my daughter wanted me to take immediate action to get her transferred to Puzhal prison and since her life is in danger, I once again made a representation on July 21 seeking her transfer to Puzhal on humanitarian grounds,” she said. “My representation has not been considered so far and decided on by the respondents. Hence, I was constrained to move the present habeas corpus petition,” Padma said. Another petition moved by Padma seeking direction to the prison authorities to permit Nalini and her husband Murugan to make video calls to her mother-in-law in Sri Lanka is already pending before the high court. Nalini and Murugan wanted to speak to her mother-in-law and offer their condolences as Murugan’s father died recently. While the high court has asked the Centre to consider their request on humanitarian grounds and permit them to make video calls at least once, the Centre is yet to inform its stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/nalini-ill-treated-in-vellore-jail-her-mother-tells-hc/articleshow/77600812.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Kolhapur||Monsoon deficit for Aug slashed in M’wada||Aurangabad: Widespread rainfall activity has been recorded in Marathwada during the past 24-hours ending Monday morning, bringing down the overall monsoon deficit for August to only 4%. As many as 10 revenue circles from Nanded district and one circle from Hingoli district reported heavy rainfall of more than 65 mm even as cloudy skies and spells of light to medium showers continued in Aurangabad and outskirts. The IMD has forecast more showers across the region. As per the official data, Hingoli district registered maximum 31 mm rainfall in past 24-hours ended by 8.30 am on Monday, followed by Nanded (26mm), Jalna (23 mm), Aurangabad (17mm), Parbhani (11mm), Latur (6mm), Beed and Osmanabad (both 4mm). The latest showers has resulted into Marathwada recording 121% expected showers so far since June, as against 78% showers during corresponding period last year. Three districts from the region, atur, Osmanabad and Nanded, still show marginal rainfall deficit during the current rainy season. While both Latur and Nanded districts have received 93% expected rainfall since June , Osmanabad has registered 89% expected showers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/monsoon-deficit-for-aug-slashed-in-mwada/articleshow/77598146.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Std XI: With five days to go, science accounts for 60% of total applications||NAGPUR: Even though Std XI admission form submission process will continue till August 22, science stream already accounts for almost 60% of streamwise applications received for Nagpur city. Under the mandatory Common Admission Process (CAP), all applications have to be routed online only. Just over 38,000 students have registered for CAP online. After this registration, students move on to getting their credentials verified by their alma mater and then applying for the stream of their choice. So far, just over 17,000 students have entered this stream selection phase with an overwhelming majority opting for science. Science stream’s complete domination in the Std XI admission landscape is not surprising, given the thriving coaching class sector in Nagpur. So far, almost 10,500 students have applied for the science stream. A junior college trustee, who did not wish to be named as he is also a petitioner in a PIL being heard regarding Std XI admissions, said the science stream will continue to hog the limelight. “The coaching classes have painted a rosy picture for parents. All of them want to get into IIT and then land a high paying job in the US. Some students from Nagpur have got such jobs and they are used as ‘poster boys’,” the trustee said. He added that in the race to cater to that ‘demand’, Nagpur now sees an oversupply. “Look at the vacant seats in the city. In the PIL which is being heard by the court, it is mentioned that an average of 18,000 seats remain vacant every year,” he said. Till August 22, two different processes are continuing simultaneously. Quota admissions (management, in-house etc) are going on as well as applications are being submitted for the general admission rounds. On August 23, a provisional merit list will be released to which students can submit objections (if any). These objections are usually related to error in marks or spelling of students’ name. Finally on August 30, the collection allocation list based on merit will be displayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/std-xi-with-five-days-to-go-scienceaccounts-for-60-of-total-applications/articleshow/77600836.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Gang of 3 masked men on the prowl, rob cash from shops||PUNE: A gang of three masked persons, believed to be involved in a spate of burglaries in shops in Sahakarnagar, Koregaon Park, Bhawani Peth, Deccan and Yerawada areas, is on the radar of the Pune police. Assistant commissioner of police (crime) Shivaji Pawar said, “We have analysed the pattern of the thefts and are trying to ascertain the identity of the suspects. They were all wearing masks while committing thefts. Our teams would soon nab them.” The officer said the men had stolen cash ranging from Rs2,000 to Rs2 lakh from the cash boxes of five shops since July 25 in these areas. The men, said to be always donning masks, committed the thefts by diverting the attention of the shopkeepers, the officer said. Police said primarily, the suspects target the shops devoid of any CCTV cameras. “Pattern analysis revealed that they also targeted the shops which had put some articles on display outside the stores — either on the footpath or on the front side of the desk,” a police officer said. Shopkeeper Mahendra Achalram Chowdhari (21) of Dhankawdi had lodged a complaint with the Dattawadi police on July 26 stating that two masked men had entered his shop, while another one, who joined them a few minutes later, stood outside the store and started scrutinizing umbrellas, as if wanting to purchase them. Chowdhari in his complaint had further stated that the third suspect called him outside the shop for inquiring about the umbrellas, while the other two suspects were inside checking some articles. He had claimed that the two men inside the shop stole Rs1.6 lakh while he was outside with the third suspect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gang-of-3-masked-men-on-the-prowl-rob-cash-from-shops/articleshow/77601944.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Goa||Panaji municipality releases SOPs for Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations||PANAJI: In a fresh set of guidelines issued by the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) for Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the city, it has banned the burning of firecrackers to ensure the air is pollution-free for home isolated asymptomatic patients. “Besides causing pollution, the smoke is very dangerous for Covid-19 patients’ lungs. Senior citizens and asthma patients are likely to be most affected due to this. We have therefore mandated in the guidelines for people to avoid firecrackers,” Panaji mayor, Uday Madkaikar said. In addition to this, there will be no processions from the installation area of the idol to its immersion. “The police will take action against anyone who carries out a procession. People should understand the situation we are facing and cooperate,” Madkaikar said. The annual competition of the festival idols has been suspended this year to avoid gathering of participants to build the idol. Also, the sarvajanik Ganesh pooja in Panaji that attracts a large crowd of devotees to its pedestal, will be reduced to a day and a half. Temple festivities have also been limited to lesser days. At Mahalaxmi temple and the police headquarters, the celebration will be for a day and a half, while the Vitoba temple will have a five-day event. Only the Maruti temple will have an eleven-day festival. Entry inside the temples is restricted to ten people at a given time. A meeting has been fixed on Wednesday with Goa police, Drishti lifeguards, captain of ports and the electricity department to discuss the immersion process. “It is very important to follow these guidelines in the face of rising number of cases in the state with each passing day.” Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-municipality-releases-sops-for-ganesh-chaturthi-celebrations/articleshow/77601959.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Covid positive man commits suicide in Bhandara hospital||NAGPUR: A 50-year-old Covid-19 positive man in Bhandara district committed suicide by hanging himself in the toilet of the isolation ward in the district general hospital on Monday morning. This is third suicide of a Covid-19 positive patient in Vidarbha and first in Nagpur division. Earlier, two suicides were from Akola and Washim – both from Amravati division of Vidarbha. Apart from the suicide, Bhandara reported deaths of 2 under-treatment patients on Monday. Nagpur reported 24 deaths, Amravati 4, and one each in Akola and Wardha took the total death toll in Vidarbha to 905. A positive development of the day in Vidarbha was recovery of 837 patients from the region. This is highest ever number of patients recovered in a day and took the number of recovered patients to 18641. With this, the recovery rate of the region showed a slight improvement and increased for the first time in the month of August. Though, the increase is of just 0.38 points, it hints at constant improvement in the recovery rate now onwards. Highest 376 patients recovered from Nagpur followed by Amravati 97, Chandrapur 61, Gondia 53, Washim 49, Buldhana 46, Akola 39, Yavatmal 36, Wardha 34, Gadchiroli 31, and Bhandara 15. After a one-day decrease due to less number of tests on August 16, number of positive cases reverted on August 17. Total 1242 new patients were reported in Vidarbha. They include Nagpur (846), Amravati (163), Yavatmal (70), Washim (41), Bhandara (26), Buldhana (21), Wardha (20), Gadchiroli (20), Chandrapur (16), Gondia (10) and Akola (9). Remarkably, Akola – which used to be the worst-hit district in Vidarbha reported least number of new cases on August 17 – which shows that the spread is coming under control there. AMRAVATI: While four covid deaths took the district’s death toll one short of a century to 99, the highest single-day spike of 163 took the district’s Covid count to 3929. With 97 patients getting discharge on Monday, the number of recovered patients reached 2680. This left 1150 active cases, including 27 taking treatment in Nagpur. The civil surgeon’s office reported that four persons, all males, died during treatment at the Covid hospital. They included a 60-year-old male from village Shirajgaon Band, a 42-year-old male from Dhamangaon Railway town, a 75-year-old from New City, Badnera and a 55-year-old from Chaparasipura locality. The spike of 163 beat the previous high of 154 reported on August 2. This was the eighth 100-plus single day spike reported this month and 10th overall. The month of August itself has accounted for 1773 cases at 104.29 cases per day. BHANDARA: Three Covid-19 deaths, including a suicide rocked Bhandara district on August 17. A 50-year-old man committed suicide in Bhandara. A 50-year-old Covid-19 positive woman from Bhandara and a 73-year-old man from Bhandara tehsil died in the isolation ward. This took total Covid-19 deaths of Bhandara district to 8. Bhandara now has 568 total cases, including 349 recovered and 211 under treatment. The person who committed suicide on Monday was from Devada Khurd village of Mohadi tehsil of Bhandara district. He was admitted in the general hospital since August 14. His swab samples had tested positive on August 16. The person committed suicide by hanging in the bathroom at around 6.30am on Monday, informed the civil surgeon of Bhandara. No suicide note was found. But doctors said he was depressed since the time he was told that he tested positive on August 16. Earlier, a 40-year-old Covid-19 patient from Karanja Lad town in Washim district committed suicide on July 31 due to stress and trauma after testing positive. The patient disappeared from the isolation ward and later his body was recovered from a farm well in a nearby village. The first Covid-19 positive suicide was reported on May 11 in Akola when a 30-year-old labourer, originally from Assam, committed suicide by slitting his throat with a broken window glass. AKOLA: A 72-year-old man from Hiwarkhed village of Telhara, who was admitted on August 13, died during treatment in Akola. This was 136th Covid-19 death in the district. Against more than 100 cases, nine tested positive from the district. On the other hand, 39 patients recovered. Now, Akola has 3251 patients, including 2695 recovered, 136 dead and 420 under treatment. WARDHA: A 63-year-old woman of Hinganghat died due to coronavirus during treatment on Monday while 20 more persons tested positive and 34 have been discharged after recovering on Monday. Among the positive, 13 are men and women 7. They are from Wardha (10), Hinganghat (5), Arvi (2) Ashti (1), Deoli (1) and Pulgaon (1). According to information from the district collector’s office, after 34 got discharged, the total count of active positive is 92 while 320 have been discharged after recovering. Total 423 persons have been infected in the district of which eleven died during treatment. CHANDRAPUR: With detection of 16 new cases, the Covid-19 total in Chandrapur climbed up to 1121 on Monday. In all, 61 patients were discharged during the day raising the tally of cured patients up to 749. This has left 361 active patients under treatment. There was no death reported in the district during the day and the toll still stands at 9 in Chandrapur. Newfound patients on Saturday include 8 from Chandrapur city, 3 from Rajura tehsil, three from Bhadrawati teshil and one each from Mul and Bhejgaon. YAVATMAL: There was respite as far as the death toll was concerned. After about three weeks, the district recorded no death on Monday. There are 70 new positive patients of whom 47 are men and 23 are women. Total 714 active positive patients are in the isolation wards. Currently 133 persons are admitted in the isolation ward of GMC. Total 36 positive patients were discharged on Monday. BULDHANA: Total 105 reports were received in Buldhana district on August 17. Out of these, 21 tested positive taking the total number of cases in Buldhana to 2252. On the other hand, 46 patients recovered in a day which took the number of recovered patients to 1399. With 40 Covid-19 deaths reported earlier, the total number of patients under treatment in Buldhana is now 813. WASHIM: Total 41 patients tested positive while 49 recovered in a day on August 17 in Washim district. This took the total number of cases in the district to 1227 with 819 of them getting discharged. With 20 deaths reported earlier, the district now has 388 patients under treatment. GADCHIROLI: 20 new suspects, including a doctor, two nurses, a police sub-inspector and a pregnant woman tested Covid-19 positive in Agdchiroli. Two Mumbai-returned travellers also tested positive. With these two, there are 843 positive patients in the district. Total 31 patients recovered in a day, taking their count to 702. Now, 140 patients are under treatment in district. GONDIA: A patient coming from Seoni (MP) for medical treatment in Gondia tested positive on August 17. Including this patient, 10 new cases were reported in Gondia while 53 patients recovered in a day. Now, total 811 cases of Covid-19 have been reported in Gondia. Total 547 patients recovered in a day. With nine deaths reported in the past, Gondia has 255 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-positive-man-commits-suicide-in-bhandara-hospital/articleshow/77600755.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||HC stays tree felling on Amravati-Paratwada road||NAGPUR: Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday stayed felling of big trees for the proposed widening of Amravati-Paratwada Road. While appointing senior counsel Chandraskhekar Kaptan as amicus curiae, a division bench comprising Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor also issued notices to respondents, including the Maharashtra government, asking them to reply within four weeks. Nivedita Mehta accepted notice on the government’s behalf. The HC had taken a suo motu cognisance of TOI’s reports regarding thousands of trees being felled for the widening work of 47 kms road. The Rs600 crore project was envisaged after traffic grew manifold on the Amravati-Paratwada, which is a two-lane highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-stays-tree-felling-on-amravati-paratwada-road/articleshow/77599439.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Private hosps, health officials still working on pricing||Hyderabad: Days after the state health authorities announced take over of 50% of beds in private hospitals, both sides are still working out modalities on the pricing. Sources said the private hospital managements are currently debating among themselves on whether they should follow the government rates and bargain for no interference in the remaining 50% or push for a higher ceiling — inclusive of all costs. “There are two views and all hospitals need to reach a consensus on the best pricing option. But it’s a little difficult as we don’t know how to accommodate charges for critical patients and illnesses developing during treatment,” said an official from a corporate hospital. According to insiders, corporate hospitals pushed for a ceiling of over Rs 4 lakh for 14 days of treatment, with all charges, while the state government proposed a ceiling of Rs 3 lakh for all inclusive treatment during the first marathon meeting held with private hospitals. Government ceiling which is applicable as per a government order issued last month is capped at Rs 4,000 per day for a normal isolation bed facility. Treatment charges without a ventilator facility has been capped at Rs 7,500 while that for treatment with a ventilator has been set at Rs 9,000 per day. “Government is now keen on having an all-encompassing ceiling so that the issue of flouting norms does not arise,” said an official from the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/private-hosps-health-officials-still-working-on-pricing/articleshow/77600797.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Speaker holds meet to discuss assembly session arrangements||Chandigarh: Haryana assembly speaker Gian Chand Gupta held a meeting with the officials of various departments of assembly secretariat on Monday to discuss arrangements for the assembly session starting August 26. “We are taking all kind of precautions for the assembly session which will be held in the current (Covid-19) scenario,’’ said Gupta. He reiterated that nobody will be allowed to enter the assembly without Covid negative certificate. “Be it the chief minister, deputy chief minister, speaker, deputy speaker or leader of opposition, everybody will have to undergo Covid test. MLAs will get themselves tested at their home districts and the certificate should be issued within three days of the commencement of the session. Special kits have been arranged for all those attending the session,” he added. “After this first round of meeting with staff and officers of various departments, we shall now have meetings for health department, police department and the officials from chief minister’s office and public relations department to finalise the sitting arrangement of journalists in media gallery. This would be in addition to permission for live telecast of the session,” said Gupta. Special shoe dispensers, sanitisers and sprays, gloves and masks will be made available to all entry points. Ministers have been asked to ensure minimum supporting staff and MLAs have been asked to walk alone into the assembly premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/speaker-holds-meet-to-discuss-assembly-session-arrangements/articleshow/77600817.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nashik||Man robbed of SUV, mobile on highway||Nashik: A 47-year-old man was robbed of his SUV and cellphone, all collectively amounting to Rs 3.55 lakh, on the service road along the Mumbai-Agra highway close to the flyover near Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL) on early Sunday morning. A complaint has been lodged at Ozar police station. Ozar police said Sachin Salunke, a teacher from Dhule district, was passing near HAL on the highway around 12.30am when four unidentified people, somewhere between 25 to 30 years of age, intercepted him. Subsequently, they dragged him out of the car, struck his head with an iron rod, beat him up and fled with his SUV worth Rs 3.5 lakh and cellphone worth Rs 5,000. Salunke immediately rushed to Ozar police station and lodged a complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-robbed-of-suv-mobile-on-highway/articleshow/77598149.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt promises 40,000 Covid tests, does just 8,000||HYDERABAD: Contrary to the government’s announcement that Covid-19 testing will be ramped up to 40,000 tests a day in the state, the number of tests has actually dipped in the state. The number of tests has come down from 21,239 on Friday to just 8,794 on Monday. On Saturday, health officials had done 12,120 tests. Strangely, the number of tests have come down after antigen testing centres were increased manifold across the state. The state had 320 antigen testing centres till Friday and medical and health department on Saturday added another 1,076 new centres. Each antigen centre is currently doing about 25 samples per day, while some districts like Rangareddy have introduced mobile testing vehicles. “We did not get any specific instructions on increasing the number of tests yet. We are continuing as per earlier order,” a district-level official, requesting anonymity, told TOI Also, there is a mismatch in the number of containment zones announced by the health department. Though districts like Medchal, Bhadradri-Kothagudem,Vikarabad and Bhupalapalli have been recording over a dozen new cases every day, there was no corresponding increase in containment zones . Over 70,000 cases were logged in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, but the civic body has only 64 containment zones. Gadwal district, which has been reporting over 10 cases a day on an average, has nearly 80 containment zones. The Centre gave option to the state governments to declare containment zone according to their convenience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-govt-promises-40000-covid-tests-does-just-8000/articleshow/77600832.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru riots: Cops fired at least 180 rounds; 93 were rubber bullets||BENGALURU: Police fired at least 180 rounds — including 93 rubber bullets — to quell mobs that went on the rampage in east Bengaluru on August 11. Three rioters were killed and around 30 reportedly suffered bullet injuries in the police firing. “This is the first time in the last three decades that the city police have fired so many bullets on a single night,” a senior police officer told The Times of India. “The situation was volatile, we had to open fire in self -defence and to prevent more damage being caused to public and private properties by the arsonists,” the officer said. The police had lobbed seven teargas shells to disperse the violent crowd and another rioters succumbed to the injuries from a tear gas shell. A review of FIRs registered on the basis of complaints filed by Bengaluru police and Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) has revealed that KSRP 1st Battalion had opened 38 rounds of regular bullets while the 9th Battalion had fired 19 bullets. DCP (east) Sharanappa SD, in whose jurisdiction the high-voltage action unfolded, said he could not comment immediately. While several serving and retired police officers said it was not unusual for the force to have expended so many bullets in a single incident, they could not immediately recall an incident that required such a lot of firing. “During the Babri Masjid violence in Davanagere, we fired more than 2,000 rounds,” one senior officer said. Nagaraja U, reserve sub-inspector (RSI), KSRP 9th Battalion, in his complaint, said his unit fired 42 rounds. “We reached DJ Halli by 9.45pm and entered the station at around 10.10pm. We first fired 23 rubber bullets in the air to disperse the mob. But the crowd threw stones at us. We then fired 19 rounds from the SLR gun,” his complaint reads. Another RSI from KSRP’s 1st Battalion said his unit fired 38 rounds in the air. This complaint records the mob setting the DJ Halli station basement ablaze. The 4th KSRP Battalion said it fired 17 rounds in the air and two at the mob. Besides this, DJ Halli police inspector Keshavamurthy NN said one round was fired by his men, while Ajay Sarathy, inspector, KG Halli, said his men fired two rounds in the air and one at the mob. A retired IPS officer, who had served as director general, said, in most cases, more rounds are fired than what is shown in records. “It is unfortunate, but it won’t be fair for me to say more on this matter,” the officer said. However, a serving senior IPS officer said it would not be fair to sit in judgement now. “Only the men on the ground, be it an SI or an inspector, would know what was needed. So, we can sit at home today and speak with the luxury of hindsight, but you don’t get such time in the field,” he said. With regard to the injured, police said a majority of the injured had escaped from private hospitals after getting to know that police were conducting searches for them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-riots-cops-fired-at-least-180-rounds-93-were-rubber-bullets/articleshow/77598501.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fewer suicides during lockdown months than last year||PUNE: The 264 deaths by suicide recorded during the lockdown period from March 1 to July 31 showed a 13.44% decline compared to the 305 such cases during the corresponding period last year, a study commissioned by the city police and conducted by the SNDT Arts and Commerce College for Women revealed on Monday. The study, however, concluded, “No associations of this decline can be established with age, gender, source of income and economic status of the victims...By logic of elimination, it can be inferred that the decline has direct association with the lockdown and COVID 19 phenomenon.” Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said, “This year, 72% or 90 out of 125 suicides were in nuclear families. The main reason for fewer cases in joint families is support of the kin during the lockdown.” He said, “The reasons for suicide vary from loneliness, depression, financial penury, loss of job and problem in relations. But there is no particular trend for suicides as it depends upon the temperament of a person.” Singh said, “Prima facie, proximity to the family members gives people morale support and helps to fight suicidal tendencies. Similarly, the fear of Covid-19 pandemic overtaking all other fears and worries, besides better social policing, is also a factor.” Project coordinator and SNDT college vice principal Madhavi Kulkarni, head and associate professor of psychology Vasanti Joshi and associate professor Vasanti Joshi released the study report in the presence of Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fewer-suicides-during-lockdown-months-than-last-year/articleshow/77601954.cms||Asseem Shaikh
August 18, 2020||Bareilly||Scavenger wears used PPE suit dumped at Pilibhit dist hosp to shield himself from drizzle||Pilibhit: Depicting a very grim picture of the management of Covid-19 waste material — which could be highly infectious and lethal — at the district hospital in UP’s Pilibhit, a scavenger collecting biomedical waste dumped in the open on the hospital campus put a discarded Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) coveralls on — being unaware of its repercussion — to shield himself from the drizzle. A video of the scattered discarded Covid-19 kits and photographs of the scavenger with the PPE coveralls on have been making the rounds of various social media platforms, drawing flak from Twitterati and prompting health department officials to swing into action. “We will take stern action against careless staffers for the blunder,” said Bareilly-based additional director (health) Dr Javed Hayat.“The Covid-19 biomedical waste should be collected in a specified yellow bag which is lifted by a van for the treatment at a plant. The dumping of highly contagious Covid-19 medical waste in the open is a serious matter. I will get it probed thoroughly and stern action will be taken against erring staffers,” added Dr Hayat.Meanwhile, locals who visited the hospital on Monday for giving their samples for the Covid-19 test found hundreds of used swabs strewn all over the corridor of the sample collection room and the discarded PPE kits, including protective clothing (coveralls), gloves, etc, dumped near a hand pump just outside the corridor. A witness who happened to be at the hospital when the scavenger was collecting the discarded kits told TOI on condition of anonymity, “I saw him collecting the discarded medical waste on the campus. As he found a dumped PPE coveralls, he put the clothing on to protect himself from drizzling. When people confronted him, the scavenger, who identified himself as Rakesh, 35, told them that he had been doing it for long and never tested positive for Covid-19. And, he walked away.”“The situation is grave and those who have not yet been tested positive for the novel coronavirus visiting the hospital for getting their tests done to know the status of their health,” said the witness who, too, visited the hospital to give his samples for the Covid-19 test. When asked about the matter, Pilibhit chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Seema Agrawal told TOI, “Hardoi-based firm Star Pollutants has been given the contract of collection and treatment of the biomedical waste. As their collection van, which also supplies the yellow bags, had not turned up since Sunday morning, the hospital staff dumped the discarded material at a designated place on the hospital campus."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/scavenger-wears-used-ppe-suit-dumped-at-pilibhit-dist-hosp-to-shield-himself-from-drizzle/articleshow/77597088.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Kolhapur||2 pending irrigation projects now operational||Kolhapur: Heavy rainfall in Krishna valley, mainly in Satara and Sangli districts, is likely to provide some relief to the drought prone areas of the two districts with the irrigation department formally commissioning operations of two long-pending water projects — Mhaisal and Tembhu. An irrigation department official said they have not decided the quantum of water to be lifted from Krishna river. “Water would be lifted till the rain continues and dams are discharging water,” he said. Tembhu project in Karad tehsil was approved 24 years ago but its work, mainly completion of canal network, was delayed. The initial project cost was Rs 2,106 crore which went up to Rs 4,176 crore due to the delay. The project is not yet completed but irrigation authorities have decided to start is whenever it is possible. Mhaisal project in Sangli was sanctioned 36 years ago and is also yet to be completed. The original project cost was Rs 2,224 crore and it has now increased to Rs 4,079 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-pending-irrigation-projects-now-operational/articleshow/77598157.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nashik||Collector for 12 hours curfew in Malegaon||Nashik: Suraj Mandhare, the Nashik district collector, has decided to impose 7pm-7am curfew across the Malegaon city to put a check on the rising number of Covid cases. “The number of cases in Malegaon is under control, but there is definitely some indiscipline on the part of citizens in general. Though this does not call for a lockdown, at least in the near future, we are going to impose section 144 – restricting the movement of the people – after 7pm and till 7am,” said Mandhare after reviewing the situation in Malegaon town on Monday. It may be noted that the number of active patients in Malegaon has sharply increased from 95 on July 31 to 605 on August 17, prompting the need for stricter measures. The collector observed that cases have been on the rise in the western parts of Malegaon. The eastern part of the city, which was earlier a hotbed, is now under control.Saraf market closed The Malegaon Saraf Suvarnakar Association (MSSA) has decided to keep establishments closed till August 22. “From today (Monday), we have downed the shutters ‘voluntarily’ till August 22 to contribute to breaking the chain of Covid-19 infection,” Sharad Dusane, president of the association said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/collector-for-12-hours-curfew-in-malegaon/articleshow/77598163.cms||Abhilash Botekar
August 18, 2020||Nashik||Maratha Samaj seeks Chavan’s replacement||Nashik: The Sakal Maratha Samaj staged an agitation in front of the district collectorate, Nashik, on Monday demanding immediate measures ensuring reservation for their community. The community presented a traditional program of ‘Lok Jaagar (community awareness programme)’ outside the collectorate. The members said that the state government and the administration was failing in ensuring reservation for the community members and hence demanded the government to take immediate measures in the interest of the community. One of their other important demand was “handing over the responsibility of Maratha Aarakshan from president of the sub-committee of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi Ashok Chavan to any other minister.” In the letter presented to the district administration, the agitators said, “The minister was failing in taking proper steps and paying attention towards the issue (reservation).” .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maratha-samaj-seeks-chavans-replacement/articleshow/77598155.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chennai||Techie moves HC to stop Ganesha Chathurthi celebrations defying ban||CHENNAI: While an association of idol makers has moved the Madras high court challenging Tamil Nadu government’s decision to prohibit installation of Ganesha idols and celebration of Ganesha Chathurthi in public places, a software engineer has moved the court to restrain Hindu Munnani from organising such celebrations defying the government order. Recently, the right-wing organisation made it public that it would install more than 1 lakh idols across the state defying the prohibition. Tiruvannamalai-based techie K Ilanchelian said in view of the seriousness of the pandemic, many institutions and establishments such as schools, colleges and even courts across the country have adopted virtual functioning to avoid crowding. “Keeping the rapid spread of Covid-19 in mind, the state government has instructed the public not to install Ganesha idols or conduct pujas in public places, and not to take idols on processions on account of Ganesha Chathurthi falling on August 22. Instead, people have been asked to celebrate it at their homes,” the petitioner said. On August 13, however, state president of Hindu Munnani Kadeswara Subramaniam issued a media statement condemning the prohibition and declared that his organization will install Ganesha idols in 1.5 lakh places across the state defying the government order. “The statement is not only mischievous, but also dangerous,” the petitioner said. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu Kaivinai Kagithakuuzh Vinayagar Silaigal Matrum Kaliamman Bommaigal Thayaripalargal Sangam (association of idol makers) has moved a separate petition challenging the prohibition. It claimed that its members have already invested considerable money and manpower in making idols in view of the festival and the last-minute ban by the government would put them in great hardship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/techie-moves-hc-to-stop-ganesha-chathurthi-celebrations-defying-ban/articleshow/77600854.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chennai||HC gives clean chit to DMK MP, stays ED proceedings||CHENNAI: Slamming authorities for initiating criminal proceedings against DMK MP S Jagatratchagan after four decades, the Madras high court stayed Enforcement Directorate (ED) proceedings against him in connection with acquiring a share of Chrome Leather Company. “Prima facie, it appears that there is no connection between the petitioner and the alleged transactions made in 1965... It is prima facie clear that the acquiring of shares of the company by the petitioner was with the sanction of this court and as a successful bidder in the bank auction,” said a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice V M Velumani on Monday. “After passage of more than four decades, the complainant, who appears to have been in a deep slumber, had suddenly woken up like Rip Van Winkle and rushed to the police station and lodged a complaint, which was registered in 2007 by CB-CID and subsequently closed as a ‘mistake of fact’,” the judges pointed out. The proceedings were initiated by ED on June 12 under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act based on an FIR registered by the CB-CID against the MP. Chrome Leather Company Private Limited was originally held by Ida L Chambers. In 1965, the shares of the company were sold to Nagappa Chettiar, who pledged the shares with the Central Bank of India in 1970 and availed himself of loans. As there was a default in repayment of loan, the company was auctioned and VKK Charities was declared the successful bidder. As a nominee of the bidder, Jagatratchagan purchased the shares in 1995. After closing the FIR registered in 2007, the CB-CID in 2013 moved the Chengalpet magistrate court seeking further investigation in the case. As the same was dismissed, an appeal was moved in the sessions court. With the approval of the court, FIR was registered once again in 2016. Based on the 2016 FIR, the ED has initiated the present proceedings under the PMLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-gives-clean-chit-to-dmk-mp-stays-ed-proceedings/articleshow/77600847.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Shimla||Covid effect: Tibetan parliament defers its session||Shimla: In the wake of ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile (TPiE) has postponed its session, scheduled to be held for eight days from September 16 to 24, until March next year. The decision to postpone the 10th session of the 16th TPiE was taken at the 327th Standing Committee meeting on August 13, considering the rising urgency situation across the world caused by “Covid-19, which originated in Wuhan, China”. At a press conference held in Dharamshala on Monday, speaker Pema Jungjey, along with deputy speaker Yeshi Phuntsok, announced the postponement of the session until March next year. “We were bound to take this decision as we have to take the responsibility, especially when His Holiness the Dalai Lama resides here in Dharamshala. And even if the session is held, because of the current international travel ban, Tibetan parliamentarians outside of India will not be able to attend the session and the Tibetan parliamentarians in India too might find it difficult to travel with the ongoing pandemic,” the TPiE said in a statement. It said even though the September session would not be convened, matters and proceedings related to the TPiE would be executed without any negligence. As usual, the annual reports of the Central Tibetan Administration’s main offices as well as of institutions under it for the fiscal year 2019-20 is being reviewed by the members of the Standing Committee and questions raised on the annual reports by the committee would be submitted to the respective departments through the Kashag Secretariat, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/covid-effect-tibetan-parliament-defers-its-session/articleshow/77600850.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Testing hits a new low, 890 new cases reported||Hyderabad: On a day Telangana recorded 894 new cases of Covid-19 and 10 deaths, testing hit a new low in the state with just 8,794 tests carried out on Monday.  With the latest numbers, the total number of tests conducted so far in the state now stands at 92,255, while the total number of Covid-19 deaths touched 703 on Monday.  While testing has been on the decline over the last three days in a row, going down from 22,046 on Friday to 894 on Monday, in sharp contrast with the state government’s announcement to analyse 40,000 samples per day, which the chief minister recently announced.  “If you see, the number of pending reports is not very high, which shows that samples collection is very low currently. It could be that laboratories are not taking samples or closing early as it has been the case in parts of Hyderabad. It is also possible that in districts less awareness is a reason for less people turning up tests,” said a top health department source.  There are 21,420 active cases in the state currently, with 70,132 patients affected with Covid-19 having recovered so far.  The case fatality rate which has been on the decline over the last few weeks saw a slight increase from 0.95 percent two days back to 0.96 percent on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/testing-hits-a-new-low-890-new-cases-reported/articleshow/77600848.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana resumes property registration in rural areas||Chandigarh: The Haryana government on Monday resumed registration of properties and farmlands in the rural areas and commenced the process for e-appointment for registration of urban properties. Sources said the revenue officials are reviewing the process for registration in urban areas before actually starting to register properties. Notably, on July 22, property registration work in the state, whether rural or urban, had been halted for software upgradation. Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, who also holds the charge of revenue department, said the details of registries done on Monday in the rural area are being compiled, while the software for the urban areas is under review and e-appointments have started. Amidst allegations of scam in property registration without obtaining no-objection certificates from either urban local bodies (ULBs) or the town and country planning (TCP) department, the state government had stopped registering all properties. Seven revenue officials from Gurgaon have been placed under suspension, while several officials of both ULBs and TCP department are under the scanner in four districts of Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-resumes-property-registration-in-rural-areas/articleshow/77600841.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Pune||PCMC starts work on boundary roads under Smart City project||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has resumed work on four boundary roads — adjoining the walls of the Aundh Military Station — in the Smart City pockets of Pimple Gurav and Pimple Saudagar. PCMC has a November 2021 deadline to finish the project. However, most of work is just about taking off. Roads where work has started include the one opposite Spot 18 mall in Pimple Saudagar, the road near MK Residency, the road in Sudarshannagar and the one adjoining Kankariya Gas Godown.“As of now, we have only taken up development of roads. The finishing work will be taken up later. We are laying stormwater drains, water supply lines, and where possible, shifting these lines to the footpath from the carriageway,” Vijay Bhojane, PCMC’s joint city engineer, said.On May 5, the Pimpri Chinchwad Smart City Limited had taken special permission to start work on some projects. The progress was hampered by a manpower shortage as many workers had returned to their hometowns. “The workers have now returned and there is no problem,” Bhojane said. Work has been held up at some spots, as permission from military authorities is pending. “We have yet to apply for permission. We will get to it in the final stages of the project,” Bhojane said.These spots include half the 2.5km stretch between Spot 18 and Kate Wasti Road. PCMC is awaiting land acquisition from defence authorities and private landowners as some realignment is required. Officials said the road’s completion is important to start work on the parallel Kunal Icon road. PCMC officials said the work will be taken up once some local issues and a few niggles with the defence authorities are ironed out.The Rs324 crore Smart City project involves a slew of works outside of these roads and everything needs to be completed by November 2021. “We have spent Rs15 crore so far, but the work completed is worth considerably more — the contractors concerned have yet to claim the money for the work completed. Whether or not we finish by the deadline will depend on the pandemic. We cannot say anything for now,” Bhojane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-starts-work-on-boundary-roads-under-smart-city-project/articleshow/77601950.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
August 18, 2020||India||Rakesh Asthana to take over as chief of BSF||NEW DELHI: Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) chief Rakesh Asthana was appointed as director general of Border Security Force (BSF) on Monday. Asthana, a 1984 batch IPS officer of Gujarat cadre who earlier served as CBI special director, will continue to hold additional charge as DG, Narcotics Control Bureau. The government also approved the appointment of V S K Kaumudi, chief of Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD), as special secretary (internal security) in the home ministry. Jawed Akhtar, a 1986 batch IPS officer from UP cadre working as special DG, CRPF, was appointed as DG, Fire Services, Civil Defence and Home Guard. BSF has not had a full-time chief for several months now, with ITBP DG S S Deswal holding additional charge as head of the border-guarding force. Asthana will be DG, BSF until his superannuation on July 31, 2021, or until furthers orders. He is also seen a strong contender for the post of CBI director when the incumbent’s term ends in February next year. During his stint in CBI, Asthana was involved in a row with his then boss, CBI director Alok Verma, who levelled serious charges against the former. The newly-appointed BSF chief was subsequently given a clean chit on all the allegations made against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rakesh-asthana-to-take-over-as-chief-of-bsf/articleshow/77602982.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Pune||Pune conducting more tests than Mumbai now: Ajit Pawar||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Monday said Pune was conducting more Covid-19 tests than Mumbai, and so its caseload was on the higher side. Ajit Pawar, also the guardian minister of the district, said Pune was number-one in the country on the testing front. Mumbai has been conducting around 8,000 tests per day. The average daily tests in Pune now is nearly 11,000. The deputy chief minister said he had a detailed discussion with the administration on handling the Covid situation. He stressed while the cases had gone up, the issue of shortfall of beds had been resolved. Ajit Pawar said the Pune divisional commissioner, Saurabh Rao, had been appointed as the nodal officer to chalk out the necessary strategy to handle the situation. Rao said the rise in Covid-19 cases in Pune district was basically because of aggressive testing. He said the district administration had been ramping up infrastructure and ensuring that high-risk contacts of Covid patients were immediately identified and isolated. He said the positivity rate in Mumbai was 21.05%, while in Pune it was 21.87%. The tests per million population in Pune was 955 per day as against 619 per day per million in Mumbai, Rao said. “We should not be comparing the two cities. Both the cities are at different stages of the coronavirus infection and spread. We have our own strategy, which revolves around aggressive testing, increased contact tracing and more infrastructure. I am confident that this strategy will bear results in near future,” Rao told TOI, adding that they were testing 10-12 people against every positive patient. On the infrastructure front, he said that the earlier issue of shortfall of beds had finally resolved with many hospitals being converted to Covid hospitals and beds being increased there. He stressed the situation would improve in two to three weeks. The administration is also focusing on antigen test. The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations have procured 1 lakh kits each. Another 50,000 kits would be procured by the administration for the rural areas to increase the antigen testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-conducting-more-tests-than-mumbai-now-dy-cm/articleshow/77601963.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana cops nabbed 612 criminals in July 2nd-half||Chandigarh: The Haryana Police on Monday claimed to have apprehended 612 offenders, including 11 most-wanted criminals, 297 for holding illegal arms and 304 on charges of smuggling and possession of drugs between July 16 and 31. Besides, the police also managed to arrest 408 proclaimed offenders, 275 bail/ parole jumpers suspected to be involved in crimes, like robbery, dacoity and theft, among others. Many of the arrested offenders had been evading arrest since long. Additional director general of police (law and order) Navdeep Singh Virk said the state police had launched a special campaign to put complete check on narcotics smugglers, unearth illicit arms and to nab proclaimed offenders and bail/ parole jumpers. All the field units were galvanised into action to ensure the arrest of offenders, including the most-wanted ones. He said keeping pressure on criminals and anti-social elements led to the seizure of 229 illegal pistols, 19 revolvers, 53 country-made pistols, 10 magazines and 438 cartridges from the possession of 297 accused arrested under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. The police also registered 236 cases against drug peddlers and arrested 304 accused after recovering 1,256kg narcotics, including opium, charas (hashish), heroin, smack, ganja (cannabis), poppy husk and 63,243 prohibited tablets/ capsules from them. “We always endeavour to maintain law and order and take criminals to their logical end. This helps in keeping crime under check and instils a sense of security among the masses,” Virk said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-cops-nabbed-612-criminals-in-july-2nd-half/articleshow/77600857.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Surat||71 employees, account holders of bank pledge to donate plasma||Surat: As many as 71 employees and account holders of the Varachha Cooperative Bank have pledged to donate their plasmas for the early recovery of the Covid-19 patients admitted in the city hospitals. Officials said that a plasma awareness and donation camp was organised on the Independence Day on August 15 at the Varachha Cooperative Bank’s headquarter at Mini Bazaar in Varachha. About 71 people who have recovered from the deadly coronavirus infection pledged to donate their plasma for the speedy recovery of the Covid-19 positive patients in the city. The bank officials have submitted the list of the 71 donors with their phone numbers and blood groups to the Loksamarpan Ratkdan kendra for contacting them for the plasma donation whenever they get the requirement from the hospitals. Chairman of the bank, Kanji Bhalala told TOI, “Until now, our employees and account holders have donated 11 units of plasma to the Loksamarpan Raktdan kendra. 71 more connected with the bank have pledged to donate their plasma.” Bhalala added, “We have tied up with the Loksamarpan Raktadan kendra for the plasma donations.” President of the Loksamarpan Ratkdan kendra, Hari Kathiriya said, “It is a great service by the Varachha Cooperative Bank officials for organising plasma donation camp. If other organisations and institutions would come forward for the noble cause, we will be able to save many precious lives through the plasma donations.” Earlier, city-based diamond company Unique Gems had set an example with nearly 55 of its employees including artisans donating plasma. Surat is leading among all Gujarat cities in plasma donation despite getting permission for convalescent plasma therapy as late as July. The number of donations by people from all walks of life has crossed 550 now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/71-employees-account-holders-of-bank-pledge-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77598199.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad police recover 400g gold, Rs 6.6 lakh cash stolen in burglary||AURANGABAD: The city police on Monday returned 400 gm of gold and Rs 6.59 lakh cash to a retired civil surgeon and his wife. The valuables were stolen in a burglary at the couple’s bungalow in Gurusahani Nagar, N-4, Cidco. The incident took place between December 28 and 30, 2019, when Namdev Kalwale along with his family had gone to Mumbai. A total of 770 gm of gold and Rs 4.75 lakh cash were stolen. On January 19, Pundaliknagar police nabbed Shankar Jadhav , who has 40 cases registered against him. He confessed of committing the burglary along with Syed Sikandar. Police recovered 400 gm of gold that was purchased and melted by Jalna based jeweller Anil Shelke, who was arrested.  Assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne said the remaining 370 gm of gold was sold by the accused to jewellers from Nashik and received cash. Using this cash, the accused purchased a car worth Rs 8.50 lakh and deposited over Rs 11 lakh in his friend’s bank account. Later with the permission from the court, the amount was finally seized and returned to the surgeon. Aurangabad commissioner of police Chiranjeev Prasad said, “The case involved valuables belonging to an elderly couple. Returning their valuables was more satisfying than detecting the offence itself.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-police-recover-400g-gold-rs-6-6l-cash-stolen-in-burglary/articleshow/77598174.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 18, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Rape accused held for murder attempt||NASHIK: A 10-year-old girl suffered burns at her residence in a village in Parner taluka of Ahmednagar district after a rape accused, along with his son, allegedly tried to set ablaze her mother after throwing petrol on her on August 13. “The man (55), who was accused by the tribal woman of raping her in February, has been allegedly forcing her to withdraw the case,” said additional superintendent of police Sagar Patil. The man has been arrested for attempted murder and under sections of the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015. “An investigation is under way against his son (24), he added. Supa police said a local court has remanded the suspect in custody till August 19. He resides in a neighbouring village. The girl, who suffered 12-14% burns and admitted to a hospital in Supa, is out of danger, said police The complainant, who has two daughters and a son, lives in a shanty on government land separately from her husband, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rape-accused-heldfor-murder-attempt/articleshow/77598176.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 18, 2020||Pune||Youth clears interview in 7th attempt to join IAF||PUNE: Omkar Garde (23) always dreamt of a career in the Indian Armed forces, but had to work hard for the same. Garde faltered in the last leg of the Services Selection Board interview on six occasions — first on clearing the NDA entrance, twice on clearing the combined defence services exam and thrice on clearing the Air Force Common Admission Test (AFCAT) — but he did not give up. He finally cleared it in his seventh attempt. In between, he had completed his graduation and postgraduation in computer science and took up an internship with a leading software firm. He had to leave his internship a month later as he got selected in the Indian Air Force (IAF). On Monday, Garde, whose father is a retired IAF sergeant, joined the IAF Academy at Dundigul, Telangana for a year-long training, following which he will be commissioned as a ground duty officer in the IAF. “I am happy to have finally overcome the jinx,” a relieved Omkar told TOI. “Clearing the SSB interview had become a mission and I tried hard to learn from my past mistakes,” he said. His father, Shashishekhar, attributed his success to a never say die attitude. “Omkar wanted to join the flying branch, but could not clear the Pilot Aptitude Battery Test. But, he would say never mind. Today he is where he should have been," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-clears-interview-in-7th-attempt-to-join-iaf/articleshow/77601957.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 18, 2020||Business||NIDIA invests Rs 50 crore in Endiya Fund II||Hyderabad: Fund of funds Nippon India Digital Innovation AIF Fund (NIDIA) has invested Rs 50 crore in seed and early stage Hyderabad-based venture capital player Endiya Partners’ Fund II. The partnership with this Japanese fund of funds will provide the Endiya portfolio companies financial and strategic support that will lead to increased access to growth opportunities and sustainable scalability, Endiya Partners said. Endiya Fund II is eyeing investments in 16-20 startups with an initial cheque size of US$ 500,000 to US$ 1 million in Seed and Pre-Series Rounds and a planned investment of up to $5 million per company, Endiya Partners said. NIDIA is planning investments in around 15-20 VC funds in India across multiple horizontals like robotics & automation, internet of things (IoT), artificial intelligence, machine learning, consumer technology as well as verticals like manufacturing, EVs, automobiles, financial services, healthcare, education, e-commerce, retail and pharma, among others. “...the partnership between India and Japan is of strategic national importance because it’s a perfect blend of Indian enterprise, its frugal innovation, and software skills with Japanese capital and their hardware prowess. We believe access to ‘friendly’ Japanese capital is paramount to long-term growth of Indian start-ups,” said Sachin Bid, fund manager, Nippon India Alternate Investments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nidia-invests-rs-50-crore-in-endiya-fund-ii/articleshow/77599484.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Seven killed in rain-related mishaps across Rajasthan||JAIPUR/KOTA/JAISALMER: Incessant rainfall at many places in the state has proved fatal again as on Monday seven people died in various rain-related mishaps. These people became victims of torrential rainfall that created havoc. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot asked the authorities to take all preventive measures to deal with flood or flood-like situation. Gehlot had a meeting with the state disaster management authority (SDMA) and also reviewed the situation in various districts. Three teams of national disaster relief force (NDRF) and 20 teams of state disaster relief force (SDRF) are working to rescue and rehabilitate people affected by the torrential showers. A 35-year-old man who had gone for picnic with his family at Parvan River dam in Shergarh area under Mothpur police station of Baran district drowned while taking a bath. “The man identified as Habib, a native of Baran had gone with his family on Sunday at Parvan River dam. He drowned in the deep river. His body was handed over to his family early on Monday,” said a senior police officer. In another incident two sons and a daughter of a farmer drowned in a water tank and died. This incident took place under Sheo police station area in Barmer district when Rana Ram (15) and Jasa Ram (13) slipped into a well. Their sister attempted to save them and and drowned. Likewise, according to the state disaster relief force (SDRF) teams on Monday retrieved the body of a 65-year-old man identified as Ladoo Lal Meena near Malana Dungar area in Banas river. “The body was badly mutilated. We found only a few body parts since it was eaten by crocodiles,” said an officer. Also, two people drowned in a rain-fed river at Madanganj police station area of Ajmer while body of a 12-year-old boy who is yet to be identified was also retrieved by SDRF. Meanwhile, moderate to heavy rainfall continued at many places in the state on Monday. Rainfall varying from 10mm to 150mm was reported from districts including Sirohi, Jalore, Barmer, Jaisalmer, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Alwar, Ajmer and Sikar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/seven-killed-in-rain-related-mishaps-across-state/articleshow/77600863.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Pune||PMR fatality count rises to 82, single-day highest||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded 82 Covid-19 fatalities on Monday, its highest for 24 hours, taking the total death toll in the area to 3,104. Besides, the Covid-19 case count in PMR on Monday surged above 1.27 lakh, with the addition of 1,829 cases in the last 24 hours. Of the total cases, as many as 97,335 have successfully recovered in the region so far. Among the new cases, the Pune municipal areas recorded 835, the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits added 681, while the rural and Cantonment areas together added 213. When it comes to the deaths, 47 were recorded in the PMC limits, 22 in the PCMC areas and 13 in the rural parts. Health officials said most of the deceased were aged above 50 and had co-morbid conditions, such as diabetes and hypertension, among others. For instance, of the 47 deaths reported in PMC areas, four were aged below 50 years, while others were aged between 50 and 88 years. As per the data released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar, as many as 1,470 patients were discharged on Monday after they were declared cured. The PMC area reported most discharges (1,049) than positive cases (835). The rural parts witnessed 246 recoveries while 82 patients were discharged in the PCMC limits after they were declared cured. The DHO’s report stated that a total of 26,719 active cases were in the region on Monday, of whom 15,673 were under treatment at various hospitals and 11,046 were in home isolation. PMC’s latest report stated that the number of critical patients stood 765 by Monday night. All these were being treated at various hospitals, of whom 464 were on ventilator support. The PMC’s sample collection stood at 4,635 on Monday, including the rapid antigen tests. The PMC said 453 teams were active in city on Monday to conduct home-to-home survey to identify suspected Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-death-toll-hits-single-day-high-of-82/articleshow/77601968.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||Trade licence: Shopkeepers to observe bandh on Wednesday||NAGPUR: Agitated after the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) asked them to obtain a trade licence, shopkeepers have decided to observe a bandh on Wednesday. The decision was taken by representatives of various trade organizations on Monday night. Earlier, a delegation of Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), the association of city shopkeepers, met guardian minister Nitin Raut, mayor Sandip Joshi and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and registered its opposition against NMC’s order. It submitted a memorandum claiming that municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe’s order was illegal. Reacting to the decision, mayor Joshi said that the trade licence issue will come up for discussion in the general body and NMC would not enforce it without the approval of the house. “Traders should have faith in public representatives. We are fully aware of their concerns. The administration is trying to destroy the peaceful atmosphere of the city,” he told TOI. According to the memorandum, section 376 of the Maharashtra Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act under which the NMC has issued the order unequivocally states that only specified things are not to be kept in excess quantities and certain trades are not to be carried out without a licence. “The list of such goods, trades and operations is mentioned in Chapter XVIII of Schedule D of the Act. The goods, trades and operations not mentioned in this chapter are not required to obtain any licence. The municipal commissioner has prohibited in his order every trade and profession, including advocates, engineers, chartered accountants, company secretaries, banks, cooperative societies, etc from operating without a NMC licence,” states the memorandum. According to section 386 of the MMC Act, the licence fee can be charged for goods, trades and operations mentioned in Chapter XVIII of Schedule D only. Further, the licence fee can be revised from time to time by the general body. However, the commissioner has vested this right with himself. There is no provision in the MMC Act for issuance of public notice in relation to issuance of licence under section 376. However, the order stipulates issuing such notices and the cost has to be borne by the applicant. In notifying the rules, alleged to be the terms and conditions, under schedule 3 of the NMC order, the commissioner has circumvented the procedures prescribed under sections 453, 454, 455, 457, 458, 459, 460, 461, 462 and other enabling sections of the MMC Act incorporated to make, add, alter or rescind rules, regulations and by-laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/trade-licence-shopkeepers-to-observe-bandh-on-wednesday/articleshow/77599499.cms||Ashish Roy
August 18, 2020||Goa||Baina stinks as uncleared garbage piles up||VASCO: An unbearable stink has enveloped Baina in Vasco. Garbage overflowing from bins covers half the road, and stray dogs and cattle devouring the waste hinder the smooth flow of traffic. Rashad Shaikh, a vendor residing near the Baina fish market, said, “For almost a week, garbage has been scattered on the road at the dump site located in front of the fish market. The stink is so terrible that we feel nauseous while having our meals.” Dry and wet waste covers the entire stretch from Shafi Masjid, Chota Bazaar, to Bhutte-Bhat near Tanya hotel in Vasco. “The health department tells us to keep the vicinity clean as dengue deaths are common in Vasco, however, nobody has been pulling up the municipality for not doing its job properly,” Sham Naik, a resident of Bhutte-Bhat, said. The vice-chairperson of the Mormugao Municipal Council (MMC), Reema Sonurlekar said, “The contractor who clears garbage from around six wards informed us that his workers had returned to their home towns after the lockdown was lifted and that a few of them had also stopped reporting for duty,” Sonurlekar said. While assuring that the garbage will be cleared within the next few days, she said “the contractor has now arranged for new workers, who have undergone Covid-19 tests and have joined work since Sunday”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/baina-stinks-as-uncleared-garbage-piles-up/articleshow/77602000.cms||Ruvina Khan
August 18, 2020||Kolkata||Key S Kol road out of bounds for motorists||Kolkata: A 300-metre stretch of Motilal Nehru Road, a narrow street in south Kolkata that is part of the crucial north-south corridor for motorists commuting during busy officer hours, will be off limits for nearly a month from Tuesday. Kolkata Municipal Corporation will dig up the road to lay pipes that will carry filtered water to 10,000 people residing in three slums in the vicinity. The police have chalked out an alternative traffic flow plan. North-bound vehicles travelling between 8am and 1pm will be diverted via Manoharpukur Road to Sarat Bose Road. From 1pm to 10pm, south-bound vehicles will be diverted from Ritchie Road crossing via Hazra Road towards east or west to then move south. An extension of Ritchie Road, Motilal Nehru Road links Hazra Road to Manoharpukur Road and is extensively used by office-goers. In the morning, north-bound traffic converges into it from Rashbehari Avenue and Sarat Bose Road via Manoharpukur Road. The vehicles then take Ritchie Road and Ballygunge Circular Road to reach AJC Bose Road. The traffic flow direction changes after 1pm as south bound vehicles use it to head towards Gariahat or Southern Avenue. Though narrower than the arterial roads like Sarat Bose Road, Ashutosh Mukherjee Road and Gariahat Road that run parallel to it, motorists prefer it because there are few traffic signals on this stretch and buses don’t ply along on these roads. The water project is crucial for KMC that intends to complete it before Durga Puja. The pipe will connect the slums to a booster pumping station at Deshapriya Park that is nearing completion. The police have chalked out alternative traffic flow plan during the period the road is shut. North-bound vehicles travelling between 8am and 1pm will be diverted via Manoharpukur Road to Sarat Bose Road. From 1pm to 10pm, south-bound vehicles will be diverted from Ritchie Road crossing via Hazra Road towards east or west. The changes will be coming into effect from August 17 midnight and will continue till work gets completed. Police do not expect any snarls since the road is primarily used by private cars and two-wheelers. Road signage will be put up at strategic locations along the route. In addition, policemen will be deployed to divert traffic.  “We will keep key roads — Sarat Bose Road and Hazra Road — congestion-free. Ballygunge Phanri and Ballygunge Circular Road will be monitored. We are planning to change the timing of signals at Lake Gardens flyover-Southern Avenue intersection and Deshapriya Park crossing,” said an officer. A KMC official said supply of filtered water will replace use of ground water at slums. “We had planned construction of a 3 million gallon per day capsule water booster station at Deshapriya Park primarily to eliminate arsenic threat to residents in the area,” he said. According to Debasish Kumar, KMC ward coordinator, the project will also end water scarcity in slums.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/key-s-kol-road-out-of-bounds-for-motorists/articleshow/77601965.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 18, 2020||Pune||Army to commit doctors for mitigation efforts: Saurabh Rao||PUNE: Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao on Monday said the local military authority (LMA) , the Dakshin Maharashtra and Goa Sub Area, has agreed in principle to commit army’s trained doctors and paramedics to the civil administration’s Covid-19 mitigation efforts in Pune. Rao and Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar had a meeting with Major General Navneet Kumar, the LMA head, on Sunday. “They (LMA authorities) have agreed in principle to provide doctors and paramedics. A formal proposal will be submitted to the Army soon,” Rao told TOI. A senior LMA officer said, “Once we get a specific proposal, we will take further action. As per the procedure, we will pursue the case with the Headquarters, Southern Command to get a sanction to allocate or attach our manpower to the civil administration.” The officer said, “Recently, we reserved 10 ICU beds at the Army Institute of Cardio Thoracic Sciences (AICTS) for Covid-19 patients originating from the civilian areas.” Armed Forces Medical College’s (AFMC) director and commandant Lt Gen Nardeep Naithani told TOI, “In case local hospitals fall severely short on beds and expert staff and we get directions from the higher-ups, we will share our manpower and resources. Our laboratory is already testing samples for Covid-19 from various districts in the state.” He said, “Our personnel are also involved in patient care at the AICTS, a designated Covid-19 hospital for Pune and Khadki.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/army-to-commit-doctors-paramedics-for-ncov-mitigation-effort-in-pune-rao/articleshow/77601971.cms||Sandip Dighe
August 18, 2020||Pune||State nodal officer of Covid testing to take charge of Pune collector today||Pune: The state government on Monday appointed Rajesh Deshmukh as the district collector of Pune. Deshmukh, a 2008 batch IAS officer, was the managing director at Haffkine Bio-Pharma and the director of Haffkine Institute of Research and Training in Mumbai. He would replace Naval Kishore Ram, transferred to the Prime Minister’s Office earlier this month. Deshmukh told TOI that he would take charge as the Pune collector on Tuesday. The order issued by additional chief secretary Sitaram Kunte directed Deshmukh to take charge of the Pune collector immediately. IAS officer Kunal Khemnar will replace him at Haffkine. Deshmukh has been at the helm of Covid-19 testing activities in the state. “As the state nodal officer for Covid-19 testing, I am aware that Pune is already doing the maximum testing and so the cases are high. We shall continue following the tracing, testing and treatment protocol with adherence to the strict social distancing measures as issued by the government. It will be a challenging posting for me,” he said. Deshmukh’s predecessor, Ram, had joined the PMO as a deputy secretary after giving charge to Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad temporarily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-nodal-officer-of-covid-testing-to-take-charge-of-pune-collector-today/articleshow/77601994.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Kolkata||CM Mamata Banerjee promises to smash glass ceiling in West Bengal police promotions||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced that the state government would weed out gender bias in police promotions, removing cadre-based quota for male and female personnel. The steps, she said, would make everyone eligible for promotion against all vacant police posts. The chief minister also said the Police Welfare Board would be reconstituted and would suggest steps for police welfare. “There is a discrimination in promotion system in police forces. Due to this, female police personnel get the promotion later than their male counterparts. This is because there are more male police personnel in the force than female personnel. Male personnel are more in numbers, they get promotion quickly,” she said. Giving an example, Banerjee said, “There are only 9,228 women police personnel against 37,143 male personnel in the force and this difference becomes a hindrance to their promotion. We have decided to remove this factor so that they get equal opportunity.” “It’s an old system that has been practised since the British-era,” a senior officer said. Apart from dissolving the gender biases in the promotional system, the chief minister also announced a separate welfare board that will review the benefits of the force. “The welfare board will become functional from Police Day — September 1. We have given additional ration and additional incentives to police but this board will continuously monitor the welfare schemes of the force,” the CM said. Coordinated by senior police officer Shantanu Sinha Biswas, the state will form committees in the districts, provide offices and vehicles and they will coordinate with the district administration to review the situation from time to time and send recommendations to the government. The chief minister also announced construction of 20 additional barracks where there will be additional facilities for the force. Hitting out at people who accuse police, she said, “We should not forget their sacrifice. Of the 23 districts in the state, 13 have international borders and our state is a hugely populated state. In this situation, Bengal Police is working better than police of many other states. Those who blame Bengal Police should look at states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Gujarat. ” Meanwhile, Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma launched an app named ‘Niramoy’ that will keep track of affected personnel, their health status, cops in quarantine and those who are back from hospital and are in home isolation. About 1,700 personnel in KP has been infected so far — with about 325 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-promises-to-smash-glass-ceiling-in-state-police-promotions/articleshow/77601995.cms||Saibal Gupta
August 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: With houses under rubble, many living on rooftops||JAIPUR: Mukesh Meena, a resident of Sundar Nagar, is living at his relatives’ place as his house has been under the rubble that came along with the flood water during heavy rain on Friday last week. “I have never seen such a disaster in my life. My house is covered by five feet of rubble. All the furniture, television, refrigerator and clothes have been damaged. I don’t know how I am going to re-establish myself,” Meena said. On August 14, Jaipur witnessed a flood-like situation in low-lying areas. Majority of the roads in the city, including Walled City, were under water. Hundreds of vehicles were under 6-feet water and a few people lost their lives. This was probably the worst the city has been affected since the 1981 floods. Naresh Nagar, a resident of Surya Colony on Delhi Road, said, “There are many people in my colony who had small houses with open courtyard. Their entire houses are destroyed and are left with nothing. People were already struggling to make ends meet due to lockdown and now this flood.” Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), along with the district administration, is working to get the debris cleared out of the roads. There are houses that have been covered with 5-feet rubble. While the administration is working on the main roads, residents along with some NGO volunteers are working day and night to clear the debris from the houses. Former councillor of the area Umar Daraj said the destruction has shaken the entire area and it will take some people years to get back on their feet, especially daily wage earners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-houses-under-rubble-many-living-on-rooftops/articleshow/77600891.cms||---
August 18, 2020||Nagpur||11 test positive in Wardha||Wardha: There were 11 new positive Covid cases, while 21 were discharged on Wednesday. Eight women and three men were positive from Arvi (3), Ashti (3) Selu (3) each one from Hinganghat and Wardha. A 55-year-old woman from Sudampuri, Wardha, a 45-year-old man from Hinganghat, a 29-year-old man and a 48-year-old woman of Khardiward in Arvi and a 29-year-old woman from Bhaiyapur tested positive. A 10-year-old boy, two women from the same family in Ashti, aged 40 and 42 years, a five-year-old boy, a 27-year-old youth and a 60-year-old woman from Hamadapur village in Selu tehsil tested positive among the 1471 reports that were received on Wednesday. The reports include antigen and laboratory tests. The total count of positive cases in the district reached 466 and active cases are 97 while 358 have been discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/11-test-positive-in-wardha/articleshow/77637311.cms||Balwant Dhage
August 18, 2020||Agra||UP: At dilapidated house, parents can’t believe son is 'director' of two Chinese firms||AGRA: Shyam Sunder and his wife Pushpa, both in their fifties, who live in a dilapidated one-room house in Peepal village in Khair area of Aligarh have no idea their son Rahul Kumar, 25, is a "director" of two Chinese firms and a "shareholder" in two others. Wanted in connection with a multi-crore hawala racket, Rahul’s phone has been switched off since Sunday afternoon and his current whereabouts are not known. His father Shyam Sunder told TOI that officials from various government agencies had visited their house on Friday looking for his son. Local authorities, however, denied having information about any such visit. According to Sunder, Rahul had been working in Noida with a firm dealing in motor vehicle parts earlier and had some time back taken up a part-time job because the new firm offered him more money. He does not know the name of the company. “Rahul told me that he was getting a monthly salary of Rs 2,000 and another Rs 2,000 as additional perks. His Aadhaar and PAN cards were taken when he joined the new job,” said Sunder, adding that his son is now in Delhi but he doesn’t know his current whereabouts. It is suspected that his documents were used without his consent in a recent money laundering racket that has been unearthed in the national capital region. Rahul’s mother Pushpa said that her son had completed his diploma in electronics and moved to Noida in search of a job. “My son is innocent and too young to understand all this. He has been tricked by his employers and the government agencies should help him clear his name,” she said. The family owns 12 bighas of agricultural land and it is the only source of their income. Rahul has two younger brothers and a sister, who is now married. In the past week, the Income Tax Department has conducted raids against some Chinese individuals and their local associates for allegedly running an estimated Rs 1,000 crore worth money laundering racket using shell or dubious firms, the CBDT said on Tuesday. The department raided at least two dozen premises in Delhi, Gurgaon and Ghaziabad as part of the action under which it covered the Chinese, some of their Indian associates and bank officials. A statement from CBDT said, “The subsidiary of Chinese company and its related concerns have taken over Rs 100 crore bogus advances from shell entities for opening businesses of retail showrooms in India.” A Chinese man, who allegedly holds a fake Indian passport, is alleged to be the kingpin of the racket apart from few other nationals of that country. According to the tax officials, Luo Sang, alias Charlie Peng, 42, created a “web of sham companies to launder hawala funds to and from China” in the past two-three years. “Search action revealed that at the behest of Chinese individuals, more than 40 bank accounts were created in various dummy entities, entering into credits of more than Rs 1,000 crore over the period,” the CBDT said in its statement. “Incriminating documents of hawala transactions and money laundering with active involvement of bank employees and chartered accountants have been found as a result of the search action,” it said. Evidence of foreign hawala transactions involving Hong Kong and US dollars have also been unearthed, the CBDT said. Watch UP: Parents of 'director' in 2 Chinese firms live in dilapidated one-room house||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/living-in-dilapidated-house-in-aligarh-parents-cant-believe-their-son-is-director-of-2-chinese-firms/articleshow/77598216.cms||---
