August 19, 2020||India||Assam: More anti-CAA faces join hands with BJP||GUWAHATI: The anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) lobby in Assam received some serious blows from the artistes’ fraternity ahead of the assembly polls slated early next year. The artistes’ fraternity, headed by popular singer Zubeen Garg, was an integral part of the anti-CAA front led by students’ body All Assam Students’ Union (Aasu) soon after the legislation was passed in Parliament in December last year. But the singer-actor faced heavy criticism after meeting chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal and agriculture minister Atul Bora recently. Bora even said his department intended to make Zubeen the ambassador for agriculture. The goodwill gesture shown to the BJP-ledgovernment by Zubeen seems to have set a precedent. One after the other, members of the artist fraternity, who joined the anti-CAA agitation from December last year, are now joining BJP ahead of the 2021 assembly polls. A day after popular actor from Assamese cine industry Jatin Bora returned to BJP, two more leading personalities from the state’s cultural arena — singer Vidya Sagar and actor Asha Bordoloi — joined the saffron party in a ceremony at the state BJP headquarters here in the presence of Assam BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Dass on Tuesday. Vidya Sagar, however, claimed that he has been with BJP since 2009 but not as an “active member”. “I joined BJP in 2009 after getting attracted to the party’s ideology, though the party was not in a good position in the state at that time. Since then, my moral support has been with BJP,” he said. Vidya Sagar alleged that while going ahead to fulfill their vested political interests, some of the leaders of the anti-CAA movement have deviated from their goal. “The political equations of the leaders are getting priority over the primary goal of the anti-CAA movement. Through misinterpretation (of the CAA), the people of Assam were driven emotionally, else the movement would have continued,” he alleged. Asha Bordoloi, on the other hand, said, “I want to clarify that I never went to the anti-CAA agitation. I had faith that BJP will never work against the people of Assam. I have joined the party so that I can work for the party.” A statement issued by the state BJP said along with Vidya Sagar and Asha Bordoloi, former sports secretary of Aasu, Tapan Das and noted academic Prabha Choudhari Dastidar formally joined the party on Tuesday. Assam BJP president, Ranjeet Kumar Dass said people from various walks of life have expressed their willingness to join BJP. “The achievements of the BJP-led government in the last four years cannot be compared with that of the 15-year rule of Congress,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/assam-more-anti-caa-faces-join-hands-with-bjp/articleshow/77621322.cms||Kangkan Kalita
August 19, 2020||Chennai||#MadrasWeek: Reimagining Chennai and its quirks through different strokes||In digital artist Rimaz Mohammed’s illustrations, Chennai’s celebrated nooks and crannies get a dystopian restoration — while the roadside friendly tea master fries crisps with an electronic helmet, the idly vendor happily whips up nilavembu cola. Rimaz’s illustrations reimagine the iconography of the city with a futuristic twist. Rimaz’s love for the city and science fiction eventually translated into the Madras Cyberpunk series on Instagram, he says. “There are certain things you attribute to Madras as part of a collective memory. A few things are undervalued in the city, but always stand the test of time. The tea kadai master and vadai sudra aaya are part of a microcosm of the urban public space. I wanted to explore these icons by speculating a future for them,” he adds. It was important to use visual aids such as the dot kolam, political graffiti and the ‘Bettermax Light’, which are all unique to the city. “The series is all about preserving the punk narrative, but still working with elements that have always represented the city. For instance, the nilavembu kashayam, today, is much more popular than any soft drink,” he adds with a laugh. Rimaz is one among many such illustrators in Chennai, who are using art to paint a picture of their city dearest during times of the coronavirus. For Hiral Makwana, the lockdown provided the perfect canvas to revisit her treasured memories about the city. The beachside parrot astrologers and the istri walas (or the better-known Iron Men of the south), find appearances in her handmade paper illustrations. “The lockdown kind of put things into perspective and made me realise the small things that I missed about the city. I wanted to play around with traditional concepts, by giving them a modern twist. For instance, the parrot astrologer gives out Uno cards instead of the normal ones,” explains Hiral, who turned her collage wash-paint illustrations into digital ones for Instagram. Hiral, who aims to continue her illustrations on the “local community of vendors on the streets,” adds that the internet opens up countless avenues for artists like her. “Especially now that the internet has grown, I see so many people expressing their enthusiasm for the city with different perspectives,” she adds. Sunil Raghavendher, who has captured the windows and icons of the city through digital art, notes that the process made him rediscover the city in many ways. “I have grown up with some of these places in the city, making memories with them, like any other Chennaiite. But nostalgia is a version of reality. I wanted to tap into that and reimagine Madras through my art,” he says, adding that the process also made him learn the stories behind the city’s architectural marvels. “For instance, while working on the Porr & Sons art, I learnt that they once sold jewellery, too, apart from watches. Every structure in the city has its own unique story to tell,” he adds. While the internet culture has definitely catapulted many to appreciate the city, it is important to know the history of Madras and its icons, he affirms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/reimagining-chennai-and-its-quirks-through-different-strokes/articleshow/77621269.cms||Sruthi Raman
August 19, 2020||World||Pakistan army chief meets Saudi officials amid strained ties||ISLAMABAD: Amid strained relations with Saudi Arabia over its pro-India position on the Kashmir issue, Pakistan army chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa has been busy in the Gulf Kingdom meeting their military and defence officials to calm down Riyadh after it threatened with its financial lifeline to Islamabad. A brief statement by Pakistan army said Bajwa met Saudi Arabia’s deputy minister of defence Prince Khalid bin Salman bin Abdulaziz on Tuesday to discuss matters of mutual interest. Without giving details, the Inter Services Public Relations (ISPR), army’s media wing, earlier said that Bajwa had met Saudi’s General Fayyad bin Hamid Al-Ruwaili, chairman of the General Staff of the Armed Forces, and other top commanders to discuss military ties, including training exchanges. Bajwa’s Saudi visit comes days after Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi blasted the Saudi-led Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) for not actively denouncing India’s actions in the Kashmir region. Pakistan, Qureshi had said, skipped a summit in Malaysia last year with a “heavy heart” because of Saudi Arabia’s reservations, so now it was time for Riyadh to step forward. Qureshi's remarks revived Riyadh’s anger, forcing Islamabad to pay back $1bn prematurely. It was reportedly demanding another $1bn of the loan. Last month, Pakistan had to borrow $1bn from China to repay part of $3bn loan from Saudi Arabia to prop up Islamabad's depleting foreign reserves. A traditional ally, Saudi Arabia gave Pakistan a $3bn loan and $3.2bn oil credit facility to help its balance of payments crisis in late 2018. The finance ministry last week confirmed that Riyadh was reviewing Islamabad’s request for an extension of the oil credit facility, which ended in July. Huge amounts of money sent by expatriates in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Kuwait and other Gulf states have a significant effect on Pakistan’s economy. Saudi Arabia and the UAE jointly host more than three million Pakistanis. Saudi Arabia, where 1.9 million Pakistanis reside, tops the list of countries with the highest remittances to Pakistan at more than $4.5bn annually, followed by the UAE, with over $3.47bn, according to official statistics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-army-chief-meets-saudi-officials-amid-strained-ties/articleshow/77621421.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
August 19, 2020||India||Srinagar’s Jamia Masjid reopens after 150 days||SRINAGAR: The historic Jamia Masjid in Srinagar’s downtown area reopened on Tuesday for Zuhr prayers (afternoon prayers) after 150 days of lockdown in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. As soon as the Azaan was sounded, hundreds of devotees thronged the masjid and offered prayers while maintaining social distance. The masjid’s managing committee, Anjuman Auqaf, decided to reopen the mosque after J&K authorities allowed the reopening of religious institutions post-Lockdown 2, and following thorough consultation with medical experts about the implementation of SOPs during prayers inside the grand mosque, a statement said. The management has put in place all necessary preventive measures in view of the raging pandemic, including the provision of free masks to devotees. Sanitizers have been kept inside the masjid and posters put up on its walls mentioning guidelines to be followed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/srinagars-jamia-masjid-reopens-after-150-days/articleshow/77621505.cms||M Saleem Pandit
August 19, 2020||India||Court of Inquiry into July 18 Shopian encounter underway: Army||SRINAGAR: Army on Tuesday said that a high-level court of inquiry (CoI) into the alleged “fake encounter”, which took place at Amshipora in Shopian district of J&K on July 18, is underway and that statements of key witnesses are being recorded. Three youths were killed in the Amshipora encounter after the Army cordoned off the area on a specific tip-off that terrorists were hiding there. Later, three families from Rajouri alleged that the slain persons were their wards and they had left home on July 17 for earning daily wages as labourers. The families got to know about the incident when they saw pictures of the trio on social media. The Army had on August 11 said that it had taken note of social media reports, where netizens had termed the encounter fake, and ordered a thorough investigation into the matter. Issuing a statement on Tuesday, defence spokesman Rajesh Kalia said: “Statements of key witnesses are being recorded and progress (of the probe) is being monitored closely. Additional civil witnesses are being asked to depose before the CoI. Concurrently, DNA samples have been collected from Rajouri (families) under the aegis of Jammu and Kashmir Police and sent (to FSL) for matching with the terrorists killed on July 18, 2020,” Col Kalia said. He said the Army is committed to ethical conduct of all counter-terrorism operations. “Cases where doubts are raised are investigated under due process of the law of the land. Since this case is under investigation, further details will be shared periodically, as appropriate without affecting due legal process,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/court-of-inquiry-into-july-18-shopian-encounter-underway-army/articleshow/77621621.cms||M Saleem Pandit
August 19, 2020||India||Injured soldier succumbs, J&K attack death toll rises to 8||SRINAGAR: A soldier, who was critically injured in Monday’s anti-terror operation in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district, succumbed at Army’s 92 Base hospital in Srinagar on Tuesday, taking the total death toll in the encounter to eight. An SPO, a soldier, two CRPF constables and three Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorists — including Sajad alias Haider alias Raja, one of Kashmir Valley’s most-wanted commanders — were killed in Monday’s firefight. The operation, which was called off as darkness fell, was resumed early on Tuesday in the orchards of Kreeri where the security forces destroyed a terrorist hideout and retrieved the body of Pakistani terrorist Usman, a defence spokesperson said. The spokesperson said Usman had taken shelter in the hideout after getting critically injured in the fire exchange, and had later died there. The security forces recovered two AK-47 rifles and three pistols from the spot. The anti-terror operation was called off after a thorough inspection of the area, the spokesperson added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/injured-soldier-succumbs-jk-attack-death-toll-rises-to-8/articleshow/77621748.cms||M Saleem Pandit
August 19, 2020||Chennai||#MadrasWeek: Gemini Circle, the once gateway to the movies of Madras||Madras was not just the birthplace of films in the southern part of India, but was also an iconic city for its various landmarks being featured in almost all Tamil films. Being the capital of the Madras presidency, it was logical that moviemaking studios proliferated here. Many of these landmarks have disappeared or metamorphosised into something barely recognisable today. In this series, we will be tracing both the history of filmmaking in Madras and these landmarks. The first landmark in our series... Gemini Circle, the once gateway to the movies of Madras The first landmark is the famous area, an area which derived its name from a studio. Situated in the intersection of Cathedral Road, Nungambakkam High Road and Mount Road (consciously using the old name of these arterial roads) is the famous Gemini Corner. The Gemini Studios was a sprawling, verdant piece of land with a colonial palace-like bungalow at its centre. Chennai’s own historians — V Sriram and Karthik Bhat — have extensively traced the history of the property. Records show that this property has been in existence from 1820. At that time, it was the residence of one J Sherman. Later, it became the residence of Rev Spring, the then chaplain of St George’s Cathedral. From then on, the property came to be known as Spring’s Garden, and this name continued even though the property changed hands many times. Some of the subsequent owners were the Raja of Pithapuram and Sir Sankaran Nair, judge of the Madras High Court. In 1903, the session of the Congress party was hosted in this property and a huge pandal was erected to house the more than 6,000 delegates who attended the event. In 1937, the Beeshma Pitamaha of Tamil cinema, K Subrahmanyam purchased this property and set up his studio there. It was called Motion Pictures Producers Combine (MPPC). Here, he made several of his famous films, including Thyaga Bhoomi, in 1938, which had the distinction of being one of the first Tamil films to be banned. This was screened in another landmark, Gaitey Theatre. Gaiety was the first Indian-owned movie screen in Madras, and when this film was shown there, the producer and the distributor (SS Vasan), having heard that the film was likely to be banned, requested the theatre owner to throw open the gates of the hall. The ensuing rush prevented the ban order from being served on the theatre and a few more shows of the film took place. We see from a few stills from Thyaga Bhoomi how desolate Gemini Circle looked in the 1930s. By December 1940, the studio witnessed a fire accident and K Subrahmanyam was forced to sell the place. He persuaded SS Vasan to purchase the property and carry on the tradition of movie-making. In 1941, Vasan named the place Movieland-Gemini Studios. It is from this property that he made several landmark films, including Chandralekha (1948), thereby earning national fame as the Movie Moghul. Several well-known people were associated with the studio. Writers Asokamitran,Kothamangalam Subbu, and actor Gemini Ganesan, to name a few. Moviemaking became the business of this area and continued so till the late 1960s. There after, when SS Vasan passed away, the decline slowly set in, and ultimately, the property as a studio stands no more today. We see a cluster of multi-storeyed residential complexes, shopping arcades and even a five-star hotel. Irrespective of these changes, the area is still known as Gemini. Anna Salai, as Mount Road was later christened, gave birth to the Anna Flyover, in the mid-1960s. The empty plot next to St George’s Cathedral became the American Consulate, and Woodlands Drive-in was later changed to a park. The topography of the place may have changed, but all of them have always been associated with Gemini. The flyover, in later years, was to get a lot of fame because Prabhudeva gyrated to the tune of Oorvasi Oorvasi in a transparent bus on top of the flyover. Many movie scenes have been shot on the flyover, which indirectly owes to the movie madness set in by Gemini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madrasweek-gemini-circle-the-once-gateway-to-the-movies-of-madras/articleshow/77621857.cms||M Suganth
August 19, 2020||India||Govt to invest about Rs 50k crore for developing economic zones by 2024||NEW DELHI: New Delhi: The road, railways, shipping and civil aviation ministries have prepared a detailed connectivity road map for over 200 economic zones such as food and agro zones, fishing and defence clusters, electronic, textile and pharmaceutical parks by 2024. The government will invest about Rs 50,000 crore in these economic zones in the next four years. Sources said seven infrastructure ministries and seven others joined hands to prepare the National Master Plan for providing multi-modal connectivity to various economic zones including three big industrial areas at Krishnapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, Tumakuru in Karnataka and Dadri in Uttar Pradesh. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired the meeting on this on Monday. He tweeted, “Chaired a meeting to review the preparations for the National Master Plan for Providing Multi-Modal Connectivity to Various Economic Zones. This is an important endeavour, that will boost productivity, infrastructure, economic progress and opportunities for our youngsters.” Chaired a meeting to review the preparations for National Master Plan For Providing Multi Modal Connectivity To Var… https://t.co/bmysOdPqKV— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1597680789000TOI has learnt that the government has identified the industries that would come up at these three big industrial areas. These include food products, textiles, electronics, automobiles, pharmaceuticals, chemicals and cold storage. “The main objective of preparing the Master Plan is to guide departments and ministries while they are planning individual projects. This will also ensure aligning the funding of projects by ministries as per the Master Plan. The logistics department will coordinate with the respective ministries to make the plan better,” said a source. Sources said to improve connectivity, the road transport ministry has said construction of more highways including economic corridors would cater to the needs for economic zones while railways has planned to increase cargo handling by at least 33% by 2024, which will ensure faster movement of raw and finished material and would also reduce logistics cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-to-invest-about-rs-50k-crore-for-developing-economic-zones-by-2024/articleshow/77622044.cms||Dipak K Dash
August 19, 2020||World||Trump's postmaster general pauses service cuts after mail-in ballots outcry||WASHINGTON: US Postmaster General Louis DeJoy on Tuesday suspended all mail service changes until after the November election, bowing to an outcry by Democrats that the moves appeared to be an attempt to boost President Donald Trump's re-election chances. The reversal follows charges by Democrats and others that service cuts could slow the handling of mail-in ballots, the use of which is expected to skyrocket for the election as the coronavirus pandemic raises fears of crowds. These critics have accused the Republican president of trying to hobble the Postal Service to suppress mail-in voting as he trails Democratic presidential challenger Joe Biden in opinion polls ahead of the Nov. 3 election. Trump has repeatedly and without evidence claimed that an increase in mail-in ballots would lead to a surge in fraud, though mail-in voting has long been used in the United States. Changes that threaten to slow mail delivery - and in some cases, already have - include reductions in overtime, restrictions on extra mail transportation trips, and new mail sorting and delivery policies, enacted in an attempt to cut costs. "I am suspending these initiatives until after the election is concluded," Dejoy said in a statement, adding that the changes are to "avoid even the appearance of any impact on election mail." Dejoy, a major political donor and ally of Trump, assumed the job in June. He has faced pressure from multiple tiers of government, with the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives planning a rare Saturday session to pass a bill blocking cuts, and several states preparing lawsuits to block the maneuvers. Trump kept up his attack on mail voting on Tuesday, speculating that delayed results could mean that the Nov. 3 election would need to be held a second time. "It will end up being a rigged election or they will never come out with an outcome," Trump told reporters on Tuesday. "They'll have to do it again, and nobody wants that." One in four ballots in 2016 were cast by mail and Trump himself votes that way. MAIL BOXES TO REMAIN IN PLACE Dejoy also said that the Postal Service will not change retail hours at post offices, while mail collection boxes will remain where they are and no mail processing facilities will be closed. The reversal followed a lengthy call by the postal board of governors on Monday night, two people briefed on the matter said. Trump said last week he was against Democratic efforts to include funds for the Postal Service and election infrastructure in coronavirus relief legislation because he wanted to limit mail-in voting during the pandemic. Earlier on Tuesday, states including Washington, Pennsylvania, Connecticut and New York said they were planning legal moves to block the Postal Service changes. Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro suggested he might welcome Dejoy's proposed actions. "I'll believe it when I see it," Shapiro said. "Hopefully the American people can breathe a sigh of relief. But I will not let my foot off the gas so long as the postal officials continue to violate the law." House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday said she would go ahead with plans to pass a bill that would prevent the post office from reducing service levels below what they were in January. Dejoy is scheduled to testify on Friday before the Republican-led Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, spokesmen for the committee and the Postal Service said. Dejoy also is scheduled to testify on Monday before the Democratic-led House Oversight and Reform Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trumps-postmaster-general-pauses-service-cuts-after-mail-in-ballots-outcry/articleshow/77622779.cms||---
August 19, 2020||World||Trump's postmaster general pauses service cuts after mail-in ballots outcry||WASHINGTON: US Postmaster General Louis DeJoy on Tuesday suspended all mail service changes until after the November election, bowing to an outcry by Democrats that the moves appeared to be an attempt to boost President Donald Trump's re-election chances. The reversal follows charges by Democrats and others that service cuts could slow the handling of mail-in ballots, the use of which is expected to skyrocket for the election as the coronavirus pandemic raises fears of crowds. These critics have accused the Republican president of trying to hobble the Postal Service to suppress mail-in voting as he trails Democratic presidential challenger Joe Biden in opinion polls ahead of the Nov. 3 election. Trump has repeatedly and without evidence claimed that an increase in mail-in ballots would lead to a surge in fraud, though mail-in voting has long been used in the United States. Changes that threaten to slow mail delivery - and in some cases, already have - include reductions in overtime, restrictions on extra mail transportation trips, and new mail sorting and delivery policies, enacted in an attempt to cut costs. "I am suspending these initiatives until after the election is concluded," Dejoy said in a statement, adding that the changes are to "avoid even the appearance of any impact on election mail." Dejoy, a major political donor and ally of Trump, assumed the job in June. He has faced pressure from multiple tiers of government, with the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives planning a rare Saturday session to pass a bill blocking cuts, and several states preparing lawsuits to block the maneuvers. Trump kept up his attack on mail voting on Tuesday, speculating that delayed results could mean that the Nov. 3 election would need to be held a second time. "It will end up being a rigged election or they will never come out with an outcome," Trump told reporters on Tuesday. "They'll have to do it again, and nobody wants that." One in four ballots in 2016 were cast by mail and Trump himself votes that way. MAIL BOXES TO REMAIN IN PLACE Dejoy also said that the Postal Service will not change retail hours at post offices, while mail collection boxes will remain where they are and no mail processing facilities will be closed. The reversal followed a lengthy call by the postal board of governors on Monday night, two people briefed on the matter said. Trump said last week he was against Democratic efforts to include funds for the Postal Service and election infrastructure in coronavirus relief legislation because he wanted to limit mail-in voting during the pandemic. Earlier on Tuesday, states including Washington, Pennsylvania, Connecticut and New York said they were planning legal moves to block the Postal Service changes. Pennsylvania Attorney General Josh Shapiro suggested he might welcome Dejoy's proposed actions. "I'll believe it when I see it," Shapiro said. "Hopefully the American people can breathe a sigh of relief. But I will not let my foot off the gas so long as the postal officials continue to violate the law." House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Tuesday said she would go ahead with plans to pass a bill that would prevent the post office from reducing service levels below what they were in January. Dejoy is scheduled to testify on Friday before the Republican-led Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, spokesmen for the committee and the Postal Service said. Dejoy also is scheduled to testify on Monday before the Democratic-led House Oversight and Reform Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trumps-postmaster-general-pauses-service-cuts-after-mail-in-ballots-outcry/articleshow/77622747.cms||---
August 19, 2020||India||No moving PM-Cares funds to NDRF: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday ruled that money in the PM-CARES Fund, a public charitable fund created to fight the Covid-19 pandemic and national emergencies, could not be transferred to the statutory National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) and chided the petitioner for making “wholly misconceived and incorrect” allegations that rules were tweaked to favour PMCF over NDRF. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah rebuked petitioner NGO ‘Centre for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL)’, which was represented by senior advocate Dushyant Dave and advocate Prashant Bhushan, for making false statements about the government tweaking the rules to shut out individual and corporate donations to NDRF and route those to PMCF. The bench said individuals and corporate houses could still donate to NDRF under the rules, which have been in place since 2015-16. Dismissing the PIL, it said, “Submission that after the new guidelines, it is not possible for any person or institution to make any contribution to the NDRF is, thus, misconceived and incorrect. “According to Section 46 (of Disaster Management Act) as well as new guidelines enforced with effect from financial year 2015-16, any person or institution can still make contribution to the NDRF. Secondly, the PMCF has been constituted in the year 2020 after outbreak of pandemic Covid-19 whereas the new guidelines came into force with effect from 2015-16, on which date the PMCF was not in existence, hence, the submission that new guidelines were amended to benefit the PMCF is wholly misconceived.” Justice Bhushan, who wrote the 75-page judgment, said, “The PMCF is a public charitable trust and is not a government fund. The mere fact that administration of the trust is vested in trustees, ie, a group of people, will not itself take away the public character of the trust. The trust does not receive any budgetary support or any government money. It is not open for the petitioner to question the wisdom of trustees to create the PMCF, which was constituted with an objective to extend assistance in the wake of a public health emergency that is pandemic Covid-19.” More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The PM is the ex-officio chairperson of PMCF with ministers of defence, home and finance as ex-officio trustees. The PM can nominate three trustees to the board who are eminent in the fields of research, health, science, public administration and philanthropy. The SC said the pandemic highlighted the need for immediate enhancement in medical infrastructure and creation of funds to contain Covid-19. “At this hour, no exception can be taken to the constitution of a public charitable trust, namely PMCF, to have necessary financial resources to meet the emergent situation," it said. The SC also rejected the petitioner’s accusation that the Centre had put a statutory bar on sending NDRF money to help states fight the pandemic. Referring to point-by-point rebuttal by solicitor general Tushar Mehta and documents attached to the counter affidavit, the bench said the Centre had on April 3 released the first instalment of Rs 11,092 crore of Rs 22,184 crore, which was the central share of State Disaster Relief Management Fund (SDRMF). The highest amount of Rs 1,611 crore was allotted to Maharashtra while the lowest Rs 6 crore went to Goa. "As there is nothing on record that any state has exceeded the expenditure in excess of the balance in the SDRMF, there is no occasion of asking for more funds by the state from NDRF," the bench said. "When the central government is providing financial assistance to states to contain Covid-19, it is not for any PIL petitioner to say that the Centre should give amounts from this fund or that fund. Financial planning is in the domain of the central government, which financial planning is made after due deliberation and consideration. We, thus, do not find any substance in the submission of the petitioner that there is any statutory restriction/prohibition in utilisation of NDRF for Covid-19," it said. Watch SC rules out diversion of PM Cares Fund||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-moving-pm-cares-funds-to-ndrf-sc/articleshow/77623194.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 19, 2020||India||One in four Indians may have Covid antibodies, show tests||NEW DELHI: One in every four Indians possibly has antibodies to fight the novel coronavirus, according to Covid-19 tests done by a national-level private laboratory. Surveys done at the city level by various civic corporations and some of the country’s best research organisations (TIFR, IISER) are more encouraging. Pune on Monday reported over 50% sero-positivity in certain pockets, Mumbai reported 57% positivity in slum areas. Delhi’s first survey showed 23% of those tested were sero-positive. The results of a second survey are expected this week. When an individual has antibodies, he/she has immunity to Covid-19, though the jury is still out on whether this is short- or long-term immunity. When many in the community have antibodies, it could lead to herd immunity against the novel coronavirus. India is still far away from herd immunity as 60-70% of the population should ideally have antibodies (or exposure to the virus) to achieve it. But some experts believe Indian localities, suburbs or cities could be closer to herd immunity than many of their global counterparts. For example, Dharavi in Mumbai has been recording near-zero (single-digit) transmission for the last two months after being the country’s worst hotspot in April-May. “India is the only country with areas showing such high sero-positivity. Clearly, Indians are immunologically stronger,” said Maharashtra Covid task force member Dr Shashank Joshi. The countrywide antibody tests carried out by Thyrocare laboratory show high levels of positivity at local levels. Managing director Arokiaswamy Velumani said almost 24% of the two-lakh plus people tested across the country so far have antibodies to Covid-19. Around 29% of Delhi’s tested population and 20% in Maharashtra are sero-positive, he added. If 27% of Mumbai’s tested population showed exposure to the virus, it was every third person in neighbouring Thane city; the corresponding number for Navi Mumbai was 21%. Within Mumbai, Thyrocare data shows higher levels of exposure: Vile Parle (E) showed the highest sero-positivity at 42.97%, followed by Worli at 41.94% and Dongri (39.41%). “Our results show India at 24% positivity is getting closer to 35% when plateauing of cases is known to happen,” said Dr Velumani. At 45% of sero-positivity, the curve takes a downward slope. “With positivity anywhere between 45%-50%, the virus becomes less impactful,” he added. According to Bangalore-based epidemiologist Dr Giridhara Babu, cities such as Delhi and Mumbai will achieve herd immunity first, with the Tier 2 and 3 cities that are witnessing the Covid-19 outbreak now catching up later. “We have 39 deaths per million population across India. In metros such as Delhi and Mumbai, this figure goes up to 200. But the West has recorded almost 600 deaths per million population,” said Dr Babu. So what has contributed to India’s supposedly ‘better’ fight against the coronavirus? Many believe it is the fact that India is a young country. “The average age of Indians is 29 years while it is 45 years in the US,” said Dr Babu. He added there is a need to study the “immuno dark matter” or the T cells that could be contributing to the raised immunity among Indians. A doctor from a public hospital in central Mumbai said the hygiene hypothesis may hold the answer. “We Indians have been exposed to so many microorganisms that we have a better immune response,” he said. Mumbai-based endocrinologist Dr Joshi said immune response said a lot about the Covid curve in India. “The Indian trend shows we have had a largely asymptomatic disease. We have better recovery rates and lower fatality rates as compared to the West,” he said. Except for the elderly and those with co-morbidity, the overall picture looks good,” added Dr Joshi. Watch One in four Indians may have antibodies to fight coronavirus, show tests||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/one-in-four-indians-may-have-covid-antibodies-show-tests/articleshow/77623532.cms||Malathy Iyer
August 19, 2020||India||Union cabinet may take up proposal to introduce CET||NEW DELHI: The Union cabinet may on Wednesday take up proposal to introduce a common eligibility test (CET), to be conducted by National Recruitment Agency to be set up for the purpose, for selection to non-gazetted posts in the government and public sector banks. The proposal was announced by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Union budget speech on February 1 this year. Around 2.5 crore aspirants, who take separate, multiple examinations conducted by different recruiting agencies for selection to around 1.25 lakh government jobs advertised each year, will need to appear for a single online common eligibility test (CET) with the test scores remaining valid for three years. The CET proposal seeks to cut costs, inconvenience and time — for the government, recruiting agencies and candidates — taken in recruitment process for non-gazetted posts in the government and public sector banks. As of now, aspirants need to appear for multiple examinations conducted by different agencies at different points of time, for similar posts demanding similar eligibility criteria. This places enormous burden on time, effort and cost of young people, said a government officer. The CET score — valid for three years from date of declaration of the result — will be made available to the candidate as well as to the individual recruitment agency. Each candidate will have two additional chances to improve his score, and the best of all scores will be considered. CET merit list may be made available to the states by NRA on cost-sharing basis, for undertaking recruitment to state government jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/union-cabinet-may-take-up-proposal-to-introduce-cet/articleshow/77623635.cms||Bharti Jain
August 19, 2020||India||Cancer cases rise 10% in 4 years to 13.9 lakh||NEW DELHI: Cancer cases have risen by about 10% over the last four years in India to reach 13.9 lakh in 2020 and could touch 15.7 lakh by 2025. As per the National Cancer Registry Programme Report 2020, cases were estimated at 12.6 lakh in 2016 and 13.6 lakh in 2019. The estimates are based on collation of data for the period between 2012 and 2016 and extrapolations from those trends. Information related to cancer was collected from 28 population-based cancer registries and 58 hospital-based cancer registries. Already, cancer impacts more women than men in terms of overall numbers going by the data from 2016 and it is projected that this will continue in the years to come. The report released by the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Centre for Disease Informatics & Research, Bengaluru, projects that the number of male cancer cases this year would be 6.8 lakh while the number of women impacted is pitched at 7.1 lakh. The numbers are projected to reach 7.6 lakh for men and 8.1 lakh for women in 2025. Breast cancer (2.4 lakh) is expected to be the most common cancer in 2025 followed by lung (1.1 lakh) and mouth (90,000) cancers. Tobacco-related cancers are estimated to constitute 27% of all cancers in India. As per the report, in 2020, tobacco-related cancers are estimated to contribute 3.7 lakh (27.1%) of the total cancer burden. Among women, breast cancers are estimated to contribute 2 lakh (14.8%) while cervix cancer is estimated to contribute 75,000 (5.4%). For men and women put together, cancers of the gastrointestinal tract are estimated to contribute 2.7 lakh (19.7%) of the total cancer burden. The cancer incidence rate for the male population ranges from 269.4 per lakh population in Aizawl district (the highest in India) to 39.5 in Osmanabad & Beed districts. Similarly, the incidence rate for women ranges from 219.8 (Papumpare district) to 49.4 (Osmanabad & Beed districts) per lakh population. Cancers related to the use of any form of tobacco were highest in the north-eastern region of the country and in higher proportions in men. Cancers of the lung, mouth, stomach and oesophagus were the most common cancers among men, while those of the breast and cervix uteri were the most common among women. The report also records that a significant increase in the incidence rates of breast cancer in women, and lung and head and neck cancers in both men and women was observed in most registries. However, a declining trend was seen in most registries for cancer of the cervix. Cancers of the lung were typically diagnosed at a stage of spread to distant sites, while higher proportions of cancers of the head & neck, stomach, breast and cervix were detected while the spread was "loco-regional". Multimodality treatment (a varied combination of surgery, chemotherapy and radiation therapy) was administered for cancers of breast and head & neck, while cancer cervix was treated mainly with radiotherapy and chemotherapy. For cancers of the lung and the stomach, systemic therapy was the mode of treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cancer-cases-rise-10-in-4-years-to-13-9-lakh/articleshow/77623788.cms||---
August 19, 2020||India||When Pandit Jasraj came to sing to a 6-year-old fan||NEW DELHI: A surprise visit from an unexpected person long ago still remains one of the most enduring family stories for the Khandekar family. Twenty-six years ago, Pandit Jasraj came unannounced at the door of their home in south Delhi’s Alaknanda to meet Kedar Khandekar, then six years old, who was born with cerebral palsy. What prompted that visit in 1994 was a letter written by Kedar’s grandmother, Vijaya Khandekar, to the maestro who lived in Mumbai, telling him about the boy’s obsession with Hindustani classical music in general, and Pt Jasraj’s songs in particular. Jasraj’s music was an indispensable part of the household, with Kedar having taken a liking to it when he was just an infant. “Our son, Kedar, was born in 1988 with severe cerebral palsy – he could neither talk nor even sit without support. When he was just a couple of years old, he took great fondness to Hindustani classical music. Pt Jasraj’s numbers were his favourites,” Kedar's father, Sreekant, wrote in a tribute to the maestro. This had led Kedar's grandmother to post a letter to the maestro's house in Mumbai about the little boy's “obsession”. In the letter, she also expressed a desire for Jasraj to drop by whenever possible and bless Kedar. “When Aai wrote that letter, we did not expect Jasraj to show up at our house. But just a few days later, the bell rang and it was Jasraj, waiting patiently at the door,” Sreekant told TOI on Tuesday. “We were all out on work and Aai was alone at home. When she opened the door, there was Jasraj on the doorstep asking, ‘Where is Kedar’?” Sreekant recounted. Kedar was in school, and would have taken another half-an-hour to return, but Jasraj decided to stay, and made himself comfortable in the living room. When Kedar finally returned, Jasraj greeted him warmly, asked Aai about his favourite classical numbers and proceeded to sing a few. “Aai told us later that Kedar was mesmerised. He sat still and kept staring at Jasraj. He couldn’t fathom how the voice that used to come from the cassette player was emerging from this stranger’s mought! One of the songs, I remember, was the perennially popular Rani Tero Chirjeeyo Gopal,” Sreekant added. The visit was a reflection of Jasraj’s humanity, said Sreekant, while narrating how his family had hosted Jasraj in their home in Maharashtra’s Amravati on a few occasions. “My grandfather, Kashinath Khandekar, was passionate about Hindustani classical music and while he was not well off, he would put up travelling musicians at his home. Jasraj was one of them,” Sreekant wrote. But even he had not expected the legendary vocalist to turn up at their Delhi home. “My mom and dad had lost touch with Jasraj over the decades. But he remembered his beginning, even when he became famous and was traveling all over the country for his music. How many artists honour their decades-old associations?” Sreekant asked. Kedar, who passed away at the age of 22 in 2010, continued to listen to Jasraj’s music all his life. “Kedar could not speak, so it is hard to fathom what he thought of when he listened to music. But he was bound to Jasraj’s music,” Sreekant said, while narrating how Kedar “discovered” Jasraj's music. “It had taken us some time to understand that Kedar wasn’t fond of nursery rhymes that children his age would generally listen to. We changed a lot of cassettes before we arrived at Jasraj's classical music. Once Kedar heard it, he nodded approvingly and over the next few years, we ended up playing Jasraj's songs several times a day." “Then 64, Jasraj was at the peak of his singing career – both immensely popular and terribly busy. But he immediately made time (and missed a connecting train, by the way) to honour an old, old relationship. I can’t imagine many who would have done that. And certainly not for a six-year-old they had not even met,” Sreekant concluded. A few years later, Sreekant's wife ran into Jasraj's daughter Durga at an event and told her of her father's generosity. “That's baba for you,” replied Durga, affirming that the vocalist was more than just his art.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/when-pandit-jasraj-came-to-sing-to-a-6-year-old-fan/articleshow/77623875.cms||Anam Ajmal
August 19, 2020||India||7 of India’s 10 districs with highest positivity rate in Maharashtra, 3 in Bihar||MUMBAI: Seven of the 10 districts in India with the highest Covid-19 positivity rate (PR) are from Maharashtra, indicating that the virus is spreading fast in the state and testing needs to grow. Raigad, with a positivity rate of 31.7%, is on the top of the national list and is closely followed by Thane (29.4%). Bihar is the second-most-affected state with its district Rohtas occupying third position and Darbhanga and Patna in fifth and tenth spots, respectively. Public health experts consider the positivity rate, which is the proportion of tests that return a positive result, a key benchmark to gauge transmission. Overall, India’s positivity rate is currently at 7.7%. The PRs of Thane and Raigad are particularly high and way above the state’s positivity of 18%. Mumbai, with a positivity of 19.7%, is not among the top 10, nor is Delhi (7%). Though, surprisingly, even a remote district in Maharashtra such as Nandurbar (19.9%), with a predominantly tribal population, has a PR that is comparable with Mumbai’s. Nashik (26.7%), Dhule (25.7%), Pune (23.4%), Jalgaon (22%) and Satara (21%) are the other districts with maximum positivity. A common thread seen in all these districts, said officials, is proximity to highways, reopening of industries and high people movement. In Maharashtra, the most affected areas are in the western and northern regions whereas in Bihar, the districts are in the north (Darbhanga), central region (Patna) and south, close to the Jharkhand border (Rohtas). A senior doctor said "a higher positivity rate only shows there are many more undetected cases". Dr Subhash Salunkhe, member of a state technical committee, said Maharashtra’s high transmission or positivity rate was linked to its geo-strategic status. "The infection arrived in India through two major international hubs, Mumbai and Delhi. Thereafter, lockdown halted its spread to some extent but that couldn't have been stopped forever," he said. "As long as deaths are under control, a rise in cases shouldn't be alarming any longer," he said. Raigad collector Nidhi Chaudhari attributed the incidence in her district to an increase in testing. The district has thus far tested 73,000, of which 17,000 were with the rapid antigen kit. Those tested mainly included frontline workers, including government staff, and those at industries which were urged to test their employees. "Since we are testing more we are finding more cases," said Chaudhari. Cyclone Nisarga too played a role in pushing up cases since many were out of their homes to carry out repair and reconstruction, she said. Raigad administration is now bracing for 20,000-40,000 more people to arrive home for Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the next few days. Thane district, which comprises the densely populated cities of Kalyan, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Bhiwandi, has been witnessing a surge since July when the virus started spreading out of Mumbai. In Dhule, Jalgaon, Nashik, the infection continues to spread in areas around industries or highways. Dhule civil surgeon Manik Sangle said the PR recently breached 20% after Shindkheda taluka started reporting cases in bulk. "Here, there is also the issue of non-cooperation of people, who, despite being in containment zones, don't wear masks or follow social distancing," he said, adding that the local taluka has over 500 cases. The district saw a surge soon after the lockdown was lifted. A senior doctor, however, said the explanation that the positivity rate rises because of more testing was flawed. He pointed out that according to the WHO, a region should not lift restrictions before PR drops to 5% or less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/7-of-indias-10-districs-with-highest-positivity-rate-in-maharashtra-3-in-bihar/articleshow/77623930.cms||Sumitra Debroy
August 19, 2020||India||Testing ramped up to 9 lakh a day, positivity rate now at 6.1%||NEW DELHI: In what are the best numbers in a while, India conducted close to 9 lakh tests on a single day while the daily positivity rate fell to 6.1% on Tuesday with 55,079 cases reported in the last 24 hours, reports Sushmi Dey. The lower positivity rate, despite higher testing, is seen as a reassuring development as the daily count of cases has risen in the past couple of months. The government said the trends in Covid-19 cases over the last few days (August 13-17), especially on testing and deaths, were welcome news, but added there was no room for laxity in testing, containment and surveillance measures. “If we look at the daily cases since August 3, it has gone down from over 64,000 to 55,000. There is a reducing trend. But five days is a short span in a pandemic, so there is no room for complacence,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said. The number of deaths dropped during this period — from 1,007 on August 13 to 876 on Tuesday — following a constant downward trend. Health ministry data showed that average daily positivity rate had reduced from a little over 10% in the second week of July (July 8-14) to nearly 7.8% in the week of August 12-18, despite increased testing. Similarly, average fatality rate has dropped from nearly 2.9% in first week of July (July 1-7) to 1.9% in the week of August 12-18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/testing-ramped-up-to-9-lakh-a-day-positivity-rate-now-at-6-1/articleshow/77624208.cms||Sushmi Dey
August 19, 2020||India||Probe ‘right-wing bias’ in India operations: Cong to Facebook||NEW DELHI: Congress on Tuesday ramped up its demand for transparency in the operations of Facebook India and wrote to Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg seeking a time-bound, high-level inquiry into allegations of right-wing bias in the social media platform’s India operations. In a letter to Zuckerberg, Congress general secretary K C Venugopal demanded that Facebook should “publish all instances of hate speech posts since 2014 that were allowed on the platform”. He also said that pending an internal investigation and submission of the report, the company should “consider a new team to lead Facebook India operations so as to not influence the probe”. The letter came a day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Twitter that “BJP controls Facebook and WhatsApp”. On Tuesday, Gandhi shared a copy of Venugopal’s letter on Twitter and said, “We cannot allow any manipulation of our hard-earned democracy through bias, fake news and hate speech. As exposed by WSJ, Facebook’s involvement in peddling fake and hate news needs to be questioned by all Indians.” Referencing the August 14 Wall Street Journal story that said Facebook had flouted its own policies on hate speech and not taken down communally sensitive content by BJP leaders because doing so would hurt the social media company’s business interests, Venugopal said, “Set up a high-level inquiry by Facebook headquarters into the Facebook India leadership team and their operations and submit a report to the Board of Facebook within one or two months. The report should also be made public.” Referring to the allegations as “Facebook India’s interference in India’s electoral democracy,” Venugopal also said in his letter the matter will be raised in Parliament. “We believe it is still not too late to course correct and make amends. The starting point for remedial action is a thorough and impartial investigation and inquiry into the Facebook India operations and practices,” he added. The row over Facebook’s alleged bias is likely to come up for discussion in the September 1 and 2 meeting of the parliamentary standing committee on information technology. Watch KC Venugopal writes to Mark Zuckerberg, calls for setting up committee to probe Facebook India’s ‘hate speech bias’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/probe-right-wing-bias-in-india-operations-cong-to-facebook/articleshow/77624234.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Patna||No clue in a series of theft cases within a month||PATNA: The Patna police has failed to make any breakthrough in at least half a dozen theft cases in the state capital in less than a month. Valuables, including gold jewellery, worth around Rs2 crore have been stolen in the theft incidents. The biggest theft took place in Patna in the last few years was worth at least of Rs1 crore from the private residence of a merchant navy captain at Jaiprakash Nagar under Shastri Nagar police station on the intervening night of July 19 and 20. The stolen valuables included gold and diamond jewellery, costly electronic gadgets and US dollars. All the family members were inside the house when the theft took place. On August 11, thieves decamped with jewellery worth more than Rs10 lakh from the rented accommodation of Sanjeev Kumar Jha, an electrical pump wholesaler, at Adri Lane under S K Puri police station. Jha with is family had gone to his native village at Udakishunganj in Madhepura. Shastri Nagar SHO Vimlendu Kumar said investigation was going on, but neither anyone had been arrested nor the stolen items recovered. On July 21, gold jewellery and other valuables worth more than Rs56 lakh were stolen from the flats of CRPF assistant commandant Kiran Singh and BJP leader Uday Shankar Prajapati at Mahavir Enclave at Magistrate Colony under Rajiv Nagar police station area. SHO (incharge) Yogendra Ravidas said no recovery had been made so far. “We are trying to identify the thieves,” he added. On August 12 morning, thieves decamped with jewellery and other valuables worth Rs17 lakh from the locked flat of retired LIC employee Chandra Prakash at Pushanjali Apartment in Nageshwar Colony under Buddha Colony police station area. SHO (incharge) Durgesh Gahlaut said one suspect was being interrogated. “His appearance matches with the one among the three thieves visible in the CCTV camera footage. No recovery has been made yet,” he added. On July 29, gold jewellery worth Rs12 lakh and other valuables worth Rs1 lakh were stolen from the residence of telecom firm manager Manish Kumar Singh at Dumdum Park under S K Puri police station. Police managed to arrest three persons and recover part of the stolen valuables in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-clue-in-a-series-of-theft-cases-within-a-month/articleshow/77619043.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 19, 2020||Business||HC relief for HUL in trademark row with Emami||Swati.Deshpande@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The Bombay high court has granted Hindustan Unilever (HUL) interim relief in its trademark row with Emami over the use of the ‘Glow & Handsome’. Justice S C Gupte restrained Emami from using the trademark till a plaint filed against it by HUL is heard and decided. HUL “prima facie appears to be a prior adopter and user of the mark ‘Glow & Handsome’ and since Emami has not yet brought its own goods into the market under its proposed trademark (also ‘Glow & Handsome’) it deserves to be restrained”, said Justice Gupte. He directed Emami to file within two weeks a reply to HUL’s plea in its suit claiming to be ‘prior user’ of the mark for its range of skin cream. Through counsels Virag Tulzapurkar, Venkatesh Dhond and Hiren Kamod, HUL sought orders to restrain Emami, its rival in the personal grooming and beauty products industry, from using ‘Glow & Handsome’.The HC said that HUL “can certainly be said to have sufficiently advertised its new brand ‘Glow & Handsome’, which replaces its earlier well-known mark ‘Fair & Lovely’ and at this threshold stage, it is reasonable to see that there is a concrete likelihood of confusion and deception in the public if identical marks are allowed to hold the field for popular and much sold commodities”. Through its counsels Jishnu Saha and Ranjan Bachawat, Emami said it has been marketing its skincare product under the mark ‘Fair & Handsome’ and argued that HUL was not entitled to use the trademark ‘Glow & Handsome’ for a similar product as it would infringe its existing trademark and also amount to passing off of goods. The HC said the matter requires “expeditious hearing” and posted it after five weeks, but made it clear that its order, released on Tuesday, would not come in the way of Emami pursuing its suit against HUL before the Calcutta high court over the same trademark. FMCG major HUL also said it had received permission from the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) for its new trademark ‘Glow & Handsome’ on August 2. The grievance was that Emami on July 27, 2020 sought to announce a process of launches under the same trademark of ‘Glow & Handsome’. The HC said HUL doesn’t yet hold registration of the mark ‘Glow & Handsome’, hence its suit is essentially one against ‘passing off’ by Emami. Emami has launched its own suit against HUL before the Calcutta high court over the fairness cream mark. Its case is also that it is a prior adopter of the mark ‘Glow & Handsome’ and its June 25 application has been accepted and advertised in the trademark journal. Emami said it digitally launched its new trademark on June 27. HUL said it would be filing an opposition to contest Emami’s application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hc-relief-for-hul-in-trademark-row-with-emami/articleshow/77623198.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Officials rescue 10 girls, 5 women from forced labour in Tirupur||Coimbatore: The Tirupur district administration has rescued 10 girls and five women from a private spinning mill at Thekkalur on the outskirts of the city, where they were forced to work against their will. Based on a tip, police, officials with the revenue department and directorate of industrial safety and health, and Childline authorities had on Monday evening conducted a surprise raid at the spinning mill. An official, who was involved in the raid, said, “Initially, we could not identify any minor workers. When we were about to leave the place, we received a call from one of the girls, saying the mill management had locked them up at a particular location. We have rescued all of them.” The minor and adult workers were accommodated at two facilities. Most of the companies in the region have been facing manpower shortage, as many guest workers had returned to their native places following the lockdown. They are in desperate need for workers to finish the orders. “Middlemen approached economically backward families by identifying themselves as human resource personnel with the spinning mill and lured parents into sending their wards for work. The company management then picked up the girls from districts such as Tiruvannamalai, Dharmapuri, Cuddalore and Tirupattur in July,” the official said. While the girls came to the workplace willingly, their enthusiasm dropped in a few days because of the harsh working environment. “The girls were asked to work overtime and night shift. They were physically assaulted for even small mistakes. When the girls expressed their wish to return, the mill management forced them to work,” the official, who didn’t want to be named, told TOI. The girls, he said, told us that they were aged above 14 years. “But their actual age would be known only after verifying their certificates. We have initiated an inquiry and action would be taken based on its outcome.” A few weeks ago, the district administration had rescued 40 minors from a private mill in Alathur and sent them back to their houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/officials-rescue-10-girls-5-women-from-forced-labour-in-tirupur/articleshow/77623038.cms||Nivedha Selvam
August 19, 2020||Business||Daily mobile use by desis jumps to 5 hrs||Digbijay.Mishra@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: Indians spent increasingly more time on their mobile devices even after the lockdown, surpassing comparable usage across countries like the US, China and those across Europe. Indians spent almost 5 hours on mobiles daily on an average compared to a little over 3 hours they used to spend before the lockdown last year, according to App Annie data for Android devices in the first half of 2020. This is second to only Indonesia. Compared to 2019, this is 37% growth in daily average time spent on mobiles for the quarter ending June. During the January-March quarter, this was a little over 4 hours daily, the data showed. More people remained stuck to their handheld devices. So mobiles’ usage for online education here grew 70% in the April-June quarter as compared to the October-December quarter of 2019. Indians also tried the highest number of new games (35% growth) each month globally. Countries like Russia, Indonesia and Brazil saw growth of 20-30%, trailing India. While video conferencing platforms like Zoom are used by many for education, startups like Byju’s and Unacademy have seen new users signing up for online education. Due to limited movement outside, people spent more time on devices across use cases like shopping, education, payments and gaming. For finance apps, the average monthly hours spent on these platforms went up by 15% in India in June compared to the last quarter of 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/daily-mobile-use-by-desis-jumps-to-5-hrs/articleshow/77623216.cms||Digbijay Mishra
August 19, 2020||Patna||Ramped up testing sees more Covid-19 cases from rural Bihar||PATNA: Amid the ramping up of Covid-19 testing in the state, there has been a steady decline in the number of positive cases in urban areas, once the hotspots, while rural areas have been reporting a spike. According to the figures provided by the health department, of the 70,481 positive cases in Bihar, 42,729 cases are from rural areas and the rest 27,752 cases are from urban areas. Dr Ragini Mishra, epidemiologist- cum-state nodal officer for Covid-19, told this newspaper on Tuesday that 61% positive cases are from rural areas and 39% in urban areas. “The positive cases ratio in major districts in Bihar is also 60:40. The number of Covid cases surged in the rural areas due to reverse migration from the once hotspot cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Gujarat, between April and June,” she said. “When the unlocking (easing of stringent restrictions) started from June- end and people from foreign countries returned to urban areas in Bihar, the virus started spreading in city areas as there was no travel ban and no screening of people,” Dr Mishra further said, adding there has been a gradual fall in the number of positive cases in urban areas due to effective containment measures taken by the district authorities. She said in rural areas, people are more aware about Covid and its symptoms and all the precautionary measures that need to be taken. “But as more people are asymptomatic patients, it was not possible to know whether the person is Covid infected or not,” Dr Mishra said. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal admitted that the number of positive cases in rural areas increased as testing facilities for Covid in the districts have also been stepped up. “Now, the testing is being done at all the primary health centres, including rural and urban areas, the number of cases have seen a jump. In Patna district, around 60% positive cases are from rural areas and 40% from urban,” he said. He added, “There are total 3,602 active cases in Patna district of which 2,460 are from Patna Sadar, Danapur (183), Masaurhi (118), Phulwarisharif (108), Bihta (99), Barh (83), Paliganj (79), Punpun (60), Fatuha (59), Bikram (51), Mokama (43), Bakhtiyyarpur (36) and the remaining from Athmalgola, Belchi, Dulhin Bazaar, Daniyawan, DShnarua, Pandarak and Samapatchak.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ramped-up-testing-sees-more-covid-19-cases-from-rural-bihar/articleshow/77620380.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 19, 2020||Patna||Online courses a hit among all in Patna||PATNA: While the educational institutions and research centres have been closed in the wake of lockdown restrictions imposed to curb the coronavirus pandemic, e-learning platforms have witnessed a significant increase in enrolments from Patnanites during this period. It has provided an opportunity to the professionals working from home and college students attending classes online to utilize their time by enhancing their knowledge base. “There has been a massive upsurge in our website traffic during the lockdown period. In July alone, we had more than 5 lakh visitors. Most of our website visitors are in the age group of 15 to 45 years. Enrolments in professional courses such as advanced Excel and data analytics have seen an increase of around 30% between April and May,” said Aditya of Kankarbagh and a sales professional at a leading e-learning platform. Raj Raman, a resident of Bailey Road, who works at a Mumbai based EdTech startup, said around 7% of its new customers in June were from cities like Patna, Muzaffarpur and Bhagalpur in Bihar. They had purchased short-term professional courses like digital marketing, content writing and business communication. “While students of K-12 and university level are more inclined towards academic courses such as science and mathematics, working professionals are upskilling themselves via courses in data analytics, growth hacking and product management,” said Raj. Apart from the flexibility offered by digital learning platforms, the sense of productivity that it brings to the learners is another reason why online learning is booming in uncertain times. Samujh Sharan, an IT employee and a resident of Kadamkuan, said she had tried to enrol in an eMBA course earlier, but never had the time for that. “I have been working remotely since April. It saves three hours every day that earlier went in commuting to the office. I enrolled myself in an e-MBA course from a top university provided by a leading online learning platform in June. The learning pace is slow and lecture timings are flexible. Once I finish the course, I will be eligible for a management role in my organization,” she said. The Covid-19 crisis has also affected the job markets adversely. While some organizations went for hiring freeze, others had to lay off a few employees in order to survive. At a gloomy time like this, college graduates and professionals have turned to online courses to stay relevant in the competitive job market. Ravi Kumar, a business school graduate from Rajvanshi Nagar said, “Placements at our college were badly affected due to Covid-19 crisis. Very few companies came for recruitment. I am still not placed. Hence, I am learning new skills online in order to strengthen my resume for a job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/online-courses-a-hit-among-all/articleshow/77620297.cms||Arunima Lal
August 19, 2020||Patna||Railways install beverage dispenser machines at Patna Junction||PATNA: The Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR) has reviewed the Covid-19 safety measures being taken at all major stations under its division following sudden increase in number of passengers boarding trains from Patna Junction to far off places. It was with this end in view that the railways installed safe portable beverage dispenser automatic vending machines (AVMs) walls at both the main entrance points and Karbighaiya end of Patna Junction and Danapur station to cater to the needs of passengers . Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said that railways which has already installed Covid-19 related AVMs at the Patna Junction to dispense ‘apparels’ like hand gloves, caps, masks and sanitizers, five more portable beverage dispensers were installed at Patna Junction on Saturday to serve passengers with tea, coffee and soups of different flavours. “Railways has also installed a separate dispenser to serve nutrition supplement like Horlicks to passengers at Patna and Danapur Junction,” he said . According to Danapur senior divisional commercial manager (senior DCM ) Adhar Raj, railways has not hiked the rate for a cup of tea or green tea and coffee which is Rs 10 per cup . However, price for each cup of soup is Rs 15 while each glass of health drink is to cost Rs 20 only. Besides, railways will dispense catering varieties including juice, cold drinks and ‘samosa’ through AVMs under ‘self service scheme’ to benefit passengers in the present Covid -19 pandemic scenario, he said adding railways has installed these contactless dispenser machines from safety point. The practice of selling tea in kettle by the licensed road side vendors on railway platforms has been done away with. The licensed vendors have been given a special kind of dispenser to carry hot water to prepare tea with ready made ingredients on the spot in a hygienic manner. “Hand sanitizer and other preventive measures are being taken by railway vendors while serving tea, coffee and health drinks to passengers on platforms,” senior DCM said . According to senior DCM, these portable AVMs are fitted with ultra violet light and auto-sanitizing devices to keep the products safe and hygienic. “The cold chain of 4 degree celsius will be maintained 24x7 in these AVMs as per standard food product guidelines, he said adding railways has awarded contract to a private agency for installation of such dispensers at all class A category stations in the division,” he said. The greatest advantage of these dispensers is that they have the provision to automatically lock sale of expiry food products. Danapur division Women’s Welfare Organization (WWO) president Supriya distributed about 24,000 horlicks pouches among indoor patients of the Danapur railway hospital, scouts and guides and schoolchildren of railway and Kendriya Vidalaya, senior DCM said adding, “Danapur division has taken this initiative for the first time in the railways to provide such kind of facility to passengers amidst Covid-19 pandemic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-installs-beverage-dispenser-machines-at-patna-jn/articleshow/77620903.cms||Kumod Verma
August 19, 2020||Business||RIL takes 60% stake in e-pharmacy firm Netmeds||MUMBAI: Reliance Industries (RIL) has acquired a 60% stake in online pharmacy retailer Netmeds for Rs 620 crore, upping its play in India’s burgeoning digital commerce market. The $87-billion company has routed the Netmeds acquisition deal through subsidiary Reliance Retail Ventures. Discussions between the two parties had been underway for some time and a deal was announced late on Tuesday. The move is part of RIL’s strategy to ramp up its presence in consumer businesses, which contributed 47% to the company’s operating profit in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. The transaction allows Reliance Retail to increase its stake in Vitalic, the holding company of Netmeds, to 80% from the current 60% by April 2024. Reliance Retail now also holds the option to take 100% control of Vitalic. The investment, said RIL, will further enhance availability of healthcare products and services by the company while furthering its digital commerce footprint. In the healthcare space, RIL runs hospitals, manufactures medical kits and operates JioHealthHub app. Vitalic, along with its three subsidiaries, had a turnover of Rs 447 crore and clocked a loss of Rs 363 crore in fiscal 2020. Netmeds, which delivers medications to over 20,000 pin codes, is founded by the Chennai-based Dadha family. The Dadhas have been in the pharmaceutical business since 1914 when they first ventured into pharma retailing. In 1972, they started manufacturing drugs, but that business was merged with Sun Pharma in 1996. The Netmeds deal by RIL comes amid the Covid pandemic that has disrupted traditional business models and provided opportunities for digital channels. Customers are increasingly preferring to order online, pushing companies to expand their e-commerce divisions. RIL is reportedly in talks with multiple e-retailers, some of them being online furniture seller Urban Ladder and dairy delivery platform Milkbasket, for partial or complete acquisition. These acquisitions will help RIL boost the valuation of its retail unit, which the company plans to open up for foreign investments. Watch Reliance Industries (RIL) takes 60% stake in e-pharmacy firm Netmeds||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-takes-60-stake-in-e-pharmacy-firm-netmeds/articleshow/77623426.cms||Reeba Zachariah
August 19, 2020||Patna||MLA aspirants from minority community eye Gurua, Rafiganj seats||GAYA: Assembly ticket aspirants from minority community are once again eyeing Gurua assembly constituency in Gaya district and Rafignanj in Aurangabad district of the Magadh division. Explaining the preference of minority candidates for these two seats, M A Kazmi, retired IPS and a keen observer of Muslim politics of the state, sid politics in the state has taken a paradigm shift in the post-Mandal era and political analysis has to be done in that context. According to Kazmi, though Muslim candidates had won from constituencies like Gaya town, Nawada, Jahanabad and Arwal constituencies of the division as well, in the post-1990 period, candidates of minority community have won only the Gurua and Rafiganj seats. Former law minister late Shakil Ahmad Khan represented Gurua twice between 2000 and 2010. Md Nehal won the Rafiganj seat of Aurangabad in 2005. Earlier, Shah Mohammad Zohair twice won the Arwal seat of the then undivided Gaya district. Late Fida Hussain and late Asghar Hussain won the Jehanabad seat in the pre-Mandal era. Sardar Latifur Rahman, one of the members of the constituent assembly that made the Indian Constitution, also won the Gaya town seat in the sixties. Late Md Manzoor won the Nawada assembly seat in the 1950s. There are 26 assembly constituencies in the Magadh division. As on date, there is no minority representation of the division in the assembly. Two constituencies – Belaganj and Gaya town – have consistently returned the same candidate, Surendra Prasad Yadav and Prem Kumar. The duo has come to acquire the invincible image in Magadh politics. According to Masihuddin, a Nawada-based political activist, the likely entry of Chandrashekhar Azad in electoral politics in the district may open more avenues for candidates belonging to the minority community. Chandrashekhar Azad, the dalit leader from UP, is trying to cobble up DM (dalit and minorities) as a substitute for MY. If things go as per plan, minority community candidates can look forward to non-traditional constituencies like Hisua and Govindpur, said Masih. Both Hisua and Govindpur fall in the administrative jurisdiction of the Nawada district. In the current assembly, minority representation from the Magadh division is nil. NDA candidate Sharim Ali was the runner up from Belaganj. Sharim has since parted company with the NDA and is now in the RJD. Though the contours of UPA are far from clear, senior Congress leader and former minister Awadhesh Kumar Singh said given the chance, his party would do well in nearly 10 of the 26 constituencies of the division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mla-aspirants-from-minority-community-eye-gurua-rafiganj-seats/articleshow/77620414.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 19, 2020||Patna||Covid fear adversely affects moms-to-be||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic has been causing significant impact not only on the mental health of some senior citizens but also on the well-being of pregnant women. It is also likely to affect the mental growth of babies born of ‘stressed’ mothers, experts say. Stress, anxiety, depression, fear and insomnia are the most common problems being frequently reported by pregnant women during the pandemic. Leading obstetrician and infertility specialist Dr Sarika Roy observed that the pandemic is badly affecting the mental health of most expectant mothers. Even if pregnant women are not infected by the virus, their negative thinking may well affect their own health as well as that of their babies to be born, she said. Roy pointed out that it is essential to support women’s perinatal mental health during this critical time and enable women to protect their own mental health. Maintaining contact with loved ones and support networks is essential. Family members must try to keep them happy all the time, she added. Gynaecologist and retired civil surgeon Dr Kumkum Prasad said depression and anxiety during pregnancy and the postpartum period can have detrimental effects on the mental and physical health of both mother and baby for years. “Changes in antenatal care also contribute to perinatal distress where women are concerned about access to doctors and hospitals, risk of infection in antenatal care settings, childbirth during the pandemic, restrictions on the presence of partners at check-ups and in some instances at the birth and/or during the postpartum period in hospital,” she said. Yet another medical practitioner, Dr Manju Kumari, maintained that the social and physical isolation measures that are critically needed to reduce the spread of the virus are taking a toll on the physical and mental health of many. The likelihood of maternal depression and anxiety has substantially increased during the coronavirus crisis and this can result in premature delivery, reduced mother-infant bonding and developmental delays in infants, she said. Clinical psychologist Mukesh Kishor observed that hormonal changes in pregnant women due to stress or fear cast an adverse impact on the mental health of their children. “Depression can cause mothers to be inconsistent with the way they care for their children. They may be loving one minute and withdrawn the next. They may not respond at all to their children’s behaviour or may respond in a negative way. Depending on how old children are, they will be affected by their mother’s depression in different ways. Hence, the balanced development of a child born of a ‘stressed’ mother might be hindered in the long run,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-fear-adversely-affects-moms-to-be/articleshow/77620373.cms||B K Mishra
August 19, 2020||Patna||‘Arrest all involved in attack on Chiraiya PS’||MOTIHARI: East Champaran DM Shirshat Kapil Ashok on Tuesday asked the police to arrest all those involved in attacking and ransacking property of a primary health centre (PHC) and police station at Chiraiya in Sikarahna sub-division of the district on Sunday night. According to police sources, 66 people indulged in attack at the police station have been identified by with the help of CCTV footage. “Altogether 46 accused have so far been arrested and raids are on to arrest the remaining accused,” police said. An irate mob had attacked the PHC and the police station at Chiraiya to protest the death of one Deepak Kumar in a road accident near Nirpur on Dhaka-Motihari road. SHO of Chiraiya police station Indrajit Paswan said an FIR was registered against 70 named accused and 400 unknown people for the “pre-planned” attacks. Police had to fire at least 10 rounds fire in air in self-defence. The mob had also tried to snatch the arms of policemen. “The motorcycle of a police constable, Rohit Kumar, and six other vehicles were set on fire by the mob,” the SHO said. Dr Shyam Paswan, incharge of Chiraiya PHC, said the mob broke open the doors of the health centre and manhandled the paramedical staff. “They also ransacked the property of the health centre. Medical equipment worth Rs 10 lakh were damaged. The paramedical staff of the PHC went on strike on Monday in protest. However, they called off their stir after the DM’s visit. The DM has asked us to prepare a list of damaged equipment. Armed policemen have been deployed at the PHC to avoid any untoward incident,” Dr Paswan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/arrest-all-involved-in-attack-on-chiraiya-ps/articleshow/77619066.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
August 19, 2020||Vadodara||AAU ranks fourth in innovations||Vadodara/ Anand: Anand Agricultural University (AAU) has grabbed a spot among top five institutes in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA)-2020. The agricultural university has secured the fourth position in the category of government and government-aided universities in ARIIA-2020. A total of 674 institutes/ universities from across the country had participated in six different categories for this ranking. The ranking was announced through an e-award ceremony that was organized by the Union ministry of education in presence of vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ and MOS for education Sanjay Dhotre among others. AAU is the only one from Gujarat and the second agricultural university in the country to find a place in top five in the category of government and government-aided universities. Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University has been ranked third. Launched last year by the ministry of human resource development (now ministry of education), ARIIA is an initiative through which all major higher educational institutions and universities are ranked based on indicators related to promotion and support of “innovation and entrepreneurship development” among students and faculties. AAU has secured the position based on its strength in academic and innovation programmes connected to entrepreneurship development. “Recently, we (AAU) was also recognised as a national centre for student startup and innovation policy (SSIP) and start-up India in the area of agriculture and food processing for Gujarat,” said Vyas, adding that the university has also bagged RAFTAAR Agri-business Incubator project funded by union ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/aau-ranks-fourth-in-innovations/articleshow/77619353.cms||Prashant Rupera
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||45-yr-old farmer found hanging from tree in Kota||Kota: The body of a 45-year-old farmer was found hanging from a tree in an agriculture field near ITI institute on the road between Itawa and Ganeshganj under Itawa police station of Kota district on Tuesday morning. Police suspect it to be a case of suicide, though no suicide note was recovered on the deceased. Ramcharan Meena, son of Jagannath and resident of Chatrapura village under Khatoli police station of Kota district, was spotted hanging from a tree, Itawa police station sub-inspector Prakesh Chand Sharma said. The deceased had left his house on Monday morning and did not return home, he said. Police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem by medical board on Tuesday noon and lodged a case under relevant section for further investigation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/45-yr-old-farmer-found-hanging-from-tree-in-kota/articleshow/77623033.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Business||Leaders cannot make success mantras of another achiever their own||By Raj BowenYou walk into a doctor’s chamber with chest pain. He examines you quickly and prescribes medicines which he says are being taken very successfully by patients like you. What should be your next move? The best advice is that you get another opinion. If the health of your heart is important to you, a thorough diagnostic is warranted. Now shift to the corporate world. You are in line for a move to a CXO role and, along with a group of 30 or so, are bundled into a leadership development workshop series, conducted by an external agency. The facilitator is experienced and shares a lot of his success stories. He makes the sessions very engaging with games, videos, etc, even breathing exercises. The series often lasts over 6 months and, to top it all, you also get a completion certificate at a gala dinner, from the CEO. (In these Covid-19 times, the model is the same, except the sessions are online.) So, to connect with the medical analogy, you have just taken the same medicines that many others like you took, happily. The important question is: Do you just know what it takes to be a good leader, or have you successfully transitioned to being one? In other words, do you just know which tablets many other heart patients are taking, or do you have a healthier heart now? Think deeply about this analogy. There are implications here for why there are so many leadership development programmes all over the world — and so few leaders to show for it, and a very large number of employees in organisations who know everything about leadership but behave just the opposite. So, here’s what’s wrong: The ‘cart’ of leadership development ran its course, pulled by the facilitator, whose success mantras can never be yours. You are different, and your treatment will never work till supported by the right diagnostic — that the ‘horse’ is missing. In organisations, this horse is called ‘leadership profile assessment’. Don’t get me wrong. Many such programmes come with a set of popular personality assessments and it is fun seeing all those colourful reports that label you as a particular type, etc. There is a problem here. Most personality traits get formed during childhood and remain stable right through adulthood with little, if any, change. This forms the thinking behind the popular saying: ‘The child is the father of the man’. These personality traits are carved in human stone and do not, and will not, change. That is why even after attending such leadership programmes, behaviour doesn’t really change — the diagnostics were about your stable traits. Of course, these assessments were relevant when stability was the norm and that was the only constant in most organisations, and life in general. Now we function in a VUCA (volatility, uncertainty, complexity & ambiguity) world, and if the same assessments are used, the reports are only nice to know. The only diagnostics that make sense now are dynamic in nature and assess traits that keep changing, often without us even realising. No wonder employee tenures have crashed compared to the previous generation, which prided itself on long-service awards. Now in a career span of 30 years, it is normal to see 10 job changes. What keeps changing are our career motives. Other traits that change are how we take decisions — fast, slow, using less information vs using more information, coming up with one option vs generating multiple options. Even our emotional foundations keep changing — affable managers become arrogant, composure and empathy traits keep changing, as well as energy for different tasks, and comfort with ambiguity. Our efforts to understand people and complexity changes. These are traits that decide which leaders are effective in these disruptive, turbulent times and must be assessed and embedded into any leadership development effort to have any payback. These are the horses that must get hitched to the cart of leadership development if the passengers are to successfully reach their targeted destination — of becoming far better leaders who do not just know what leadership is, but demonstrate the needed behaviour. Businesses need far more of the redone horse-and-cart combinations. (The writer is managing partner, EMA Decision Dynamics)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/leaders-cannot-make-success-mantras-of-another-achiever-their-own/articleshow/77623183.cms||Raj Bowen
August 19, 2020||Patna||As Bihar polls near, key parties eye Mahadalit pie||PATNA: With the assembly polls round the corner, political parties in Bihar have stepped up their efforts to mobilize the Mahadalit community and woo their leaders. The Mahadalits constitute nearly 16% of the state’s population and 38 seats are reserved for them in the 243-member assembly. No wonder influential leaders from the community are being wooed and changing sides in search of greener pastures ahead of the assembly polls. Former state industries minister Shyam Rajak’s return to RJD is a case in point. Being a Mahadalit leader, Rajak was accorded a warm welcome by the top RJD leadership, including Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Rajak is the second Mahadalit leader after former assembly speaker Uday Narayan Choudhary to leave JD(U) for RJD. Political observers say Mahadalit votes will be an added advantage for RJD, which has the core traditional votes of the Muslims and Yadavs, which constitute around 30 % of the total votes (Muslim-15%, Yadavs-14%). RJD feels that with the two Mahadalit leaders coming to its side, the party may make a sizeable dent into JD(U)’s Dalit vote base in the coming election. However, rumours abound over HAM(S) chief and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, who is a part of the Mahagathbandhan, may join hands with JD(U) in the coming days. “The future course of action will be decided at the meeting of the core committee of the party to be held on August 20. It will not be prudent to make any comment on the issue right now,” HAM(S) spokesperson Danish Rizwan said. Political observers say Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan is an undisputed Mahadalit leader of national repute. “It is because of this factor that Lok Janshakti Party leader Chirag Paswan is frequently attacking CM Nitish Kumar and trying to consolidate the Mahadalit votes,” said a senior JD(U) leader on condition of anonymity. Out of the 38 reserved seats for Scheduled Castes, RJD had bagged 15, JD(U) 10 and Congress got five seats in the 2015 assembly polls. JD(U), RJD and Congress had fought the assembly election together. While BJP had five seats in its kitty, four went to others. Of the 38 reserved seats, 13 were won by candidates belonging to Ravidas community and 11 seats by Paswans. According to political analysts, Nitish, who is often termed ‘Chanakya’ in Bihar, started working on social engineering much before 2005 and managed to gain support from EBCs, Mahadalits and minorities. In 2005, his social engineering helped him sweep Bihar and uproot the 15 years of Lalu-Rabri regime. He returned to power again in 2010 and 2015. Nitish had initially brought 21 sub-castes under Mahadalit category except Paswans. But in 2018 Paswans were also included in the Mahadalit category when Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP became a coalition partner. When contacted, JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said, “Nitish Kumar’s work for empowerment and welfare of Mahadalits is self-explanatory and there is no need to explain it to the opposition party leaders.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/as-bihar-polls-near-key-parties-eye-mahadalit-pie/articleshow/77620607.cms||Ramashankar
August 19, 2020||Patna||Four special trains diverted as floodwaters overtop track in Bihar||PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has diverted at least four passenger special trains and short terminated a few others between Hayaghat and Thalwara stations under Samastipur-Darbhanga section due to floods. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the New Delhi-Darbhanga special (02565/02566) and Ahmedabad-Darbhanga special (09165/09166) have been diverted to Muzaffarpur-Sitamarhi route instead of its usual Muzaffarpur-Samastipur route. Similarly Amritsar-Jayanagar special (04673/04674) and Lokmanya Tilak Mumbai-Darbhanga special (01061/01062) have been short terminated at Samastipur from where these trains will continue their onward journey to Amritsar and Mumbai, respectively, till further orders, the CPRO said. In view of rise in floodwaters at the vulnerable places in Samastipur division, railways has assigned ‘safety’ and ‘maintenance’ task to a team of the ECR’s signal, telecom and engineering departments. The team will inspect big and small stations at the places to check soil subsidence, the CPRO said. The railway workers have been asked to maintain vigil at vulnerable places round the clock. About 1.2 lakh sandbags, stone dust and boulders have been kept in readiness at vulnerable places to meet any eventuality, the CPRO said, adding the railways is also in touch with the state disaster management department as well as the meteorological department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-spl-trains-diverted-as-floodwaters-overtop-track/articleshow/77619005.cms||Kumod Verma
August 19, 2020||Patna||Patna HC’s jail relief for MLC Ritlal in money laundering case||PATNA: The Patna high court on Tuesday granted relief to MLC Ritlal Yadav in a money laundering case, ruling that he can’t be kept in jail anymore as the lawmaker is behind bars for more than seven years, which is the maximum sentence under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. A criminal writ petition was filed before the HC on May 8 this year seeking his release on the grounds that he had already served a term more than the maximum sentence possible for money laundering. The Enforcement Directorate had registered a money laundering case against Yadav in early 2012 while he is lodged in Beur central jail since October 4, 2009. A bench of Justice Shivaji Pandey and Justice Partha Sarthy had reserved the order on June 1, which was pronounced on Tuesday. SD Sanjay, who had appeared for the Centre as well as ED in the case in capacity of additional solicitor general, had opposed the petition on grounds that the accused has already moved court seeking bail in the case and the current petition was not maintainable. However, senior counsel Yogesh Chandra Verma, had submitted that the petitioner was being deprived of his right to life and liberty, which is a violation of Article 20 and 21 of Constitution, by being kept behind bars even when his incarceration period has crossed the limit of seven years. The senior counsel said the ED had registered a money laundering case against Yadav on the basis of seven criminal cases. “ED had alleged that he had amassed property from proceeds of crime in these seven case. But he had been already acquitted in five of these cases,” he added. Verma said they had also submitted that at present no cases are pending against MLC for which he needs to be kept behind bars. “He had been granted bail in rest of the cases,” he said. Verma said even if court finds him guilty for money laundering later, he would have to be set off as he had already served imprisonment more that sentence period. The MLC was twice granted parole for 15 days since October 2009, including once in February this year, for attending his daughter’s marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hcs-jail-relief-for-mlc-ritlal-in-money-laundering-case/articleshow/77620524.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar inaugurates BAU buildings worth Rs 268 crore||PATNA: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Tuesday inaugurated the administrative and several other new buildings of Bihar Agriculture University (BAU) at Sabour in Bhagalpur district through videoconferencing from his residence. These buildings were constructed at the cost of Rs 268 crore. Addressing the function, Nitish said an agriculture college at Sabour was established way back in 1908. It was one of the first five agriculture colleges in the country. Later, the Sabour agriculture college was upgraded into a full-fledged agriculture university on August 5, 2010. It was named as BAU. “After upgrading the Sabour agriculture college into a university, the state government also decided to open five new agriculture colleges under it. These five colleges are Horticulture College at Noorsarai in Nalanda, Mandan Bharti Agriculture College at Saharsa, Veer Kuer Singh Agriculture College, Dumraon, Bhola Paswan Shastri Agriculture College, Purnea and Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Agriculture College at Kishanganj,” the CM said. He also said the Kishanganj college has the largest campus among all the agriculture colleges across the country. Nitish said the state government also established a separate Bihar Animal Sciences University in Patna in 2016. “We also established an exclusive forestry college at Munger to promote forestry in the state,” Nitish said. The CM said the BAU has done several remarkable works in the field of education and research. The university has now secured 18th position in the national rankings. “The university is now producing seeds of different varieties on a large scale. During the Kharif season of current year, the university distributed more than 10,000 quintal seeds among the beneficiaries,” Nitish said while highlighting the works being done by the BAU. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, agriculture minister Prem Kumar, building construction department minister Ashok Choudhary and secretary (agriculture) N Saravana Kumar also addressed the function through videoconferencing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-inaugurates-bau-buildings-worth-rs-268-crore/articleshow/77620666.cms||Madan Kumar
August 19, 2020||Jodhpur||250 goats didn’t cross over to Pakistan from Jaisalmer: BSF||JAISALMER: The case of around 250 goats of cattle raisers of Pochina village in Jaisalmer district going to Pakistan from shifting dunes area in Barmer is flaring up as BSF has denied that goats have gone from their area and no fence is in bad shape. A flag meeting with Pakistan was held on Tuesday in which the neighbouring country denied any such incident. After giving memorandum to Jaisalmer district collector, the villagers were going to Barmer to meet the BSF DIG on Wednesday and request him for action. Now, BSF has banned grazing of cattle near the international border. BSF has apprehensions that the facility could be misused by few cattle raisers who could support undesired activities across the border, etc. It is known that the cattle raisers of Pochina and other villages on Monday gave a memorandum to the Jaisalmer district collector and cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad in which they had demanded to return around 250 goats that went to Pakistan from India owing to broken and buried fencing of BSF BOP Seema & DKT in shifting sand dunes area in Sundara of Barmer and be given compensation. But, BSF has refuted the claims. BSF official spokesperson of Gujrat Frontier said no such incident as claimed has occurred, i.e., neither the border fence in “Sundara AOR” has broken down nor any Indian goat has landed in Pakistan. The single-layer border fence amidst shifting sand dunes remains under 24x7 surveillance on account of its vulnerability. As such, feasibility of any such incident happening and that too going unnoticed, is all together ruled out. He said the flag meeting with Pakistan took place on Tuesday. Pakistan has said that the claim of goats wandering there is totally wrong. There is no such evidence. He said the claimant had been informed by the Company Commander “Sundara AOR” that his contention regarding crossing over of Indian goats to Pak had been verified with due diligence and existing procedure involving border guarding forces of both the countries and no such evidence has been found to substantiate the happening of the reported incident. No footprints of any thing has been seen. District collector Aashish Modi said that villagers had come to him and told about their goats going to Pakistan and submitted memorandum. In this regard he spoke to BSF Jaisalmer sector south DIG Rajesh Kumar who said he cannot confirm and it is not possible at his level. The district collector said that in this regard he is talking to Barmer sector officers whether it is possible or not. On the other hand, cattle raisers Balveer Singh Pochina and Jethu Singh said that till now they have not got any positive reply. They are going to meet Barmer sector BSF DIG on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/250-goats-didnt-cross-over-to-pak-bsf/articleshow/77625916.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Business||Chandra steps down from Zee board, to be chairman emeritus||MUMBAI: Zee Entertainment Enterprises (Zee) has appointed founder Subhash Chandra as chairman emeritus following his resignation from the non-executive director’s position on Tuesday. An advisory role, the chairman emeritus position does not carry “any remuneration”. Last November, Chandra relinquished the chairman’s office following “changes in promoter holdings”. Chandra’s stake in Zee fell to 5% after he sold 16.5% to a clutch of financial investors. Latest regulatory filings showed 21% of the promoter’s 5% shareholding in Zee is pledged. Zee, in which foreign portfolio investors including Invesco Oppenheimer and Government of Singapore hold the largest block (67%), named R Gopalan, an independent director of the company since November 2019, as its chairman. In a regulatory filing, Zee said Chandra tendered his resignation on August 18 as the non-executive director of the company, which the board accepted “reluctantly”. In recognition of the fact that Chandra founded the company and considering his unmatched contributions, as a mark of respect, the board requested him to act as chairman emeritus with effect from August 19 and the same was accepted by him, the statement added. “In this advisory role, his rich experience and farsightedness will help the company immensely and his services, guidance and mentorship will be availed from time to time”. With Chandra stepping down from the non-executive director’s position at Zee, the family now has no board seats, although elder son Punit Goenka continues to be a director and CEO in a professional capacity. Typically, promoters’ representation on the board is in accordance with their shareholding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chandra-steps-down-from-zee-board-to-be-chairman-emeritus/articleshow/77623307.cms||Reeba Zachariah
August 19, 2020||Business||Indiabulls to sell real estate business to Embassy-Blackstone||MUMBAI: Indiabulls group is close to a deal that will see its exit from the real estate development space, one of the areas its name has been associated with for years. This would be a three-way deal involving Indiabulls group, Bangalore-based real estate major Embassy group and global private equity giant Blackstone. It will result in the unlisted Nam Estates merging into the listed Indiabulls Real Estate through a share-swap deal. This would create the second-largest listed real estate entity in India, after DLF. Each Indiabulls Real Estate share has been valued at Rs 92.5 — a premium of nearly 26% over the stock’s Tuesday close on the BSE at over Rs 73. Existing shareholders of Nam Estates will get 6.6 shares of the new entity for every 10 shares of the unlisted entity currently held. After the merger, the listed entity will be re-named Embassy Developments, in which Sameer Gehlaut, who is currently the main promoter of Indiabulls, will hold a little less than 10% — down from 23.4% now — and cease to be a promoter. Jitendra Virwani, the main promoter of Embassy group and some associated entities, will become the promoters of the new company and hold nearly 45%. Public shareholders will have about 26%, while Blackstone will hold about 19%, an investor presentation on the deal showed. The merged entity will have a balanced mix of commercial and residential assets, a joint release by Indiabulls and Embassy groups said. While the residential properties will be sold to individual owners, the commercial properties will feed into the already listed REIT, sources said. According to Gehlaut, the merger marks the culmination of a journey he started in 2006 “to build a world class real estate company”. Allegro Capital and IDFC Securities were involved in the deal as advisers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indiabulls-to-sell-real-estate-biz-to-embassy-blackstone/articleshow/77623287.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Allahabad||HC to dispose of plea seeking release ofDr Kafeel on Aug 24||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Wednesday adjourned till August 24 the hearing of the petition challenging the detention of Dr Kafeel Khan under NSA and also allowed his counsel to file a reply in response to the state government’s affidavit. The high court added that the petition would be disposed of on August 24. Hearing a habeas corpus writ petition filed by Dr Kafeel’s mother Nuzhat Parween seeking his release, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Samit Gopal fixed August 24 as the next date in the matter. Dr Kafeel was booked under NSA by the Aligarh district magistrate on February 13, 2020, for allegedly making an inflammatory speech on the Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) campus during the protests there over the Citizenship Amendment Act (NSA). Subsequently, Dr Kafeel’s detention under NSA was extended on May 13 by DM Aligarh for a further period of three months, i.e., till August 12. The detention under NSA was extended as according to the district administration, there was apprehension his release may lead to law and order problems. On August 4, NSA was again extended up to November 13. NSA allows preventive detention for up to a year. On the last date, the court had directed the Centre as well as the state government to file a reply in the present case seeking release of Dr Kafeel. According to the habeas corpus petition, earlier at one stage Dr Kafeel was granted bail by a competent court and was supposed to be released on bail. However, he was not released for four days and later the NSA was imposed on him. Hence, his detention was illegal as it was passed to nullify the effect of the bail granted by a competent court. The plea also challenged detention of Dr Kafeel for 4 days before imposing NSA, even after he had secured bail in all cases registered against him. According to case file, Dr Kafeel has been behind bars since January 29, 2020 after speech which he had allegedly delivered at AMU on December 10 during the anti-CAA protests. The speech was deemed ‘provocative’ by the state government, which booked him under NSA. Dr Kafeel came to limelight after 2017 oxygen tragedy at BRD Medical College in which several kids had died for lack of oxygen cylinders. While initially he was hailed as a saviour of children for arranging emergency oxygen cylinders, he later faced action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-to-dispose-of-plea-seeking-release-ofdr-kafeel-on-aug-24/articleshow/77639221.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
August 19, 2020||Business||China’s central bank buys small stake in ICICI||MUMBAI: The People’s Bank of China (PBoC) has made a quiet entry into ICICI Bank as a shareholder. Earlier, its disclosure about having an over 1% stake in housing finance major HDFC had led to some hectic activity at the Centre, including a change of rules for FDI from neighbouring countries. The Chinese central bank has picked up a minuscule stake through a Rs 15-crore investment in the bank’s recently concluded qualified institutional placement (QIP), through which the Indian private sector lender had raised Rs 15,000 crore, sources said. The stake was bought through an arm of PBoC, a source said without elaborating about the exact structure. PBoC’s stake is very insignificant when compared to ICICI Bank’s market capitalisation of almost Rs 2.40 lakh crore, a source said. Current rules require that all listed companies should disclose the names of shareholders who hold 1% or more of the listed entity’s equity capital. Additionally, rules require that the names of all those investors who pick up at least 5% in a QIP offer should be disclosed. Hence, PBoC’s name does not show up in any of ICICI Bank’s recent disclosures, the source said. In Tuesday’s strong market, the ICICI Bank stock on the BSE closed 2.5% higher at Rs 369. The share purchase comes at a time when the government is looking to clamp down on stake acquisitions by Chinese portfolio investors. The finance ministry and Sebi are seen to be dragging their feet on the issue. Currently, among Indian companies, PBoC has stakes in HDFC, Ambuja Cement and Piramal Enterprises. In all the companies, the holding is below the 1% level, which necessitates compulsory disclosure. By March-end, PBoC’s stake in HDFC was slightly above the 1% level as it bought some shares just before the Indian and Chinese military forces’ skirmish in the Galwan valley in Ladakh region. However, during the April-June quarter, the Chinese central bank sold part of its stake in HDFC and, as of June-end, it had fallen below the 1% level, company officials said. In Piramal Enterprises, as of June-end, the Chinese central bank had a 0.43% stake, while in Ambuja Cement, as of December-end, it had a 0.32% stake. There are market rumours that PBoC also has small stakes in a few more listed companies. Sebi has already asked depositories and custodians of foreign investors to specifically disclose such stakes to the regulator, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chinas-central-bank-buys-small-stake-in-icici/articleshow/77623367.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Business||Axis plans to bank on gig workers||MUMBAI: The ‘Future of work’ — one of the most discussed topics at any HR conference — is already here. In a significant departure from conventional corporate job norms, Axis Group is opening its doors to skilled talent that can work with the bank remotely, from anywhere. The 85,000-strong Axis Group will soon launch a pilot called ‘Gig-a-Opportunities’ with an expectation that 15% of incremental hiring at the organisation will take place in alternate work models over the next three years. This is a first in a traditional banking/corporate sector and includes white-collared employees. Axis Bank executive director (corporate centre) Rajesh Dahiya told TOI the objective is to leverage skilled talent across geographical boundaries by going beyond the traditional definition of when, where and how a job can get done. If in the past work was constructed around a person or role, in the new world the bank is structuring jobs/roles around agility. Axis sees this as an opportunity for newer forms of talent pools associating with the bank, be it through gig contracts or short-term fixed contracts rather than building a career narrative. “With ‘Gig-a’ we want to stand proud as job creators, as innovators, and give choice to candidates with every job opening, whether they prefer a physical presence or want to be employed full time or part time,” said Dahiya. Although the project is not being launched keeping costs as the crux, Dahiya said there would be long-term indirect benefits to the bank, which otherwise adds 1-2 lakh sqft real estate space every year. The attempt is to target the new entrepreneurial breed of talent who prefer to work in their own way, at their own time. Abhijit Bhaduri, a digital transformation coach who advises organisations on the Future of Work, said when the lockdown got extended, people decided to move from the metros where they were working to the towns and villages and cities where they wanted to work from. “This resulted in a complete shift of the concept of an office. It became ‘Work from Anywhere’. The talent pool of the world has gone truly boundary-less and is location-agnostic. In the first phase, it will let employers tap into talent pools that are not necessarily working out of metros. Later, we will also see the top talent of every country compete globally for jobs,” said Bhaduri. “Instead of being graded by location, talent will be graded by skill levels.” TOI reported about this trend in its edition on Thursday. “When we return to normalcy after Covid, we are not going to be operating on the same model of working. Our model will be very different from others. When we hire people, by nature of people’s contract with the bank, many may not have a reason other than a celebration with colleagues, to be wedded to a chair and a table in the office building. About 10 years ago, we were all about branches and people. The nature of work has changed so dramatically that banks today are among the largest recruiters of IT skills. Perhaps, in the next five years, we may not even need a commercial workplace except of course for branches and other customer-facing operations. Being in banking, regulations and prudence require some of our people to be physically present in office,” said Dahiya. ‘Gig-a Opportunities’ is targeted at skilled talent with 3-10 years of work experience. These include team leaders as well. Dahiya said static criteria like qualifications or degrees can no longer be the calling card for hiring — “The pivot will be on creating associations based on skills.” Profiles that will be covered under ‘Gig-a Opportunities’ include UI/UX (user interface/user experience) design specials, credit-monitoring early warning systems, design consultant, credit policy specialists, banking sector advocacy & policy specialist, internal auditors, learning & development trainer, talent-sourcing, project manager-retail lending, lending SME, and IT audit control consultant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/axis-plans-to-bank-on-gig-workers/articleshow/77623265.cms||Namrata Singh
August 19, 2020||Business||Sachin Bansal firm eyes stake in private life company||MUMBAI: The Sachin Bansal-promoted Navi Technologies is in talks with promoters of private life insurance companies to acquire a stake. This follows its acquisition of DHFL General Insurance. The group is understood to have held talks with promoters of Future Generali Life Insurance for a possible acquisition. It is also looking at DHFL Pramarica Life Insurance, which is on the block as part of the group’s debt resolution. It is not clear whether Navi is looking at buying a stake on its own or as part of a consortium. Sector regulator Irdai’s norms now allow private equity companies to come in as promoters. The Kishore Biyani-promoted Future Group has been in talks to sell its stake in both its life and non-life ventures in a bid to reduce debt. Among potential investors, State Bank of India and Premji Invest are those who have shown interest. Housing finance company DHFL is currently facing insolvency proceedings in the National Companies Law Tribunal. The group’s subsidiaries are also on the block.Following the sale of Flipkart to Walmart in 2018, co-promoter Sachin Bansal floated BAC Acquisitions, a consumer-centric and technology-driven business in the BFSI space, which was renamed as Navi Technologies in 2019. Around the same time, the company acquired Chaitanya Microfinance. In January 2020, Navi announced the purchase of DHFL General Insurance from Wadhawan Global Capital for Rs 100 crore. The group had also acquired a tech consultancy firm Maven Hive in a bid to acquire talent to develop tech platforms for providing affordable financial services at a low cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bansal-firm-eyes-stake-in-pvt-life-co/articleshow/77623335.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 19, 2020||Business||RBI seeks to set up new payments body||Mayur.Shetty@timesgroup.com Mumbai: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has invited applications from organisations with experience in the payments space to set up a new umbrella entity (NUE) in the field. This entity will have to provide various retail payment services that will rival the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI). Separately, the RBI also announced that it would delegate some parts of regulation of the payments system to a proposed self-regulatory organisation (SRO) for the industry. It has called for applications from parties interested in becoming an SRO. Earlier this year, the central bank had proposed an NUE in the payments system. The reasons for opening up this segment was to boost innovation and avoid a single point of failure risks. While foreign investment has been allowed, no single promoter group would be allowed to hold more than 40% in the entity. Those eligible to apply would need to have three years of experience in the ecosystem, either as a payments system operator, or service provider, or a technology service provider. The minimum capital for an NUE has been fixed at Rs 500 crore. The permitted activities for the NUE will include new networks of ATMs, point-of-sale machines, remittance services, and new payment methods. It will also be allowed to operate clearing and settlement systems for participating banks. Earlier in May, NPCI’s former MD & CEO A P Hota had said that an NUE should look at complementing NPCI’s services rather than competing head-on. “RBI guidelines are not limited to creating another payment product, an NUE can come up with the idea of building analytics-based solutions in a specific area associated with payments. I urge people to think beyond a few NPCI’s products. They will also be able to break even earlier,” he said “It would be foolish to believe that they would compete with NPCI head-on. Probably NPCI can face the competition, but in the process, it will be banks that will come under tremendous pressure. After years of working, they have stabilised one particular set-up for one particular type of transaction. If you ask banks to come to another platform and set up another interface and another reconciliation machinery, a whole lot of things will have to be reworked,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-seeks-to-set-up-new-payments-body/articleshow/77623240.cms||Mayur Shetty
August 19, 2020||Patna||4 months on, virtual schooling takes a toll on students||PATNA: With no end in sight to the Covid-19 pandemic, city schools conducting virtual classes for the past four months are finding it hard to engage the attention of students. Shailendra Mohan Jha, vice-principal of Gyan Niketan Boys’ School said live virtual classes are being held through mobile apps, uploading videos of lectures and assignment-based classes. “We have also started extra-curricular activities for kids like art and craft, debate, extempore and quiz. But still I feel that nothing can replace traditional classroom teaching,” Jha said. He added, “Parents have called the school management asking when the normal classes will resume as students are getting sick of spending all the time at home.” Virtual classes with no scope of interaction with classmates and often only one-way lecture-based teaching, are taking a toll on the students. Students are facing lot of anxiety with limited or no interactions during the virtual classes with online tests adding to their stress. Many students are still finding it hard to adjust with new normal. “I thought the school will take live classes where we can raise questions but even after four months we are still getting videos. It is a crucial stage of our life, the online documents and recorded teaching videos won’t help us,” said Anushree, a Class IX student, adding it was impossible to learn anything with only recorded video classes. Yogita Rao, a Class XII student raised the issue of practical classes. “As the teachers conduct online classes from their homes, we could not get a single practical class which is very important in physics, chemistry and biology. Only reading the text is not going to help us as most of the questions will be practical-based,” she said. Shaurya Gupta, another Class IX student said, “No extra-curricular activities and no group conversations with friends has put us under a lot of stress. We just have to sit for hours in front of the laptop and listen to teachers, it has become very monotonous. I’ve become jittery as my parents do not allow me to go out.” Principal of Litera Valley School, Sharat Kumar Singh, said to make online classes more interesting, teachers are coming up with new techniques such as using puppets to teach junior kids. “The school conducts extra-curricular activities for kids to ensure that they do not feel monotonous,” he added. Pervez Ahmed, whose daughters study in Class II and VIII said, “One of my daughters completed her Class XII this year with 96% and she is still waiting to appear for NEET. While other two daughters did not learn anything as the school only provided documents on WhatsApp and asked parents to help kids in studies, which is not possible because there are some topics that even we don’t understand. So, they are not having any classes or any study this year.” Another parent, Rishi Kumar said the school has started extra- curricular activities but it was not like face- to- face classes. “Both my kids have to attend five days a week. My son manages on his own but I have to sit with my daughter, who is in Class I. It is difficult for small kids to adapt online learning,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-months-on-virtual-schooling-takes-a-toll-on-students/articleshow/77620332.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 19, 2020||Patna||Integrated command centre to be set up at Biharsharif||PATNA: An Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) will be set up on the premises of Biharsharif Town police station to monitor a host of services and activities in the town. The decision was taken at the review meeting of Biharsharif Smart City Limited (BSCL) chaired by Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on Tuesday. He said under the smart city project, altogether 595 closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras will be installed across Biharsharif town. Agarwal, who visited the identified location for ICCC, said the CCTV cameras would enable monitoring of traffic system, parking, solid waste management and encroachment besides law and order situation in the town. “Besides, the smart electric poles equipped with LED lights, antenna for telecommunications network, Wi-Fi, CCTV, pollution sensors, solar panel, traffic signals, weather sensors and digital boards will also be installed there,” he told this newspaper. The bidding process for the G+3 ICCC building will be initiated in the next three days. It will be developed by utilizing funds to the tune of Rs11 crore. The total cost of the project is around Rs105 crore, including the development of software and installation of CCTV cameras and other facilities. The divisional commissioner said the bidder has been selected for the software development and other facilities. “The proposal has been sent to the urban development and housing department for its final approval. The selected private firm will develop software for traffic management, surveillance, e-governance, birth and death certificates among others municipal services,” Agarwal said. He also visited the site of various proposed schemes under the Smart City Project and directed the officials concerned to complete the works within the stipulated time. Agarwal said the Bazaar Samiti area will also be developed under the Smart City Project. “A target has been set to complete its construction works in two phases. In the first phase, infrastructure, road, drainage, boundary wall and installation of street light will be done. It will cost Rs14.54 crore. Shops, administrative blocks, training centres for farmers, solar panels on all buildings and beautification of ponds for fisheries will be done in the second phase with an estimated cost of Rs57.96 crore,” he said. “The Bazaar Samiti area will be equipped with modern facilities under one roof. A separate training centre will also be constructed to train the farmers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/integrated-command-centre-to-be-set-up-at-biharsharif/articleshow/77620266.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 19, 2020||Patna||Show-cause notice to Muz municipal commissioner||PATNA: State urban development and housing department (UDHD) secretary Anand Kishor on Monday issued a show-cause notice to Muzaffarpur municipal commissioner Manesh Kumar Meena following complaints of prolonged waterlogging in different localities of the town. The department also initiated departmental proceedings against executive engineer of Muzaffarpur Municipal Corporation (MMC) Ashok Kumar Sinha for the same reason. The department has also withheld three months’ salary of Sinha. The disciplinary action against the two senior MMC officials was taken following a virtual review meeting chaired by UDHD minister Suresh Kumar Sharma on Monday. Kishor was also present at the meeting. On Tuesday, Muzaffarpur district magistrate held a meeting with the senior officials of the municipal corporation and chalked out a detailed strategy to drain out water. The work of draining out rainwater started in some of the localities, authoritative sources said. The minister had earlier received numerous complaints from the residents of several localities in the Muzaffarpur town, which were still under knee-deep water. People have been forced to remain indoors for the last many days. They also apprehend the outbreak of an epidemic due to prolonged waterlogging. Localities close to Bela industrial area, Mithapur, Saketpur, Bibiganj and Balughat were the worst affected. The residents were up in arms against the failure of the municipal authorities to drain out water from their localities. “This is happening despite the urban department minister being the local MLA,” said an agitated Rahul Kumar. Locals said the minister had earlier promised to get rid of the perennial problem of waterlogging. But nothing happened on this front. “Our repeated complaints to drain out rainwater fell on deaf ears of the district administration as well as the municipal corporation officials,” said another resident Vikas Sinha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/show-cause-notice-to-muz-municipal-commissioner/articleshow/77619083.cms||Ramashankar
August 19, 2020||Patna||First online PhD viva voce in PU||PATNA: Patna University (PU) conducted an online PhD viva voce examination of a scholar for the first time on Tuesday. According to the guidelines recently approved by the university for holding online viva voce exams, the scholar, his supervisor (internal examiner) and the HoD were present at the PU department of education and connected with the external examiner from Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Rohilkhand University in Bareilly through Google Meet. At least 24 faculty members and research scholars of PU joined the online viva voce and participated in the question-answer session after the candidate presented his thesis. Examination controller R K Mandal told this newspaper, “A certificate along with a video recording of the viva voce will have to be submitted to the department concerned. The internal examiner will also submit his recommendation to the head of the department for its online transmission to the external examiner who will give his final recommendation.” PU has adopted the online mode for holding viva voce of PhD scholars in view of the inordinate delay in the conduct of offline examinations amid the Covid-19 lockdown. “Since several candidates had been waiting for their viva voce for several months, we took permission from the chancellor’s secretariat for going online,” said Mandal. PU has also started an online six-month PhD coursework for the candidates who were declared successful in the last pre-PhD test conducted early this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/first-online-phd-viva-voce-in-pu/articleshow/77620612.cms||B K Mishra
August 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: District administration to double number of RT-PCR tests in Gaya||GAYA: With questions being asked about the reliability of rapid antigen test (RAT) and TrueNat method for ascertaining Covid-19 infection in any person, the district administration has decided to double the number of RT-PCR tests in Gaya in the days to come. As of now, the Microbiology Department laboratory of Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College & Hospital has the capacity to test 180 and 200 samples per day. The population of Gaya district is about 50 lakhs (43 lakhs as per the 2011 Census). According to DM Abhishek Singh, orders have been issued for increasing the number of RT-PCR tests to more than 400 per day. The tests began in Gaya on July 4. Before that, the samples collected in the district were tested at AIIMS-Patna and RMRI, Patna. Earlier, several doctors and paramedical staff of the ANMMCH, including retired principal Dr HG Agrawal and Microbiology HOD Dr Arjun Lal, had tested Covid positive. As per official statistics, 60,050 of the 80,903 tests (75%) in the district till Monday evening have been conducted through rapid antigen method. According to experts, RAT is only a screening test. Besides RAT, the credibility of TrueNat test has also come under cloud. WHO earlier reported a 70% mismatch in the results of TrueNat and RT-PCR tests. RT-PCR is regarded as the standard test for coronavirus detection. In Gaya, no private lab has got the permission to conduct the RT-PCR tests and, as such, the ANMMCH lab is overburdened. According to Gaya IMA chief Dr Ram Sewak Prasad Singh, at least 50% of the tests should be conducted through the RT-PCR technique. Private labs having requisite infrastructure should also be permitted to conduct the RT-PCR tests, he said. Meanwhile, the DM on Tuesday withdrew his earlier permission for plying of buses after the state government notification on Monday. Shopping malls will also remain closed till September 6. As all religious congregations stand banned till September 6, Pitrapaksha Mela practically stands cancelled. However, a formal notification regarding the event cancellation has not been issued. As per the calendar, the fortnight-long event was scheduled to begin on September 1. The event, as per estimates, records a quarter million footfalls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/admn-to-double-number-of-rt-pcr-tests-in-gaya/articleshow/77620659.cms||Abdul Qadir
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||250 goats didn’t cross over to Pakistan from Jaisalmer: BSF||JAISALMER: The case of around 250 goats of cattle raisers of Pochina village in Jaisalmer district going to Pakistan from shifting dunes area in Barmer is flaring up as BSF has denied that goats have gone from their area and no fence is in bad shape. A flag meeting with Pakistan was held on Tuesday in which the neighbouring country denied any such incident. After giving memorandum to Jaisalmer district collector, the villagers were going to Barmer to meet the BSF DIG on Wednesday and request him for action. Now, BSF has banned grazing of cattle near the international border. BSF has apprehensions that the facility could be misused by few cattle raisers who could support undesired activities across the border, etc. It is known that the cattle raisers of Pochina and other villages on Monday gave a memorandum to the Jaisalmer district collector and cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad in which they had demanded to return around 250 goats that went to Pakistan from India owing to broken and buried fencing of BSF BOP Seema & DKT in shifting sand dunes area in Sundara of Barmer and be given compensation. But, BSF has refuted the claims. BSF official spokesperson of Gujrat Frontier said no such incident as claimed has occurred, i.e., neither the border fence in “Sundara AOR” has broken down nor any Indian goat has landed in Pakistan. The single-layer border fence amidst shifting sand dunes remains under 24x7 surveillance on account of its vulnerability. As such, feasibility of any such incident happening and that too going unnoticed, is all together ruled out. He said the flag meeting with Pakistan took place on Tuesday. Pakistan has said that the claim of goats wandering there is totally wrong. There is no such evidence. He said the claimant had been informed by the Company Commander “Sundara AOR” that his contention regarding crossing over of Indian goats to Pak had been verified with due diligence and existing procedure involving border guarding forces of both the countries and no such evidence has been found to substantiate the happening of the reported incident. No footprints of any thing has been seen. District collector Aashish Modi said that villagers had come to him and told about their goats going to Pakistan and submitted memorandum. In this regard he spoke to BSF Jaisalmer sector south DIG Rajesh Kumar who said he cannot confirm and it is not possible at his level. The district collector said that in this regard he is talking to Barmer sector officers whether it is possible or not. On the other hand, cattle raisers Balveer Singh Pochina and Jethu Singh said that till now they have not got any positive reply. They are going to meet Barmer sector BSF DIG on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/250-goats-didnt-cross-over-to-pak-bsf/articleshow/77623036.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Patna||Baramulla attack: Bodies of two CRPF constables reach Bihar||PATNA: The bodies of two Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) constables, who had laid down their lives in Monday’s terror attack in Baramulla, reached Patna airport on Tuesday evening by a special flight. The bodies of the two constables – Khurshid Khan (38) and Lavkush Sudarshan Sharma (28) – were later taken to their native places in Rohtas and Jehanabad districts, respectively. The body of Khan will be buried at Bikramganj in Rohtas district. Sharma’s body, on the other hand, will be consigned to flames at his native village, Aaira, in Jehanabad district. Khan is survived by his wife and three minor daughters. He was eldest among the four siblings. Sharma, on the other hand, has left behind him his parents, wife, a seven-year-old son and a three-year-old daughter. Agriculture minister Dr Prem Kumar, education minister K N Prasad Verma, science and technology department minister Jai Kumar Singh, leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha and former MP Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav paid their floral tributes to the two constables at the airport. DGP Guteshwar Pandey, IG (central range) Sanjay Singh, Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma, SP (central) Vinay Tiwari were also present. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal and DM (incharge) Richie Pandey were also at the airport to receive the bodies of the two constables. SSB DIG Sudhir Verma (Patna frontier) paid floral tributes to the slain soldiers on behalf of DG of the border guarding paramilitary police. CRPF Bihar sector IG G V H Giri Prasad and other senior officers were present at the airport to arrange logistics for transporting the bodies of the two constables to their respective native places. Agriculture minister Kumar said the whole state was standing with the families of the two constables. Tejashwi said like defence personnel, paramilitary force personnel should also be given martyr status even if they die in Maoist attacks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/baramulla-attack-bodies-of-2-crpf-constables-reach-state/articleshow/77618968.cms||Debashish Karmakar
August 19, 2020||Patna||Easy-to-cook food items fly off the shelves in Patna||PATNA: As the dine-in restaurants and other such food outlets are shut following the restrictions imposed in state due to Covid-19 pandemic, people are buying ready-made and easy-to-cook food items in bulk these days to tickle their taste buds. Food products such as noodles, soup and poha are flying off the shelves of supermarkets and general stores in the city. Ram Narayan, who owns a general store in Raja Bazar, said the demand for easy-to-cook items such as dosa batter, cake mix, poha, upma and Chinese curries has soared way more than staples such as rice, pulses, flour and spices in the past three months. “Sales of instant food items have increased by 40% in the last three months. During lockdown, families are purchasing more ready-to-eat items such as cup noodles, upma, poha, cereals and soup. The demand has been increasing. No matter how much I stock up, I always fall short of these items by month end,” he said. Another grocery shop owner in Bailey Road, Suraj Kumar, said while the supply quantity of packaged chips and beverages remains the same, people are purchasing large quantities of these items in one go as they want to avoid stepping out frequently during the lockdown. “Since lockdown, many youngsters come to my shop and buy around 15 to 20 packets of snacks such as chips, nachos, cookies and cakes. Earlier, the maximum number of packaged snacks that a customer bought on an average was between three and five. The demand for chocolates has also gone up,” he said. While the increase in sales of ready-to-cook items is understandable, what is surprising is the spike in demand for frozen items. Frozen meat and snacks, which were earlier considered to be unhealthy by many, have gained popularity amid the lockdown. Modern retail and high-end stores in the city with refrigeration facilities are struggling to keep up with the demand for frozen snacks such as French fries, soya chaap, sweetcorn, seekh kabab and frozen meat items such as chicken sausages and salami. Shabir Ahmad of a ration store in Haroon Nagar said, “Many people are reluctant to go to meat shops because of hygiene concerns. Hence, they buy frozen meat products such as chicken popcorn, chicken tikka and tuna. I have recently started selling these items and the response has been great.” Meanwhile, instant food items have proved to be a boon for working women, who are constantly struggling to maintain a balance between their personal and professional lives while being at home around their kids all the time. “Our cook is on leave and I cannot cook three meals a day and simultaneously work in an eight-hour shift. My husband doesn’t know how to cook. Hence, I have stocked up on ready-to-eat items and packaged snacks as my children love to munch on these throughout the day,” said Pooja Sinha, a marketing professional based in Punaichak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/easy-to-cook-food-items-fly-off-the-shelves-in-patna/articleshow/77620298.cms||Arunima Lal
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||Missing minor found dead in Kota’s STP||Kota: A nearly decomposed body of a seven-and-a-half-year-old boy, who had gone missing from his house in Jawahar Nagar area of the city three days ago, was found in Kishorepura sewerage treatment plant on Tuesday. Police handed over the body to family members after postmortem and lodged a case under relevant sections for further investigation into the matter.“The three-day-old decomposed body of a minor was found in Kishorepura sewerage treatment plant. Police rushed to the spot and recovered the body,” circle inspector Shambu Singh said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/missing-minor-found-dead-in-kotas-stp/articleshow/77623052.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Jodhpur||IIT-Jodhpur gets Rs 115 crore for tech & innovation hub||JODHPUR: The Department of Science and Technology (DST) has sanctioned Rs 115-crore to IIT-Jodhpur to set up a technology and innovation hub on computer vision and augmented and virtual reality (CV and AR-VR). Named as “iHub Drishti”, this hub is being incorporated as a company with initial seed funding from the DST under National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems (NM-ICPS). Jodhpur-IIT director Santanu Chaudhury said iHub Drishti would engage in application directed research and translation of research outcomes to products and processes in collaboration with academic and industrial partners from India and abroad. It will support and nurture start-up ecosystems, operate upskilling and reskilling programs and intend to enable and drive appropriate technology interventions in the relevant areas by the state and central ministries. It will host teams of faculty members, research scholars, developers and scientists who will work towards achieving the targets of the hub. The five verticals that iHub Drishti will be focusing include dependable computer vision for autonomous systems, bio and medical imaging for healthcare and ecological sustainability, intelligent multimedia platform for digital learning, computer vision and AR-VR for Industry 4.0 and AI-driven augmented and virtual reality applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/iit-jodhpur-gets-rs-115cr-for-tech-innovation-hub/articleshow/77626171.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||Locals, migrant labourers rebuild Bageshwar school ruined in last year’s flood||Nainital: After two classrooms and the library of Saraswati Shishu Mandir were washed away in flood in September last year, classes have mostly been held in the adjoining ground as a makeshift arrangement. After Covid-19 hit, the primary school in the remote Garud area of Bageshwar district closed down altogether and was turned into a quarantine centre for returnees. It was during the lockdown that Pushkar Bisht, a resident, along with other locals, hit upon the idea to rebuild the school, so children wouldn’t have to turn to other schools in distant areas. “A total of 130 students studied here till last year. As the school shut down for several weeks following the flood, the number went down to 80. Set up in 1995, the school has been running on donations. When the floods hit last year, we didn’t have the resources to rebuild it, which is why most students left.” Bisht said that he waited for help for six months but decided to repair the school himself when he received none. “We had ample time because of the lockdown. We asked the migrant workers staying at the campus to help with the construction. They started on the repair work and painted the walls while local residents cleared the debris from the ground.” However, the school still needed the missing infrastructure as furniture and books had been destroyed. Bisht reached out to Chennai-based social worker Adharsh Krishnan, who works with marginal farmers and tribal communities and had visited Garud a few years back. “With Krishnan’s help, we started an online campaign and raised 3 lakh of the 4 lakh we needed for benches and a small library. Over 160 people donated from India and abroad. The response has been overwhelming.” Local residents hope they will soon get the rest of the money to get the school up and running. “Students can return to find new classrooms. They would no longer have to go to distant schools by trekking through dangerous routes,” Bisht said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/locals-migrant-labourers-rebuild-bageshwar-school-ruined-in-last-years-flood/articleshow/77619626.cms||Prashant Jha
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||With Kailash-Mansarovar, India-China trade cancelled, 1k locals lose earnings this year||Pithoragarh: More than 1,000 porters and pony owners from Dharchula who would accompany pilgrims on the Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra and participate in cross-border trade with China, during the period between June to October, haven’t been able to earn anything this year. The yatra was cancelled and India-China trade didn’t take place due to the threat of Covid-19. While the Kailash Mansarovar pilgrimage takes place from June to mid-September, Indo-China trade, which takes place through Lipulekh Pass in Dharchula, lasts till October. Both these activities are conducted under the aegis of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA).This year, the locals have been solely dependent on agriculture. The Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam (KMVN), which organises the yatra every year, sets up camps at Gala, Bundi, Gunji, Kalapani, Nabidhang and Kuti. Every year, the KMVN releases a tender for carrying ration and other items to these camps. Last year, the tender was for Rs 30 lakh, which went to a local contractor. “More than 550 persons get employment because of the yatra. It is one of the few opportunities to earn in this remote area. No one got employment this year,” said Ashok Kumar, who received KMVN’s contract last year and employed many pony owners and porters. The district magistrate also fixes the rate for porters and pony owners. “Last year, it was Rs 89 per km for porters and Rs 114 per km for pony owners,” said Dhan Singh, the in-charge of the KMVN guest house in Dharchula. While luggage upto 25 kg is allowed for every pilgrim, those who exceed that limit hire ponies or porters and pay extra. Moreover, since these locals cannot stay at KMVN camps, residents along the Kailash-Mansarovar route put up temporary eateries and arrange for overnight stays. They have also lost their income this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/with-kailash-mansarovar-india-china-trade-cancelled-1k-locals-lose-earnings-this-year/articleshow/77619636.cms||Prem Punetha
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||IIT-Jodhpur gets Rs 115 crore for tech & innovation hub||JODHPUR: The Department of Science and Technology (DST) has sanctioned Rs 115-crore to IIT-Jodhpur to set up a technology and innovation hub on computer vision and augmented and virtual reality (CV and AR-VR). Named as “iHub Drishti”, this hub is being incorporated as a company with initial seed funding from the DST under National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems (NM-ICPS). Jodhpur-IIT director Santanu Chaudhury said iHub Drishti would engage in application directed research and translation of research outcomes to products and processes in collaboration with academic and industrial partners from India and abroad. It will support and nurture start-up ecosystems, operate upskilling and reskilling programs and intend to enable and drive appropriate technology interventions in the relevant areas by the state and central ministries. It will host teams of faculty members, research scholars, developers and scientists who will work towards achieving the targets of the hub. The five verticals that iHub Drishti will be focusing include dependable computer vision for autonomous systems, bio and medical imaging for healthcare and ecological sustainability, intelligent multimedia platform for digital learning, computer vision and AR-VR for Industry 4.0 and AI-driven augmented and virtual reality applications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/iit-jodhpur-gets-rs-115cr-for-tech-innovation-hub/articleshow/77623041.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kochi||Taxi operators seek tax exemption||KOCHI: Endorsing the dire situation the travel and tourism sector faces in the post-lockdown era, owners of 680 contract carriages operating in the tourism sector have submitted Form G (intimation of non-use of a vehicle) to Ernakulam regional transport office (RTO). Submitting the form helps to exempt remittance of motor vehicle tax for not operating the vehicle during that period. The contract carriages with the state permit remit tax for every quarter in advance and the ones with the all India permit for one year. “Submitting Form G does not fully help them from financial burden as they would have to properly maintain the vehicles. Otherwise, battery and other vehicle parts would get damaged. Many vehicles were bought after taking loans from banks or other financial institutions. Most of them remit EMI from daily collection. But no movement of contract carriages is leading to default in payment. Registration of other vehicles has also nosedived. We register only around 50 vehicles, mostly two-wheelers and four-wheelers, daily under the Ernakulam RTO limit,” said an MVD official. Contract carriage operators are worried a lot as no trips related to tourism and other events like marriages are happening. “Non-use of vehicles is affecting the longevity of battery and other parts of the vehicles. The tax rate of a contract carriage comes to around Rs 1,000 per seat for a quarter. A 49-seat capacity vehicle will have to pay Rs 49,000 per quarter. What is the use of remitting the tax and lying the vehicle without any hirers? Vehicles which operate for Covid-related activities get 20% tax reduction,” says C P Ajith Kumar, president of All Kerala contract carriage operators association. Meanwhile, some pin their hope on Covid vaccine and policy change on the part of the government regarding operation of daily services to other states to revive the sector. “As many as 23 contract carriages, including the one with all India permit, are lying unused for months. I have submitted Form G for all these vehicles for tax exemption. The worst part is that batteries of 10 to 11 buses have drained out. Our clients, who were about to reach Kerala from Germany in July, had postponed their trips to October 2021,” said Sarath G Nair, owner of Surya Travels. Recently, many private bus operators in the state had submitted Form G to avoid paying tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/taxi-operators-seek-tax-exemption/articleshow/77619625.cms||T C Sreemol
August 19, 2020||Kanpur||Two mobile phones linked to Sanjeet Yadav murder recovered||KANPUR: The police on Tuesday claimed to have recovered two mobile phones in a damaged condition in connection with the Sajneet Yadav kidnapping-cum murder case. “While one phone belonged to deceased Sanjeet, the other was used by the accused for making ransom calls to Sanjeet’s family,” police said. “Based on the inputs provided by the accused during their remand, police have recovered two mobile phones in a damaged state on Monday evening. While Sanjeev’s phone was recovered from nearby accused and master-mind Tataya Tope Nagar house, the other one was found in a nullah at Patarsa Puliya,” police added. “We will now send both the phones to the forensic lab for further investigation,” said SP South Deepak Bhookar on Tuesday. To recall, a 28-year-old lab technician Sanjeet Yadav, who was kidnapped in Barra area on June 22, had been murdered by his abductors. According to the police, the kidnappers had dumped his body in the Pandu River. Earlier, Sanjeet’s family had alleged that when he was kidnapped on June 22, they were also asked by the police to arrange a ransom of Rs 30 lakh and hand it over to the kidnappers. They however claimed that they threw a bag containing the cash from the top of a flyover as instructed in the presence of police, but the latter could not prevent the kidnappers from escaping with the bag and also failed to get back Sanjeet. The police till date have arrested five accused including a woman in this connection and all efforts to search Sanjeet’s body, however, have proved futile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-mobile-phones-linked-to-sanjeet-murder-recovered/articleshow/77623039.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||Jaspal Rana in line for Dronacharya Award||Dehradun: Indian shooting legend Jaspal Rana has been recommended with 12 other coaches for this year’s Dronacharya Award. The prestigious awards will be given on Monday. The Dehradun shooter was nominated for the country’s highest coaching honour by the National Rifles Association of India (NRAI) last year as well but didn’t get recommended which caused quite a controversy as well. Rana, who is also the chief coach of the national junior pistol team, is credited for nurturing the career of several world-class shooters, including Manu Bhaker. During his playing days, Rana had won several laurels for the country, including gold medals at the Asian Games and the Commonwealth Games.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/jaspal-rana-in-line-for-dronacharya-award/articleshow/77619665.cms||Mohammad Anab
August 19, 2020||Kochi||Cusat to consider only Class XII marks this year||KOCHI: Admissions to various undergraduate programmes at Cochin university of science and technology (Cusat) will be held on the basis on marks scored by applicants in Class XII. The decision was taken by the Cusat syndicate. The urgency to commence admission procedures came following the conduct of KEAM. “We will lose out on students who would want to join Cusat as we haven’t started our admissions yet,” said P G Sankaran, pro-vice chancellor of Cusat, adding that they had assigned TCS to conduct the entrance test. “We get a lot of students from all over the country. We needed support from each of the 10 states where this entrance was to be conducted. But we received response only from Uttar Pradesh mainly because of situations related to Covid-19.” Applicants should submit the mark statements in their login page/home page by August 23. “We will be using the KEAM method of normalization taking total of the different boards with priority for maths, physics and chemistry. When we planned to conduct the test, UGC asked us to take permission from other states. We had sent letters to all these states but got response only from Uttar Pradesh. Also, community spread too had begun. With this, we dropped the proposal of conducting the test,” said Vinod Kumar P P, director of admissions. The admission through Class XII marks has made several apprehensive of getting admission, especially CBSE students who focus on various entrance exams and study for Class XII just to ensure that they get good enough marks for meeting the demand of qualifying exam criteria. Most entrances ask for 50% marks in qualifying examination which is Class XII. “Many of us had raised this issue in the syndicate as well as directly with the concerned officials because we know of several students who focus entirely on entrance. However, none of us could give another workable option. We only hope that such students are very less,” said a member of the syndicate. “This Covid situation is a no-win for all because that is one category of students who could lose out,” he said.  Cusat has been receiving calls from candidates asking if they could apply now. “We have sent out information to all those students who had applied for the entrance test. Now we are getting enquiries from students who didn’t want to write entrance and hence had not applied. They feel that they have a chance with their Class XII marks which are quite high,” said Vinod Kumar. “We wanted to start after Onam but the AICTE circular says start around November 1, because of the NEET and JEE entrances,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-to-consider-only-class-xii-marks-this-year/articleshow/77619662.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Growing stray dog population worries residents||Coimbatore: The poisoning of 13 stray dogs in Pannimadai on Monday is the fifth such incident to occur in the district in the past five years. While it’s the residents who alerted the animal welfare bodies, city corporation and panchayat, many of them say they are concerned about the stray dog population that’s on the rise in their area, posing threat to children and motorists. Both the city corporation and rural areas do not have an animal birth control programme. The city corporation stopped the sterilization drive way back in 2017. Animal welfare organizations say it is becoming more difficult to follow up police cases that they have filed and ensure action is taken on the same. Last year, more than 600 people had approached the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) with dog bite injuries. “A majority of them were bitten by stray dogs and they were administered anti-rabies vaccine to eliminate risk,” says a hospital official. Residents from areas such as Seeranaickenpalayam, Venkitapuram, Saibaba Colony, Selvapuram, Perur, Ukkadam, Kavundampalayam, Karumbukadai and Goldwins in the city corporation limits say the stray dog population has quadrupled over the past four years. Mahalakshmi S, a resident of Ukkadam, says, “Now, at least seven dogs could be seen in every street, forcing us to carry a stick every time we go for a walk. At times we avoid a few streets, because of dog menace. They suddenly bark or come running after people, scaring them.” Motorists and slum dwellers say they are the most affected by the growing dog population. “At night, dogs gang up and chase bikers, causing accidents sometimes,” says V Murugesan, a public relations officer living in Venkitapuram. Valli D, a resident of Poosaripalayam slum, say they are scared that dogs would bite their kids who often walk on the roads in the evenings. While the city corporation had the animal birth control programme running from 2014 to 2017, many rural panchayats never had a programme to sterilize stray dogs. Pradeep Prabakaran, honorary district animal welfare officer, says, “People for Animals, Coimbatore, had sterilized 20,000 dogs in that three and half years. But after the programme in Ukkadam was stopped due to multiple issues, their number has gone up.” Pointing out that each panchayat would have only 500 dogs, he says they could be sterilized in just three months if they resume the drive. He has lodged a complaint with the Thadagam police in connection with the poisoning of dogs. The animal welfare board says they have filed more than 100 cases of animal cruelty since 2008 and 50 of them were still pending. “Whenever possible, like at SV Nagar at Vadavalli in May, we call a veterinary doctor and do postmortem to strengthen evidence. But the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals’ Act is outdated in terms of fines, and many magistrates don’t invoke sections under the Indian Penal Code,” says Prabakaran. The city corporation is, meanwhile, constructing another animal birth control centre at Ondipudur. “Once it is handed over to us with 80 wards, we will start the sterilization drive in a scientific manner. We can finish it in three years,” says Prabakaran. District collector K Rajamani had begun working on reactivating the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals last year, but the same came to a halt after the Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/growing-stray-dog-population-worries-residents/articleshow/77623061.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bhopal||PMO approves MP techie’s portal||Bhopal: A portal created by a Gwalior-based techie to provide a platform to people to send their suggestions to the Union as well as state governments has been recognised by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). In response to few grievances and suggestions made by citizens, the PMO has advised them to upload their grievances on the portal. Kapil Gupta, a 2012 batch engineer, who created the republicindia.in portal, said the purpose to create the website is gradually getting fulfilled, as people as well as the PMO now know about the portal and have recognised it. Quoting a complaint sent to the PMO on May 25, Gupta said a suggestion was made to the PMO by one Ravindra Pandurang, demanding economic assistance to small shopkeepers to which the PMO replied, "Sir, your social awareness and attachments to middle class society is true. However, our portal has limitations as noted on the dashboard. However, you are requested to please upload suggestions on republicindia.in". Gupta said over three lakh suggestions have been sent to the governments using the platform. The number of suggestions goes up when there is an issue, which is directly linked to the people. This platform has been used to give loads of suggestions to the government when the coronavirus pandemic started spreading in the country around March. "The suggestion to use vacant rail coaches as isolation wards was also sent to the government from this platform on March 26. It was sent by a youth, Swapnil Dattatray from Songaon in Maharashtra, mentioning that since there are toilets, bed and electricity in train coaches and trains are not running in lockdown, doctors can easily use these coaches to attend patients," said Gupta. "Similarly, citizens have sent their suggestions on the border dispute with China and the New Education Policy of the Union government", Gupta added. The portal was created in 2015 with the aim to provide a platform to people to directly send suggestions to the Union and state governments. It gradually gained pace and over three lakh suggestions have been sent to the governments in the past few years. Gupta underlines that the portal has no commercial interests and just accepts suggestions of the common man and deliver it to the governments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/pmo-approves-mp-techies-portal/articleshow/77621339.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||FAO: Fresh locust attack in India by August-end||JAISALMER: After a month’s respite, there’s again an alert about locusts entering the border areas of Rajasthan. The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of UNO has issued a warning that a large number of locusts have laid eggs in South Sindh of Pakistan and hoppers are growing which could enter India from Jaisalmer and Barmer border areas. Considering this, the locust control department has increased vigilance and started a survey. Since past 3-4 days, small groups of hoppers have been coming from across the border in Barmer, which were destroyed by the department. Like last year, this year too, a large number of locusts came into India and spread into many parts of the country in May. These locusts were controlled by July 15-18. Locusts are expected to enter India in the last week of August or in the beginning of September. Issuing a warning, FAO said that still a large number of locusts were present in Indo-Pak border area. Although the threat of locusts is always there in Africa, Kenya, Uganda and other countries, but large number of locusts could attack many areas of south Asia. If these locusts are not controlled in Nagarparkar area in Pakistan in time, then they could become a big threat. Now, these locusts are growing and by the end of August they could move towards India, it said. A senior locust control department officer confirmed that Pakistan was controlling the locusts but their efforts are insufficient due to which the pests are reaching India from Jaisalmer and Barmer borders. At present, locusts have laid eggs and hoppers in small groups have started coming to India. In last 2-3 days, groups of small hoppers were seen in Jaisalmer and Barmer. Some groups were destroyed in Kelnore area of Barmer. Similarly, hoppers have been seen in few areas of Jaisalmer which were immediately controlled. Sources said that no plan for pest control is in place and there is a possibility of heavy damage to crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fao-fresh-locust-attack-in-india-by-august-end/articleshow/77623055.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Man kills wife, two kids, hangs self in Karauli district||JAIPUR: A 27-year-old man murdered his wife and two children before committing suicide at Mahawar Mohalla of Koonjela village near Hindaun city in Karauli district. The incident happened two days ago but came to light only on Tuesday, after the couple’s neighbours informed the police as foul smell was emanating from the house. A team of senior police officers and experts from the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) rushed to the spot after receiving the information. The primary reason behind the extreme step could have been their poor financial condition. “The house was locked from inside. Thus, after breaking the door, we barged into the house and found three bodies, those of the woman and two children lying on the bed, while another (accused man’s) was hanging from the ceiling,” said a senior police officer of Nadauti police station. “The man, identified as Mahendra Mahawar, used to work as a daily wage labourer and according to neighbours, he was unable to earn anything for past few months. That could have been the reason behind the extreme step. It was also found that his wife was pregnant,” said the officer. “Prima facie, it seems that the man took the extreme step due to financial stress. There is a mother and a brother of the man in the family, who live outside,” the officer added. Everyone was shocked over the incident. The deceased included Mahendra (27), his wife Sapna (25) and their son Kanhiya (6) and a 2-year-old girl. In the evening, police handed over the bodies of the deceased to their family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-kills-wife-two-kids-hangs-self-in-karauli-dist/articleshow/77623059.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Rajkot||Man drowns during Mundra’s lake ritual||Rajkot: In an event organized in Mundra’s Jeramsar lake to ritualistically welcome the influx of fresh water on Tuesday, one person got drowned. Jeramsar lake started overflowing due to heavy rain in the last two days. The event was organized by a local gram panchayat which invited Mandvi BJP MLA Virendrasinh Jadeja to perform the rituals. According to the locals, coconut used in the rituals is thrown into the lake and whoever can fetch it back gets a token prize. Three people, who are swimmers, took the challenge and plunged into the waters. However, one of the swimmers, Zakir Kala, drowned while two others swam back. Teams of NDRF launched an operation to trace him, but could not find him till late on Tuesday evening. Congress Rajya Sabha MP Shaktisinh Gohil tweeted that the competition was organized without any precautionary steps in the presence of BJP MLA. Gohil also urged chief minister Vijay Rupani to order an inquiry into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-drowns-during-mundras-lake-ritual/articleshow/77619689.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Chennai||Post-Covid, railways to run warmer AC coaches||CHENNAI: The experience of travelling by AC coaches is going to change when trains resume after shutdown restrictions are lifted. The coaches will be warmer but with more fresh air and passengers will not get those thick woolen blankets and linen. Train services are yet to resume but railways is taking precautions to make AC coaches safer for people and prevent infection from spreading during travel in the wake of Covid-19. Railways has decided to increase the temperature setting of coaches to 25°C and has tweaked the air-conditioning in such a way that there will be more fresh air in circulation. Southern Railway general manager John Thomas said in his I-Day address: “Temperature setting of AC coaches is being set to maintain around 25°C as a Covid-19 preventive measure. Fresh air volume of AC coaches is being increased from 0.25 m3 to 0.35 m3 per minute per passenger in all AC coaches and 12 air changes per hour is being ensured, which is the norm advised by CPWD for ultimate exposure areas like hospitals and isolation wards.” An official said the roof mounted AC package (RMPU) units in the coaches are being modified to increase intake of fresh air. “It is being done by increasing the size of fresh air openings in the AC units. The work is being done at coaching depots, workshops and coach factories. The setting of the opening will be changed based on the quantity of air that is needed per passenger based on the number of seats/berths in a coach,” he added. Research Design and Standard Organisation (RDSO) in a letter specifying the modifications said that the changes “will be in force till Covid-19 pandemic situation persists in the country.” The move comes after an advice from Railway Board that the quantity of fresh air per passenger should be increased because of the Covid-19 situation. The board said: “Although, the amount of fresh air going into RMPU is sufficient to dilute the air, the condition can further improve by slightly increasing the fresh air intake.” Sources said the AC setting in the coaches are safe for passengers as is the case with the fewer number of infections reported among people who travel by Rajdhani Express which is being operated from Delhi to Chennai and also in other parts of the country. Nevertheless, the new changes will help make it safer as reuse of air will reduce.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/post-covid-railways-to-run-warmer-ac-coaches/articleshow/77623067.cms||V Ayyappan
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||Health dept to conduct Covid-19 test of every local with comorbidities in Haridwar||Haridwar: Following a surge in the cases of novel coronavirus in Haridwar district, the administration has decided to conduct Covid-19 test of every local with co-morbidities and weak immune system, including older people and pregnant women. The health department has been asked to ensure that each local with co-morbid condition is covered in the drive. Similarly, rapid antigen testing of all people living in hotspot areas of the district and of those coming from other states will be done to contain the spread of the virus. Incidentally, Haridwar is among the worst affected districts in Uttarakhand and the number of positive cases has been increasing steadily. About one fourth of total Covid-19 positive cases in Uttrakhand are reported from Haridwar district. According to district administration, an outbreak in industrial units and nearby settlements in SIDCUL region deteriorated the Covid-19 situation in Haridwar. DM C Ravishankar told TOI, “There are strong possibilities of a community spread of Covid-19 in the district. Therefore, we have increased testing and asked the health department to take steps for saving the lives of people with comorbidities, pregnant women, and older people. Also, 100% sampling will be done in these groups. Meanwhile, those who are coming from other states will be tested at the border checkpoints and we have deployed three teams to take samples in industrial settlements, hot spot areas, and border checkpoints. It will help us in controlling the outbreak.” The administration has also asked religious groups to urge the people to take Covid-19 precautions strictly. It has also been directed that Covid-19 tests of all government employees, health workers, police personnel, and social activists (including journalists) must be conducted once in a month. CMO Haridwar Dr Sambhu Nath Jha said that many government employees, police personnel, and health workers have been found coronavirus positive so far and thus, the administration has decided to test all those working on the front line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/health-dept-to-conduct-covid-19-test-of-every-local-with-comorbidities-in-haridwar/articleshow/77619695.cms||MS Nawaz
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Drone camera to monitor elephants at Pethikuttai forest||Coimbatore: The forest department officials have used a drone camera on trial basis to monitor wild elephant movement at Pethikuttai beat in the Sirumugai forest range on Monday. They later shared the video on social media with a note stating the most number of wild elephant deaths was reported from Pethikuttai beat.D Venkatesh, district forest officer, said, “We are mainly focusing on Pethikuttai forest beat because of the increased death rate. Drone cameras will be used to monitor the movement of elephant herd. The footage would then be handed over to veterinary experts to study the animal’s health conditions. We have plans to use drone cameras in other forest ranges too.”Coimbatore forest division comprises seven forest ranges of Madukkarai, Boluvampatti, Coimbatore, Periyanaickenpalayam, Karamadai, Mettupalayam and Sirumugai. At least 18 elephant deaths were reported from the division so far this year. Eight elephants were found dead in the Sirumugai forest range alone. Pethikuttai beat is the most vulnerable in the forest range.Meanwhile, a female elephant calf was found dead at Anaikatti extension reserve forest in the Coimbatore forest range on Tuesday. According to forest officials, it was a case of stillbirth that occurred five days ago. “Carnivorous have eaten the carcass. We have left it in the forest itself for scavengers,” a forest official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drone-camera-to-monitor-elephants-at-pethikuttai-forest/articleshow/77623074.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Rajkot||Fanfare to welcome Paatil in Somnath rings alarm bells||Rajkot: Newly-appointed BJP state president C R Paatil is visiting Somnath on Wednesday. He is expected to meet party workers of the surrounding districts besides various community leaders in Somnath temple trust hall. However, concerns are being raised on the huge gathering of approximately 400 people in the three to four hours’ meeting amid the pandemic. Incidentally, the venue of his meeting is located barely 100 meters away from Lilavati guest house where the district administration has created a Covid care centre to treat infected people.Zaver Thakrar Gir Somnath district president of BJP said, “We have planned a bike rally to welcome Paatil. With a bigger show planned in Somnath to welcome the leader, party workers are busy putting up banners in the entire Somnath district. BJP has planned a lunch arrangement for nearly 400 people in the town. Congress MLA from Somnath Vimal Chudasama said, “We believe that the political parties should avoid such large gatherings looking at the pandemic situation. If the ruling party will organize such gatherings, where are all the safety measures?” Superintendent of police, Gir Somnath, Rahul Tripathi told TOI: “BJP party workers did not apply for any permission, but we are aware of this programme. The guideline is in place and we expect that the guidelines will be followed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fanfare-to-welcome-paatil-in-somnath-rings-alarm-bells/articleshow/77619711.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Surat||Dams brimming with fresh inflow||Surat: At least five of the 13 dams in the South Gujarat region were overflowing while others were filled upto 74% of its capacity, following heavy rains in the catchment areas of various rivers. On Tuesday, Umarpada taluka of Surat received 165mm of rainfall till 4pm, which is the highest in the region. Umarpada had received the highest amount of rainfall, 2,519 mm till Tuesday evening. According to the weather department, light to moderate showers were reported from most parts of South Gujarat. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dams-brimming-with-fresh-inflow/articleshow/77619713.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Youths turn beach into tourist spot during lockdown||MANGALURU: The lockdown that was clamped in March has changed Idya Beach near Surathkal into an attractive tourist spot, thanks to the efforts of local youths. The beach, which was a place to dump waste for many, has now been turned into a beautiful place with benches, children’s play area and a place to celebrate birthdays and small get-togethers. A giant replica of the PSLV rocket on the beach, adds to its attraction. This was made possible through the efforts of youths from the locality, with the support of donors. It was Jayakar Salian, a videographer by profession, who mooted the idea of cleaning up the beach surrounding their house, and he shared the idea with 12 of his friends. “ During the initial days of the lockdown, we discussed about doing something to make holidays fruitful. Hence, the idea of cleaning up the beach and giving it a new look was mooted. Initially, we cleaned the beach by removing all the waste, and later brought an earthmover to level the nearly 100m long beach expanse. Later, various projects were planned each day,” Salian said. A hut was constructed at the entrance to the beach, and a thatched roof gopura was also built to attract people. Meanwhile, a play area with slide, swings and sea-saw was developed for children. A giant replica of the PSLV rocket was installed at the beach to foster an interest in science among children. “We spent money for all the works from our own pockets. We are yet to calculate the total expenses incurred. When we approached the Mangaluru City Corporation, mayor Divakar sanctioned a high mast lamp for the beach. We have plans to extend the project by cleaning more areas of the beach, to make it more attractive,” he added. Appreciating the efforts of the youths, Mangaluru North MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty has decided to bring in funds from the government to provide more facilities at the beach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/youths-turn-beach-into-tourist-spot-during-lockdown/articleshow/77619700.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Doctor on Covid-19 duty hasn’t been home in 5 months||CHENNAI: Ramesh Mahalingam, a doctor at Omandurar Government Medical College Hospital, has not met his family members for almost five months now. On Wednesday, his family celebrated his son’s birthday but all he could do was make a video call and wish him. “It’s ok. They understand and my son tells his friends that his father is in a battle. We don’t have an option but to continue the fight. Though we miss our families, we want them to be safe first. So we avoid taking any risk,” he said. Dr Ramesh has sent his family to his grandparents’ place in Salem. “Thousands of patients come here and we should always be here to help them out and meet the needs of other hospital staff from the administrative side as well,” said Ramesh, who helped set up the 500-bed Covid facility in the hospital. The hospital has so far treated around 15,000 Covid patients and has conducted over 10,000 CT scans, according to official data. Not just doctors, nurses, paramedics and lab technicians worked 24/7 to make this possible. For the past five months, Ramesh and some of his colleagues have stayed in hotels and government hostels during the 14-day quarantine period after two weeks’ service. Dr K Senthil, President of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association, said now that cases have come down in Chennai, many doctors returned to their native places and postgraduates have gone to study for exams. “With short breaks in between, we can sustain till December and hope that we get the vaccine by then or at least cases fall drastically so that fewer healthcare professionals are involved in the treatment process. But if uncertainty continues beyond that, then it is going to be an unimaginable task,” he said. The association has requested the government to fulfil promises and announcements made in the recent past. For instance, families of deceased doctors, who were on Covid duty at government healthcare facilities, were yet to receive the Rs 50 lakh from central government through insurance scheme. Besides this, the state government had promised an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh to healthcare professionals who got infected. This too didn't reach them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/doc-on-covid-duty-hasnt-been-home-in-5-months/articleshow/77623090.cms||Ram Sundaram
August 19, 2020||Vadodara||31 candidates to contest in 11 Amul Dairy blocks||Vadodara/ Anand: A total of 31 candidates are now in the fray to elect a new board of the Kaira District Co-operative Milk Producers Union Limited (KDCMPUL) popularly known as Amul Dairy. Elections for the new board are being held after a gap of five years and have been scheduled at the dairy premises in Anand on August 29. Tuesday was the last day of withdrawal of candidature. Ten candidates each withdrew their nominations on Monday and Tuesday. Of the 13 seats of elected representatives, the poll battle will now be held for 11 seats as two candidates, including dairy’s sitting chairman Ramsinh Parmar, have already won uncontested. There will be no election for the lone seat representing lifetime member as only a single candidate had filed his nomination for the seat. The countdown to the polls has turned interesting with sitting and ex MLAs from both BJP and Congress jumping in the fray. For the one seat representing Anand block there are five candidates in the fray. Interestingly, two of them are MLAs — Congress MLA from Anand constituency, Kanti Sodha Parmar and BJP MLA from Umnreth constituency, Govind Parmar. While three candidates each will fight for Khambhat, Mehmedabad, Matar and Virpur blocks, two candidates each will try for Borsad, Petlad, Balasinore, Kapadwanj and Nadiad blocks. In Kathlal block, four candidates are in the fray. A total of 1,214 representatives of milk societies are eligible to exercise their voting right in the polls. Counting of votes will be done on August 31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/31-candidates-to-contest-in-11-amul-dairy-blocks/articleshow/77619526.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Why doctors want oxygen pipelines in hospital restrooms||CHENNAI: Oxygen pipelines inside restrooms or at the entrance will help hospitals prevent patients from collapsing inside restrooms or soon after returning to their rooms, doctors said after analysing several case sheets in the isolation wards of the state-run tertiary care hospitals in Chennai. The state health department has now asked the public works department to ready proposals for these pipelines in hospital wards. Government hospitals have appointed dedicated nurses to monitor oxygen level of all patients. “Patients who have high oxygen requirement and the elderly are normally given diapers and bedpans, and advised not to move out of the bed. But hospitals are now noticing patients with low oxygen requirements, who have recovered well, collapsing inside rest rooms. This happens across age groups,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. On Monday, Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital in Chennai and Rajaji Government General Hospital in Madurai placed oxygen cylinders outside toilets. Patients are being asked to use the oxygen before and after using the rest rooms. “There is a chair where they are asked to sit down after using the restroom. The two hospitals will study the difference it makes to patients before we make such facilities available in other hospitals,” he said. Doctors said air sacs in lungs are filled with fluid between five and 10 days of pneumonia infection. While a normal pneumonia may leave a person breathless, Covid-19 patients don’t experience shortness of breath. Oxygen levels drop over days, and patients gradually increase their respiratory rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/why-docs-want-oxygen-pipelines-in-hosp-restrooms/articleshow/77623099.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 15% salary hike for contract teachers and librarians||PATNA: Around 3.5 lakh teachers and librarians appointed on contract basis and serving in government schools under the Panchyati Raj Institution and urban local bodies will now get the benefits of transfer, employees’ provident fund and a 15% salary hike with effect from April 1, 2021. The state cabinet on Tuesday cleared the education department’s proposal for service condition rules, benefits and other facilities for the ‘niyojit’ schoolteachers at its meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar. The CM had announced in his Independence Day address at Gandhi Maidan that these benefits will soon be extended to school teachers and librarians appointed on contract. The education department has proposed a 15% hike in the monthly salary of teachers and librarians who were appointed on contract basis. The proposed 15% hike and benefits of EPF is likely to cost the state exchequer an additional around Rs 2,765 crore. The proposed salary hike will cost the exchequer Rs1,950 crore while the EPF scheme will cost Rs 815 crore. With the two financial benefits coming into force from the next financial year, the teachers and librarians will get about a 20% hike in their salary as per the cabinet decision. “Though the state government intended to increase the salary and give benefits of EPF to around 3.5 lakh contractual teachers and librarians with immediate effect, it couldn’t be possible due to the Covid19 pandemic,” additional chief secretary of education R K Mahajan said. Mahajan pointed out that the teachers’ salary was increased by 20% with effect from July1, 2015 followed by 17% as per recommendations of the seventh pay commission in 2017 and an additional 20% proposed hike. So there will be around a 60% hike in their salary from 2015, he added. According to the proposal, there will be provision for giving benefits of appointment of dependents of teachers and librarians on compassionate grounds after their death during service. It was also decided to create posts of assistants and peons in secondary schools to accommodate those appointed on compassionate grounds. The teachers and librarians with disability and female teachers and librarians will avail the facility of inter-district transfer for once. Similarly male teachers and librarians will be given the benefit of mutual inter-district transfer once. It was also proposed to ensure payment of salary to teachers in State Bank of India accounts. At present the facility is available for teachers in 20 districts only. The provision for providing 5 marks to guest teachers rendering their service in secondary and higher secondary schools at the time of their appointment. Only those aspirants will be given the facility who will complete one year of their service as guest teachers. The cabinet gave its seal to the Bihar Zila Parishad Secondary and Higher Secondary Service (appointment, transfer, promotion, disciplinary action and service condition) Rule 2020, Bihar Urban Secondary and Higher Secondary School Service (appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary action service) Rule 2020 and Bihar Urban Primary School Service (appointment, promotion, transfer, disciplinary action service) Rule 2020 in order to make their service condition rules more effective.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/15-salary-hike-for-contract-teachers-librarians/articleshow/77621430.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kanpur||Another absconding aide of Vikas Dubey surrenders||KANPUR: Dhirendra Dubey alias Dheeru, another close aide of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, who was carrying a reward of Rs 1,00,000 on his head, surrendered before the anti-dacoity court in Maati in Kanpur Dehat district on Tuesday. Dhirendra reached court in a guise of advocate and surrendered before the anti-dacoity court. Dubey was absconding and Special Task Force (STF) and the district police were looking for him and others since the Bikru ambush on July 2 & 3 night. Additional Government Counsel Prashant Mishra told reporters that Govind Saini, accused in the killing of eight policemen, surrendered before the anti-dacoity court at Maati in Kanpur Dehat on Tuesday. His advocate had moved an application for his surrender before the Special court, he said and added that he has been sent to jail in 14 days judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/another-absconding-aide-of-vikas-surrenders/articleshow/77623094.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Rain eases up, NDRF rescues 6 from flood||Hyderabad: Six people caught in flood water and stranded near an underbridge in Gudadpally village in Jayashankar Bhupally district were rescued by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel on Tuesday. The flood situation in the state eased a bit with no rain since Monday evening. Meanwhile, the water level in Godavari, which rose above the danger mark (53 feet) at Bhadrachalam in Bhadradri Kothagudem district, fell to 52.3 feet at 5 pm. Personnel from the 10th NDRF Battalion, stationed at Guntur in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, were rushed to Gudadpally and they rescued the six persons. NDRF director-general Satya Pradhan appreciated the team for their work. Seventeen NDRF personnel in two boats were also engaged in efforts to trace four persons who got washed away in the river Krishna in Narayanapet district. Till Tuesday evening, there was no trace of them. Four teams of the emergency services department of Karnataka were also engaged in the operation with the district officials and teams also simultaneously carrying out efforts. The victims, all from a village from neighbouring Raichur of Karnataka, had come to a village in Narayanapet in a country boat and were returning home after making purchases of essentials and provisions when the boat capsized. Nine others were rescued by locals and officials on Monday itself. Narayanapet revenue divisional officer (RDO) Srinivasulu said a tahsildar was overseeing operations in every village where the search was on. In Siddipet, the district administration could trace out the Innova in which a person had gone missing. The Innova with four people had got washed away between Sikindhalpur and Durgapalli on August 16. While three persons in the car could swim back to safety with the help of locals and police, the person who was driving the vehicle got washed away. Though the vehicle was traced on Tuesday, the whereabouts of the missing person, Jangapalli Srinivas of Rajanna Sircilla, are still not known. The body of a person who got washed away on August 16 was fished out on Tuesday from Matendla village cheruvu (lake) in Narayanaraopet mandal. The victim, Venkatesh of Raghavapur village, had gone fishing and got washed away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rain-eases-up-ndrf-rescues-6-from-flood/articleshow/77621407.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||CPI protests police inaction||Coimbatore: The members of CPI on Tuesday demanded immediate action against the group that posted derogatory comments about the party state committee office in Chennai and senior party leader and freedom fighter R Nallakannu on social media platforms. Holding black flags, they also protested in front of the government and corporation offices in the district and neighbouring Tirupur. J James, CPI west zone secretary, said, “We had lodged several police complaints, mentioning details of social media account that was used to spread the derogatory comments. But till date, no action has been taken on our complaints. More than a month has lapsed since we lodged our first complaint. Officials have also not taken steps to remove the post from the social medi. We want officials to take immediate action on our complaints and remove all the derogatory posts about the party and its leaders from the social media.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cpi-protests-police-inaction/articleshow/77623095.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Positivity rate soars as testing drops||The district recorded 392 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the tally to 9,758, of which 2,622 are active cases. The death toll, meanwhile, rose to 201 with the state including five Covid-19 deaths that occurred in the district in its bulletin. The number of positive cases has steadily been increasing in the district in the past one week, logging more than 2,000 cases in hardly a week. However, the number of samples being tested on the ground is yet to increase. This is despite the state government instructing the health department to increase the number of samples being collected and tested once the positivity rate crosses 10%, as it signifies a surge. When 393 cases were reported on Monday, hardly 2,670 samples were tested across the district, taking the positivity rate to 14.72%. The district, which was once testing 3,500 samples a day with a positivity rate of hardly 2.2%, saw its positivity rate increasing to 6.14% in July, as the number of samples that were being tested dropped. Health department officials said they were instructed to increase the positivity rate from 3.3% (during March-July 10 period) to anywhere between 5% and 10%. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, said, “So, we reduced the samples to 2,200 a day, recording a positivity rate of 9% by July last week and the first few days of August.” Even when cases began increasing to more than 250, 300 and slowly close to 400 a day, the number of samples being tested remained at 2,200 a day. Data shows that 34,710 samples were tested from August 1 to 16, of which 3,906 turned positive at a positivity rate of 11.25%. “On Monday, when the district saw 393 cases, 4,469 samples were actually tested. The samples tested on Saturday and Sunday were lesser because of the Independence Day and weekend. But we have increased the number of samples being collected to more than 4,000 a day from Monday,” the deputy director of public health said. So far, 6,935 people have recovered from Covid-19 in the district. Police, meanwhile, registered cases against a jewellery showroom at Gandhipuram under Section 269 and 270 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act in the day, for allowing two employees with symptoms to work and spreading the virus to more than 50 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/positivity-rate-soars-as-testing-drops/articleshow/77623112.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Pune||Baby beats coronavirus after 22 days on ventilator||PUNE: A 34-week premature baby, with severe Covid-19, has recovered successfully after spending 22 days on ventilator support. The infant also had to be given a heavy dose of steroids to fight off inflammation triggered by a violent immune response to the virus. Doctors at Bharati hospital, who treated the baby (weighed 1.8kg at birth), said he could be the country’s youngest Covid-19 survivor. The baby, delivered at a private hospital on Sinhagad Road on July 22, was moved to Bharati after displaying signs of serious breathlessness. The mother and child had tested positive for Covid-specific antibodies on the seventh day of admission. Neonatologist Pradeep Suryawanshi, said, “Babies born prematurely usually have under-developed lungs so we administered surfactant to treat lung immaturity. But the drugs failed. Over 90% of premature babies respond to this treatment. We then gave him immunoglobulins to boost his immunity, but that didn’t help either.” The baby also developed the cytokine storm — a dangerous immune response that that can affect lungs. Doctors then put the infant on high-frequency oscillation ventilator support, an advanced version of the mechanical ventilator used for newborns. “We also administered a very high dose of methylprednisolone, a corticosteroid to decrease inflammation. And for the first time, the baby started responding to treatment,” Suryawanshi said. Encouraged by the response, doctors started giving the infant two high doses of the steroid within 24 hours. “A normal dose of this steroid in a newborn is .05mg, but we gave this baby 10mg twice in 24 hours over five days to pull him out of the complications,” the doctor said. The baby was eventually discharged on August 17. “This is certainly not a case of vertical transmission in which the virus is transmitted through placenta. But it is definitely the first case of the youngest preterm baby to have recovered from severe Covid-19 after 22 days of aggressive ventilator treatment, along with steroids,” said Suryawanshi. The baby’s lung X-ray, chest ultrasound sonography, and CT scans showed minor scarring of the lungs (fibrosis), which has also been seen in seriously ill adult Covid-19 patients. Senior pediatrician Sanjay Lalwani, the medical director of Bharati hospital, said, “This is a unique case of a preterm baby who suffered severe Covid-19 and required almost four weeks of ventilator support and a heavy dose of steroids, which led to recovery. But there is some residual damage to the lungs.” The family, however, are delighted with the recovery. “Our baby is doing well,” said a relative. “We have named him Pradeep, after his doctor.” Both doctor and the baby also share a birthday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/baby-beats-virus-after-22-days-on-ventilator/articleshow/77623103.cms||Umesh Isalkar
August 19, 2020||Rajkot||Porbandar: Forest guard went to raid liquor den||RAJKOT: Even as Porbandar police claim to have cracked the mysterious triple murder of a pregnant woman forest beat guard, her husband and a daily wager in Barda wildlife sanctuary, it has come to light that the victim Hetal Solanki had gone there to raid a liquor den. While police refused to share any details saying they will announce today, Hetal’s father Vashram Rathod raised suspicion over a forester named LD Odedara who was reportedly with the victims till they went into the forest area to raid. On Tuesday, Odedara was detained for questioning in Bagvadar police station of Pordandar district. The bodies of Hetal, her husband Kirti and daily wager Naga Agath of the forest department, were found with severe head injuries on the rocks of a waterfall on Monday. They had gone missing on August 15. Rathod, who lives in Rapar town of Kutch, said in his complaint that Hetal had a talk with her mother Jamna over the phone at around 1.30pm on August 15. She had mentioned that they were going to raid a liquor den in her Godhana beat. Rathod said Hetal had also spoken about Odedara, who had received information about the liquor den, was also with them. But later they lost contact with her. On Sunday morning, parents of Hetal and Kirti reached Ranavav forest office where the range forest officer summoned Odedara. The forester told them that he had returned after showing Hetal the road leading to the liquor den. When contacted, DJ Pandya, deputy conservator of forest, Porbandar said, “Hetal had initiated the raid on her own. Many times beat guards get information from their sources about illegal activity in the forest area and go to verify.” Barda wildlife sanctuary is notorious for illegal country-made liquor dens. While Porbandar superintendent of police (SP) Ravi Saini did not take calls for the entire day, deputy SP (rural) Smit Gohil said, “The investigation is on and we are close to arresting the accused. We will officially announce all details on Wednesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/forest-guard-went-to-raid-liquor-den/articleshow/77619648.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Mangaluru||DKPUCPA launches portal for online admission to I PUC||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada Pre-University Colleges Principals Association (DKPUCPA) has added yet another feather to its cap. After having launched a portal (result.dkpucpa.com) to announce results of first year PU three-years ago, the association, this year, has launched a new online admission system for first year PUC students. It may be recalled that TOI recently reported the association’s initiative to launch online classes on YouTube, the link to which is available on www.dkpucpa.com. The latest online admission system is a mobile-friendly version which students can use on their smartphones with decent bandwidth. They can look up information on colleges of their choice by logging on to www.apply.dkpucpa.com, link of which is also available in the main website. Vittala A, principal, Kittel Memorial Pre-University College, Gorigudda, former office bearer of DKPUCPA and a nodal officer for the online admission system told TOI that as on date, 165 out of 201 PU Colleges in the district have come on board the new admission platform. Admission process is initiated once a student collects the application number and security code from the college by calling them using numbers of college coordinators on the website. Students need to fill in all entries in the application form, details of which the college and the department of pre-university education will use for all future needs, he said, adding details must match the one filled in SSLC or equivalent certificate. Key is to give a valid mobile number that will be used for all communication from the college. Students must provide at least one mobile number of their parents/guardian for enabling SMS notifications, he said. The other requirement is for a scanned copy of a recent passport size photograph of a prescribed dimension and maximum size not exceeding 100kb. A student can come back and edit the application any time they require till such time they submit it finally. Combinations and languages available in the chosen college alone is displayed for one’s selection, he said adding a student can apply to more than one college based on his/her requirement. Colleges generate provisional admission for students based on their inputs and ratify it once documents such as a transfer certificate is furnished. This saves colleges data entry time, he said adding if DPUE ratifies this system, colleges going further could provide links for online payment of fees as well. This new arrangement gives students a peek into all college options before them and not just the colleges that have the capacity to advertise, he noted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dkpucpa-launches-portal-for-online-admission-to-i-puc/articleshow/77619740.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
August 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Kothrud records sharpest rise in containment zones||PUNE: The Kothrud-Bavdhan area, along with Hadapsar, has recorded the sharpest rise in micro containment zones in a fortnight, taking its total count to 10, which is the second highest among the 15 PMC wards. The Kothrud ward limits had only six restricted zones between August 1 and 17. The area also had the least disease burden among the 15 wards till recently. At 11, the Hadapsar ward areas have the highest number of micro containment zones in the PMC limits. The Kothrud-Bavdhan area share the second spot with Shivajinagar-Ghole Road and Nagar Road-Vadgaonsheri ward limits (see box). PMC officials attributed the sharp increase in the containment zones to the rapid rise in Covid-19 cases in the ward limits. “The cases have gone up due to the increased testing and contact tracing. Even those with the possibility of contracting the infection due to secondary contact are being checked intensively. Age (senior citizens) and co-morbidities are some of the key factors considered while identifying positive cases,” a senior PMC official said. The civic administration had declared a new set of micro containment zones on Monday, which include areas like Kelewadi, Kishkindhanagar, Vrundavan Colony, Azadnagar, Gujarat Colony and Shashtrinagar. “Most of the areas, which have been named as micro containment zones, are densely populated. They are either slums pockets or localities close to slums. The early phase of spread in Kothrud-Bavdhan area had started from these locations. The current spike is seen at the same spots and areas adjacent to these locations. Human-to-human transmission could have been a reason behind the rise in positive cases,” the official said. Vaishali Jadhav, a senior official of the PMC’s health department, said, “The areas with less positive cases earlier are showing an increase in cases now. Kothrud too is one such example.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kothrud-records-sharpest-rise-in-containment-zones/articleshow/77623116.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Warangal floods: Illegal constructions along nalas will be demolished, says KTR||HYDERABAD: MA&UD minister K T Rama Rao, on a visit to flood-hit Warangal town on Tuesday, said all illegal constructions along nalas will be demolished in a month and a committee with Warangal urban collector Rajeev Gandhi Hanumanthu as chairman has been tasked with the job. Retaining walls will be constructed to prevent illegal constructions and occupation in the future. He also announced an immediate grant of Rs 25 cr to take up reconstruction measures and added that, if necessary, more amount will be released. కేటీఆర్ నాయకత్వంలోని బృందం వరంగల్ నగరంలోని నయీం నగర్, సమ్మయ్య నగర్, గోపాలపూర్, పెద్దమ్మగడ్డ - యూనివర్సిటీ రోడ్, పోత… https://t.co/vZm2htsXzV— Telangana CMO (@TelanganaCMO) 1597760858000The minister also asked officials to provide food and water to all people affected by the flood situation. KT Rao was accompanied by health minister Eatala Rajender, panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao, tribal welfare minister Sathyavathy Rathod and government chief whip Dasyam Vinay Bhaskar. KTR reached Warangal in a chopper from Hyderabad and conducted an aerial survey first. At the MGM Hospital, KTR spoke to the patients on the Covid treatment they were getting. The Kakatiya Medical College hospital will be developed as a super speciality hospital and will be opened soon, he announced. Vijayawada: Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the collectors of East and West Godavari districts to distribute essentials and 2,000 each to the flood-affected families. He also told them to conduct an assessment of damage to crops and houses once flood water recedes. Over 100 villages are affected by the floods while communication network to 77 villages has been hit in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/illegal-constructions-along-nalas-will-be-demolished-ktr/articleshow/77621440.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
August 19, 2020||Kanpur||Vikas Dubey’s wife, son immerse his ashes in Ganga||KANPUR: Nearly 38 days after gangster Vikas Dubey’s cremation, his widow Richa Dubey along with her elder son and an advocate on Tuesday collected ashes of her late husband from the Bhairav Ghat where he was cremated after his death in police encounter on July 10. Richa and her sons thereafter immersed the ashes in the river Ganga. The ashes had been kept at the crematorium since July 10 when the mortal remains of Dubey were consigned to flames. Dubey was one of the main accused in the Bikru ambush which claimed lives of eight policemen. Dubey was shot dead in a shootout after a police vehicle carrying him from Ujjain to Kanpur met with an accident and he tried to escape from the spot in Bhauti area on July 10 morning, police had said. Earlier, Dubey had been arrested from the Mahakaal temple in Madhya Pradesh’s Ujjain on July 9. His family also visited Kanpur Nagar Nigam to claim his death certificate. Richa refused to talk on being approached by media persons at various junctions. To recall, Richa had recently told reporters that she took decision to stay away from Vikas Dubey as she did not want her kids to follow their father into the world of crime. She had also apologised to families of the eight policemen. She also stated that she had full faith in the judiciary. She had also apologised to chief minister as well. Richa said she wanted to live in society peacefully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dubeys-wife-son-immerse-his-ashes-in-ganga/articleshow/77623109.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
August 19, 2020||Surat||Amid lockdown, Surat airport saves Rs 12 lakh on electricity bills||SURAT: Taking advantage of the halt in all flight operations from Surat’s domestic and international airport, the airport authorities undertook a major overhauling of the premises thereby saving Rs 12 lakh in electricity costs in the last six months. Implementation of energy-saving measures helped the airport achieve the important milestone, said airport director, Aman Saini. “We have done away with conventional lighting fixtures and implemented energy saving measures. Thanks to the energy efficient and eco-friendly inverter airconditioning system and LED lighting fixtures, we could cut power consumption to the tune of Rs 12 lakh in the last six months,” Saini said. Saini further said that the terminal building’s flight information display system (FIDS) too has been upgraded. “Instead of LED TV screens, the terminal now has LED walls. Altogether, 39 new FIDS has been installed at the entrance and exists to display real-time information on arrival and departure of schedule of flights,” he explained. “We have installed two big LED screens at the arrival and departure for the passenger convenience. Also, we have fixed a system into the LED screens for the date and time synchronisation” Saini added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/amid-lockdown-surat-airport-saves-rs-12-lakh-on-electricity-bills/articleshow/77619817.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Rajkot||Jamnagar: Police constable, wife hang selves; infant son orphaned||RAJKOT: Ramesh Sindhav nearly collapsed from shock when he broke open the door of his son-in-law's house in Jamnagar’s police quarters on Saru Section Road. The horrified 46-year-old man couldn’t believe his eyes seeing his 23-year-old daughter, Jagruti, and her cop husband 27-year-old Bharat Jadav, hanging from the ceiling while the couple’s four-month-old son was sleeping in the cradle. The couple had got married in January 2019 and Sindhav and other family members told police that the couple lived happily ever since their marriage. The suicide pact of Jadav, a constable attached with Jamnagar's Panchkosi B-division police station for the past three years and his wife has sent shock waves across the police fraternity. However, no suicide note was recovered from the house, while police sources claim that Yadav’s Whatsapp shows he was active till 4pm when he put some song lyrics on his status. Talking to TOI, Sindhav, who lives in Indira Colony on Air Force Road in the city, said he had been trying on his daughter and her husband’s number since 11am in the morning in vain. Their phones remained ‘out of reach’ all the while and so, at around 10pm, he went to check the duo in their house. When he got no response despite knocking repeatedly, he took the help of neighbours to break open the door. Yadav had been staying in the quarters for the past four years and his neighbours say that he was a very gentle, jovial person. The couple used a rope and dupatta to hang themselves from the ceiling fan’s hook, cops said. Police sub-inspector KK Parmar of B-division police station said, “We have no clue why Bharat and his wife took such a drastic step. Not only the family and relatives but even colleagues are shocked and surprised. He never showed any signs of being disturbed. We will get to know the reason only after detailed investigation.” Deputy superintendent of police AP Jadeja said, “I am on leave, but I have known Bharat as a good policeman who was very focused on his work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/young-police-constable-wife-hang-selves-in-suicide-pact/articleshow/77619851.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||572 Covid-19 patients undergoing home treatment in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: At least 572 of the 2,622 active Covid-19 patients in the district are currently undergoing treatment at their houses, according to data available with the district administration. Asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients in the non-risk age group were allowed to remain in home care in the district following the surge in Covid-19 cases. Officers say the option was made available some 10 days ago. Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, says, “More than 450 of the 572 have completed five to seven days stay in either Covid care centre or hospital. They have been asked to stay in home quarantine and take vitamin and zinc tablets for one more week. There are 69 patients who are completely under home treatment in rural areas. There are a few in city corporation limits also. Complete home care is allowed only in rare cases.” Home treatment is allowed only for patents who don’t have children below five, pregnant women and senior citizens at their houses. Patients could be aged between 10 and 60 years, with no comorbidities, including wheezing and asthma. “There should be a separate room for patients to remain in isolation and an attender to take care of them. They should be able to manage without domestic help,” says Dr Ramesh Kumar. Home medical care services have, meanwhile, come up with 14-day remote medical package for patients. The package, which is priced anywhere between Rs12,000 and Rs14,000, include a pulse oximeter, 30 3-ply masks, thermometer, gloves, doctor consultation every few days and diet and psychological counselling. Public health experts and epidemiologists say this is a long overdue move. Dr P Kulandaisamy, former director of public health, says, “The district could have allowed patients to undergo home treatment much earlier, as the population is more spread out. It will ensure doctors and hospitals are not getting choked during the surge.” Dr Jayaprakash Muliyil, National Institute of Epidemiology, says the move will encourage more people with early symptoms or contact history to come forward and get tested. “Because they will not fear getting hospitalized or admitted to the Covid care centre forcefully.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/572-covid-patients-undergoing-home-treatment-in-dist/articleshow/77623142.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bareilly||Nepal agrees to suspend road construction on noman’s land till demarcation of pillars by a joint survey||Pilibhit: The Nepalese authorities have agreed to suspend the ongoing construction of a road between pillars 38 and 39 on no man’s land between Indian and Nepal till a joint survey to demarcate the pillars is conducted. The Nepalese side continued with the road construction work, even after former Pilibhit district magistrate Vaibhav Shrivastav had on July 5 advised them to immediately cease the construction work. “A consensus was reached between officials of both sides during a meeting at the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) camp in Kamlapuri on Tuesday, and the Nepalese side agreed to suspend the road construction work till the joint survey was conducted,” said Pilibhit district magistrate Pulkit Khare, who led the Indian side. “During the meeting, chief development officer of Nepal’s Kanchanpur district Noor Hari assured that his country would dismantle the constructed road if the joint survey found any encroachment,” said the DM. According to the DM, the meeting was centred on two major concerns — the encroachment on no man’s land by the Nepalese side by constructing a road and trans-border smuggling. “The encroachment on no man’s land is a very serious issue. After it was reported to the district magistrate office by the SSB authorities, the former Pilibhit DM inspected the spot on July 5 and advised the Nepalese side to stop the construction work immediately, but they did not pay any heed,” said the DM. A joint survey was undertaken in January after many demarcation pillars were either found damaged or missing due to heavy erosion by the Sharda and its tributary Bamni, but the Covid-19 outbreak hit the progress. “The survey is important for the installation of new pillars to demarcate the borders with mutual consent. As the precise locations of the pillars, including their exact latitudes and longitudes, are available with the Survey of India, there is no scope for any deviation in tracing the exact location of the missing or damaged pillars which, in turn, will help ascertain the encroachment by the Nepalese side on no man’s land,” said the DM. Pilibhit superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav, who also attended the meeting, meanwhile, said his Nepalese counterpart Mukund Marasaini and superintendent of the Armed Police Force (Nepal) Virendra Singh raised the issue of smuggling of fertiliser on the massive level through the porous border. “A consensus reached to curb the smuggling through the regular exchange of information between officials of the two countries and by intensifying vigil at the entry points, especially in forest areas. The meeting was held in a cordial atmosphere,” added the SP. Among other officials who attended the meeting were superintendent of national investigation department of Nepal Ramesh Dangi, deputy commandant of SSB’s 49th battalion RK Raman, Pilibhit ADM (finance and revenue) Atul Singh and deputy director of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve Naveen Khandelwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/nepal-agrees-to-suspend-road-construction-on-nomans-land-till-demarcation-of-pillars-by-a-joint-survey/articleshow/77619820.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Raids on illegal sand mining, drugs nets police property worth Rs 86 lakh||MANGALURU: Mangaluru city police, in a silent behind the scenes action while handling the frontlines against the global pandemic, has cracked down on illegal sand mining and drugs in a big way in July and August. In a press communique issued on Monday, city police commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash stated that city police had taken up concerted action on these two types of crime across the commissionerate limits. Raids carried out in police limits either in tandem with the department of mines and geology or suo motu in the two months saw police register 13 cases and arrest 10 persons for illegal mining, storage, and transportation of sand. Police seized 14 vehicles used to transport sand along with two dredging machines, Kumar said, adding the total value of property seized by the jurisdictional police in these cases is Rs 71.3 lakh. Likewise, in action initiated under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS), police registered six cases and arrested 10 persons for possession and sale of drugs valued at Rs 14.8 lakh. The commissioner said barring enforcing a total crackdown on drunken driving since phase I of unlock, when liquor stores opened for business in that it potentially could expose personnel from traffic police to the coronavirus, city police are paying serious attention to all other forms of crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/raids-on-illegal-sand-mining-drugs-nets-police-property-worth-rs-86-lakh/articleshow/77619764.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Deputy postmaster immolates self in Muzaffarpur||PATNA: A 45-year-old deputy postmaster allegedly committed suicide by setting himself on fire inside his chamber in the sub-post office on RDS College premises in Muzaffarpur on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Sanjay Kumar Sinha, a native of Khesrahi village under Patepur police station area of Vaishali district. Sinha left a suicide note, identity cards and other belongings on a table outside his chamber before immolating himself. Kazimuhammadpur SHO Mohammad Sujauddin said police had recovered the suicide note and investigation is going. The SHO refused to disclose the contents of the note. He said Sinha lived with his wife in the official quarters at P & T Colony under Mithanpura police station area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dy-postmaster-immolates-self-in-muzaffarpur/articleshow/77621562.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||HC questions collector for stopping finance aid to ryots||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Tuesday questioned the district collector of Siddipet as to why he had stopped the cheques being issued to farmers whose fields had been acquired for constructing Anantagiri reservoir as part of the Kaleshwaram irrigation project. A bench of Justice MS Ramachandra Rao and Justice K Lakshman was hearing two contempt pleas filed by T Mamatha and Gaddam Prabhakar of Kochaguttapalli village, who contended that despite orders from the court to make payments to the farmers, the collector had asked banks to stop payments. Advocate general BS Prasad told the bench that the government had filed an appeal in the Supreme Court challenging the HC order in this case. The petitioner’s counsel told the bench that the apex court had not stayed the HC order till now. At this point, the bench told the state counsel that they have to either get a stay order from the Supreme Court or implement the HC order. Dealing with another plea that questioned the state government’s inaction in extending rehabilitation benefits separately to those who crossed the age of 18 despite orders from the court, the bench reserved its judgement on this aspect. Prasad informed the court that the government was paying Rs 5 lakh and 250 square yards of house site in respect of young people. “This is in addition to the package given to their family which consists of a double bedroom house, Rs 7.5 lakh cash and 250 square yards of plot,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-questions-collector-for-stopping-finance-aid-to-ryots/articleshow/77621559.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Pune||Dist administration to step up antigen tests with focus on ‘super spreaders’||Pune: The district administration has decided to focus on the “super spreaders”, particularly those in the containment zones, while conducting antigen tests. The main aim of antigen testing is to ensure massive screening of the “super spreaders” — vegetable sellers, shopkeepers, government employees and industry staffers who by the nature of their work carry the risk of contracting and spreading the viral infection. Pune district has 26,719 active cases and health officials said the total number of Covid-19 cases has gone up to 1.3 lakh, highest in the state closely followed by Mumbai district. Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao told TOI that both the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations were buying one lakh kits each. “ Besides, 50,000 kits are being procured for the rural areas to ramp up antigen testing. Pune is high on testing with around 11,000 tests being conducted daily. We now plan to aggressively increase the tests on the ‘super spreaders’,” he said. The divisional commissioner said the revised rate per kit would be Rs410, down from Rs460. The Pune Municipal Corporation recently placed an order of one lakh kits for nearly Rs4.5 crore. Rao said the makeshift Covid hospitals on the CoEP and Annasaheb Magar stadium were nearing completion and should be inaugurated on August 21. “We will ensure best-quality work for the facilities,” he said. New Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh will take charge of the office on Wednesday, as handing over the charge of Haffkine Institute in Mumbai was delayed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dist-administration-to-step-up-antigen-tests-with-focus-on-super-spreaders/articleshow/77623150.cms||Nisha Nambiar
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||BJP hoists tricolour on party flagpole, faces police case||Coimbatore: The Independence Day celebrations have landed the BJP, which hoisted tricolour on the party flagpole at Ganapathy area and conducted cultural programmes at the party office on VKK Menon Road, in soup. On Saturday, BJP functionaries, led by Ganapathy area mandal president Venkatesh, had hoisted the national flag on the party flagpole at a bus stop in Ganapathy area. Similar incidents had happened elsewhere in the city too. Some people took videos and shared them widely on social media platforms. Based on the video, C Ilaiyaraja, 42, of Janatha Nagar at Saravanampatti lodged complaint with police for disrespecting the national flag. The Saravanampatti (law & order) police subsequently registered a case against Venkatesh and a few others under Section 2 (insults to Indian national flag and the Constitution of India) of the Prevention of Insults to National Honour Act. Further investigations are on. The Kattoor police, meanwhile, registered a case against BJP state secretary G K S Selvakumar, party functionary S R Sekar, district president R Nandakumar and a few others for unlawfully assembling at the party office on VKK Menon Road and conducting cultural programmes without any permission on the Independence Day. “They obstructed the road and violated the prohibitory orders,” an officer said. In another instance, the city police registered a case against DMK MLA N Karthik and nine other party functionaries, including district party secretary C R Ramachandran, north district incharge Thendral Selvaraj and east district incharge S Senathipathy, under the Epidemic Diseases Act for unlawfully assembling near Anna statue at Gandhipuram on Monday and garlanding the same without any permission. A police source said they had also conducted a meeting and blocked the road at Gandhipuram. Based on a complaint lodged by Kattoor police sub-inspector H Muthu, police have registered a case against them under Sections 143, 269 and 341 of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Epidemic Disease Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bjp-hoists-tricolour-on-party-flagpole-faces-police-case/articleshow/77623148.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Pune||PMR’s single-day Covid-19 toll surges to highest of 96||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded its highest single-day Covid-19 death toll on Tuesday, with 96 more patients succumbing to the coronavirus-related complications in the region in the last 24 hours, taking the total fatality count to 3,200. A majority of these casualties occurred in the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits (39), followed by Pune municipal areas (29) and rural as well Cantonment parts (28). On Monday, 82 people had died in PMR. Besides, the PMR recorded 2,543 cases on Tuesday, taking its tally to over 1.29 lakh. A report released by the PMC revealed that most patients who succumbed to the infection were aged over 50 years. Of the 29 deaths in the PMC areas, 25 patients were aged above 50. Many of them had co-morbid conditions. The report said 760 patients were at critical stage in the PMC limits, of whom 463 were on ventilator support. As for the recoveries, 99,124 had been cured in PMR till Tuesday night. As many as 1,789 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-single-day-toll-surges-to-highest-of-96/articleshow/77623146.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 19, 2020||Bareilly||SP earmarks barracks & rooms in police lines & stations to isolate infected cops||Pilibhit: In view of increasing graph of corona infections in Pilibhit’s police department, superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav issued orders late in the evening on Monday to earmark two barracks and two rooms in the reserve police lines at district headquarters, and one barrack each at every police station, to isolate infected cops. This is expected to avert infected police staff getting admitted to the L1 facility.According to the SP, one automatic dispenser for hand sanitizer has been installed at each of the 14 police stations in the district, while all police barracks have been completely sanitized, as a preventive measure against Covid-19.“Orders have been issued for those police personnel and cops who are returning to duty from their leaves, to reach directly to the reserve police lines, instead of police stations where they are posted. Here, they will be kept in quarantine for a period until they test negative for Covid-19. Only then will they be allowed to join duty,” he said.The CO of Pilibhit sadar circle, Pramod Yadav, who tested Covid-positive on Sunday night, has been isolated in a room earmarked for corona patients in the reserve police lines, he said. He added that a total of 94 cops have so far tested positive, of whom 10 are active cases. Six of them are being treated in the L1 facility, while the rest have been kept in reserve police lines, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-earmarks-barracks-rooms-in-police-lines-stations-to-isolate-infected-cops/articleshow/77619838.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||AP crosses 3 lakh Covid cases, joins Maha & TN||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday became the third state in the country to soar past three lakh Covid-19 cases, even as 88 more people died, raising the toll to 2,820. The cumulative tally of the state stood at 3,06,261 cases with 9,652 fresh cases reported on Tuesday. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu are the two other states which have crossed the 3 lakh cases mark. Andhra Pradesh breached the one lakh cases mark on July 27, nearly 135 days after the state reported its first case on March 12. But it took only 11 days for the state to touch the two lakh cases milestone on August 7. Interestingly, the latest one lakh cases have also come in 11 days in a stabilising trend. On the other side, as many as 9,211 Covid-19 patients were declared cured on Tuesday. There are currently 85,130 active cases with 2,18,311 recoveries and 2,820 deaths, which translates into a recovery rate of 71 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-crosses-3-lakh-covid-cases-joins-maha-tn/articleshow/77621585.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 19, 2020||Pune||Drastic drop in cases helps three slum pockets shed tag||Pune: The slum pockets of Panmala and Dandekar bridge, along with the bordering Rajiv Gandhinagar slums, have lost the micro-containment zone tag following a drastic drop in the active cases. The active cases in all the three slum pockets reduced considerably in the last two weeks, prompting the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to remove these areas from the containment zones list during the latest revision announced on Monday. The three slum pockets had witnessed an outbreak of Covid-19 infection from June to July with 560 total cases. As per the civic administration data released on August 16, however, the active cases in Panmala had dropped to four, while Dandekar had one case. Rajiv Gandhinagar, the slum area near the Dandekar bridge, has 5 active cases. The slum pockets did not report any fresh cases after August 16. The civic administration officials said sustained efforts and rigorous mitigation steps proved vital in arresting the spread of the virus in these slum pockets. Meanwhile, the neighbouring Janata Vasahat slum pocket continues to be sealed. The slum has so far recorded over 670 Covid-19 cases, of which 130 are active cases. Authorities said that efforts were under way to restrict the spread.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drastic-drop-in-cases-helps-three-slum-pockets-shed-tag/articleshow/77623151.cms||Sarang Dastane
August 19, 2020||Vadodara||Court asks top cops to guide PSI||Vadodara: A sessions court has directed the inspector general of police of Vadodara range and superintendent of Vadodara rural police to guide an investigating officer to conduct better probe in a blackmailing and extortion case. Ruling over bail applications of two accused in the case, additional sessions judge A J Kanani pointed out that the accused were not booked under the Information Technology Act despite the accused recording video of the victim on mobile phone. The case is being probed by sub-inspector B D Jadeja of Bhadarwa police station. The case pertains to a 28-year-old man from Gotri being blackmailed by a woman named Salma alias Puja Saiyed, whom he had befriended on social media, and her two accomplices Shailesh Panchal and Dinesh Patel. Saiyed and Panchal had applied for bail which was turned down on Monday. The victim and Saiyed had met at her home in Manjusar on July 21. When the duo was getting intimate, Panchal and Patel barged in and had started taking pictures and videos of them. They thrashed the victim and asked him to shell out Rs 2 lakh, but as he did not have the money then, the accused took away his mobile phone and gold ring. On the same evening, the man had approached Bhadarwa police station with his complaint and the accused were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/court-asks-top-cops-to-guide-psi/articleshow/77619563.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Chennai||Madras high court shoots down Vedanta’s plea to open Sterlite plant||CHENNAI: Closure and permanent sealing of the Sterlite copper smelter plant at Tuticorin is just and proper as the unit operated ‘for 16 years and 92 days without mandatory valid consent from TNPCB, and for 10 years, 2 months and 15 days without a valid hazardous waste management authorisation’, the Madras high court ruled on Tuesday. The Sterlite unit has been lying shut since May 2018, and series of protests against its expansion plan culminated with the death of 13 protesters in police firing. In an 815-page verdict, after hearing a batch of petitioners including MDMK leader Vaiko and the CPM, a special division bench of Justice T S Sivagnanam and Justice V Bhavani Subbaroyan highlighted as to how the company was continuously operating for the past 22 years with utter non-compliance of conditions to maintain air, water and environment quality besides using copper with high arsenic levels, and said: “The chain of events will clearly reveal that the petitioner has been a chronic defaulter, taking advantage of the slackness on the part of the regulator.”  The bench also highlighted the submission of the state that copper smelters are generally located in third world countries and even in those countries it is not located in areas inhabited by people. Relying on an affidavit of Tuticorin CPM district secretary, the bench said: “According to the affidavit, between 2004 and 2018, Sterlite should have generated a minimum quantity of 25.91 tonnes of mercury. They have gone scotfree, when the Hindustan Unilever Plant in Kodaikanal was shut down for discharging 7.95 kg of mercury. This aspect of the matter is of serious concern, which should have been examined by TNPCB, which appears to have not been done.” As to the claim of Vedanta that if their plant is shut the requirement of copper in India cannot be met, and it will be a great blow on the economy, the court said: “Courts have held that when it comes to the economy pitted against the environment, the environment will reign supreme. Therefore, economic considerations can have no role to play while deciding the sustainability of a highly polluting industry and the only consideration would be about safeguarding the environment for posterity and remedying the damage caused.” The bench also highlighted the submission of the state that copper smelters are generally located in third world countries and even in those countries it is not located in areas inhabited by people. “The state has taken a stand that the country can import copper from outside and is not reliant on the petitioner and therefore, the plant can be shut,” the court said. Pointing out that this is not the first time the company has been asked to vacate out of a state, the present industry could not be located by the petitioner in two other states in the country.” “In fact, when they established the plant in Maharashtra, because of public protests, the government cancelled the permission and the establishment had to be dismantled. Therefore, the conduct of the petitioner, in other parts of the country, is of relevance while adjudging the credibility of the petitioner and its commitment towards the environment,” the court said. This apart, the bench held that Sterlite had no fundamental right to establish a polluting industry, but for the order of consent granted under the provisions of the Water Act. The petitioner could not have established or commenced production of its industry without such consent, the court added. The court made the observation while rejecting the contention of Sterlite that mere lack of consent from an authority would not amount to closure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hc-shoots-down-vedantas-plea-to-open-sterlite-plant/articleshow/77621632.cms||Suresh Kumar
August 19, 2020||Pune||Three-layered mask best bet when out in a crowd||Pune: As citizens step out of homes more bravely each day, one ground rule they must follow is to wear the right type of mask that can provide them and others safety and protection from the coronavirus. Citizens have resorted to using neck gaiters, scarves, stoles, dupattas, handkerchieves, bandanas, even the saree pallo, and other cloth pieces as masks _ against advise from WHO and local experts. Worse still are people on the streets with masks worn as chin straps. WHO has advised a minimum of three layers is required for non-medical masks, depending on the fabric used. The innermost layer of the mask is in contact with the wearer’s face. The outermost layer is exposed to the environment. City-based entrepreneur, Sakshi Jain said, “Many women are using accessories while stepping out of homes instead of masks. It is disturbing to see even educated persons behaving this way. On the one hand, many are trying to avoid contracting Covid-19 and on the other, many are risking their own lives and that of others for the sake of convenience.” A morning walker from Deccan area said, “I step out early in the morning to avoid any crowd. I have an N-95 mask which I pull down when I am walking. However, I pull up the mask as soon as I have people around me. Many people on the way to work every morning only have their sari pallo or a scarf wrapped around their faces.” Elected representatives from the city said they taking precautions to ensure safety. Wadgaonsheri MLA Sunil Tingre said he has been using a mask diligently. “Initially, there was resistance but now many people are using masks while going out. All shopkeepers and commercial establishments in my area have been told to ensure that their employees use a mask that covers the nose and the mouth,” he said. According to experts, wearing the correct mask has become all the more important now to ward off the infection. Jitendra Oswal, deputy director of Bharati Hospital, one of the biggest Covid-19 hospitals in Pune, said,“Many are getting infected through their friends and relatives. There is less caution about wearing masks and maintaining social distance. Preventive measures are haywire in commercial establishments,” he added. A police constable attached to the Kothrud police station said they have been using N-95 masks for the past four months. “Sometimes, I am breathlessness while wearing the mask. I go out in the open, remove my mask for sometime and inhale fresh air. Daily, over a 100 people visit the police station. We keep at least 6ft distance while talking to anyone. We tell them to put their application in a box.” City-based architect Omkar Deosthali said, “We are three members in my family and we have got 12 cotton masks tailored from a local tailor in our society. We don’t go out that often, but we make it a point to wash the mask after we have worn it for a day. We use antiseptic solution and iron it after drying, before use.” Driver Pramod Deshmukh said people are not cautious about the virus. “Those travelling on two-wheelers pull down their masks while those in a car do not wear masks at all. At Market Yard , very few roadside vendors wear masks. In several shops, traders sans masks sit behind the counter. All this is counter-productive,” Deshmukh said. Many people re-use the medical masks which are supposed to be disposed of after one use, defeating the purpose of wearing a mask, experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-layered-mask-best-bet-when-out-in-a-crowd/articleshow/77623155.cms||---
August 19, 2020||India||Shah admitted to AIIMS for ‘post-Covid care’||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah was admitted to AIIMS early Tuesday, days after being discharged from Medanta Hospital in Gurgaon following his recovery from Covid-19. The hospital said Shah had been complaining of fatigue and body ache for the past few days and was admitted to the hospital for post-Covid care. “Sh Amit Shah, Honourable Home Minister, has been complaining for fatigue and body ache for last 3-4 days. He has tested negative for Covid-19. He has been admitted to AIIMS for post-Covid care. He is comfortable and continuing his work from the hospital,” read the AIIMS statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shah-admitted-to-aiims-for-post-covid-care/articleshow/77624287.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bareilly||Class X girl kills herself over ‘pollution and corruption’ in UP’s Sambhal district||BAREILLY: Upset with rising pollution, corruption and some other social evils plaguing the society, a 16-year-old girl allegedly shot herself dead on the eve of Independence Day in UP’s Sambhal district. Policemen tasked with the probe on Tuesday recovered an 18-page note penned by the Class X student before her death and addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In the extensive letter, the minor girl has raised concern over rising pollution level, cutting down of trees and corruption in medical field as some of the triggers for her suicide. The girl also wrote that she always wanted to meet the Prime Minister (PM) in person and discuss these issues with him. She urged the PM to curb the growing population, implement the ban on firecrackers during Diwali and chemical-based colours on Holi. She was also disturbed with problems faced by the elderly people. “I don’t want to live anymore in a place where children send their parents to old age homes,” she mentioned at the beginning of the note. Her family members said that as their daughter’s last wish, they will make sure that the letter reaches the PM and has appealed to the administration to take cognizance of it. The girl’s father, who is a farmer, said, “The suicide note is my daughter’s last wish. We want that the letter must reach the PM.” The girl is survived by her parents and three younger brothers and a sister. She was a student of a private school in Babrala. Station house officer (SHO) of Gunnaur, Devendra Kumar, said, “The girl had committed suicide on the night of August 14 by shooting herself. The revolver was recovered by police and her body was sent for a post-mortem examination. A probe was also launched. On Tuesday, an 18-page suicide note was found in her notebook at her home. Her parents told us that she was getting psychological treatment with a doctor for quite some time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/class-x-girl-kills-herself-over-pollution-corruption-leaves-18-page-note-for-pm/articleshow/77619858.cms||Maria Khan
August 19, 2020||Rajkot||Five staffers held for smuggling banned items inside Rajkot prison||Rajkot: Five staffers of Rajkot Central Jail were arrested on Tuesday for smuggling mobile phones, sim cards, tobacco products among other things inside the jail for the inmates. The involvement of havildar Chimabhai Keswala; subedar Chhotubha Chudasama and constables Bharat Khambhra, Harpalsinh Solanki and Rajdeepsinh Zala came to light during the probe of special investigation team (SIT) formed by police commissioner Manoj Agrawal. Around 10 days back, these staffers were suspended for their illegal activities. The SIT was formed after 11 incidents of mobile phones, sim cards, and prohibited tobacco products were found with prisoners between January and June. On checking the call detail records of the sim cards found inside the jail, the role of 15 prisoners came to the fore. These 15 prisoners were later arrested by the SIT. The 15 inmates during their interrogation spilled the beans and revealed the names of the five jail staffers. “Inmates said that the staffers used to take money from their family members and relatives and helped in smuggling the banned items inside the jail,” said inspector L L Chavada, who was one of the members of the SIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/five-staffers-held-for-smuggling-banned-items-inside-rajkot-prison/articleshow/77619871.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong delegation meets DGP, urges sarpanch release||Hyderabad: A delegation of the Congress members led by Congress Legislature Party leader Bhatti Vikramarka on Tuesday met Director General of Police Mahender Reddy and urged him to ensure the release of Puligundala sarpanch Sodi Chalapathi. Chalapathi, a tribal, was arrested by the police on charges of his alleged connections with the Maoists. He is the sarpanch of Puligundala village in Cherla mandal of Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. Bhatti along with MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy and AICC secretary SA Sampath Kumar submitted a memorandum to the DGP and said the sarpanch is a law-abiding citizen and does not have any involvement with Maoist activities. “He should be released unconditionally,” Bhatti said. Congress members condemned sarpanch’s arrest and said he would not have contested democratically held elections if he followed in the Maoist ideology. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-delegation-meets-dgp-urges-sarpanch-release/articleshow/77621611.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Surat||Woman jumps to death with her daughter||Surat: A 30-year-old woman jumped to death with her three-year-old daughter from their residential apartment in Puna area of the city on Tuesday. The woman died on the spot while the girl was declared dead during treatment at a private hospital. Komal Somani, jumped from the terrace of five-storey Rudra Mani Avenue with her daughter Mishti. While the exact reason behind the suicide his yet to be ascertained, police suspect that she took the drastic step due to some marital disputes with husband. Somani’s husband Ashish runs a saree packaging box manufacturing unit in Udhna area. The family is from Rajasthan and have settled in the city for business. Police are yet to question the family members since they are in shock. “We are yet to reach any conclusion. There are some disputes within the family,” said a police officer in Puna police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-jumps-to-death-with-her-daughter/articleshow/77619890.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hubballi||Allow immersion of idols at designated waterbodies: Greens||DHARWAD: With the government permitting public celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi and installation of Ganesh idols by organisations at public places, environmentalists have urged the administration to allow idol immersion at designated waterbodies in the city. Three years ago, Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation, in collaboration with the district administration and Pollution Control Board, had made arrangements for a hassle-free immersion of large-sized Ganesh idols at Nucchambali Bhavi in Hosayallapur area of Dharwad at a cost of Rs 3 crore. It has a ramp and a separate road for the exit of vehicles carrying the idols. The job of cleaning the water body after the immersion was also entrusted to a contractor. Meanwhile, when the administration came out with the ban on installation of Ganesh idols in public places, some elected representatives suggested that small ponds be constructed in open space/ parks at different localities for the immersion of idols. Nature Research Centre (NRC), a voluntary organisation, has taken exception to the digging of ponds in public parks. NRC coordinator Harsha Sheelavant said some years ago, two children lost their lives after falling into the pond at a park in Gandhi Nagar. Instead, people should be allowed to use either Nucchambali Bhavi or mobile facilities for idol immersion, he said. “The district administration has failed in enforcing the ban on using idols made of Plaster of Paris (PoP). To cover up its lapse, it wants the idols to get buried in the makeshift ponds,” Harsha alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/allow-immersion-of-idols-at-designated-waterbodies-greens/articleshow/77619844.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad gets 11% of this year’s rain in one night||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad received 11% of total seasonal rainfall of 2020 in just one night. The city in the last 24 hours ending 4pm on Tuesday received 75mm of rains against the total seasonal rainfall of 638mm. AMC officials said that Ahmedabad district has received 63% of its total seasonal rainfall of 699mm. The city of Ahmedabad received 80% of its total seasonal rainfall of 798mm. South Zone has so far received the maximum rainfall of 680mm. The lowest rainfall was in the North West Zone which got 582mm. On Monday night, the AMC control room received 49 complaints of waterlogging. The maximum 17 complaints were from East Zone. In the last couple of months, 250-odd trees got uprooted in the city. On Monday night, 12 complaint of tree falling were reported. With waterlogging reported from several areas, the officials activated 1,109 CCTV cameras. Several underpasses were closed in advance. During the night, only Shahibaug and Mithakali underpasses were closed. In the Walled City, there was waterlogging near Teen Darwaza. Water had entered many shops. On Tuesday, the city received only 3mm of rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-gets-11-of-this-years-rain-in-one-night/articleshow/77621660.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hubballi||Worship turmeric idols: KSPCB||DAVANAGERE: The Chitradurga unit of Karnataka State Pollution Control Board has suggested people to worship turmeric-smeared Ganesha idols made of maida so as to keep the celebrations environment-friendly. They have asked people to get details on making such idols by visiting their Facebook page on www.facebook/kspcbofficial. “After puja, such idols can easily be immersed in a bucket of water,” they said. In this connection, the district administration has also released a poster to encourage the public to make and worship turmeric idols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/worship-turmeric-idols-kspcb/articleshow/77619875.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bareilly||‘Inebriated’ SI sustains bullet injury as his loaded pistol goes off accidently at birthday party, later suspended for misconduct||Bareilly: Sub-inspector Sanjay Singh sustained bullet injury in his back after his loaded service revolver went off accidently at the birthday party of a colleague at a hotel here late Monday night. The officer was allegedly under the influence of alcohol and had tucked the loaded pistol into the trouser on his back. Singh was rushed to a private hospital where his condition is stated to be stable. However, according to the FIR, the injured SI allegedly created ruckus at the Bareilly Cantt police station. He hurled abusive at his colleagues and broke windowpanes and flowerpots in an inebriated condition, stated the FIR registered following a complaint lodged by the SHO. The SI was booked under section 504 (intentional insult likely to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3 of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act at the Cantt police station. Bareilly SSP Shailesh Pandey, meanwhile, ordered a probe into the entire incident. “After the preliminary investigation, we have suspended the SI, along with the organiser of the party and two other constables, for misconduct and irresponsible behaviour. A departmental inquiry has been ordered and further action will be taken based on the inquiry report,” said the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/inebriated-si-sustains-bullet-injury-as-his-loaded-pistol-goes-off-accidently-at-birthday-party-later-suspended-for-misconduct/articleshow/77619880.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Govt must reconsider rule for Moharram’||Hyderabad: The Shia community here, on Tuesday, refused to follow guidelines issued by the state government for Moharram procession. Endowments minister A Indrakaran Reddy had asked people in the state to celebrate Ganesh Chaturthi and observe Moharram at home to avoid gatherings in view of the pandemic. “The minister’s statement is unacceptable. We are awaiting Centre’s decision on SOP,” Syed Hamed Hussain Jaffery, president, Shia Youth Conference, said, adding that they have requested the state to reconsider the directives. Mir Firasat Ali Baqri, spokesperson of the state BJP Minority Morcha, maintained that the Shias would mark the Youm-e-Ashoora. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-must-reconsider-rule-for-moharram/articleshow/77621638.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Rajkot||Two die in road accident near Dhrol||Rajkot: Two youth died in a road accident near Dhrol on Rajkot-Jamnagar road on Monday night.The two persons identified as Haresh Bhudiya (26) and his cousin Vijay Dhrangiya (22) were returning to Dhrol in a car. Police said that the car was being driven at a high speed. “The two deceased could not control their car when a gas tanker appeared in front of them. They rammed their vehicle into the rear side of the tanker due to which the car was completely mangled,” said sub-inspector C M Katodiya.The two were taken to the government hospital in Dhrol by locals. A case was registered at the Dhrol police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-die-in-road-accident-near-dhrol/articleshow/77619952.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Bhavani river water contains faecal coliform, unsafe, finds govt panel||A government committee, which was constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to study pollution in the Bhavani river, has identified a slew of environmental norm violations by public entities. The government hospital at Mettupalayam, local municipality and some industries have been found releasing untreated waste into the river. The issue was first highlighted by TOI in its report dated January 20, 2017. NGT, southern zone, had taken suo moto cognizance of the article that cited a Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) report to state the Bhavani water was unfit for consumption, as turbidity and iron values exceeded permissible limits. Local activists too filed separate cases, which were heard together on August 10. TOI had then said the water was also bacteriologically unsafe due to the presence of faecal coliform, the source of which was human and animal excreta. To study this, NGT, southern zone, appointed a committee, which collected samples at seven different locations from the river, which is a drinking water source for 1.5 lakh residents in and around Mettupalayam. Presence of faecal coliform was confirmed in all the samples, underlining the fact that local bodies were releasing untreated sewage into the waterbody. Mettupalayam municipality has informed the committee, headed by district collector K Rajamani, that underground drainage (UGD) and sewage treatment plant (STP) works would be completed before June 2021. The committee, in its response, recommended installation of bioremediation techniques such as phytoremediation and artificial wetlands for wastewater treatment in drain, until completion of UGD work. The government hospital, which is located adjacent to the river, doesn’t have an STP to treat liquid waste generated from operation theatre, dialysis ward, toilets and other wards. The same is discharged into a public sewer, which finally joins the river. Samples collected from the drains suggest that total suspended solid, oxygen demand levels, oil and grease levels didn’t meet the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) standards on discharge of effluents into inland surface waterbody. The hospital too has assured the committee to resolve the issues soon. Besides the government entities, some private industries too were found violating norms. They haven’t also paid environmental compensation ordered by NGT in the past. However, the committee decided not to levy any penalties on the government hospital and local body and requested TNPCB to follow up the completion of works. NGT members - justice J M Ramakrishnan and Saibal Dasgupta - observed that there was no mention of any performance guarantee by the municipality or government hospital for complying with the committee’s recommendations. So, they have directed the committee to revisit the question of compensation. Next hearing is scheduled on November 3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bhavani-river-water-contains-faecal-coliform-unsafe-finds-govt-panel/articleshow/77623167.cms||Ram Sundaram
August 19, 2020||Bareilly||Hit by lockdown and ‘ditched’ by wife, businessman kills self in Shahjahanpur||Bareilly: A son of a retired income tax officer allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself from the fan of his room in Chowk Kotwali area of Shahjahanpur city. Shortly before taking the extreme step, the deceased reportedly had an argument with his father on Monday midnight after he asked for Rs 5 lakh to revive his business According to police, deceased Mohit (35) had suffered major losses in his business since the lockdown was enforced and his wife had also left him. Mohit is survived by his two minor girls who live with their mother in Lucknow. Circle offiecr Pravin Kumar said, “A businessman had committed suicide due to personal issues. We have sent his body for autopsy. There was nothing suspicious as the room was locked from inside.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/hit-by-lockdown-and-ditched-by-wife-businessman-kills-self-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/77619924.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Light rains hit Hyderabad, more predicted till August 21||HYDERABAD: The southwest monsoon resumed its activity across the city with many areas receiving light rains on Tuesday evening. On Tuesday morning, residents of the city heaved a sigh of relief as the sun made a comeback after three days of incessant rains. But the clouds couldn’t be kept out for too long as by late evening many areas such as Lingampally, Chandanagar, Hafeezpet, Khairtabad, Banjara Hills among others received light rains of up to 8 mm as per Telangana State Development Planning Society figures till 10 pm. Meteorologists predict that light to moderate rains will continue till August 21 across the state. “Another low-pressure area is forming over Telangana on August 19 which may lead to light to heavy rainfall in many districts. Heavy rains are expected to continue at many northern and north-eastern districts,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, IMD, Hyderabad. A few areas in districts such as Komaram Bheem, Adilabad rural and Mulugu received heavy rains of 50-92 mm. Incessant rains brought down the maximum temperature by two to four degree in many districts.  IMD, Hyderabad figures indicate that the state has received 44 per cent excess rainfall from June 1 till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/light-rains-hit-city-more-predicted-till-august-21/articleshow/77621656.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Apex Council meet on August 25, to focus on Krishna, Godavari share||HYDERABAD: In an effort to resolve water sharing rows between Telangana and AP, the Union ministry of water resources will hold an Apex Council meeting on August 25. Under secretary of the ministry AC Mallick issued a meeting notice (dated August 17) and communicated to chief ministers of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday. The meeting will be held in a video-conference at 11.30am. Telangana has been alleging injustice was meted out to it on allocation of its share in the two rivers, especially Krishna waters.. According to the agenda points finalised by the ministry, the meeting will also discuss on the jurisdictions of KRMB, GRMB and DPRs of new projects for appraisal and sanction by the Apex Council. The Apex Council is headed by jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and CMs of Telangana and AP are its members. The earlier meeting was supposed to be held on August 5.  But, both the CMs expressed their inability to attend the meeting due to pre-occupied meetings. Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao had asked the Centre to hold the meeting after August 20. Subsequently, the Centre asked both the governments to stop all the irrigation works till the meeting is over. While AP has been asked to stop the tendering process of Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Project (RLIP), Telangana was directed to stop additional works on the Godavari. It was also asked to stop generating power from Srisailam left powerhouse. The August 25 meeting will discuss establishing a mechanism for determination of share of Krishna and Godavari waters between the two states. AP government has been asking to shift KRMB office to Vijayawada from Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/apex-council-meet-on-aug-25-to-focus-on-krishna-godavari-share/articleshow/77621698.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||SC dismisses state govt’s appeal||Ahmedabad: The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed the Gujarat government’s appeal against the acquittal of a Pakistani national, Sajjad Bahora, 28, in a fake currency case. Because of the case, he could not return to his country. Last week, the Gujarat high court had reserved its verdict on the Pakistan high commission’s habeas corpus petition seeking the custody of Bahora. The petition claimed that India has been illegally keeping him here against the will of its citizen even after the high court confirmed his acquittal. The high commission has sought Rs 20 lakh compensation for its national from India and wants him to be returned to his native place, Karachi. The state government objected to the habeas corpus petition and for the grant of an NOC for Bahora’s return. The HC had delayed its verdict waiting for the Supreme Court’s response to the state government’s appeal. A three-judge bench of Justices Rohinton Fali Nariman, Navin Sinha nad Indira Banerjee junked the state government’s appeal. The Pakistani national was arrested by Surat railway police in 2016 for the alleged possession of fake Indian currency notes. He was acquitted in 2018 by a trial court in Surat. The HC in 2019 upheld his acquittal. The HC has adjourned the proceedings on the habeas corpus petition to August 24. Meanwhile, Bahora had also approached the high court in June seeking directions to the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO), Mumbai, to grant him an exit permit so that he can go back to Pakistan. His passport expired in 2017, while he was facing prosecution for counterfeiting. The FRRO was insisting on an NOC from Surat police because the prosecution against him was initiated after his arrest at the Surat police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sc-dismisses-state-govts-appeal/articleshow/77601264.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: 31% of seasonal rain received in 7 days||AHMEDABAD: On August 11, the cumulative rainfall for Gujarat was 481mm — or 58% of the seasonal rainfall. A week later on August 18, the rainfall recorded was 695mm or 83.6% of the seasonal rainfall. In a week’s time, the state received 31% of the seasonal rain. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said that with the new system forming over the Bay of Bengal, it is likely that the good streak will continue for the next 10 days if favourable conditions persist. Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, IMD, said that if one compares this year’s monsoon with last year’s, the major difference is in the spells. “This year, June and July received comparatively lower rainfall. But from August 4, we are witnessing very favourable conditions due to which the rains are almost continuous,” he said. “Moreover, this year the condition of the reservoirs is also better.” However, regional disparities persist. Kutch and Saurashtra have received excessive rainfall this year whereas four districts — three in the eastern belt and one in South Gujarat — have registered deficient rain. Experts are however hopeful that with more rainfall in store over the next few days, the deficiency will be wiped out. On Tuesday, the state had a cyclonic circulation, another cyclonic circulation over northeast Madhya Pradesh, an east-west shear zone over Central India and a cyclonic circulation over the northeast Bay of Bengal that will gradually travel westwards. In August, multiple systems were formed that helped Gujarat get good rainfall, said experts. Till 10 pm, Umarpada in Surat received maximum 127mm rainfall in a day, followed by 100mm at Anjar in Kutch, 84mm each at Bhuj in Kutch and Morbi, 81mm at Dasada in Surendranagar and 80mm at Lodhika in Rajkot. After heavy rainfall on Monday, Ahmedabad city recorded 3mm rainfall on Tuesday till 10pm. In all, 115 talukas of 251 received rainfall on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/31-of-seasonal-rain-received-in-7-days/articleshow/77624913.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: 31% of seasonal rain received in 7 days||AHMEDABAD: On August 11, the cumulative rainfall for Gujarat was 481mm — or 58% of the seasonal rainfall. A week later on August 18, the rainfall recorded was 695mm or 83.6% of the seasonal rainfall. In a week’s time, the state received 31% of the seasonal rain. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said that with the new system forming over the Bay of Bengal, it is likely that the good streak will continue for the next 10 days if favourable conditions persist. Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, IMD, said that if one compares this year’s monsoon with last year’s, the major difference is in the spells. “This year, June and July received comparatively lower rainfall. But from August 4, we are witnessing very favourable conditions due to which the rains are almost continuous,” he said. “Moreover, this year the condition of the reservoirs is also better.” However, regional disparities persist. Kutch and Saurashtra have received excessive rainfall this year whereas four districts — three in the eastern belt and one in South Gujarat — have registered deficient rain. Experts are however hopeful that with more rainfall in store over the next few days, the deficiency will be wiped out. On Tuesday, the state had a cyclonic circulation, another cyclonic circulation over northeast Madhya Pradesh, an east-west shear zone over Central India and a cyclonic circulation over the northeast Bay of Bengal that will gradually travel westwards. In August, multiple systems were formed that helped Gujarat get good rainfall, said experts. Till 10 pm, Umarpada in Surat received maximum 127mm rainfall in a day, followed by 100mm at Anjar in Kutch, 84mm each at Bhuj in Kutch and Morbi, 81mm at Dasada in Surendranagar and 80mm at Lodhika in Rajkot. After heavy rainfall on Monday, Ahmedabad city recorded 3mm rainfall on Tuesday till 10pm. In all, 115 talukas of 251 received rainfall on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/31-of-seasonal-rain-received-in-7-days/articleshow/77624911.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: 16 deaths take Covid-19 toll to 558, tally reaches 1.09 lakh||PATNA: Sixteen more Covid-19 patients died in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the death toll in the state to 558. The health department on Tuesday reported that the number of positive cases have reached 1,09,875 with 3,257 people found infected with the virus in the past 24 hours. Around 1,12,781 samples were tested in 24 hours taking the total number of tests conducted in Bihar so far to 18,99,970. The recovery rate in the state has gone up to 73.5% — the second highest since July 7 when the rate was 74.5% and the number of tests done was just 5,168. “With 4,034 people recovered in Bihar in the past 24 hours, the cumulative figures of people discharged from the health facilities stands at 80,740. The recovery rate has also improved to 73.5 percent. The total active cases in the state was now at 28,577 (sic),” said health minister Managal Pandey in a post on Twitter on Tuesday. The minister said the number of testing in Bihar is rapidly increasing per day. “It was 71,520 on August 9, 75,628 on August 11, 92,414 on August 12 and the testing crossed 1 lakh mark on August 13,” he added. As per the daily bulletin issued by the health department, three Covid deaths were reported from Patna, two each from Munger, Nalanda and East Champaran, and one each from Araria, Bhojpur, Buxar, Gaya, Madhepura, Muzaffarpur, West Champaran. On Tuesday, Patna crossed the 17,000-mark as 368 more positive cases took the total of those infected to 17,294. The active cases stood at 3,393 with the recovery of 13,794 people. Other districts that reported maximum number of Covid- 19 cases on Tuesday are Madhubani (234), East Champaran (200), Bhagalpur (185), Begusarai (164), Saran (153), Purnia (139), Aurangabad (136), Muzaffarpur (135) and Saharsa (116). Four persons died due to Covid at AIIMS- Patna on Tuesday and all of them were from Patna. Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid at AIIMS-Patna, confirmed the deaths. Three of the deceased were in their 70s while one was in his early 50s. Dr Sanjeev said altogether 16 people were discharged on Tuesday, including an IAS officer. “Vandana Kinni, commissioner Bhagalpur, discharged after being cured. She was admitted here about a month ago,” he said. No new deaths were reported from NMCH, however, six Covid positive patients were admitted at the hospital while eight were discharged after their subsequent tests results came negative. Dr MukulKumar Singh, epidemiologist-cum-nodal officer at the hospital informed that altogether 66 patients are admitted at the hospital and two are on ventilator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/16-deaths-take-covid-toll-to-558-tally-reaches-1-09l/articleshow/77621743.cms||Faryal Rumi
August 19, 2020||Mumbai||I don’t know Aaditya Thackeray and have never met him: Rhea Chakraborty||MUMBAI: Actor Rhea Chakraborty, in a fresh statement made through her advocate, has said she neither knows state minister Aaditya Thackeray nor has ever met him, reports Rebecca Samervel. “She has not spoken to him telephonically or otherwise, though she has heard of him as a leader of the Shiv Sena,” the statement said. Bihar police have booked Rhea for allegedly abetting the suicide of her boyfriend, actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Unsubstantiated claims have been made about Thackeray’s link to the case. Rhea’s statement further said that due to an incident that took place last April, when she had accused one of Sushant’s sisters of misbehaving with her, her ties with his family had been strained right from the beginning. Rhea’s statement, made through advocate Satish Maneshinde, said, “Even after Sushant’s death when a list of 20 people was made to attend the funeral, Rhea’s name was not in it.” The statement said Rhea is the daughter of an Indian Army surgeon and a Maharashtrian housewife. It said Sushant and Rhea began dating soon after they attended a party hosted by the film fraternity in April last year. Maneshinde said the couple officially moved in together in December 2019 and lived at Mount Blanc, Bandra, until Rhea left on June 8. Sushant was found dead in same flat on June 14. Rhea said Sushant had argued with his sister over her alleged misbehaviour and it was he who insisted that Rhea leave their Bandra home on June 8 as one his other sisters was coming to live with him. “Sushant had been calling his family, informing them of his decision to move out of Mumbai and requesting them to come and meet him. After several days of Sushant’s calling and crying, his sister agreed to come to live with him on June 8,” the statement said. Sushant requested Rhea to move in with her parents temporarily, but she was uncomfortable leaving him, the statement said. “Rhea had been suffering from her own anxiety issues and often endured panic attacks. Sushant’s conduct also aggravated these conditions,” it said, adding that on June 8, Rhea had arranged to have a therapy session and requested Sushant if she could leave after it was done. “However, Sushant told her to leave immediately before his sister arrived. Thus, Rhea reluctantly left and informed Sushant to let her or her brother know about anything he required or in case he needed to talk,” the statement said, questioning as to why Sushant’s family had waited for over 40 days to get the FIR registered in Bihar. Maneshinde said the comments made before the Supreme Court on August 11 made it evident that it had to do with politics more than truth. The statement said Rhea only knows and had met actor Dino Morea socially as he is her senior in the film industry. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday recorded the statement of Sushant’s father K K Singh as part of its probe into the money-laundering case probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/i-dont-know-aaditya-and-have-never-met-him-rhea/articleshow/77623715.cms||Rebecca Samervel
August 19, 2020||Surat||Students oppose fees demand, seek relaxation||Surat: The students of BTech, MTech and MSc courses at the Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) have raised objection to the fees demand raised by the institute claiming it was higher than the previous year. They have also claimed that the institute was asking for hostel fees when the students are not utilising the facility and studying remotely from their homes. Several students have also requested fees waiver or relaxation in payment as parents of many have lost their source of income and are not in a position to pay fees for the entire semester. Some students are also opposing the tuition fees claiming that the institute was not incurring other costs of coaching. However, authorities at the SVNIT claimed that they were merely collecting maintenance charges and not full fees for hostels from the 4,000-odd students studying there. “Students are studying at their own place through online classes. Hence the students should be given some relaxation in fees till the normal operations of the institute resumes,” said a BTech student. Students of MTech have also raised the issue through their representative in students’ council. “Despite multiple requests, the institute authorities are not doing anything to solve the problem,” said an MTech student. “We don’t have the financial flexibility to waive off fees in the current situation. The institute has to pay for maintenance and upkeep for which we are collecting only expenses from the students and not full hostel fees,” said S R Gandhi, director, SVNIT. He claimed that the collection of charges was approved during a meeting of directors of all NITs. With regard to the increase in hostel fees, Gandhi said, “The hostel fees have not been revised for the last 10 years. We were told by the Ministry of Education to revise the fees on a regular basis, hence we have increased it.” “The institute allowed local students to stay at their place but they will have to pay for the hostel fees since we have developed the facility and maintaining it. There are no plans of relaxation in fees for local students currently,” Gandhi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/students-oppose-fees-demand-seek-relaxation/articleshow/77619973.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 19, 2020||Goa||‘Hand over SGPDA mkt to traditional fishermen’||Vasco: Goenchea Ramponkarancho Ekvott (GRE) has demanded that the SGPDA wholesale fish market be handed over to traditional fishermen of South Goa or to the South Goa Fishermen Federation of Wholesale Fish Market which comprises all fishermen of South Goa. The federation submitted a memorandum to SGPDA chairman Wilfred D'sa at his residence at Majorda on Tuesday. “The SGPDA wholesale fish market was built because of the initiative of late general secretary of GRE Matanhy Saldanha with an intention to serve the fishermen of South Goa and therefore the fishermen of South Goa are the rightful owners of this area,” GRE president Agnelo Rodrigues said. Vinay Tari, president of Cutbona Fishing Co-op Society Ltd said that the running cost per voyage or trip for boat owners varies from Rs 30,000 to Rs 4 lakhs depending on the size and engine of the trawlers. “Today, if we can’t recover this cost, then it will be suicidal for the mechanised sector of Goa,” he added. The traditional fishermen urged the state government to safeguard the interest of the SGPDA and immediately act and take necessary decisions to safeguard the traditional fishermen and traditional fishing community of Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hand-over-sgpda-mkt-to-traditional-fishermen/articleshow/77623170.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bareilly||1 dead, 4 hurt in 2 roof collapse incidents in Budau||Bareilly: A man died while one was injured after the roof of their house collapsed in Bisauli area of Budaun on Tuesday. In another incident, in Budaun’s Ujhani area, three people sustained injuries after the roof of their house caved in. In the first incident, Mahesh Yadav (40) of Pindara village, under Bisauli police station, was killed while he was removing the wooden supports of the newly constructed roof of his house. He had build it 20 days ago. His brother, Narendra, sustained severe injuries, said Pankaj Lavania, station house officer, Bisauli police station. In the second incident, three people were injured after the roof of their house collapsed in ward number one of Kachla under Ujhani police station. The injured were shifted to the district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/1-dead-4-hurt-in-2-roof-collapse-incidents-in-budau/articleshow/77619943.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 71-year-old held for molesting 10-year-old girl||COIMBATORE: A 71-year-old man, who owns a grocery shop near Ramanathapuram area, was arrested for sexually assaulting a 10-year-old girl inside his shop on Monday afternoon. The accused was identified as C Kanagaraj. He was booked under Sections 376 (A) (B) and 506 (ii) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 5 (l)(m), 6, 7 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. According to police, the incident took place when the girl went to the shop to buy grocery items. Police said Kanagaraj took the girl forcibly inside the shop and sexually assaulted her. He also threatened her not to tell anybody about the incident. Around 2.30pm, the girl returned to her home and confided in her mother, who lodged a complaint with the Ramanathapuram police. The case was transferred to all women police (east), Ramanathapuram. Kanagaraj was remanded in judicial custody and lodged in sub-jail at Bhavani in Erode district. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/71-yr-old-held-for-molesting-10-yr-old-girl/articleshow/77623178.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Govt junks proposal to split GHMC into smaller civic bodies||HYDERABAD: Civic elections will be held in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation in its current geographical form. Contrary to earlier plan of splitting up GHMC into four or five corporations, the Telangana government seems to have dropped the idea for a variety of reasons, including problems post making smaller units, legal issues and growth outside Greater Hyderabad. “The state government is gearing up to hold elections to GHMC in the present form. The elections are likely to be held as per the schedule i.e., January, 2021,” a top municipal administration department official told TOI. When contacted, municipal administration principal secretary Arvind Kumar said there was no such proposal (splitting GHMC) before the government. In an effort to provide better services and administrative convenience, nearly 70 new municipalities were created last year, taking the total number to 141. Similarly, the state government had created 33 districts from 10 old districts. Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao during had during an interactive meeting during municipal polls said it was his personal opinion that GHMC should be split into smaller units for administrative convenience and decentralisation. “The idea was to make GHMC into four to five municipal corporations on the lines of Delhi and Mumbai, where they have four to corporations in the metropolitan. It was proposed to have separate corporations for West, East, South, North and Central parts of Greater Hyderabad for focussed development. A similar attempt was made five years ago, and a team was sent to Delhi to study their corporations system. However, it was dropped,” a senior official, who worked as GHMC commissioner earlier, said. The government discussed the issue with senior officials and urban planners and came to the conclusion that instead of leading to better administration, it would create more problems. “If GHMC is split into four to five corporations, it will lead to growth disparity. While south zone (most of the Old City) has limited resources, western part (towards Madhapur, Serlingampally and Gachibowli) has high potential for resources. This will finally impact developmental activities. Instead of this, the government wants to strengthen existing zones, circles and wards,” a GHMC additional commissioner said. Urban planners and town planning experts stated that the city was witnessing exponential growth outside GHMC areas. “The government has created 25 municipalities and municipal corporations around Hyderabad and within ORR. All the civic bodies have about 25 lakh population. Some corporations like Nizampet, Boduppal and Peerzadiguda have witnessed rapid development with about two lakh population. The government should focus on developing infrastructure in surrounding municipal bodies. Social infrastructure in suburbs will lead to healthy urban development of any metropolitan city,” Telangana Developers Association president GV Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-junks-proposal-to-splitghmc-into-smaller-civic-bodies/articleshow/77621708.cms||Koride Mahesh
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 31% of seasonal rain received in 7 days||AHMEDABAD: On August 11, the cumulative rainfall for Gujarat was 481mm — or 58% of the seasonal rainfall. A week later on August 18, the rainfall recorded was 695mm or 83.6% of the seasonal rainfall. In a week’s time, the state received 31% of the seasonal rain. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said that with the new system forming over the Bay of Bengal, it is likely that the good streak will continue for the next 10 days if favourable conditions persist. Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, IMD, said that if one compares this year’s monsoon with last year’s, the major difference is in the spells. “This year, June and July received comparatively lower rainfall. But from August 4, we are witnessing very favourable conditions due to which the rains are almost continuous,” he said. “Moreover, this year the condition of the reservoirs is also better.” However, regional disparities persist. Kutch and Saurashtra have received excessive rainfall this year whereas four districts — three in the eastern belt and one in South Gujarat — have registered deficient rain. Experts are however hopeful that with more rainfall in store over the next few days, the deficiency will be wiped out. On Tuesday, the state had a cyclonic circulation, another cyclonic circulation over northeast Madhya Pradesh, an east-west shear zone over Central India and a cyclonic circulation over the northeast Bay of Bengal that will gradually travel westwards. In August, multiple systems were formed that helped Gujarat get good rainfall, said experts. Till 10 pm, Umarpada in Surat received maximum 127mm rainfall in a day, followed by 100mm at Anjar in Kutch, 84mm each at Bhuj in Kutch and Morbi, 81mm at Dasada in Surendranagar and 80mm at Lodhika in Rajkot. After heavy rainfall on Monday, Ahmedabad city recorded 3mm rainfall on Tuesday till 10pm. In all, 115 talukas of 251 received rainfall on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/31-of-seasonal-rain-received-in-7-days/articleshow/77621732.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: 31% of seasonal rain received in 7 days||AHMEDABAD: On August 11, the cumulative rainfall for Gujarat was 481mm — or 58% of the seasonal rainfall. A week later on August 18, the rainfall recorded was 695mm or 83.6% of the seasonal rainfall. In a week’s time, the state received 31% of the seasonal rain. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said that with the new system forming over the Bay of Bengal, it is likely that the good streak will continue for the next 10 days if favourable conditions persist. Jayanta Sarkar, regional director, IMD, said that if one compares this year’s monsoon with last year’s, the major difference is in the spells. “This year, June and July received comparatively lower rainfall. But from August 4, we are witnessing very favourable conditions due to which the rains are almost continuous,” he said. “Moreover, this year the condition of the reservoirs is also better.” However, regional disparities persist. Kutch and Saurashtra have received excessive rainfall this year whereas four districts — three in the eastern belt and one in South Gujarat — have registered deficient rain. Experts are however hopeful that with more rainfall in store over the next few days, the deficiency will be wiped out. On Tuesday, the state had a cyclonic circulation, another cyclonic circulation over northeast Madhya Pradesh, an east-west shear zone over Central India and a cyclonic circulation over the northeast Bay of Bengal that will gradually travel westwards. In August, multiple systems were formed that helped Gujarat get good rainfall, said experts. Till 10 pm, Umarpada in Surat received maximum 127mm rainfall in a day, followed by 100mm at Anjar in Kutch, 84mm each at Bhuj in Kutch and Morbi, 81mm at Dasada in Surendranagar and 80mm at Lodhika in Rajkot. After heavy rainfall on Monday, Ahmedabad city recorded 3mm rainfall on Tuesday till 10pm. In all, 115 talukas of 251 received rainfall on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/31-of-seasonal-rain-received-in-7-days/articleshow/77624912.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hubballi||Heavy rain damages crops in North Karnataka||HUBBALLI: The incessant rain has brought untold misery to farmers with the standing crops being destroyed due to excessive moisture in the soil. According to sources till Sunday, Dharwad district has received 78mm of rain against the normal rainfall of 33mm in August. As per initial reports, crops in an area of 12,857ha have been destroyed. Green gram which is in the stage of being harvested, was the worst affected crop. Around 15% of this crop in the district has already been affected due to yellow vain mosaic virus, said Rajshekhar Bijapur, agriculture joint director of Dharwad district. Belagavi agriculture joint director Shivangouda Patil said that Belagavi and Khanapur taluks have witnessed excess rain. Maize crop in Basavankuduchi, Shahpur, Vadagaon and in parts of Gokak have been badly affected. In Kalaburagi district, tur crop on 35,000ha has been damaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/rain-damages-crops/articleshow/77619942.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Covid norms to be adhered to at session||HYDERABAD: Following the decision of the state government to hold the monsoon session from September 7, legislative affairs minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy on Tuesday visited the assembly committee halls and press galleries. The minister held a meeting with assembly secretary Narasimha Charyulu and staff of the assembly fter inspecting the halls and galleries. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao asked the minister and assembly secretary to make arrangements by following Covid guidelines for holding the session. A meeting will also be convened by assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy and legislative council chairman Gutha Sukhender Reddy on the arrangements. CM has asked ministers to come prepared for the session on respective subjects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-normsto-be-adheredto-at-session/articleshow/77621729.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Vadodara||Testing ups, but cases stay low on second consecutive day||Vadodara: For the second consecutive day, the number of new Covid-19 cases reported in the city remained the same despite testing registered a major rise in the city and district. Since Monday evening, 1,894 tests were conducted and 107 of these turned out to be positive. Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) health bulletin claimed that 105 had tested positive on Monday from the 1,640 samples that were tested since Sunday evening. The low figures are being seen as a possibility that numbers may be stagnating. The east zone of the city saw the highest number of new cases with 51 persons here turning out to be positive. This was followed by the west zone where 14 persons tested positive and the north zone where 11 tested positive. The south zone of the city reported only one case. The cases were reported from the Manjalpur, Gajrawadi, Gotri, Gokulnagar, Ajwa Road, Akota, Harni-Warasiya Road, Waghodiya Road, Warasiya, VIP Road, Vasna Road, Navi Dharti, New Sama Road, Navayard, Ellora Park, Parivar Crossroads, Soma Talav, Gurukul Crossroads, Karelibaug, Dabhoi Road, Fatehpura and O P Road. Areas outside VMC limits in the district saw 30 new cases. These were reported from Karjan, Shinor, Padra, Luna, Ranoli, Kelanpur, Dashrath, Por, Waghodiya and Savli. VMC confirmed two more deaths taking the total number of deaths in the city to 123. These do not include those persons who were diagnosed with Covid-19, but died due to other co-morbidities. As many as 111 persons were discharged from various hospitals in the city taking the total number of discharged patients up to 5,274 including those Covid-19 positive persons who died due to co-morbidities being the primary cause. This leaves 1,139 hospitalised including 53 on ventilators or BIPAP machines and 136 on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/testing-ups-but-cases-stay-low-on-second-consecutive-day/articleshow/77619615.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Lecturers in the dark over contract renewals||Hyderabad: While the new academic year for second-year intermediate students is likely to begin in September, contract lecturers are still in the dark over their tenures which are usually renewed in June but as of now are still pending. With only 10 to 15% of total sanctioned posts filled by regular lecturers, faculty in government colleges said it would be difficult if contract and guest lecturers do not report for duty. “Every time we ask about the renewal of contracts, officials say there is no need to hurry as the academic year is yet to begin,” said Telangana State Government Contract Lecturers Association (GCLA) president G Ramana Reddy. Contract lecturers also said they had not been paid salaries since June and claimed that non-renewal of contracts is one of the reasons why commencement of digital classes has been postponed. “Around 85 to 90% of total posts are occupied by contract lecturers. Right from the duties of principal to attender, we take care of everything. If the government wants to start digital classes in September, we have to report for duty at least a week before, collect students’ data, inform them about the schedule of classes and ensure they attend classes,” said GCLA vice-president M Srinivas Reddy. Principals of government colleges said that without contract lecturers, guest faculty, and hourly-based teachers, it would be difficult to start digital classes. “Along with regular faculty, even contract lecturers among others have taken part in 15 days training for conducting online classes...They have been carrying out their duties without a contract for the last couple of months. It’s time they get their contracts,” said Telangana Government Junior Colleges Principals Association president KS Rama Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lecturers-in-the-dark-over-contract-renewals/articleshow/77621747.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Close all private Covid carecentres, says AP probe panel||HYDERABAD: The enquiry committee headed by Krishna district joint collector, looking into Hotel Swarna Palace fire which claimed the lives of 10 patients, has recommended closure of all the private Covid-19 care centres immediately. Apart from specific recommendations in the criminal case like booking the hotel management along with Ramesh Hospitals, the committee has also suggested measures to be taken by the fire services department and DMHOs. “Ramesh Hospitals may be withdrawn from category A Covid-19 hospital status because of gross violations and direct the hospital not to admit Covid-19 patients any further,” said the committee.  “All private CCCs should be closed. A committee constituted by the district administration should ensure all safety measures are in place before they are opened again,” said the report. The DMHO should be asked for an explanation as to why MoU between Ramesh Hospitals and Hotel Swarna Palace was not obtained before granting permit, it said. District fire officers of Krishna in the last 12 years should be called for an explanation as to why fire preventive measures are not in place at the hotel for the last one decade.  Fire and city planners were asked to initiate action against the hotel management for violation of fire safety rules. Trade licensing authority should be called for an explanation regarding issuance of licence to the hotel without checking fire safety suitability. “Management of buildings lacking fire safety should be penalised and staff trained in basic fire safety measures,” the report added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/close-all-private-covid-carecentres-says-ap-probe-panel/articleshow/77621739.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 19, 2020||Bareilly||300-bed Bareilly hosp to open as Covid level 2 facility on August 21||Bareilly: On UP CM Yogi Adityanath's directive, health authorities here are working hard to develop a 300-bed medical facility into a dedicated Covid-19 level two hospital. It will begin to function on August 21. Officials said they have set up an intensive care unit (ICU) with 10 beds, 14 ventilators and 100 beds with oxygen supply. Some more equipment will be delivered in the next couple of days. The existing staff will be deployed atthe hospital to work in three shifts. The health department will hold walk-in interviews to hire doctors and paramedical staff on a temporary basis, they added.Confirming, chief medical officer, Dr Vineet Shukla, said, “The Covid-19 level two hospital will become operational on August 21. We have placed jumbo cylinders so that there is oxygen supply for 100 beds. We will continue to treat asymptomatic patients in one of the blocks of the building. We have also requested private hospitals to take turns send their ICU specialists one at a time at the Covid facility.”Shukla added, “We may shift the section to collect samples for Covid-19 test from here to another place. We will also discontinue quarantining suspected cases here."We will request higher authorities to deploy a physician, chest physician and anaesthetic from the district hospital here," said Shukla.Additional director (health), Bareilly division, Dr Javed Hayat, had recently appointed Dr Vageesh Vaish as chief medical superintendent of the level two hospital. The construction of the 300-bed hospital began during the previous Samajwadi Party regime in UP. At that time, it was planned to be a multi-speciality hospital. The building was almost ready earlier this year. Then, the district administration and health department in Bareilly decided to shift the district hospital elsewhere. A committee was constituted to check its flexibility. However, during CM Yogi's visit to Bareilly for reviewing pandemic condition in the district, he directed officials to upgrade the 300-bed hospital into a Covid dedicated hospital of L2 grade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/300-bed-bareilly-hosp-to-open-as-covid-level-2-facility-on-august-21/articleshow/77619960.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
August 19, 2020||Aurangabad||MSEDCL staffers stage protest||Aurangabad: Employees associated with Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) on Tuesday held a protest against certain provisions of the Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, introduced by the ministry of power in April. United under the banner of National Coordination Committee of Electricity Employees and Engineers (NCCOEEE) and Subordinate Engineers Association (SEA), the protesters raised slogans against the government, accusing it of carrying out privatisation of the state power utility. SEA regional secretary Avinash Chavan said despite strong protest from eleven states and two union territories, the Centre has not placed any new amended draft pertaining to the Bill concerned in public domain for feedback. SEA Aurangabad’s joint secretary Rajendra Rathod said provisions of the amendment will have long-term and large-scale impact. “||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/msedcl-staffers-stage-protest/articleshow/77618668.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Mumbai||Fantasy game co wins IPL rights for Rs 222cr||Mumbai: Fantasy sports platform Dream11, a tech startup founded in 2008 by two young Mumbai-based entrepreneurs, Harsh Jain and Bhavit Sheth, took the cricket fraternity by surprise on Tuesday when they made a successful bid for the title rights of the Indian Premier League (IPL). It pipped e-learning startups Byju’s and Unacademy to walk away with the rights while Tata Sons, which had also ‘expressed interest’ in the property, did not come to the bidding table. In effect, all three participants turned out to be Indian tech startups. BCCI had floated an ‘expression of interest (EOI)’ for potential bidders to walk in after their existing title rights partner Vivo India and IPL parted ways two weeks ago owing to the recent tension between India and China. Vivo was contracted to pay the IPL Rs 440 crore per year as part of a Rs 2,190 crore deal for five years. Dream 11 have made a Rs 222 crore bid for the 2020 edition, along with negotiations and tacit understanding that they will continue to own the title rights for the next two years – 2021 & 2022 – should Vivo not return. If Vivo does not return, Dream 11 will pay the BCCI Rs 240 crore each in the second and the third year, under the new arrangement. Should Dream 11 continue until 2022, the BCCI will earn an average of Rs 234 crore from Dream 11 each year for three years, which is technically around 50% of what Vivo was paying for the rights. However, where BCCI will further make up for Vivo’s exit is by bringing in two additional official partners at Rs 40 crore each. E-learning start-up Unacademy and fintech company Cred had already closed verbal negotiations with the BCCI, which were subject to title rights. “Unless Byju’s decide to up the game and bid a higher amount, Unacademy and Cred will commit Rs 80 cr between them to the IPL kitty,” sources in the know said. At an additional Rs 80 cr per year, added to the average of Rs 234 cr that Dream 11 will pay the BCCI for the title, the IPL will be assured of sponsorships close to Rs 310 cr per year for the next three editions – making up for almost 65% of what Vivo was paying. “And that is actually the correct value. Vivo was over-paying,” industry executives told TOI after the bids were opened.Byju’s and Unacademy came up with a bid of Rs 201 crore and Rs 171 crore respectively. Apropos of the controversy surrounding Chinese gaming major Tencent’s single-digit investment in Dream 11, the BCCI is convinced that the start-up “is essentially an Indian company driven by two Indian entrepreneurs and therefore, not a concern”. In fact, the board’s view is that “Dream 11 will boost IPL’s fan engagement that has been lying passive over the last few months”, especially due to the Covid-led slowdown. Meanwhile, despite all the hype surrounding Tata Sons expressing interest, the salt-to-steel conglomerate did not come up with a bid. TOI can confirm that Tatas were looking to make a “handsome bid” subject to certain conditions that did not work out. Tatas’ primary objective was to block three categories (different brands under the group) through the title sponsorship while the BCCI had maintained that the space would only allow the blocking of a single category. “That’s was never going to work for the Tatas”, sources in the know said, adding “but their expressing interest helped BCCI in spiking the bid values”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fantasy-game-co-wins-ipl-rights-for-rs-222cr/articleshow/77623720.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS MLA asks govt to allow farmers to kill wild boars||HYDERABAD: TRS MLA of Jangaon constituency Muthireddy Yadagiri Reddy has asked the government to give permission to farmers to shoot or poach wild boars damaging crops and also allow them to eat its meat. The MLA had recently entered into a verbal fight with forest officials over phone wherein he supported local poachers and farmers for killing the wild boars in Narmetta of Jangoan. As per a government order, only professional shooters can cull wild boars and that too after seeking permission of the DFO. When contacted, Yadagiri told TOI that local SC persons picked up one of the dead wild boars killed by the farmers.  “The forest officials picked up the SC locals and imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 each for culling three wild boars. They demanded Rs 1 lakh for not filing a case. Out of fear, these people paid Rs 50,000,” he said. District forest officials, however, said the ones they picked up were poachers. They were caught with the wild boars, which the officials said is protected under schedule III of Indian Wildlife Protection Act. The MLA said like in Uttarakhand and Bihar, the state government should allow farmers to kill wild boars and allow them to eat the meat.  “I have petitioned to the Siddipet and Jangaon DFOs to shoot the wild boars by sending professional shooters. Paddy and maize farmers are suffering huge losses due to the wild boars destroying the crop,” he said. Wildlife experts said culling of the wild boar is part of conservation as its population is increasing. Wildlife consultant Rajeev Mathen Mathew said farmers draw illegal power from overhead power lines and fence their fields.  “Non-target species like big cats and other horned animals like deer and antelope and canids and even the rare pangolins fall prey to these high-tension cables. This destroys biodiversity, especially wild animal diversity,” he observed. “In large numbers, they also alter the landscape by destroying the bases of large trees. Even in the wild where there are tigers and leopards, wild boars constitute only 3% of their diet,” he pointed out.  “There is a disproportionate dispensation of fines versus compensation. Wild boars are killed in fields away from forests. This issue should be resolved,” he said. When a wild boar is killed, the compounding fine is Rs 25,000, while when crops are destroyed it is a measly Rs 4,000 per acre, and that too at the whims and fancies of the forest officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-mla-asks-govt-to-allow-farmers-to-kill-wild-boars/articleshow/77621759.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
August 19, 2020||Hubballi||Belagavi may get Karnataka’s first Lalit Kala Akademi regional centre||BELAGAVI: In all likelihood, Belagavi will get a regional centre for the Lalit Kala Akademi, a first in the state. The establishment of this centre for art, literature and culture was proposed by general council member of the institution, Sonali Sarnobat. Sarnobat has charted a detailed blueprint for the same, which will have a three storey building, art galleries, garden, digital library, guest house and many other facilities. The Lalit Kala Akademi has approved the plan, while both Dharwad and Belagavi are now vying for this infrastructure. A major impediment for Belagavi is the non-availability of land. However, Sonali, who hails from Belagavi, is hell bent on getting the project for the district. The elite regional centres of the Lalit Kala Akademi are there in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bhubaneswar, Lucknow, Kolkata and Shimla. The proposed one will be the first for Karnataka. Sonali said that after the Lalit Kala Akademi approved the plan, she had spoken to minister for tourism and Kannada and culture, C T Ravi. “Minister Ravi has written to the Belagavi deputy commissioner on July 31, directing to grant land for the project.” The Lalit Kala Akademi has approved the project and it is absolutely fine with setting up the centre either in Hubballi-Dharwad or Belagavi. A total 2 acres will be needed for the project. Sonali is keen on setting up the centre close to Belagavi Airport at Sambra. “The centre will attract international artists. Hence, it is ideal to erect the structure close to airport,” she said. The structure will also have residential blocks for artists to stay during their tour here,” she said. Sonali has also spoken to Suresh Angadi and other elected representatives here, including district officials, to earmark land for the project. This project is executed jointly by the state government, Centre and the Lalit Kala Akademi. Hence, the role of the local administration in finding land for the project is key. As soon as local governing body identifies the land, funds will sanctioned. It may take two years to realise the project, tentatively. It should also be noted that Hubballi-Dharwad has land available for the project, and unless the district administration acts fast, this project may end up in Hubballi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/belagavi-may-get-states-first-lalit-kala-akademi-regional-centre/articleshow/77619970.cms||Shreyas HS
August 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Students get exemption to collect TCs, marksheets||Aurangabad: Beed district collector on Tuesday morning issued temporary exemption to SSC students for stepping out of their homes for collecting transfer certificates and marksheets from their respective schools. Beed’s six prominent towns had imposed a fresh 10-day lockdown starting from August 12. The move was aimed at putting a check on spiraling number of Covid-19 cases in Beed district. However, following the recent declaration of SSC results, the process of admission in junior colleges have started owing to which students residing the in the towns of Beed, Ambajogai, Majalgaon, Parli, Kej and Ashti are facing issues while stepping out for collecting the documents. Taking cognizance of the same, district collector Rahul Rekhawar on Tuesday granted exemption to the students, giving a much needed breather to the students as well as their parents. While granting exemption, students have been asked to take utmost care and follow social distancing norm. At the same time, schools as well as junior colleges have been asked to ensure appropriate precautionary measures are taken at their respective premises so that there is no spread of the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/students-get-exemption-to-collect-tcs-marksheets/articleshow/77618648.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Record 483 cases take tally beyond 7k-mark; 8 succumb||Times News Network Ludhiana: Nine Covid-19 deaths, including eight of Ludhiana residents, were reported on Tuesday. The day also saw the highest single-day case spike, with 483 Ludhianvis and 26 outsiders testing positive here, as per the state media bulletin.With this, the Ludhiana caseload has crossed the 7,000-mark to settle at 7,306. Besides, 766 outsiders have tested positive here to date. The positive cases reported on the day included Jagraon SDM Narinder Singh, 10 police personnel and eight healthcare workers. Chief medical officer Rajesh Bagga said apart from eight district residents, one patient from Himachal Pradesh has succumbed to the virus. With these deaths, the toll tally of Ludhiana has reached 262, besides 59 from outside the district have died of Covid-19 here so far. A 63-year-old woman from Jain Dharamshala area with blood pressure problem died at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala, a 67-year-old man from Chakk Swaran Nath village with blood pressure and chronic liver disease died at Fortis Hospital, where a 56-year-old man from Aman Nagar, Jalandhar Bypass, also succumbed. A 59-year-old woman from Model Town Extension with diabetes and chronic kidney disease died at the civil hospital, a 70-year-old man from Vishkarma Colony died at Deepak Hospital, a 45-year-old diabetic woman from Kot Mangal Singh died at SPS Hospital, a 27-year-old man from Thareeke village, who was suffering from intracranial bleeding and cancer, died at Mahal Hospital and a 75-year-old anaemic woman from Durga Nagar died at SPS Hospital. According to the district media bulletin, 266 Ludhiana residents tested positive on the day. Dr Bagga said 149 positive reports were received from the government hospital, of which 144 were from Ludhiana district, two from Sangrur, one from Hoshiarpur and two from Nawanshahr.Besides, 143 positive reports were received from private hospitals and laboratories, of which 122 were from Ludhiana district, one each from Hoshiarpur, Moga, Tarn Taran, Ferozepur, Uttarakhand, six from Amritsar, four from Sangrur, two each from Fatehgarh Sahib, Nawanshahr, and Jammu. Health officials said the positive cases include 88 from the flu corner, 70 contacts of positive patients, 37 from OPD, 10 police personnel, eight healthcare workers and five pregnant women. So far, 4,761 (67.1%) corona patients have recovered in Ludhiana. On Tuesday, 2,356 samples were sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-record-483-cases-take-tally-beyond-7k-mark-8-succumb/articleshow/77619976.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||New order: After taking online course for pandemic, law keen to go offline in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Litigants and lawyers in Delhi are hoping that courts will return to a cautious mode of physical functioning from September. Last Friday, while restricting the functioning of the high court and district courts to urgent matters till August 31, Delhi high court also wrote to Delhi High Court Bar Association and Bar Council of Delhi hinting at starting physical hearings in a graded manner. Delhi high court registrar general’s letter said that Chief Justice D N Patel requests “you to render fullest cooperation so that the decision of graded resumption of physical hearings in courts is implemented smoothly while adhering to the norms of social-distancing and the guidelines contained in the proposed standard operating procedures.” The decision, it added, depended on availability of public transport and the corona situation remaining stable. The move was welcomed by the two bodies. Much of the anticipation for a return to normal in courts has to do with the manner in the Covid restrictions have jeopardised the justice delivery system. Both the high court and subordinate courts had settled into a system that had begun to pay dividends, with pendency being tackled with a variety of measures. Decades-old litigation were being identified and ended, often by dedicated benches. But the Covid outbreak upended this work in progress, forcing courts — easily among the most crowded public places in Delhi — to close down. Chief Justice of India SA Bobde made it clear he didn’t want courts to become corona hotspots. After the suspension of physical functioning, what stood the courts in good stead was the videoconferencing links established over the years among the high court, subordinate courts, jails and other wings of the justice system. Almost a year before Covid, in April last year, the high court had started a telepresence facility that could accommodate 18 persons from different parts of the city, with software allowing integration with the traditional videoconferencing system, VoIP phones, computers and mobile phones. Mid-March chief justice Patel and senior judges decided to adjourn all pending matters en bloc for June-July, unless a case qualified as “extremely urgent matter” warranting immediate intervention. For most litigants, this meant property disputes, matrimonial cases, motor accident compensation and regular appeals in criminal cases stood little chance of being taken up for hearing in March-August. As consumers of justice, it is the litigants who were stranded. Many had hearings listed for March after waiting for years. Now, they will be lucky if regular matters come up for hearing soon because such cases are heard by way of physical files and currently pose a procedural challenge since they haven’t been digitised. This is why experts fear pendency is on a steady climb. Justice Pradeep Nandrajog, former chief justice of Bombay and Rajasthan high courts, feels ultimately the only solution is physical hearings, even if limited to a few hours per day. “Since virtual hearings started, other than a few PILs related to Covid, litigation in its real sense is not happening,” said the judge who was also on the Delhi high court bench for over a decade. “The system is totally paralysed. The core job of courts is to bring pendency down, end lengthy litigation and dispense justice.” He told TOI of the need to allow lawyers and litigants to at least reach their chamber and argue there. “If half the courts work with a fixed 20 cases, ensuring that only the lawyer concerned with the case enters the courtroom without juniors and munshi, etc, physical hearings can resume safely,” felt Nandrajog. “For a start, such courts can take up old/regular matters and continue hearing urgent new ones virtually. At least the system will be rebooted.” The subordinate courts too have struggled with virtual proceedings, especially since, unlike the high court, the district courts are spread across the capital. And given their financial capacity and access to technology, advocates and litigants in the district courts are the ones facing the biggest challenge since March. While allowing the subordinate judges to reach courts for video hearings if they lacked the requisite infrastructure at home, the high court said that in “exceptional circumstances, physical hearings are permitted in matters of grave urgency and hearing through videoconferencing is not feasible”. A sitting judge of a Delhi court explained that not many people were able to approach the courts digitally. The judge, however, noted, “Urgent matters of bail, stays, injunctions and divorce by mutual consent are being heard in large numbers, which is encouraging.” Advocate Manoj Taneja said, “Courts have begun hearing cases listed for arguments on charge and on other issues.” But, he said, lawyers were finding it difficult to proceed through videoconferencing for want of complete documents at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-order-after-taking-online-course-for-pandemic-law-keen-to-go-offline/articleshow/77621778.cms||Abhinav Garg
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Contract lecturers seek job security||HYDERABAD: Despite not getting their contracts renewed, the lecturers are helping the Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) with the recording of video lessons and uploading them on YouTube. They said that they even took part in the training programme, which was organised to impart skills required to conduct online classes in July and August. “We have been working without any security. Along with renewing our contracts, the state should regularise our jobs. It should take up transfers of contract lecturers, provide them with dearness allowance (DA) and house rent allowance (HRA), job security, health insurance, and address their other concerns,” said V Srinivas, a contract lecturer. They said that they are ready to work even during the pandemic and will do their best to improve enrolment in government colleges. Many of the contract lecturers are working for more than 20 years and are aged above 40. They said that they are dependent on this profession for survival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/contract-lecturers-seek-job-security/articleshow/77621770.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Why ethical duty for only 2 colleges?’||Ahmedabad: An association of parents of final-year MBBS students at AMC-run colleges have taken strong exception to the dean of NHL Medical College’s statement before the Gujarat high court that it is the ethical and moral duty of medical students to take up Covid-19 duty as ‘corona sahayaks’. While, students of NHL and LG medical colleges are expected to file a reply to the dean’s affidavit on Wednesday, the parents questioned why only two medical colleges across the state have forced Covid duty on students while all others have let participation be voluntary. The dispute began after medical colleges managed by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) last month made Covid-19 work mandatory for final-year Part I and II MBBS students. The authorities issued notices to the students for not joining training for Covid duty and threatened action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. The Medicos Parents Association, representing some 600 students of AMC-run colleges, said, “We want to know why only two of 22 medical colleges in the state are discriminating against their own students by making Covid-19 duty mandatory for them while other colleges are being considerate?” The association asserted that students are expected to join Covid duty after completion of their education activities. They need the guidance of experts and one-day training is not enough for them. One such parent, Deepak Vyas, said, “The colleges are talking about ethical duty. After charging fees, they have not imparted education for months together. They have not bothered about teaching students, but are expecting that students should fulfil this moral duty at the risk of their health.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/why-ethical-duty-for-only-2-colleges/articleshow/77621805.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||Number of containment zones may dip, relief likely for Patuli and Sarat Bose Road||KOLKATA: The containment list that is likely to be updated in the next 72 hours may see another dip in numbers. Till late night, police sources indicated that the number may go down by at least six to eight, taking the total number of containment zones in Kolkata to a little over 20. The biggest beneficiary of the new list is likely to be Patuli that will see at least four containment zones dropping from the list. All four have been on the list for two weeks. Only Baroda Avenue near Garia in Ward 110 is likely to remain on the list. Similarly, at least one containment zone in Alipore will be taken off the list. Among the additions, at least two new zones in Barisha in Behala are likely to figure on the new list. Behala had managed to stay off the list for the past four days. Similarly, the Chetla area, claimed sources, might make a comeback on the list. While not much change is expected from the Ballygunge area which has added multiple containment zones in the past eight days, the Sarat Bose Road area may expect relief as it’s reportedly witnessing a decline in cases. The containment zones on Sarat Bose Road and Hazra Road, thus, are likely to be out of the list. Some changes are also on the cards for Beliaghata-Phoolbagan. “The containment zone in the Loknath Mandir area has served its purpose and cases are not spiralling there. Similarly, the slum area on Motilal Basak Lane has been coming in and out of the containment list. We believe the situation is under control,” said a police officer from eastern suburban division. Niva Park in Bansdroni and Rahim Ostagar Road in Jodhpur Park are expected to be on the list. “In north Kolkata, Jugal Kishore Das Lane near Amherst Street has witnessed major rise in cases. It is expected to be added to the list,” claimed a source. Interestingly, the slum in Beliaghata may remain on the list. “While there are around five flats and five complexes, the rest are those with multiple features — flats, single buildings and slums,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/number-of-c-zones-may-dip-relief-likely-for-patuli-and-sarat-bose-road/articleshow/77621762.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 19, 2020||Delhi||How Delhi Police beat back Covid threat||NEW DELHI: In June, Delhi Police reported up to 69 Covid cases in a day; in August, it has come down to six. The credit goes to Project Niramaya, a drive launched in June by the force to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus infection among its personnel even when they get deployed across the capital. The project involves providing immunity boosting food, contact tracing of infected personnel and providing quarantine facilities for infected cops. According to Delhi Police, the recovery rate of its personnel went up to nearly 93% within a month of implementing Project Niramaya. Currently, it has only 5.9% of the active cases reported in Delhi. “Strategising and executing large-scale, first-time exercises like total lockdown, primary and secondary contact tracing, enforcement of containment zones and monitoring of gradual reopening came with unique challenges. The entire exercise was akin to sending soldiers to a war without a full knowhow of the strength of the enemy,” said a senior officer. Police commissioner S N Shrivastava formed a dedicated Covid management team led by a special commissioner to execute the project while the deployment continued even in the containment zones. The team of senior officers have engaged doctors, counsellors and yoga therapists to improve the health of personnel and remove fear of the pandemic. The infected cops are counselled one-to-one by counsellors from AIIMS and RML Hospital. The team also takes care of the family needs of the personnel admitted with Covid symptoms to hospitals. Immunity-boosting food prescribed by the Union Ayush ministry is also provided to the families of all personnel. According to Delhi Police, 1,49,847 such food kits for 60 days have been distributed among its 81,346 police personnel. Six crack teams led by joint CPs and DCPs have been put in place for intensive hygiene checks of the police stations and adoption of corrective measures. A “talk to a doctor” helpline was launched in July on which 12 doctors from Indian Medical Association are available round the clock to answer queries about Covid-19. Five wellness centres have been set up in the police colonies for the cops and their family members. Senior officers are also in touch with their juniors through a WhatsApp group to allay their concerns. Even family members of the police personnel are added so that they get help while the cops are busy with their work. Watch Covid-19: How Delhi cops fought back the virus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-police-beat-back-covid-threat/articleshow/77621907.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||25% of Covid beds in Delhi taken as occupancy up 5% since July-end||NEW DELHI: The occupancy of Covid beds in Delhi has reached 25% — a 5% increase in the last 14 days. The rate of occupancy of ICU beds with ventilator support and those without ventilators now stands at 37% and 38%, respectively. The increase in occupancy rate coincides with rise in new cases. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 1,374 new cases of Covid-19 taking the city’s tally to over 1.54 lakh. The death toll mounted to 4,226, third highest in the country after Maharashtra (20,687) and Tamil Nadu (6,007). According to data shared by the hospitals on Delhi Corona app, top private hospitals Max Smart, Saket, Max Patparganj, Indraprastha Apollo, Fortis Vasant Kunj, BLK Super Specialty, Venkateshwar, Fortis Escorts Heart Institute, Aakash Healthcare and Moolchand Hospital among others did not have any vacant ICU bed with ventilator support available at 10pm on Tuesday. Many of these hospitals did not have ICU beds without a ventilator either. “We are getting many patients from other states also. People are rushing to Delhi for critical care because many places in Bihar, UP and Madhya Pradesh lack infrastructure for ICU care for Covid-19 patients,” a senior doctor said. The occupancy of Covid beds in Delhi’s hospitals had reduced to less than 3,000 on July 30 and continued to be so till August 5. But in the last two weeks, it has gone up significantly. At Lok Nayak Hospital, which is the largest Covid designated hospital in the state, 400 patients with Covid-19 are admitted. AIIMS, Delhi has 154 Covid-19 patients admitted, officials said. The demand for ICU beds with and without ventilator support has also gone up, shows data shared by the hospitals. The occupancy rate of Covid Care Centres and Covid Health Centres is 6% and 28%, respectively. “Total 4,311 beds in Covid Care Centres are occupied. Of them, 637 occupants are local residents and the rest 3,674 beds are occupied by persons under quarantine, including travellers who came by Vande Bharat Mission and Bubble flight,” the state health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/25-of-covid-beds-taken-as-occupancy-up-5-since-july-end/articleshow/77621786.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
August 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||More prisoners, officials test positive in T’puram||Thiruvananthapuram: As the antigen testing by district medical authorities continue at the prison complex at Poojapura, more people turn out to be positive for Covid-19. As many as five officials at the central prison and 36 inmates of district jail were tested positive on Tuesday. While the officials were shifted to the CFLTC functioning at LBS Institute of Technology for Women, located adjacent to the prison complex, the inmates of the district jail who turned positive were shifted to the Covid block in the central jail. The tests among central jail inmates were completed on Monday. What is worrying the prison authorities is that almost half of the total inmates of the central prison, 470 out of 970, are Covid positive. One of them even died on Sunday. Ten staff of central jail have already turned positive. The total strength of the staff here is more than 270. On Tuesday, 264 officials took the test. Apart from this, the chief medical officer of the central jail too was tested positive. Currently seven inmates of the prison are under treatment at the Medical College Hospital. One of them, aged above 80, has been admitted to the Corona ICU. In the district jail, all 130 inmates as well as the entire staff took the test on Tuesday and all the staff turned out negative. Meanwhile, the authorities have also taken measures to grant parole to more inmates, especially those above 65. Accordingly, 44 convicts were granted parole and among them, five could go home after their relatives turned up to pick them. The eight inmates of Open Jail for Women situated inside the Poojapura prison complex too have been shifted to the women’s prison at Attakkulangara. Besides the central jail, district jail and open jail for women, the prison complex here also has a special sub-jail that has 130 inmates. Tests were conducted in the sub-jail on last Thursday, in which three inmates turned positive. They were also shifted to the central jail. Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the state human rights commission directed the government to turn government institutions near prisons into CFLTCs if there is shortage of space to quarantine the infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/more-prisoners-officials-test-positive-in-tpuram/articleshow/77620049.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ludhiana||SEL fund diversion: Report hints at involvement of another firm||Ludhiana: A day after TOI reported registration of an FIR against directors of SEL Textile Limited, startling details of the forensic audit conducted by lending banks have emerged. The city-based textile company owes more than Rs 1,530.99 crore to banks. In the forensic audit report, another big textile company of Ludhiana has been accused of facilitating “Kite flying operations and fund diversion” by the company. The report claims that in some of the transactions, the truck shown to have been used for transporting goods between both companies has been found to be non-existent. The CBI has not named the other company or its owner as accused in its FIR against SEL Textile Limited.According to the forensic audit report, “ ***** Group (name withheld) is a closely held entity operating out of Ludhiana. The company was identified as one of the key participants with its other group companies in facilitating the ‘kite flying operations’ and ‘facilitating diversion’ resorted through a chain of purchase and sale of Duty Free items executed through circular and layered route adopted by the company for the purpose. Large number of transactions involving huge amounts carried out between M/S SEL textile Limited and M/S ********** Limited (name withheld).” The report further says, “On further scrutiny, it is found that the lorry used for transporting the goods was not in existence in some of the cases. Company (SEL) failed on account of inefficient execution, poor capitalisation and lack of transparency of high levels. Money trail of the end use of funds granted by the working capital and term lenders exposed the diversion of funds by using a circular and layered route by using the combination of suppliers, customers who are considered suspect, related parties and the holding company by entering into unwarranted large transactions which could not be linked to the business plan.” Report mentions dealings of SEL with several Dubai-based companies and says, “There have been huge transactions by the accused company (SEL) with some firms (including the Ludhiana-based textile group) which are not genuine trade transactions. The transactions have been made by the company through its directors in connivance with each other not only to divert huge funds with an intention to defraud the complainant bank but also to siphon off public money out of India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sel-fund-diversion-report-hints-at-involvement-of-another-firm/articleshow/77619997.cms||Mohit Behl
August 19, 2020||Surat||SVNIT grad’s tech platform gets nod||Surat: Amid the Covid-19 crisis when educational institutes are yet to function normally, an engineering graduate from Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) has developed a free online data-sharing platform along with his brother.Designed to help students, Harnish Rajput and his brother Dharmesh, both engineers floated the platform – piblitz.com – which has also been recognized by the Startup India. While students can host their projects on this platform, all members can join it remotely.Harnish completed his engineering from SVNIT this year, while his elder brother completed his engineering studies from Government Engineering College, Bharuch in 2018. “In current times when online learning is considered the only option, there was a need for an online platform where students can host their projects and multiple members can join remotely. Earlier the students had to use various communication platforms like mobile phone, e-mail, or cloud but with this, they can share and receive data at one place,” he said.The duo also claimed that this will serve as an open-source knowledge sharing for other students and project data put on a public platform that can be used by those working on similar projects.The project is considered helpful by students of SVNIT who have already started using it. “This platform is very useful for students when most academic activities are online. This helps us store, share, and find solutions,” said Meet Gandhi, who too completed his BTech from SVNIT this year.“It is a unique project and they are getting good responses from the users as it provides a platform for sharing technical information at one place,” said Darshan Mehta, manager, incubation at SVNIT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/svnit-grads-tech-platform-gets-nod/articleshow/77620082.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||GU exams in 2 phases in Sep||Ahmedabad: Gujarat University (GU) will hold exams for arts, commerce, science and law students in two phases from September 3 and September 12. About 70,000 students in various GU-affiliated colleges are expected to take this offline (pen and paper) format exams that are to end on September 20. Students who have applied for online exams, the university will hold exams for them separately, the dates of which are yet to be announced. As many as 12,000 students have so far registered for online exams that will be held after September 30, said sources in GU. On Tuesday, GU announced the dates for holding exams as per which postgraduate courses including MA fourth semester, LLB (2,4,6 semester), LLM (1, 3 semester) and MCom fourth semester students, will have to take the exams in the first phase starting September 3. Candidates pursuing their undergraduate studies like BCom, BA, BSc, BBA, BCA, will participate in the second round of offline exams starting September 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-exams-in-2-phases-in-sep/articleshow/77621792.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Vadodara||Four districts accounted for 56% of weekly cases||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday added 1,126 positive cases, taking the total to 80,942. It was the highest daily cases tally in six days. The cases include 252 from Surat, 165 from Ahmedabad, 111 from Vadodara and 98 from Rajkot. The state also recorded deaths of 20 positive patients, taking the toll to 2,822. The deaths include seven from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two each from Amreli, Bhavnagar and Kutch, and one each from Gir Somnath, Rajkot and Vadodara. Analysis of the weekly Covid-19 cases and deaths reveal that the four major districts – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot – accounted for 56% of the weekly cases (4,291 out of 7,704) and 74% of the deaths (93 out of 125). Cumulative mortality rate of the four districts was 2.17%. A total of 1,131 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 63,710. The discharges include 348 from Surat, 178 from Ahmedabad, 111 from Vadodara, and 73 from Jamnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/4-dists-accounted-for-56-of-weekly-cases/articleshow/77630009.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Debt-ridden gambler arrested for duping friend’s dad of Rs 31 lakh||Times News Network Ludhiana: The police have arrested Sham Lal, 42, of Kabir Nagar for duping his friend’s father of Rs 31 lakh on the pretext of doubling his money. Rs 3.67 lakh cash and a scooter used in the crime have been recovered from the accused. The police have also identified one of his accomplices as Happy Sharma of Gagandeep Colony, while two more are yet to be recognised. Joint commissioner of police (city) Bhagirath Singh Meena said Manpreet Singh of Guru Nanak Nagar had lodged a complaint, saying Sham Lal had lured his father, Joginder Singh, with an investment scheme to double his money and asked him to put in Rs 25 lakh. On July 17, the accused called up his father from an unknown number and said the CIA staff of Chandigarh Police had arrested him with Rs 25 lakh and they would arrest him too if he did not bribe them. Complainant Manpreet Singh alleged that the accused asked his father to arrange Rs 6 lakh to bribe the cops. Once he and his father arranged the money, an accomplice of Sham Lal, impersonating as a CIA staff member, took Rs 6 lakh from them. Manpreet Singh said he followed the imposter and saw him entering the house of Sham Lal in Kabir Nagar. He found the matter suspicious and lodged a police complaint. Meena said the Daresi police had lodged an FIR under sections 420 (cheating), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC against Sham Lal and his accomplices on August 15 and have now arrested the former. During questioning, the accused told police that he exchanged damaged notes on commission. He was debt-ridden and had lost money in gambling. The lenders were pressuring him to return the money. He knew Joginder Singh had money and it was easy to lure him on the pretext of doubling his wealth. He admitted to having concocted the CIA arrest story. Happy Sharma, who impersonated as a cop and collected Rs 6 lakh from Joginder Singh, and his accomplices had got Rs 13 lakh for the task. The police are trying to trace the on-the-run accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/debt-ridden-gambler-arrested-for-duping-friends-dad-of-rs-31-lakh/articleshow/77620037.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Apply for home isolation via app||Times News Network Ludhiana: Asymptomatic Covid patients and those with mild symptoms, who are below the age of 60, can now apply for home isolation facility via an application — Home Isolation Ludhiana — developed by the district administration. For availing the facility, they will have to make a video of themselves, showing a separate room with attached bathroom and a caretaker. After the video is submitted, the patient will get a confirmation message. Once the application is submitted, the patient will be able to select a timeslot during which (s)he wants to visit the Covid Care Centre set up at Meritorious School, Ludhiana, for final approval. If the patient is not feeling well, her/his attendant can also visit Meritorious School for final approval. Earlier, the patients had to visit civil hospital to apply for home isolation. While launching the app via video-conferencing, member of Parliament from Fatehgarh Sahib Dr Amar Singh said, “The app is presently available on Google Play Store (for android phones) and will be launched on the iOS platform (for iPhones) in the next few days. This app can also be downloaded by visiting the web link, https://homeisolationpunjab.in.” “Earlier, those who tested positive for Covid-19 had to visit government hospitals to apply for home isolation. But now they can do so by simply using this mobile app,” he added. Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said only below 60-year-old patients who were asymptomatic or had mild symptoms would be eligible to apply for home isolation. “Residents are requested to submit correct information at the time of applying for it. This is the second mobile app launched by the district administration in the last few days. On August 9, app HBMS Punjab, through which residents can check real-time status of vacant beds in both private and government hospitals, was launched. People can also check the status of vacant beds on official web link “https://ludhiana.nic.in/notice/covid-19-bed-status-in-ludhiana-district/” or “www.hbmspunjab.in”. The list of all private hospitals offering Covid treatment has been provided on the app as well as the web links,” he added. Besides, Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal on Monday night launched four numbers for residents if they face any problem while getting their corona test done at government hospital or centres. Agarwal said, “There are 10 places where city residents can get themselves tested for free between 8am and 4pm. Four numbers — 7814764759, 7814363850, 6284912553, 6284531852 — have been launched to assist them.” You can go for a free Covid test here 1. Civil hospital, Ludhiana 2. Meritorious School, Ludhiana 3. Urban Community Health Centre, Vardhman 4. Urban Community Health Centre, Jawaddi 5. Urban Community Health Centre, Subash Nagar 6. Urban Community Health Centre, Giaspura 7.Sub-sivisional Hospital, Khanna 8. Sub-divisional Hospital, Jagraon 9. Sub-divisional Hospital, Samrala 10. Sub-divisional Hospital, Raikot Helpline numbers 7814764759 7814363850 6284912553 6284531852||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/apply-for-home-isolation-via-app/articleshow/77620016.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: 17 fined for drinking inside Gautala sanctuary||AURANGABAD: The wildlife division of Aurangabad forest department took action against 17 revellers at Gautala Autramghat wildlife sanctuary, recovering a fine of Rs 44,500. While the sanctuary has been officially closed since the Covid-19 outbreak, wildlife activists have raised questions as how could people enter the sanctuary. Range forest officer Sagar Dhole said 17 people from Aurangabad and Jalgaon districts were caught while consuming liquor inside the sanctuary. On being asked about the entry of visitors into the sanctuary despite it being closed, Dhole said that individuals cite various reasons for driving through the sanctuary. “We have asked our ground staff to increase the vigil as flow of tourists increases during monsoon,” he said. Meanwhile, wildlife activist Kishor Pathak said free flow of visitors is going on inside the sanctuary despite lockdown. “There is no proper check at the entry points and poor vigil inside the sanctuary remains an issue,” he said. A visit by TOI on August 15, had revealed many visitors thronging the wildlife sanctuary with no adequate checks at the entry points.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/17-fined-for-drinking-inside-gautala-sanctuary/articleshow/77618688.cms||Prasad Joshi
August 19, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MSRTC to set up 30 petrol, diesel and LNG pumps||MUMBAI: MSRTC, which incurred huge losses during Covid-19, on Tuesday said it will set up 30 petrol and diesel pumps, five liquefied natural gas (LNG) pumps to earn more revenue. MSRTC managing director Shekhar Channe told TOI it will be a “new business venture”. “Indian Oil Corporation will help us to set up the pumps and infrastructure. The pumps will come up on MSRTC land. They will be operated by our officials and profits will go into our kitty,” he said. An MoU was signed between MSRTC and IOC officials in the presence of state transport minister Anil Parab, who expedited the plan. “With transportation not generating steady income and losses mounting during Covid, the state bus corporation decided to go in for dealership,” Parab said. MSRTC’s accumulated losses are Rs 6,000 crore and it is incurring a daily loss of around Rs 22 crore, with most buses in the 18,000-strong fleet lying idle or operating with few passengers. “We started an ST truck business in May for transportation of vegetables, fruits and other commodities to earn more and curtail losses. But we wanted to explore more areas,” said Channe. Two petrol and diesel pumps will be in Palghar division, three in Nashik, one in Aurangabad, four in Beed, two in Jalgaon, one in Dhule, two in Buldana, one in Jalna, two each in Ratnagiri, Akola and Wardha, one each in Yavatmal, Gadchiroli, Amravati, Ahmednagar, Satara and Pune and two at Solapur. An official said, “It’s time we generate more revenue as we are unable to pay salaries.” Staff got 50% pay in May and no salary for June and July. They received August’s dues only. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar recently sanctioned Rs 550 crore but officials said at least Rs 2,000 crore was needed for six months. MSRTC has over a lakh staffers, including 34,000 drivers and an equal number of conductors, who are frontline workers during Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msrtc-to-set-up-30-petrol-diesel-and-lng-pumps/articleshow/77622257.cms||Somit Sen
August 19, 2020||Mumbai||Fatal road crashes, deaths in Mumbai drop nearly 60% over March-July last year||MUMBAI: Fatal road crashes and casualties in the city dropped by more than half during the lockdown months of March to July compared to the same period last year. Seventy-four fatal accidents left 77 people dead during the past five months. By comparison, between March and July 2019, 175 fatal crashes had killed 188 people. Meanwhile, serious, non-fatal crashes have dipped by just 10% during the same period. Traffic police attribute this to mechanical faults in vehicles lying unused for long during the lockdown months and then being brought out on the streets. “As the city has started to gradually unlock, we are finding many vehicles on the streets that are not road-worthy. There have been many more instances of vehicles turning turtle or getting involved in collisions. Motorists have been driving with the expectation that the vehicle will function in a certain way, which it doesn’t. Our appeal is to get vehicles thoroughly serviced and checked before setting out on the roads and do not step out for non essential purposes,” said Madhukar Pandey, joint commissioner, traffic. Both fatal and non-fatal accidents have been gradually rising since May though. From 10 fatal accidents in May, the numbers rose to 15 in June and 22 in July. “Studies in the US have shown that while there were fewer accidents when people stayed indoors, the numbers picked up as they began to restart activity outdoors. With the high traffic volume in Mumbai, there is a concern here as well that accidents would surge once lockdown ends,” said Amruta Ponkshe, who works on mobility and urban infrastructure with the Observer Research Foundation (ORF). She said incomplete road works were another reason for the crashes. “As people who have been indoors for months are now stepping out, more awareness needs to be built about road safety which hasn’t been strong in the first place.” In May, Aaryaman Nagpal, the 18-year-old son of a hotelier, was killed when a car steered by his friend, Shaurya Jain, crashed into a bus at Marine Drive. In a separate case in the same month, Hitesh Golchha, the owner of a car service centre, died after his Jaguar rammed into a stationery tempo. “The lockdown has presented us with an opportunity to get back to working on road safety. This would be a good time to look at solutions to curb traffic volumes and fatalities such as intelligent traffic management systems and non-motorized transport. Levying congestion pricing can be considered particularly since the need for social distancing is likely to push people away from public transport and towards private transport,” Ponkshe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fatal-road-crashes-deaths-in-city-drop-nearly-60-over-march-july-last-year/articleshow/77623737.cms||Nitasha Natu
August 19, 2020||Rajkot||Four districts accounted for 56% of weekly cases||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday added 1,126 positive cases, taking the total to 80,942. It was the highest daily cases tally in six days. The cases include 252 from Surat, 165 from Ahmedabad, 111 from Vadodara and 98 from Rajkot. The state also recorded deaths of 20 positive patients, taking the toll to 2,822. The deaths include seven from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two each from Amreli, Bhavnagar and Kutch, and one each from Gir Somnath, Rajkot and Vadodara. Analysis of the weekly Covid-19 cases and deaths reveal that the four major districts – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot – accounted for 56% of the weekly cases (4,291 out of 7,704) and 74% of the deaths (93 out of 125). Cumulative mortality rate of the four districts was 2.17%. A total of 1,131 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 63,710. The discharges include 348 from Surat, 178 from Ahmedabad, 111 from Vadodara, and 73 from Jamnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/4-dists-accounted-for-56-of-weekly-cases/articleshow/77630010.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Surat||Four districts accounted for 56% of weekly cases||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday added 1,126 positive cases, taking the total to 80,942. It was the highest daily cases tally in six days. The cases include 252 from Surat, 165 from Ahmedabad, 111 from Vadodara and 98 from Rajkot. The state also recorded deaths of 20 positive patients, taking the toll to 2,822. The deaths include seven from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two each from Amreli, Bhavnagar and Kutch, and one each from Gir Somnath, Rajkot and Vadodara. Analysis of the weekly Covid-19 cases and deaths reveal that the four major districts – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot – accounted for 56% of the weekly cases (4,291 out of 7,704) and 74% of the deaths (93 out of 125). Cumulative mortality rate of the four districts was 2.17%. A total of 1,131 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 63,710. The discharges include 348 from Surat, 178 from Ahmedabad, 111 from Vadodara, and 73 from Jamnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/4-dists-accounted-for-56-of-weekly-cases/articleshow/77630011.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Four districts accounted for 56% of weekly cases||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Tuesday added 1,126 positive cases, taking the total to 80,942. It was the highest daily cases tally in six days. The cases include 252 from Surat, 165 from Ahmedabad, 111 from Vadodara and 98 from Rajkot. The state also recorded deaths of 20 positive patients, taking the toll to 2,822. The deaths include seven from Surat, four from Ahmedabad, two each from Amreli, Bhavnagar and Kutch, and one each from Gir Somnath, Rajkot and Vadodara. Analysis of the weekly Covid-19 cases and deaths reveal that the four major districts – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, and Rajkot – accounted for 56% of the weekly cases (4,291 out of 7,704) and 74% of the deaths (93 out of 125). Cumulative mortality rate of the four districts was 2.17%. A total of 1,131 patients got discharged in 24 hours, taking the total to 63,710. The discharges include 348 from Surat, 178 from Ahmedabad, 111 from Vadodara, and 73 from Jamnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/4-dists-accounted-for-56-of-weekly-cases/articleshow/77621788.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar flays confusion over Ganesh Chaturthi festivities||HYDERABAD: State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday said the government was creating confusion and misleading people on the Ganesh Chaturthi festivities. In a press statement, he said the government should take concrete steps for peaceful conduct of the festivities. “There is no clarity on the part of the government. Police are saying no pandals would be allowed and the festivities should be held at home,” he said. “We condemn this anti-Hindu stand,” he said. He said the government was hurting Hindu sentiments by curtailing the festivities in the name of Covid-19. “We are in solidarity with the Ganesh Utsav Samithi on organising the festivities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bandi-flays-confusion-over-festivities/articleshow/77621784.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||Banquet halls may be delinked from Delhi hospitals||NEW DELHI: The nine banquet halls that were attached with Covid-designated hospitals towards the end of June in anticipation of the pandemic taking a worse turn might get delinked by Delhi government soon. The banquet halls in North, North West, West, South West, Central, New Delhi, North East, Shahdara, South and South East districts were linked with Lok Nayak Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, GTB Hospital and others to create 1,055 additional beds, which would have been used if the Covid situation worsened and overwhelmed the existing healthcare infrastructure. Less than 1,000 cases have been reported on several days in the last fortnight and the number of deaths has also fallen from the high of 100 to 18. Currently, there are over 14,000 Covid beds in government and private hospitals of which around 10,000 are vacant. Of the 10,000 beds at Covid care centres, nearly 6,000 are vacant. Officials said the existing beds were enough in the current scenario. The delinking of banquet halls is likely to be discussed in the next meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority. The owners had raised this demand because the banquet halls had been lying unused. Shehnai banquet hall in Central district was the first to get converted into a Covid facility of 100 beds. It was attached to Lok Nayak Hospital. “The banquet hall started receiving patients towards the end of June. The number went up to around 60 patients. As the number of patients arriving at Lok Nayak started decreasing, the banquet hall became vacant by the middle of July,” said Dr Rajat Jain of Doctors For You, the NGO tasked to run the Covid facility. Watch Covid-19: Banquet halls may be delinked from Delhi hospitals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/banquet-halls-may-be-delinked-from-hosps/articleshow/77621796.cms||AlokKNMishra
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Musicians in misery as lockdown silences harmony, rhythm||AHMEDABAD: Audiences always cheered ‘once more’ whenever Zakir Qureshi of Rajkot rendered the poignant Baiju Bawra classic ‘O Duniya Ke Rakhwale, Sun Dard Bhare Mere Naale.’ Ironically, no other pathos-filled song describes Qureshi’s life more aptly these days as he desperately prays for an end to his misery caused after the Covid-induced lockdown. From a rented Rs 10,000 per month flat, this singer-cum-tabla player has been forced into a little room in Rajkot’s Parsananagar locality. Every morning, he steps out with a bundle of kurtis and squats on any road with the hope that selling two pieces (Rs 50 profit per kurta) would ensure milk and vegetables for his three-member family the next day. Like Qureshi, there are hundreds of musicians whose harmony and rhythms have ornamented songs on the grand stage not just in India, but in foreign countries too. The fact that they remained unsung throughout their decades of music career doesn’t hurt them any more as the lockdown and pandemic pushed them into such penury which has made meeting two ends a daily drudgery. The same hands which played tabla, drums, octapad and violins are now taking up odd jobs to meet the expenses of ill parents’ medicines, bank EMIs, children’s education, electricity bills, house rent and even daily essentials like vegetables, milk and groceries. If someone like Prakash Raja, an Ahmedabad-based singer, has learnt stitching handkerchiefs, there are others like drummer Jayesh Bagde who has been forced to start a tea stall in Ghodasar area of Ahmedabad since July 5. “I used to earn around Rs 25,000 a month before lockdown. These days I earn around Rs 300 a day by selling tea,” said Bagde, who used up his savings to pay a total of Rs 96,000 as fees for his son’s diploma engineering course and his daughter Surali’s tuition and school fees for Class VII. “Of the total fees, I used Rs 15,000 from the credit card, but now I am unable to repay,” rues Bagde. Said Raja, “My friend offered me a job of stitching the borders of handkerchiefs in Isanpur. I worked there from March to May, but his migrant workers who were already skilled at the job, started returning.” “There was a day when I didn’t have money to buy LPG cylinder and had to borrow Rs 1,500 from a friend,” added Raja who has also toured the US, UK and Dubai in his 25 years career. The woes of 29-year-old Sunil Nimavat of Rajkot are no different. A versatile percussionist since the age of 15, Nimavat has taken up labourer’s work of centering at a construction site for Rs 500 daily wage in June. “But hardly a month had passed that my father was detected with colon cancer. Fortunately, my friend lent me Rs one lakh for his hospitalization and medicines,’ said Nimavat, who used to earn Rs 25,000 a month from live programmes and recordings. Nimavat had purchased a house in Ghanteshwar five years by taking Rs 6.5 lakh loan and putting in his savings, but he is unable to pay EMIs for the last four months now as joblessness has left his five-member family including ill father in a lurch. An octapad player from Ahmedabad, Kailash Rane now drives Ola and Uber cabs. A regular member of several orchestra bands, Rane, 39, was hoping that Navrati would help him tide over the crunch. “Many shows abroad too were lined up, but all are cancelled. I have to pay Rs 8,977 as a car loan every month, but I hardly manage to earn Rs 10,000 from driving cabs whole day,” he said. Rane is getting some help from his in-laws and parents and his mother underwent angioplasty in February. “I plan to go and live with my parents in Maninagar now as I can’t afford the house rent of Rs 6,000 now,” he said.  Dilip Kholiya, a regular tabla player in bhajan programmes, is bed-ridden since February after both his hip balls were replaced. The cost of Rs lakh for the operation was borne by friend Mehndi Hassan Khan, a tabla player, who also paid his house rent and purchased groceries. “After operation, I had a bad fall in the house which has left me bed-ridden,” said Kholiya, adding that he has never ever felt so hapless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/musicians-in-misery-as-lockdown-silences-harmony-rhythm/articleshow/77620114.cms||Tushar Prabhune
August 19, 2020||Goa||Four cops at airport +ve||Vasco: Four police constables attached to the Dabolim airport police station tested Covid positive. They were posted at the arrival lounge where testing of passengers is being carried out. “One constable showed symptoms after which he was tested on August 12. We received reports on Sunday confirming he was positive. Soon, three others were unwell and tested on Monday. Their reports were received the same day stating they were positive,” said SP (South) Pankaj Kumar Singh. On Tuesday, all 18 staffers of Dabolim airport police, including the PI, were tested. The station and barracks werealso sanitised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/four-cops-at-airport-ve/articleshow/77623186.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Mobile She toilet launched in Kodad||HYDERABAD: Relieving themselves in a public toilet is always a problem for women. A mobile She toilet that promises to address the severe lack of public toilets for women was launched in Kodad on Wednesday. J Sudheer, who took it upon himself to come up with a solution, has developed these toilets as he has seen first-hand the problems faced by women. “There were enough reasons to do something about addressing this issue that prompted me to come out with a mobile toilet set up in an electric vehicle,” the NRI said. He said around 80% of public toilets are defunct because of lack of maintenance. “We are planning to coordinate with municipalities, petrol bunks and private organisations to set up small kiosks with water filling, sewage and drainage connection facilities. The small kiosks will function like mobile She toilets,” Sudheer told TOI. “After charging the vehicle, it can be placed in crowded places. The toilet will have a water tank overhead, which will provide water for flushing,” he said. Costing about Rs 5 lakh per unit, the mobile She toilet can be used anywhere. He said the idea was developed with support from University of West England, Bristol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mobile-she-toilet-launched-in-kodad/articleshow/77621791.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Pandemic rule violators add Rs 2.6 crore to police coffers||Ludhiana: Ludhiana Police collected Rs 2.60 crore in fine from pandemic rule violators from March 23 till August 17. As per the data provided by Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal, the city police issued 56,098 challans to violators of different offences, like not wearing a mask, spitting at public places and failing to maintain social distancing. For not wearing a mask, 53,605 people were challaned, 301 criminal cases registered and 370 people were arrested. The offence brought Rs 2.52 crore in police kitty — the maximum from any violation. For spitting at public places, 2,196 people were challaned and Rs 2.26 lakh collected in fine. For ignoring social distancing norm, 256 people were challaned, a fine of Rs 4.96 lakh collected, 191 criminal cases registered and 250 offenders were arrested. Agarwal said, “So far, the Ludhiana Police has registered three criminal cases, arrested two persons, issued challans to 41 and collected Rs 77,500 in fine for home quarantine rule violation. Five criminal cases were registered and four people arrested for allowing gathering of more than 30 people in wedding functions. One case was registered for letting more than 20 people gather at a ‘bhog’ ceremony. Besides, 417 criminal cases were registered and 471 people arrested for violation of night curfew. As many as 23 cases were registered for protests by political parties.”  “In all, 56,098 challans were issued, Rs 2.62 crore in fines collected and 941 criminal cases registered against the violators during the period. With Covid cases on the rise, the drive will continue and strict action will be taken against the violators. I appeal to the residents to be responsible citizens and follow all guidelines to stem the virus spread,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/pandemic-rule-violators-add-rs-2-6-crore-to-police-coffers/articleshow/77620054.cms||Payal Dhawan
August 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Cash-for-viva voce case: Bamu accused of sitting on complaint||Aurangabad: It has been found that despite an earlier written complaint by a few members of the management council, the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) administration allegedly failed to take timely action in the cash-for-viva voce case.While the necessary submission in writing was made by three members on August 12, the university set up an inquiry against the dean concerned only on August 17, after the audio clips had gone viral.“We expected the administration to act promptly once the complaint was made. However, the necessary procedure was initiated only after four days, that too when the issue got highlighted in the public domain,” said one of the stakeholders preferring anonymity.Bamu spokesperson Sanjay Shinde said the university authorities were examining the matter before the audio clips went viral. “Two back-to-back holidays — Independence Day and Sunday — further delayed formal action. The university has a clear stand that nobody would be spared when interests of students are at stake,” he said.Shinde said the cash-for-viva voce matter would be formally probed by Bamu’s board of examinations. “It has the powers to carry out an in-depth inquiry by summoning those involved. The vice-chancellor has asked for a speedy probe,” he said.The matter pertains to allegations against Humanities dean Prashant Amrutkar for seeking money from a PhD candidate to arrange for his viva voce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cash-for-viva-voce-case-bamu-accused-of-sitting-on-complaint/articleshow/77618698.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Goa||Visarjan point at CoP jetty instead of Santa Monica: CCP||Panaji: A day after the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) released a list of guidelines along with immersion points for the Ganesh Chaturthi festival, one of the venues for the idol’s immersion has been changed owing to tidal effects. In its SOPs released on Monday, the CCP has listed the Santa Monica jetty as one of the immersion points. This has now been changed to the Captain of Ports (CoP) jetty in Panaji. “It is not possible to have a visarjan ritual at the Santa Monica jetty on Saturday since we are expecting the river tide to be low that night. It will be difficult to carry out the immersion, therefore we have finalised on the CoP jetty instead,” Panaji mayor Uday Madkaikar said. An inspection was carried including the Mandovi promenade and surrounding areas where the annual bazaar will be held to purchase Ganesh Chaturthi fruits, flowers and vegetables. The matoli bazaar will be held along the Mandovi promenade. Vendors from Banastarim besides other places in Goa are expected to arrive at the site on Wednesday evening. The flower vendors will be accommodated in the lane adjoining Royal Chicken. The road facing the Inox parking lot will be cordoned off to accommodate other fruit and vegetable vendors. “All the three shopping places are spacious and can accommodate vendors as well as buyers comfortably. To maintain social distancing, areas will be marked on the ground for vendors to limit themselves in,” Madkaikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/visarjan-point-at-cop-jetty-instead-of-santa-monica-ccp/articleshow/77623180.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||1 charred to deathin Walled City fire||Jaipur: A 21-year-old man was charred to death on Tuesday after a massive fire broke out at a firecracker manufacturing unit housed on the ground floor of a residential complex situated at Chandi Ki Taksal in Subash Chowk area of the crowded Walled City. Police said the incident took place at 3.30pm. According to eyewitnesses, people heard an explosion before smoke and flames engulfed the building. Six fire tenders took more than an hour to contain the blaze. Police have registered a case of causing death due to negligence against the landlord of the three-storey building who fled from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-charred-to-deathin-walled-city-fire/articleshow/77623185.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bareilly||51 booked in UP’s Shahjahanpur for offeringFriday prayer in mosque after video surfaces||Bareilly: At least 51 people, including an imam, were booked for offering Friday namaz at a mosque in Milkipur Khairpur village of Shahjahanpur district in alleged violation to Covid-19 guidelines. An unidentified person shot a video of the gathering at the mosque and alerted police, who after verifying details registered a case under relevant sections. According to the Covid-19 guidelines, only five people are allowed to offer namaz (prayers) in a mosque at a time, said police. Police said at least 51 people were found offering prayers at the mosque on Friday, even as they earlier visited several villages, including Milkipur Khairpur, sensitising people to abide by the Covid-19 guidelines. Katra police station SHO Harpal Singh said a team was sent to the mosque to verify the video purportedly showing a large number of people offering prayers there and they found people more than the permissible limit gathered inside the mosque. After an investigation conducted by sub-inspector Vinod Kumar, an FIR was registered under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (unlawful and negligent act likely to spread infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code, said the SHO. “We are conducting regular public meetings at temples and mosques and sensitising people to follow the pandemic guidelines. Despite that 51 people flouted the guidelines. We have booked them under relevant sections and notices would be sent to them. We have the video as evidence. The action is impartial and has been taken under the law. The SI will carry out further investigation into the matter,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/51-booked-in-ups-shahjahanpur-for-offeringfriday-prayer-in-mosque-after-video-surfaces/articleshow/77620065.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Drive on to make TNAU campus parthenium-free||Coimbatore: Along with webinars and online lectures on getting rid of invasive parthenium plants, planned over the course of this week, the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University dedicated Tuesday for a practical session. Professors and higher officials of TNAU entered the farm on the campus and pulled out parthenium plants. All these were part of the university’s initiative to make the campus ‘parthenium-free.’ TNAU vice-chancellor N Kumar and head of the department of agronomy C R Chinnamuthu were among those who manually removed parthenium plants on the campus, inaugurating the drive. As part of the ‘Parthenium Awareness Week’ programmes announced by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research from August 16 to August 22, the TNAU will hold webinars, online lectures, and distribute awareness leaflets to farmers and members of the public. According to a release, the VC has asked scientists and field workers to adopt periodical management strategies to remove parthenium from the campus and the campuses affiliated to the university. University spokesperson P Murali Arthanari said parthenium was an invasive species which entered the country in the 1950s through a wheat shipment, and because of its nature to produce 10,000 to 50,000 seeds, and their easy dispersal, the plant has now spread across the country’s length and breadth. He said there were methods to eradicate the plant, such as pulling them out using hand, using brush cutters to cut them, using herbicides, releasing zygogramma (Mexican beetle) insects on the plants as a bio-control mechanism. “We are also working on producing a non-chemical solution using natural ingredients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drive-on-to-make-tnau-campus-parthenium-free/articleshow/77623184.cms||---
August 19, 2020||World||Resolution in Congress seeks to resettle Afghan Hindus, Sikhs in US||WASHINGTON: Describing Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan as “endangered minorities”, a resolution introduced in US Congress has sought to resettle these persecuted religious communities from the war-torn country to America. Introduced in the House of Representatives last week by Congresswoman Jackie Speier and co-sponsored by seven others, the resolution supports refugee protection for Sikhs and Hindus in Afghanistan, noting the “systematic religious persecution, discrimination and existential danger” faced by the members of these communities. “Sikhs and Hindus are indigenous but endangered minorities in Afghanistan, numbering approximately 700 out of a community that recently included over 8,000 members,” the resolution stated. It supports resettling Sikhs and Hindus from Afghanistan in US under the US Refugee Admissions Programme pursuant to the Immigration and Nationality Act. Noting that Islamic militants attacked a gurdwara in Kabul on March 25, killing 25 worshipers, the resolution said terrorists made further attempts on the lives of the survivors before and after the funeral for the victims. “These acts follow a greater pattern of targeted violence against Sikhs, Hindus, and other minorities in Afghanistan in recent years,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/resolution-in-congress-seeks-to-resettle-afghan-hindus-sikhs-in-us/articleshow/77624420.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Goa||HC disposes plea on Cuncolim industrial estate||Margao: The high court has disposed the petition filed by a councillor of Cuncolim municipality Shashank Dessai seeking declaration of Cuncolim industrial estate as a containment zone, after relying on the statements and assurances given by the advocate general to the court that the SOPs governing Covid-19 cases in Verna industrial estate will also be followed in all industrial estates. Referring the SOPs in place for Verna estate that was placed before the court by the respondents which, among other guidelines, mandates immediate closure of the total operations of the plant in case five or more positive cases are reported in that unit, the court said, “According to us, the aforesaid protocol is required to be followed in cases of all industries and all industrial estates in Goa.” A division bench comprising justices M S Jawalkar and M S Sonak passed the order. State chief secretary, South Goa district collector and the Cuncolim Municipal Council were the respondents in the case. Referring to the advocate general’s statement that there were only five active Covid-19 cases in Cuncolim estate as on August 12, the court order read, “…it cannot be said that the respondents are not conscious of the existing guidelines/SOPs. Now that there are only five active cases in Cuncolim estate, we cannot say that the authorities have exercised their discretion in an unreasonable manner in not declaring the estate as a containment zone.” Advocates Jatin Ramaiya and Sapnil Dessai appeared for the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-disposes-plea-on-cuncolim-industrial-estate/articleshow/77623190.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Goa||Budhwar Peth for matoli items||Ponda: The chief officer of Ponda municipality, Kedar Naik, has chosen Budhwar Peth (Upper Bazaar), near Goa Bagayatdar, for holding the matoli bazaar. It will continue till Saturday. Since locals had objected to the shifting of the bazaar to ‘Airport Road’, the council authorised Naik to decide on a spot for the bazaar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/budhwar-peth-for-matoli-items/articleshow/77623189.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Mumbai||Bandra man collecting his laptop dies in building collapse||MUMBAI: Bruce De Penha (40), who had gone to collect his repaired laptop from a shop while his wife Janet waited in a car outside, died after a portion of an abandoned building near Rizvi College of Architecture in Bandra (W) collapsed on Monday night. Guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray inspected the site and announced an ex-gratia amount of Rs 4 lakh for Bruce’s family. The stilt-plus-four-storey Kalpana building tilted and collapsed on shops in the compound of an adjoining building, trapping nine persons under the debris. Bruce, pulled out after four hours at around midnight, died during treatment on Tuesday morning. A security guard who was trapped has sustained injuries. Eyewitnesses said Bruce had paid and was leaving when the slab collapsed. Four store employees came out safely after breaking a wooden partition wall and they alerted rescuers. Janet, who married Bruce in December 2018, refused to leave the site during rescue operations, but rescuers requested her to go to Lilavati Hospital to arrange a bed for emergency treatment. Fire brigade personnel and rescue workers then took him to the hospital. Corporator Swapna Mhatre said, “We requested his wife to sit in a nearby bungalow, but she refused, saying she wanted to see her husband first. It’s an unfortunate incident. The government and courts should ensure such dilapidated buildings are razed to save lives.” BMC officials said an occupation certificate was issued to the building in 1983, but the structure was abandoned after a dispute. Last month, BMC had issued a notice to its owner seeking an audit of the structure. The owner said he would appoint a structural engineer. Bruce’s classmates from St Stanislaus School held an online memorial for him on Tuesday night. Siddharth Meghani sang a tribute, while Parvez Meherhomji said, “Bruce was my brother, my best friend. A gentle giant not only in physical stature but a man with a big heart. He would help people silently without talking about it.” Musician David Abraham played a special song on Facebook for his friend who gave “the best hugs”. “Bruce was the nicest, sweetest, kindest soul. He always had a smile on his face,” he said. Parvez said Bruce’s father Mathew was the pastor of a ministry of Born Again Christians. His mother Maria played the piano and sister Adele sang at their gatherings. Bruce, who went to St Andrew’s College, loved music and movies, and wrote film reviews. A “closed funeral” was held on Tuesday. (Inputs by Bhavika Jain)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bandra-man-collecting-his-laptop-dies-in-bldg-collapse/articleshow/77622278.cms||Vijay V Singh
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||Abhay Kumar replaces Rohit as home secy in Rajasthan reshuffle||JAIPUR: The state government in a surprise move transferred additional chief secretary (home) Rohit Kumar Singh to the panchayati raj and rural development department. Principal secretary (planning and information technology) Abhay Kumar Singh has been moved to the home department. Generally, the home department has been handled by a senior officer at the level of ACS. Abhay Kumar Singh will have home, jail, vigilance and transport. He has also been given additional charge of information and public relations department. Rohit Kumar Singh was transferred to the home department only on July 3, exactly one-and-a-half months back in a major bureaucratic reshuffle in which the then chief secretary D B Gupta was replaced by Rajeeva Swarup in a routine reshuffle. Swarup was then handling the home department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/abhay-kumarreplaces-rohitas-home-secy-in-raj-reshuffle/articleshow/77623193.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||Spurt in +ve cases in Jodhpur Park||KOLKATA: Rahim Ostagar Road in south Kolkata’s Jodhpur Park — popular for hosting the 95 Pally Durga Puja — has left both the Kolkata Municipal Corporation officials and cops worried. Six members of a family living there tested positive for Covid-19 during a rapid antigen test conducted by the civic body on Monday. A KMC health department official said that out of total 30 people who had undergone the rapid antigen test, 11 tested positive for the virus. Apart from Jodhpur Park, other people living in Bengal Lamp Colony, Lake Gardens and the areas adjacent to South City Mall also tested positive. “We are worried about the high rate of positive cases detected during the antigen test on Monday,” said a KMC official. As the virus spread from Jodhpur Park to Lake Gardens and parts of Jadavpur, the civic body’s Covid response team will now need to swing into action to contain its further spread to Golf Green. Meanwhile, KMC has decided to concentrate on all flats, where more than 30 families live, and follow a specific roadmap just like slums. “Whether it is Rahim Ostagar Road or anywhere else, complexes and flats in south Kolkata have maximum cases. It is important that we send out the right signals, whereby residents can contact us or go to doctors in proper time,” said Ratan De, the KMC ward coordinator in Jodhpur Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/spurt-in-ve-cases-in-jodhpur-park/articleshow/77621889.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Ganesh pandals to stay within apartments||HYDERABAD: The Bhagyanagar Ganesh Utsav Samithi on Tuesday said that the city police has denied permission for erecting Ganesh pandals on the main roads this year in view of the pandemic. At a joint press conference held by the samithi and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) on Tuesday, secretary, Bhagynagar Ganesh Utsav Samithi, Bhagwanth Rao said that Ganesh pandals cannot be erected on the city’s main roads. He said that the Ganesh pandals could be erected inside apartments, gated communities, community halls, temples, function halls and basthis and there is no need to take permission from the police. “Anyone erecting the pandals in their localities must intimate the local police stations in their area,” he said. The Samithi said a meeting would be held to decide on the immersion after the exact figure of the pandals set up are ascertained after the main festival day. “The pandal organisers must install idols which can be easily lifted and transported during the immersion process,” he added. He asked the organisers to ensure that all Covid-19 norms and precautions are followed at the pandals. He asked the organisers to see that not more than five persons are present at the pandals at any point of time. Use of masks and sanitisers along with maintenance of physical distance is a must, he said. “We discourage the untraditional practice of immersing the idols using buckets, tubs and artificial water sources. We also strongly oppose installation of ‘seed Ganesh’ idols as it is against our culture and tradition,” said Bhagwanth Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ganesh-pandals-to-stay-within-apartments/articleshow/77621829.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Surat||Rough diamond import decline 82% in April-July: GJEPC||Surat: Import of rough diamonds in the country has registered a sharp decline of 82% between April-July following the suspension of international flights and travel restrictions imposed in the mining countries to contain the spread of Covid-19. According to the figures released by the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), the gross import of rough diamonds between April and July this year declined to $712 million compared to $4 billion during the same period last year. Industry sources said that the diamantaires voluntarily curtailed rough diamond imports in the month of June to build pressure on the mining companies to reduce the prices and ease their inventories. The export of polished diamonds in April-July declined 47% to $2.7 billion compared to $5 billion during the same period in previous year. A De Beers sightholder told TOI, “Majority of the diamond units in Surat are yet to restart operations due to the operational restrictions. The big diamond units are operating with skeletal staff and the production is less than 25% of the total capacity. The stocking of rough diamonds is likely to start in the first week of September for the upcoming festival season.” Vipul Shah, vice-chairman of GJEPC told TOI, “The demand for diamonds is gradually increasing from China and US and we are hopeful of increased demand in the Indian market as well during Diwali.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rough-diamond-import-decline-82-in-april-july-gjepc/articleshow/77597587.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Former student names son after schoolteacher as mark of respect||Coimbatore: It was an emotional moment for R Arul Siva, a Tamil teacher at the Government Higher Secondary School, Velliangadu, on Monday.K Nagarajan, his former student, had brought his son for admission in Class VI at the school. When the teacher inquired the boy’s name, he replied: ‘Arul Siva’. Taken aback, he looked at Nagarajan, who told his teacher that he had named his son after him, to forever remember the care he showered on his students and the values he instilled in them.“Moved and overjoyed, Arul Siva sir hugged my boy,” said Nagarajan, 42, who studied under him in 1994-1995. “Sir used to treat all students the same and cared for us all. He also explained every lesson to us with utmost patience, how many times we asked him,” he says. Nagarajan wanted to name his first child after his teacher, but since it was a daughter, he waited for his second child, a son. “This is the least I can do. I felt I should never forget what sir did for us,” he adds. “I told my son to follow sir’s example and achieve big in life.”The Tamil teacher, who has put in 30 years of service in government schools, said he was moved by Nagarajan’s gesture. “I will take care of the child’s education expenses from now on,” said the 51-year-old.Several students from tribal communities from the area study at the school. “I have eight more years of service. Within that, I would like to see one of my tribal students become an IAS officer,” said the teacher.The school is known for bagging good results. It has produced 100% results in Class XII board exams more than 10 times, including this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/former-student-names-son-after-schoolteacher-as-mark-of-respect/articleshow/77623192.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Aurangabad||2 held with over 98 kg of sandalwood||Aurangabad: Pundaliknagar police on Tuesday arrested two suspects and seized around 100kg of sandalwood axed from a bungalow located in N-4, Cidco of New Aurangabad. The suspects, Shaikh Sadiq and Shaikh Zaker, stole the tree on the intervening night of August 10 and 11. The duo was presented before the court on Tuesday following which they have been remanded in three-day police custody. Their key accomplice, on learning about their arrests, has gone underground. “The suspects were intercepted after we got information from our sources. They were carrying sandalwood and failed to give convincing reply about the its source,” a police officer said. Assistant inspector Ghanshaym Sonawne said, “The suspects have confessed to chopping down the three-decade-old sandalwood tree They have criminal offences, including sandalwood thefts, registered against them at different police station.” Preliminary probe has revealed their alleged involvement in similar thefts of sandalwood tree committed in Aurangabad city as well as rural areas. “We also got to know about other petty thefts of batteries installed in heavy vehicles as well as mobile towers by the suspects,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-held-with-over-98-kg-of-sandalwood/articleshow/77618705.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Showcause notice to DSP, five SHOs in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a first-of-its-kind incident since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the state, the district police chief (rural) in the state capital has served notices to a deputy superintendent of police (DSP) and more than five station house officers (SHO) on law and order duty for their alleged lapses in discharging duties related to Covid containment. Rural SP B Ashok has reportedly sought an explanation from the officers stating that their lapses have contributed to the surge in the spread of the disease in the district. According to sources, the district police chief has stated in the showcause notice that there were serious lapses in tasks assigned, especially in tracing the primary and secondary contacts of Covid-positive persons, which had adversely affected the fight to contain the outbreak. The SP has also reportedly directed the officers to file explanations within three days. However, when contacted, the rural SP denied any such action being taken. He said that he did forward an official communique to several officers in the district where high number of cases are being reported, urging them to intensify their vigil. “It is a normal procedure that happens often,” Ashok said. He said that regions under Neyyatinkara police sub-division are more at risk as it shares border with neighbouring state and there is frequent movement of people across the border. Hence there was a need to maintain high alert. He also said that more cases are being reported in regions under rural district police limits because more tests are being done here compared to other parts of the state. Hence policing cannot solely be blamed for the surge in cases. Meanwhile, the majority of lower rung officers in the department are displeased with the task of contact tracing. It was two weeks ago that the government entrusted the police with major Covid control duties, including contact tracing, which was carried out by health officials earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/showcause-notice-to-dsp-five-shos-in-tvm/articleshow/77620154.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Neknampur lake: Officials raze activist’s shed||HYDERABAD: An environmentalist working on the Neknampur lake has alleged that after raising concerns over an illegal building at the lake, officials demolished a shed she set up to store lake cleaning equipment. Madhulika Choudhary, founder of NGO Dhruvansh, tweeted on Tuesday: “Dear Hyd- Need ur support again. Few days (ago), I reported an illegal building at the lake. Rather than demolishing building at lake, MRO Golconda demolished our temporary storage shade at Neknampur lake.” Tagging minister K T Rama Rao, she said she expected him to look into the matter. Tweeting in support, environment group Citizens for Hyderabad said: “It’s shameful that instead of hearing credible people they treat them like this.” Officials are yet to respond on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-raze-activists-shed/articleshow/77621856.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bareilly||12-year-old boy killed as truck hits motorcycle||Pilibhit: A 12-year-old boy, identified as Rahul of Ghiona village, was killed in an accident on the Bhind-Lipulekh highway near Jangrauli bridge under Sungarhi police station on Tuesday. The bike on which the boy was travelling along with his uncle and aunt was hit by a speeding truck, killing him on the spot. The couple — Rohit Maurya and his wife Kunti Devi of Ghiona village under Gajraula police station — sustained multiple injuries and was shifted to the district government hospital in Pilibhit, while the body was sent for autopsy. The boy’s father Veerpal Maurya in his complaint stated that the trio was on their way to Jangrauli village when the accident took place. Sungarhi police station SHO Atar Singh said police impounded the truck, while the driver escaped. The truck driver was booked under sections 304 A (death by negligence), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of Rs 50 over) and 338 (causing grievous hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/12-year-old-boy-killed-as-truck-hits-motorcycle/articleshow/77620104.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Osmanabad SP & dy SP summoned by tribunal||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad bench of Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal, taking serious cognizance of the contradictions in the affidavits filed before it by Osmanabad police, has asked both superintendent of police and deputy superintendent of police to remain present for the next hearing. Two police inspectors — Sainath Thombre and Suresh Chate — from Osmanabad district had approached MAT, saying they were prematurely shunted out of their respective police stations without any reason. During the hearing, MAT vice-chairman BP Patil asked Osmanabad police to file affidavits. After going through the filed affidavits, the tribunal noticed contradictions in the affidavits filed by SP Raj Tilak Roushan and sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) Motichand Rathod. “It reveals that both are making contradictory submissions regarding the meeting held on November 1, 2019, as well as weekly dairy maintained by deputy SP DD Tiparse, regarding the work done by him on November 1, 2019. Therefore, original record regarding meeting held on November 1, 2019 and weekly dairy of deputy SP DD Tiparse is needed. Hence, the respondents are directed to produce the said original record on or before the next date,” read the order, while reserving September 3 as the final date of hearing. Inspector Thombre headed Tuljapur police station, while Chate was heading Umarga police station. In the order passed by Osmanabad SP on November 1, 2019, the former was transferred to cyber police station, while the latter was sent to to the police control room. Lawyer Sujit Joshi, representing the two inspectors, told TOI, “The orders violated the Maharashtra Police Act’s transfer rules. Moreover, the mandatory Establishment Board meeting was not even held before transferring these two inspectors.” At the time of transfer, Thombre had completed just five months at the police station, while Chate had completed eight months. After the petition was filed in MAT on November 7, 2019, Osmanabad police refused to stay the transfer orders. Joshi pointed to the MAT that though Osmanabad police claimed that establishment board meeting was held between 4 pm and 6 pm on November 1, 2019,at that time SP was attending a Diwali meeting while additional SP Sandeep Palve was on leave from October 26 to November 5, 2019 so could not have been present. However, Tuljapur SDPO Tiparse filed an affidavit stating that he had gone to Naldurg, a distance of 57 kms, at 3.15 pm and had remained there for the entire night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/osmanabad-sp-dy-sp-summoned-by-tribunal/articleshow/77618715.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 19, 2020||Goa||Aldona panchayat to remain shut till Friday||Saligao: At a special meeting held to discuss the situation arisen after a clerk working at the Aldona panchayat office tested Covid positive on Monday, the sarpanch and panch members resolved to keep the office premises shut until Friday. The decision was taken in consultation with the office of the Bardez block development officer (BDO), Mapusa. It was also decided that the panchayat will function with only one staffer who will have attend to the daily correspondence and also to the people. On Tuesday, personnel from the Mapusa fire service station carried out the sanitisation of the entire panchayat building. “The panchayat office has been shut as a precautionary measure. After it reopens only one staffer will attend to the people,” panch member Deepak Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aldona-panchayat-to-remain-shut-till-friday/articleshow/77623197.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Goa||Econ revival plan pitches for community farming||Panaji: In a bid to analyse the scope of enhancing revenue of panchayats and study the resources and livelihood aspects of these local civic bodies, an economic revival plan for the village panchayats has been prepared. Data from the panchayats was collected from the sarpanch and ward members through a questionnaire using Google Forms, which was administered through the college representatives by visiting the respective panchayats. The findings revealed that there is a need to promote community farming among the farmers, cultivators and vegetable growers so that they get the benefit of large scale production and reduced cost of production. The plan says that fallow land must be identified, and legal steps taken to ensure that they do not remain uncultivated, provide traditional Goan seeds for preservation and propagation and allow access of unutilised land for grazing and plantation of fodder for cattle. “Horticulture, floriculture, cultivation of spices, honey bees and sea weed cultivation should be promoted,” the plan prepared by Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development (GIPARD) and directorate of higher education reads. In terms of animal husbandry, dairy and poultry, there are suggestions to set up piggeries, goat rearing, rabbit farming, training to set up these farms, provide subsidies and awareness of all schemes and improve veterinary services. In fisheries, the plan lists out desilting of fish rearing farms, crab and prawns farming, cage fishing, cold storage facilities, among others. The plan also shows potential for the development of tourism in Sattari, Dharbandora and Sanguem areas for hinterland festivals tourism and educational tours. There is also potential to generate solar energy, rainwater harvesting as a potential cover for water deficit, revival of old systems of irrigation and marketing and promotion of products made by self-help groups, besides other suggestions. Initiative of heritage walks and home stays in hinterland areas without creating resorts or hotels has also been suggested by involving the local village youth in this sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/econ-revival-plan-pitches-for-community-farming/articleshow/77623195.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Sugar baron Paricharak dies at 84||Kolhapur: Former MLA and senior functionary of the cooperative sector Sudhakar Ramchandra Paricharak died late Monday night at a private hospital in Pune. He was 84. Hailing from Pandharpur in Solapur district, a constituency he represented for 25 years, Paricharak had tested positive for Covid-19. He was admitted to a hospital in Pune around a week ago after he complained of breathlessness. Sources in the family said that he was critical since Monday morning. His last rites were performed on Tuesday afternoon. Paricharak was a die-hard Congressman but joined Sharad Pawar’s NCP in 1999. He was the president of MSRTC for nine years. Though a politician, Paricharak was more inclined towards the cooperative movement. His Shri Vitthal Coopérative Sugar Factory is considered one of the best sugar mills in Maharashtra. Known for his knowledge and understanding of cooperative laws, Paricharak was credited with converting sick sugar mills into profit-making units. Paricharak distanced himself from electoral politics after delimitation of the constituencies in 2009. Paricharak contested the 2019 assembly elections from Pandharpur on a BJP ticket but lost to NCP nominee Bharat Bhelke. This was his first defeat in electoral politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sugar-baron-paricharak-dies-at-84/articleshow/77621893.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Congress offers to set up plasma bank||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy, who is also the president of Telangana Plasma Donors Association, on Tuesday offered to set up a Covid-19 plasma bank in the state provided the state government is ready to grant necessary permissions. Narayana Reddy made the offer through his Twitter handle in response to an earlier tweet by IT minister KT Rama Rao on April 6. Yesterday good friend @kiranshaw called me & suggested that we setup a ‘COVID blood bank’ in Telangana; with antibo… https://t.co/kvQHA2bkyF— KTR (@KTRTRS) 1586149668000KTR had tweeted, “Yesterday good friend @kiranshaw called me and suggested that we set up a ‘Covid-19 blood bank’ in Telangana; with antibody-rich plasma from patients who had recovered from Covid-19. Have requested the Health Secretary and Commissioner to explore further.” Dear dynamic @KTRTRS where is the rich Covid-19 plasma bank in Telangana? Its been more than 4 months since you mad… https://t.co/NOfH8VD4kr— Gudur Narayana Reddy (@GudurNarayana) 1597679023000Responding to KTR’s tweet, Narayana Reddy tweeted, “Dear dynamic @KTRTRS where is the rich Covid-19 plasma bank in Telangana? It’s been more than 4 months since you made this tweet, govt has not set it up yet! If the government gives me permission and space, I am ready to set it up in 48 hours with my own funds!”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-offers-to-set-up-plasma-bank/articleshow/77621867.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Youth Congress, NSUI demand cancellation of all exams||HYDERABAD: The Youth Congress and NSUI members on Tuesday staged demonstrations at various places in the state demanding cancellation of all the entrance tests and other examinations until Covid-19 subsides.  Though NSUI state president Balmoori Venkat and Youth Congress state chief Anil Kumar Yadav were taken into police custody, several members of these frontal organistions of the Congress managed to dodge the police and demonstrate with placards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-congress-nsui-demand-cancellation-of-all-exams/articleshow/77621903.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Surat||EMI card fraud in Surat busted, 3 held||Surat: Cyber crime sleuths nabbed three persons on Tuesday for alleged fraud of Rs 2.46 lakh with seven customers. The accused lured the victims through advertisements on Facebook after collecting details of their Bajaj Finance EMI card details to dupe them. The fraud was carried out between March 17-June 22. Police arrested Baba Haja Chaudhary (24), Mahesh Asodariya (34) and Dipak alias Deep Dobariya (24). The complaint was lodged by an employee of Bajaj Finance after the company received complaints from its customers. Police investigation has revealed that the accused published advertisements on Facebook offering loan to Bajaj Finance EMI card holders. The accused provided their contact numbers and invited customers to contact them and get loans. They then collected the EMI card numbers and the OTP after generating it through online transactions. Police have recovered two mobile phones and Rs 40,000 from the accused. In fact, the card holders were not aware about the spending. Chaudhary and Asodariya used to cheat the victims while Dobariya used to go and receive the parcels of online purchasing. They provided their fake addresses and when the deliveryman contacted them, Dobariya used to call them to some other location and received the parcels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/emi-card-fraud-in-surat-busted-3-held/articleshow/77620216.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Vadodara||Jail inmate escapes from quarantine||Vadodara: An inmate of Vadodara Central Jail escaped from the Covid-19 care centre at Lalbaug community hall in the wee hours on Tuesday. The prisoner identified as Dinesh alias Chhotu Yadav was kept in quarantine with 24 other inmates of the jail and two accused from Harni and Karelibaug police stations. Of these 27 quarantined persons, 18 were brought to the centre on Monday after their samples for tests were submitted. The cops learnt about Yadav’s absence at 8 am on Tuesday when the cop in-charge of the centre came to check the presence of all locked up on the first floor of the community hall. When Yadav was not found with other inmates, cops checked around and found a broken window grill. The prisoner managed to escape despite 13 cops guarding the quarantine centre during the night shift. On Tuesday, reports of Yadav and 17 others turned out to be negative. “Sixteen jail inmates and accused from Karelibaug police station were sent back,” said inspector R A Patel of Makarpura police station. Yadav, a native of Jeevanpur district of Uttar Pradesh, was convicted and sentenced to seven-year imprisonment by a sessions court in Nadiad for possessing a country-made pistol and attacking a police constable in May 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/jail-inmate-escapes-from-quarantine/articleshow/77619860.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Salem||Two minors drown in lake in Salem||Salem: Two boys both aged 12-year-old drowned in a lake near Konganapuram in Salem district on Tuesday. The mishap took place when they attempted to take a bath in the lake. The deceased were identified as V Santhosh of Rakkiyampatty village near Konganapuram and his relative S Dyaneesh of Elachipalayam in Namakkal district. Both were studying in class 7 at government and private schools in Konganapuram and Salem city respectively. “Dyaneesh went to meet Santhosh’s grandmother,” a police official said. The police registered a case and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/two-minors-drown-in-lake-in-salem/articleshow/77623196.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||Celebrities among 100 to use ‘heart work’ for funding unsung heroes||NEW DELHI: Over 100 artists and Bollywood actors will work together to raise funds in support of unsung heroes like farmers, truck drivers and shopkeepers. The sale proceeds of the auctioned works will go to Smile Foundation to procure hygiene kits for them. Smile Foundation, in association with Lay’s, has launched Artwork for Heartwork, in which the artist community, including students of the National Institute of Fine Arts, will contribute their works to be auctioned. Some Bollywood celebrities, among them Arshad Warsi, Ileana D’Cruz, Sonu Sood, Karan Tacker, Jennifer Winget and Ishita Dutta, have also contributed sketches, acrylic work on canvas, charcoal work on paper and doodles to help raise funds. The works will be showcased on Art&Found (www.artandfound.co). The list of participating artists include Shubhika from Papa Don’t Preach, Sabeena Karnik, Aniruddh Mehta, Hari and Deepti and Shiva Nallaperumal. Sharing his thoughts on the initiative, actor Sonu Sood said, “I am glad to be part of this initiative and express my gratitude to the unsung heroes by donating an acrylic painting as a tribute to their tireless efforts. Art as a medium, more than words, has always inspired me to express myself. I hope that all of us can come together and give these unsung heroes the care they deserve in every way possible.” Shubhika said, “Art is more than just a passion because I seek to weave relatable stories and build a strong connect with the audience through my creations. When it came to supporting the dedication and efforts of the unseen heroes of India, the campaign gave me the opportunity to use my talent to contribute towards a larger cause.” Santanu Mishra, co-founder and executive trustee, Smile Foundation, hoped that this unique fundraiser would enable artists, celebrities and students to come together to help raise donations to meet the current health objectives of the nation. “By showcasing artwork on Art&Found, we will enable art lovers to purchase creative works and be part of a larger movement in which their contributions will be utilised to provide hygiene kits to different people in different parts of the country,” he said. “This campaign is at the heart of our philosophy of civic-driven change, when all of us can step forward to extend a helping hand in the toughest of times.” Artwork for Heartwork is meant to celebrate gratitude and to remind us not to take for granted those who work behind the scenes, said Aditya Mehta, founder CEO, Art&Found. “The team at Art&Found is incredibly privileged to bring to life this campaign — from briefing and problem-solving with the teams at Smile and Lay's to working closely with the artists and having their art sold to collect funds for hygiene kits,” Mehta said. “It's an amazing full circle. Not only are the artists creating something meaningful, but they are also part of a great cause one can be proud to be associated with and which will be remembered for a long time.” One of the organisers said, “There has never been a more important time to give to the community than now. Art builds a bridge from creative visualisation to encourage action for a cause.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/celebrities-among-100-to-use-heart-work-for-funding-unsung-heroes/articleshow/77621878.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 19, 2020||Salem||Salem dist records 286 new Covid cases||Salem: A total of 286 new Covid cases were recorded in Salem district on Tuesday. With this, the number of positive cases stands at 6,471, including 392 imported cases. Of the 286 cases, 203 are from Salem municipal corporation (SMC), Attur 16, Omalur 13, Thalaivasal 8, Nangavalli 7, six each from Veerapandi and Sankari, five each from Mettur and Vazhapadi, Ayothiyapattinam 4, two each from Edappadi, Gangavalli, Panamarathupatty and Pethanaickenpalayam, one each from Kolathur, Kadayampatty and Magudanchavadi and two returnees from Namakkal and Coimbatore districts. Deputy director of health services Dr J Nirmalson said that health department officials including that of SMC have collected swab samples from 1,29,663 people till date. “We collected 2906 swab samples on Tuesday alone,” he said. There are 57 containment zones are currently active in the district. “We have contained 11,918 people from 3052 houses situated in the 57 containment zones across the district,” he said. A total of eight people including four males and four females, who were getting treatment for Covid-19 in Salem government Mohan Kumaramangalam medical college and hospital died on Tuesday.“With this, the number of death cases increased to 85,” the DD said, adding that, 1917 active cases are undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, activists alleged that many people failed to wear face masks and were not maintaining social distancing. Activist and founder president of Tamil Nadu Makkal Urimai Katchi Poomozhi, a political outfit told TOI that, despite strict instructions from SMC, many people failed to wear face masks while coming outside from their houses. “They don’t maintain social distancing in the public places such as vegetable markets, grocery shops and meat stalls,” he said. He lamented that, many people, especially youths, were riding bikes above its passenger capacity while autorickshaws were running chock full. which is against government directions. He urged the Salem district administration and the SMC officials to implement government guidelines strictly to reduce or to curb Covid-19 from the district. Neighbouring Erode has 58 fresh cases while Namakkal district registered 37, Krishnagiri 19 and Dharmapuri 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/salem-dist-records-286-new-covid-cases/articleshow/77623200.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Rainwater harvesting pits help raise groundwater levels||HYDERABAD: The construction of rainwater harvesting (RWH) pits in several complexes and the subsequent rise in groundwater levels have reduced dependance on water tankers in the city. For instance, rise of 4.30 meters in groundwater table was recorded in July, thanks to the construction of 7,167 rainwater harvesting pits in 2019, according to the Telangana Groundwater Department. “Enough rainwater was harvested with the initiative of the water board under various programmes in the city, GHMC periphery and outer ring road,” OSD, HMWSSB-RWH wing, J Satyanarayana told TOI. Of 7,167 RWH pits, the water board built 4, 575 pits with the help of resident welfare associations (RWAs) and non-government organisations (NGOs) under Jalam-Jeevam, Jala Bhagyam and WalC programmes. The remaining 2,5 92 RWH pits are being built by GHMC and other civic bodies with the water board’s assistance, he said. A volume of about 59,088 cubic meters has been created through these RWH pits, in which a total of 185 million gallons of rainwater can be recharged per year, said the water board official. However, the water board has not taken up construction of new rainwater harvesting pits this year in view of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwh-pits-help-raise-groundwater-levels/articleshow/77621919.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 19, 2020||Delhi||Sero survey II result by end of week: Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: The results of the second serological survey carried out in the city earlier this month are expected by the end of this week, said health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday. The first sero survey conducted between June 27 and July 10 under the supervision of National Centre for Disease Control had revealed that antibodies were present in the blood of only around 22% of the 21,000 people whose samples had been collected. Jain had announced that serological surveys would be carried out every month. The second survey was headed by Delhi government’s Maulana Azad Medical College, where the final report is being prepared. This completely randomised survey was carried out in all 11 districts during which samples of more than 15,000 people were collected. According to the standard operating procedures prescribed by Directorate General of Health Services, health officials ensured that 25% of samples from any area were of people younger than 18 years, 50% from the age group of 18-49 and the remaining 25% of those aged 50 or more. The number of samples collected from different districts varied according to the population, so while more than 2,000 samples were collected from North West and West districts, less than 1,000 were collected from New Delhi district. Asked about some people showing Covid-19 symptoms or testing positive again after recovery, Jain said, “Experts are of the opinion that sometimes a person tests positive again after a few weeks because of the residual dead virus present in the body.” He added that, as of now, no one had tested positive again after a gap of two to three months post recovery. Delhi government had recently started testing migrants returning to the city at the borders. Jain said people had been coming through many modes of transport and proper screening was being done. “We are monitoring the crowd at railway stations too. Around 250 dispensaries are carrying out the tests,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sero-survey-ii-result-by-end-of-week-jain/articleshow/77622110.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||Towering complex above Delhi Metro stable||NEW DELHI: Whether it is kiosks, food stalls, fast food outlets, shopping malls, banquet halls, office complexes, even a massive info-technology park, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation has not left any property development opportunity unutilised in an effort to make the urban train system as self-sustainable as possible. An upcoming project, however, is going to be one of its kind in the country: an 11-floor commercial tower right above the ‘stabling yard’ of a busy depot where trains are parked. DMRC is looking for a developer who will work on the property at Mundka depot in northwest Delhi, which caters to the Delhi Metro’s Green Line between Inderlok station with Brigadier Hoshiar Singh station in Bahadurgarh, Haryana. The site for development is located near the Mundka Industrial Area metro station. “The structure of the stabling deck was designed and constructed with a provision for a future development of 11 storeys above it,” said a DMRC spokesperson. “The site has a frontage of around 950 metres on Rohtak Road and is approximately seven kilometres from the Delhi-Haryana border. DMRC proposes development of 32,696 sq m over 11 floors, each of 2,972 sq m above the train stabling deck.” The stabling deck comprises two basements that will meet the vehicle parking requirement of the proposed commercial tower and will have ramps leading to the basements and first floor. The general access to the commercial tower and from the basement parking to the tower will be segregated from the depot, where train movement remains high. The commercial tower will also be easily accessible from Rohtak Road. With its proximity to Mundka Industrial Area, the project, DMRC believes, will get a good response and help the company generate revenue. DMRC has 12 operational train depots, which include Shastri Park, Khyber Pass, Yamuna Bank, Dwarka, Sarita Vihar, Vinod Nagar and Jasola Vihar-Shaheen Bagh. A metro train depot is generally set up over 2.5 lakh sq m with facilities like stabling lines, inspection bays, workshops and washing plants. Of these depots, Shastri Park depot’s IT Park is DMRC’s largest property development project, while Khyber Pass has a residential project. In both cases, however, development was of the property next to the depot or on a portion of the depot, but not right above the stabling deck where trains are parked. “The existing land use of the plot is ‘industrial’ and the eventual developer will have to get all requisite approvals from the local authorities,” the spokesperson said. DMRC intends to select a ‘lessee’ for 30 years to utilise the area as permitted under Master Plan Delhi 2021. The lessee will be entitled to sub-lease the built-up space to any person or entity after construction of the building. However, the ownership rights to the building constructed on the project site will remain with DMRC. The lessee will have the right to develop, design, construct, complete, manage, operate and maintain the project at its own cost, expense and risk for the lease period of 30 years. However, necessary precautions will have to be taken to ensure DMRC’s property is not encroached on, damaged or adversely affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/towering-complex-above-metro-stable/articleshow/77621923.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 19, 2020||Goa||Aldona panchayat to remain shut till Friday||Saligao: At a special meeting held to discuss the situation arisen after a clerk working at the Aldona panchayat office tested Covid positive on Monday, the sarpanch and panch members resolved to keep the office premises shut until Friday. The decision was taken in consultation with the office of the Bardez block development officer (BDO), Mapusa. It was also decided that the panchayat will function with only one staffer who will have attend to the daily correspondence and also to the people. On Tuesday, personnel from the Mapusa fire service station carried out the sanitisation of the entire panchayat building. “The panchayat office has been shut as a precautionary measure. After it reopens only one staffer will attend to the people,” panch member Deepak Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aldona-panchayat-to-remain-shut-till-friday/articleshow/77623199.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Allocate cop posts in 6 weeks: Telangana high court to Centre||HYDERABAD: Finding fault with the Centre for remaining silent for six years on the issue of determining final allocation of posts in the rank of DSP, additional SP and SP (non-cadre) between AP and Telangana, a bench of Telangana high court on Tuesday directed the Centre to complete the exercise within six weeks. Telangana, AP and its DGPs have been asked to extend cooperation to the Centre to help fulfil this directive within the stipulated period in tune with the recommendations of the advisory committee that had looked into the issue. A bench of Justice S Ramachandra Rao and .Justice T Amarnath Goud gave this judgement after hearing a petition filed by Hyderabad assistant commissioner of police G Naganna who wants AP cadre but was initially allotted to Telangana. The bench, however, made it clear that it cannot grant him any relief as the issue was still pending between both states. “The Centre cannot keep quiet on the ground that Telangana had rejected the seniority list prepared by AP. The Centre can take over the exercise under the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act,” it said. The bench told the Centre and Telangana to pay Rs 5,000 each as penalty to the petitioner. It also directed both states to abide by the decision of the Centre .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/allocate-cop-posts-in-6-wks-hc-to-centre/articleshow/77621941.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Mumbai||Spurt in malaria cases, nearly 600 detected in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Malaria cases have shown a significant spurt in the first fortnight of the month, with nearly 600 cases being detected. The mosquito-borne disease has also caused the year’s first two monsoon-related deaths, halting the city’s zero malaria death record of 2019. BMC on Tuesday said the death audit committee confirmed the recent malaria deaths of a 27-year-old from G north ward and a 40-year-old from M east ward. Both were also Covid positive. After recording 872 cases in July, the city registered 592 malaria cases between August 1-16. BMC said malaria was the only monsoon disease that has shown an increase. Gastroenteritis, hepatitis and leptospirosis continued to see fewer cases. The 27-year-old man from G north (Mahim, Dharavi) developed fever and vomiting on July 30 after which he was hospitalised on August 2 with complaints of breathlessness, hypotension and chest pain. The person, who had a history of chronic alcoholism, had also developed inflammation of heart muscles (myocarditis). He died of respiratory failure a day after admission. Civic officials said the cause of death was ‘plasmodium vivax malaria with multiorgan dysfunction syndrome in Covid-19’. The second victim was a 40-year-old man from M east ward (Govandi) who too had fever and cough with expectoration on July 25. He was hospitalised after four days in Navi Mumbai before being brought to Mumbai. The audit showed breathlessness persisted in the patient throughout and he tested positive for Covid and malaria P. vivax. He died on August 4. The cause of death was ‘respiratory failure with Covid-19 pneumonia with P.vivax malaria’.  A civic official said precautions must be taken to prevent breeding of mosquitoes as dengue cases rise from mid-August to September. 20 packages extended The 20 Covid-19 treatment packages incorporated in Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana have been extended to remain part of the scheme till October 31. The state also noticed that several hospitals were not extending the packages, thereby refusing free treatment to patients. Such cases will be penalised, hospitals can be fined and their empanelment cancelled. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/spurt-in-malaria-cases-nearly-600-detected-in-mumbai/articleshow/77622291.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur dist reports 19 Covid deaths, 406 cases||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district on Tuesday registered a surge in Covid-19 cases with the addition of 406 patients and 19 casualties. With this, the total number of cases in the district swelled to 15,679. Thr district has reported 439 Covid-related deaths so far. At present, the district has 7,160 active patients while 8,080 have been discharged after recovery. 9 Covid deaths at IGM Hospital To bring down the Covid-related death rates under control, district collector Daulat Desai shifted office of district civil surgeon to IGM Hospital in Ichalkaranji. However, people continue to succumb to the infection. Of the 19 deaths reported on Tuesday, nine are from the hospital. ZP CEO tests positive Aman Mittal, chief executive officer of Kolhapur zilla parishad, tested positive for Covid-19. He has appealed to his contacts to remain in isolation and get Covid tests done. Mittal has been a regular attendee of meetings held at the district collectorate office. Sangli registers 311 cases, 19 deaths A 24-year-old man from Gundewadi village of Miraj taluka is among 19 patients who succumbed to Covid-19 infection in Sangli district on Tuesday. The district also registered 311 new Covid cases, taking the total number of patients to 7,075.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-dist-reports-19-covid-deaths-406-cases/articleshow/77621925.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||In 100 days as Covid hospital, MCH treated 2,300 patients||KOLKATA: The Medical College and Hospital (MCH), Kolkata, which started its Covid facility 100 days ago, has so far treated and discharged more than 2,300 patients. The MCH that became the 68th dedicated hospital for Covid-19 patients is likely to add more beds to fight the pandemic. The hospital, which was converted into a full-fledged tertiary level Covid hospital on May 7, had started with 350 beds. While 200 beds were reserved for Covid-19 patients, the rest were kept for severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) patients. Soon, 150 beds were added as the number of patients increased. “Most of the patients treated at MCH had co-morbidities. Complications ranged from cardiac ailments to renal impairment. There were at least 10 patients who had to be implanted with pacemakers,” said Nirmal Maji, president of the Rogi Kalyan Samiti of the hospital. “One of the success stories include that of a 94-year old who was discharged after a fortnight. While his daughter was a Covid patient and was admitted to the hospital, he refused to leave home. We had to counsel him for a while before he agreed to get admitted,” said a doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-100-days-as-covid-hosp-mch-treated-2300-patients/articleshow/77621929.cms||Rohit Khanna
August 19, 2020||Goa||With 100 cases in 4 days, Margao crosses 500 mark||Margao: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Margao crossed the 500 mark with 39 new cases detected on Tuesday, taking the tally of cases under the Margao urban health centre (UHC) to 519. Margao has been witnessing a steady rise in Covid-19 cases over the last several weeks. In the past four days, over a 100 cases have been detected in areas coming under the jurisdiction of the Margao UHC The functioning of the Margao Municipal Council (MMC) was also affected by the spike in cases, compelling the municipality brass to restrict access to the public to the municipality last week. All its departments, however, began functioning as usual from Monday. Meanwhile, a spurt in positive cases is also being witnessed in areas coming under the jurisdiction of the Ponda PHC. Over a 100 new cases have been reported in Ponda PHC over the last 10 days taking the tally to 208 on Tuesday. Areas under the jurisdiction of Quepem are also witnessing a spurt in cases. With 11 new cases recorded on Tuesday, the tally of active cases in its jurisdiction has gone up to 90. Cases under the jurisdiction of the Curtorim PHC, however, have begun to decline after a sudden spike that was witnessed last week.  From 218 active cases on Friday, the number steadily dropped to 130 on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-100-cases-in-4-days-margao-crosses-500-mark/articleshow/77623206.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||From real to reel life, IAS officer is scripting new success story||NEW DELHI: From fulfilling his childhood dream of becoming an IAS officer to his newfound passion for acting, Abhishek Singh is living it all. After featuring in a documentary on a streaming platform and a Bollywood music video, he is all set to feature in another series, Delhi Crimes 2. His tryst with acting doesn’t end there as there are umpteen offers lined up his way. However, for Singh, service towards his nation will always be the top priority. “I come from a family of bureaucrats and acting happened when I wasn’t even looking for it. From making policies to help the needy, my focus has temporarily shifted to acting assignments. But the moment I know that my nation needs me more than this, I will jump in to put things in order,” said Singh, deputy commissioner (headquarters), Delhi government. The 2011-batch officer set his eyes on a UPSC seat while he was quite young and worked day in and out to achieve his dream and finally got what he wanted. Life was never monotonous for him. Every day was filled with new challenges, but little did he know that an official trip to Mumbai would open the doors of acting for him. Speaking to TOI, he recalled how it all started in November 2019. “I had gone to Mumbai for an official meeting when an old friend, Mukesh Chhabra, the director of Sushant Singh Rajput’s last movie, asked me if we could catch up. I went to his office and found Netflix team members present there too,” said Singh. “They were talking about the sequel of Delhi Crimes and asked me about my knowledge of how things function in Delhi Police. They didn’t know I was an IAS officer and were surprised that I knew quite a lot. One of the guys then asked me about my experience as an actor to which I laughed and replied that I was not one. Things moved on swiftly and they said that I was the perfect fit for the character they needed to cast,” said the officer. After bagging the role, Singh’s next worry was how he would handle his government duties. “My seniors have always been very supportive and were glad to know about what had happened in Mumbai. I got leave without any problem. This is when I started shooting for a documentary made by the students of National School of Drama, which now features on Hotstar,” he said. Singh was next cast in a music video sung by B Praak. Currently, he is filming the Netflix original. “I made my first social media account on Instagram last December. The reactions from everyone have been overwhelming,” he said. His family has been very supportive, other than his father who often asks him to concentrate on his work. “I know he says it jokingly, but overall everyone’s pretty happy with the way I have been handling everything,” Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-real-to-reel-life-ias-officer-is-scripting-new-success-story/articleshow/77621974.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
August 19, 2020||Goa||Five more succumb to coronavirus, active cases cross 3,800||PANAJI: Five men in the age group of 55 to 75 with comorbid conditions, including a senior official of the department of the information and publicity, succumbed to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 116 on Tuesday. A 57-year-old man from Aquem, Baixo died in Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim. Four cases of Covid fatalities —that of a 75-year-old man from Margao, a 72-year-old male from Borim, a 57-year-old from Ponda and a 66-year-old man from Baina—were reported from the Covid hospital in Margao. On Tuesday, the active count of Covid-19 cases increased to 3,861 with 339 new cases detected while 298 patients were cured. Margao continued to be at the top of the list with the high rate of infection. On Tuesday, it breached the 500-mark with over 40 new cases detected. The active cases of primary health centre at Ponda reached 208. The town has seen infection spread throughout during the last few weeks. In South Goa, Quepem, Curtorim and Cansaulim witnessed a marginal rise in infections. Cansualim has breached the 100-mark whereas Quepem and Curtorim are inching closer to 100. Nine more persons tested positive in Panaji taking its tally of active cases to 189. Among those found positive in the capital were a newsperson working for a local news channel and a government employee working in the secretariat. Cases at the Pernem community health centre jumped to 171 as 13 new patients were detected. The count of Mapusa urban health centre reached 125. A health officer said while cases have been found all over the town, more have been detected in Karaswada and Cunchelim that have a sizable migrant population. The two areas also have hutments and witnessed largescale encroachment in the last two decades. Other centres that witnessed a spike are Pernem, Aldona, Betki, Candolim, Casarvarnem, Colvale, and Siolim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/5-more-succumb-to-virus-active-cases-cross-3800/articleshow/77623201.cms||Bindiya Chari
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Congress drive on shrines at secretariat||HYDERABAD: Congress on Tuesday launched a campaign from Mallepally demanding re-construction of two mosques and a temple at the same site on secretariat premises. “CM K Chandrasekhar Rao has hurt the sentiments of both Muslims and Hindus by demolishing their places of worship. A vague and misleading picture of the new secretariat complex design has been circulated to the media. The CM should clarify why the design of the new secretariat building, including its internal details, was not placed in the public domain. Secretariat is a public building and people have a right to know everything about it. KCR can maintain secrecy if he is constructing his own house, but he cannot keep information pertaining to the secretariat a confidential affair as it is being constructed with public money,” Shabbir Ali, who is leading the drive, said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-drive-on-shrines-at-sectt/articleshow/77621955.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolhapur||458 villages in Solapur have reported Covid cases||Kolhapur: Even as cases of Covid-19 has gone up in rural areas of Solapur, a little over half of the villages have so far managed to keep the contagion at bay. As per official data, out of the 1,029 villages across Solapur, Covid-19 cases have been reported in only 458 villages. However, as per estimate, the number of affected villages is likely to increase as the administration has deicded to undertake massive rapid antigen testing all over the district. Till July 13, Covid patients were found in 420 villages, but due to rapid antigen tests another 38 villages got added to the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/458-villages-in-solapur-have-reported-covid-cases/articleshow/77621958.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris records 9 new Covid cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district logged nine new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, pushing up the tally to 1,089. With 8 patients being discharged on Tuesday, the total number of patients discharged so far in the hill district stood at 952. Of the 9 new cases, three are secondary contacts of earlier positive cases. Five other people who tested positive had travelled to other districts. A 64-year-old man from Kerbetta estate and another 76-year-old man from Ooty tested positive after returning from Coimbatore. A 25-year-old man from Kalhatty tested positive after he visited Mettupalayam on a work assignment, while another man, aged 64, tested positive with a travel history to other districts. An 80-year-old man, who had come from Thudiyalur, tested positive. According to health officials, this case will be cross-notified to Coimbatore district. As many as 133 active cases from the Nilgiris are being treated at government facilities in Ooty and Coimbatore, besides Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-records-9-new-covid-cases/articleshow/77623205.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Goa||As Covid spreads among clergy, Mum archbishop appeals for caution||Panaji: In wake of clergy succumbing to Covid-19, archbishop of Bombay Oswald Cardinal Gracias has warned priests, especially those with hypertension and diabetes, not to let their guard down. “Please observe strictly the norms for wearing masks, social distancing and washing of hands,” he stated in his latest message. “Once our pastoral works are more fully resumed and there is more contact with people, the possibility of infection will be greater. Hence, the need to be extra cautious. Those with comorbidities have to be particularly careful; especially if you have diabetes, hypertension or some lung infection,” stated Gracias who is also the president of the Catholic Bishops Conference of India. Most fatalities occur because patients are brought to the hospital too late he said, advising clergy to “not delay tests if you have any indication of a possible infection”, Gracias stated. The first priest to succumb to Covid in Goa, Fr Joaquim Nuno da Cruz died on Saturday at the Covid hospital a day before his 91st birthday. He was among several priests who tested positive from the Clergy Home in Margao along with attendants at the home recently. He served in the parishes of Raia, Saligao, Rachol, Tropa, Corgao, Chorao, Moira, Nachinola, Parra, Santa Cruz, Verna and Cortalim and was buried at the Holy Spirit Cemetery on Sunday. A total of eight priests from the clergy home in Margao have tested positive along with attendants. Three more priests from the home have recently been shifted to the Covid hospital for treatment. “One is on dialysis, the second was experiencing suffocation and the third is 95 years old. The rest are in home isolation and don’t have any symptoms at all,” a priest at the home told TOI. The clergy home has restricted entry into the home that has 17 retired priests. “No visitors are permitted into the home. People used to come and visit, but for the past 20 days nobody is permitted to enter the house,” the priest said. Several priests from the archdiocese of Goa have tested positive for the virus over the past two months, been hospitalised and recovered from Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-covid-spreads-among-clergy-mum-archbishop-appeals-for-caution/articleshow/77623202.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Steady rise in cases with 1,758 new patients in kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state reported 1,758 new cases of Covid-19 meanwhile 1,365 patients under treatment have recovered. The total cases reported in the state capital has crossed 10,000. As many as 1,677 cases of local transmission were reported on the day, of which the source of infection in 81 cases was not traceable. Six more Covid related deaths were confirmed in the state, taking the total death toll to 176. Pathumma, 76, (Palakkad), Moithu, 59, (Wayanad), Kausu, 65, and Rajalakshmi, 61, (Kozhikode), and Vijaya, 32, and Sathyan, 54, (Thiruvananthapuram) are the deceased. As many as 168 patients are admitted to ICUs in various hospitals and 35 are on ventilator support. Among the new cases, 39 have come back from overseas and 42 from other states. Twenty-five more health workers were also infected along with 11 Coast Guard personnel at INSH. The total number of cases reported till date in the state has climbed to 47,898, of which 16,274 are active cases. Thiruvananthapuram reported the highest number of cases on Monday - 489. While Malappuram reported 242, Ernakulam had 192 cases and the rest are from Kozhikode (147), Alappuzha (126), Kannur (123), Kottayam (93), Kollam (88), Pathanamthitta (65), Palakkad (51), Thrissur (48), Wayanad (47), Kasaragod (42) and Idukki (5). The highest number of local transmissions has been reported from Thiruvananthapuram 476 followed by Malappuram (220), Ernakulam (173), Kozhikode (146), Alappuzha (117), Kannur (111), Kollam (86), Kottayam (86), Pathanamthitta (52), Palakkad (44), Wayanad (44), Thrissur (42), Kasaragod (40) and Idukki (4). There are 1,65,564 people under observation in the state, among which 13,633 are in hospitals. A total of 1,583 people were admitted to hospitals on the day. In the last 24 hours, 29,265 samples were tested. A total of 12,40,076 samples have so far been sent for testing including 1,51,714 samples as part of sentinel surveillance. Ten healthcare workers were infected in Thiruvananthapuram, six in Malappuram, four in Ernakulam, three in Palakkad, and one each in Thrissur and Kannur. Among the recovered, 310 are from Thiruvananthapuram. The total number of recoveries in the state stands at 31,394 now. Meanwhile, 13 more places were designated as hotspots while 18 were excluded from the list. There are now 565 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/steady-rise-in-cases-with-1758-new-patients/articleshow/77620244.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||MR Bangur was a pleasant experience: Survivors’ kin||KOLKATA: A resident of Hazra, Sujata Agarwal, had a scare when her father-in-law, who was already having high fever, started complaining of shortness of breath and his oxygen level started to drop. She rushed him to a private hospital on DH Road where the authorities conducted a Covid test — which turned out to be positive — but could not admit him since there were no vacant beds in the ICU. Not sure of where to take her ailing father-in-law, Agarwal dialled the helpline of Swasthya Bhavan. A bed was arranged at MR Bangur Hospital and an ambulance was arranged to ferry her father-in-law. He is now back home and recuperating. “The admission at speciality block was smooth and my father-in-law was administered first aid and oxygen. His blood tests, ECG and X-Ray were done immediately. The next day, my mother-in-law also tested positive and we admitted her to MR Bangur. She was admitted to female ward. The doctors shared regular updates about the treatment of my in-laws and we were made to speak to them via video calling daily,” said Agarwal. Another aspect that caught her attention was the cleanliness and sanitation. “Not only the senior doctors but even health workers down the rung were very particular about wearing masks and gloves and keeping the surroundings clean. Their nutrition and other requirements were also taken care off very well,” she added. Both her in-laws are back home after testing negative and are now recuperating at home. “The entire credit goes to the medical team at MR Bangur,” said Agarwal. “Honestly, I was a little sceptical about a government facility but when I spoke to Sisir Naskar, the MR Bangur superintendent, and Sagar Chandra Sit, assistant super, their patient approach and the way they explained things rekindled hope,” she said. “I am grateful to medical team at MR Bangur and the state health department for being so prompt and sensitive to the needs of the citizens,” Agarwal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mr-bangur-was-a-pleasant-experience-survivors-kin/articleshow/77622089.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Goa||Fear sees local crematoriums refuse to conduct last rites of Covid deceased||Margao: Statistics pertaining to deaths of Covid patients in the state has revealed a rather uncanny situation. Of the 50 Covid deaths that occurred in the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao, since July 22, funerals of 14 deceased from outside Salcete, including 10 from North Goa, had to be conducted at the Margao Hindu crematorium. The situation arose largely on account of the refusal of the local crematorium management bodies to allow the last rites to be conducted in their graveyards. Sources associated with the team of administrative and medical officers dealing with the funerals at the ESI hospital said that the situation was largely a fallout of panic and anxiety related to Covid-19. “Apart from fear of contracting the infection, it’s the fear of social ostracism that leads to families’ reluctance in taking possession of the bodies and conducting the last rites in their village,” a source said. Besides, several bodies of patients from North Goa who succumbed to the virus at the Goa Medical College and Hospital (GMC), had to be transported to Margao for conducting their last rites at the Margao Hindu crematorium, sources in the health department said. In such cases, the team at the ESI-Covid hospital dealing with claims and disposal of bodies faces a daunting task in dealing with the situation. “In some cases, the family of the deceased simply doesn’t turn up, or nonchalantly ask us to do the funeral ourselves,” a source associated with the team said. A team member first tries to convince the family to take possession of the body and conduct the funeral in their village. “We explain to them how it’s absolutely safe in dealing with the funerals when all SOPs are followed. While we are able to persuade many, there are several who simply refuse to see reason,” the source added. Officials have underscored the need for sensitisation of the public to the issue to prevent social ostracism of the Covid-19 victim’s families. The South Goa district administration has since July 22 streamlined the system for handling funerals of Covid patients from South Goa. A district administration official coordinates with a hearse van service provider while a medical officer gets in touch with the family of the deceased and explains to them the protocol for conducting the last rites. The ESI-Covid hospital team for funerals also handles disposals of Covid bodies from GMC of those residing in South Goa.  The ESI-Covid hospital provides PPE units for those handling the body and for family members attending the funeral. The cost of the hearse van, the PPE suits and the wages of labourers handling the body are borne by the government. The Mathagramastha Hindu Sabha that runs the Hindu crematorium at Pajifond, Margao, has allowed the district administration to use two pyres for Covid victims of any faith. “The availability of the Pajifond crematorium for Covid bodies has come in as a great relief. The local bodies managing village crematoriums should understand their social responsibility and reserve space for Covid bodies in every village,” a medical officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fear-sees-local-crematoriums-refuse-to-conduct-last-rites-of-covid-deceased/articleshow/77623208.cms||Govind Kamat Maad
August 19, 2020||Pune||Idol collection centre in each PMC ward: Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol||PUNE: The civic body will have at least one major idol collection centre — a civic school or any such establishments — in each of its 15 wards to promote “Moorti Daan” (donation of idols) instead of immersion of household idols during the Ganapati festival. At a meeting with editors and senior media representatives organised by the city police chief, K Venkatesham, on Tuesday, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol said no idol immersion would be allowed in rivers and civic tanks to ensure that household idols were immersed at home only. “Last year, a total of 70,000 idols were collected as a part of the ‘Moorti Daan’ initiative and this year. This year, we expect more donations,” he said. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s 30 mobile tanks would visit areas across the city where people might have genuine issues about idol immersion at home, he said. The PMC and the police have roped in support of prominent representatives of priests like ‘Vedmurtis’ Madhav Kelkar, Prakash Dandge, Pankaj Kelkar and Mandar Khaladkar to spread awareness and clear myths about immersion of idols at home. They have also got celebrities like Upendra Limaye, Subodh Bhave, Salilk Kulkarni and Prasad Oak to shoot short video clips creating awareness about in-house celebrations. Venkatesham said, “Pune citizens have always supported any initiative having a good objective. Given the situation this year, we are sure people will support all our initiatives. It is our collective responsibility to ensure that there is no spread of the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/idol-collection-centre-in-each-pmc-ward-mayor/articleshow/77621982.cms||Vishwas Kothari
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Three held for misbehaving with medical student||Hyderabad: Three men were arrested for misbehaving with a medical student in Shamshabad limits. The 24-year-old medical student, after reaching the city from Ukraine, checked in to a hotel in Shamshabad on Monday. Praveen Kumar, Vijay Kumar and Suresh Kumar, all private employees and cousins, were staying in the same hotel. “Her destination was Bangalore and she thought of boarding a bus the next day and checked into the hotel,” said RGI Airport inspector P Vijay Kumar. “She had spoken to them asking where she can get a sim card and board a bus. The trio started banging her door at around 4 am. Scared, she called some of her friends in the city who dialled 100,” said the officer.. A team of police rushed to the hotel and nabbed the offender. “The woman lodged a complaint before leaving to Bangalore. The offenders were also threatening her,” said the inspector. The trio was booked under sections 354, 509 and 506 of IPC. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-held-for-misbehaving-with-medical-student/articleshow/77622071.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Two cops suspended for misbehaving with women||HYDERABAD: K Chander Kumar, a Special Branch inspector of Hyderabad commissionerate, was suspended on Tuesday for allegedly misbehaving with a woman. This occured after Vanasthalipuram ACP S Jayaram was suspended by DGP M Mahendar Reddy on Monday for misconduct related to a woman complainant. Meanwhile, SR Nagar inspector S Murali Krishna was suspended by city police commissioner on Tuesday for misconduct in relation to Vanasthalipuram ACP’s suspension. Inspector K Chander Kumar had recently joined the Special Branch and was assigned with East Zone of the commissionerate. Earlier, he worked in the South Zone law and order team. Recently, a woman in her 40s, who works in the municipal department of Warangal, lodged a complaint with Vanasthalipuram police alleging that she was being harassed by Chander Kumar. The inspector, who came in contact with the complainant in 2011, had a cordial relationship with her while she was working in the city. Recently, she started avoiding him due to personal reasons and the inspector started continuously video calling her on WhatsApp and also sent abusive messages when she did not respond, said a police official. Unable to bear with the harassment, the woman along with her husband, who is also a government employee, lodged a complaint with Vanasthalipuram police and they also approached city police commissioner. After an inquiry, police commissioner Anjani Kumar suspended the inspector. Donate plasma and save lives. We have more than 150 plasma donors so far in our department. Only a human can donate… https://t.co/NtznxcbAkA— Anjani Kumar, IPS, Stay Home Stay Safe. (@CPHydCity) 1597801973000“The inspector’s conduct has been improper with a lady. Any misconduct by an officer in uniform can’t be tolerated at all. Send WhatsApp message at 9490616555. Help us identify black sheeps in police department,” Anjani Kumar tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-cops-suspended-for-misbehaving-with-women/articleshow/77621999.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hubballi||Will sell GI handloom products in Priyadarshini showrooms: Siddu Savadi||HUBBALLI: Geographical indication (GI) tag handloom products would be released to the market under Karnataka Handloom Development Corporation’s Priyadarshini brand said KHDC chairman Siddu Savadi. Speaking to reporters here on Tuesday after assuming the office of the KHDC chairman, Savadi said the government has kept aside Rs 2 crore for expansion of the market for the corporation’s GI tag products. He said all Priyadarshini showrooms in the state would be upgraded. Priyadarshini showrooms are known for selling high-quality silk sarees, he said. “An agreement was signed with major e-commerce websites to sell the products of the corporation online. About 5,183 handlooms are working in the state and each weaver is earning Rs 150 to Rs 200 wage per day. The education department is yet to make pay pending dues of Rs 21 crore to the corporation,” said Savadi. “During the Covid pandemic, handlooms have weaved eight lakh metres of cloth. KHDC has suffered a cumulative loss of Rs 155 crore so far and it is seeking a special grant from the government as it is providing direct and indirect jobs to thousands of families across the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/will-sell-gi-handloom-products-in-priyadarshini-showrooms-savadi/articleshow/77618805.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||War of words over Delhi's Shaheen Bagh continues between AAP and BJP||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday demanded a thorough probe against 50 people who joined BJP and claimed that they were also the organisers of Shaheen Bagh protest. A group of 50 residents of Shaheen Bagh, the epicentre of anti-CAA protests early this year, recently joined BJP triggering a clash between AAP and BJP with both accusing the other of organising the protest in as part of a conspiracy. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta rejected the allegations and accused AAP of misleading the Muslim community on the Citizenship (Amendment) Act for political gains and also of creating the Shaheen Bagh protest. In a press conference, AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj stated that police should check the records of these people, find out with which BJP leaders they were in touch with, what kind of instructions the BJP leaders have given them and other issues. Police should also probe the role of these people in organising and continuing the Shaheen Bagh protest, he demanded. The AAP functionary claimed that BJP created a riot-like situation in the capital in a well-scripted manner and the BJP functionaries provoked the people of both the communities, which led to a riot. “Key functionaries of the Shaheen Bagh protest joining BJP has exposed the fact that the BJP functionaries spread hatred among the Muslim protesters of Shaheen Bagh and also among the Hindus,” the AAP MLA alleged. “On February 22, a sit-in protest took place near the Jafrabad metro station by anti-CAA protesters. The next day, BJP leader Kapil Mishra made a hate speech along with pro-CAA protesters. From that afternoon, various clashes started taking place across northeast Delhi and soon the riots broke out,” claimed Bharadwaj. Delhi BJP spokesperson Harish Khurana said that AAP has officially accepted that anti-Indian slogans were raised at Shaheen Bagh. “The video of deputy CM Manish Sisodia supporting Shaheen Bagh is proof that it was created by AAP. People saw AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan provoking people in the open. AAP councillor Tahir Hussain is accused of riots, while Delhi Police has already given clean chit to BJP MP Pravesh Sahib Singh and Kapil Mishra,” said Khurana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/war-of-words-over-shaheen-bagh-continues-between-aap-and-bjp/articleshow/77622032.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Pune||Most cultural events to go online this Ganeshotsav||Pune: Artistes like Rahul Deshpande, Shankar Mahadevan, Rakesh Chaurasia, Pandit Vijay Ghate and Salil Kulkarni are set to enthrall audience through online concerts this Ganeshotsav. Bhausaheb Rangari Ganapati Trust festival head Puneet Balan said, “Singer Shankar Mahadevan, classical vocalist Rahul Deshpande, tabla player Pandit Vijay Ghate, flautist Rakesh Chaurasia will perform online for the audience. Prathamesh Laghate, Kartiki Gaikwad and Mugdha Vaishampayan, who had featured in a reality show, will also perform as will Viraj, the grandson of Pandit Bhimsen Joshi.” Compère Milind Kulkarni said, “We will ensure that while we perform online, social distancing and other precautions are followed.”  Hemant Rasne, trustee of Shrimant Dagdusheth Halwai Ganapati Trust, told TOI that the mandal would provide digital arshan and the opportunity to participate in the rituals through an online ‘Abhishek’ facility. Tulshibaug Sarvajanik Ganeshotsav Mandal president Vivek Khatavkar said, “We will ensure 24X7 online darshan and streaming of the Aarti this Ganeshotsav. However, we haven’t decided on hosting online cultural events yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/most-cultural-events-to-go-online-this-ganeshotsav/articleshow/77622021.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Six workers rescued from Annur firm||Coimbatore: The district administration on Tuesday rescued six workers who were forced to work against their will at a private company at Pillaiappampalayam in Annur block. The revenue officials received a complaint against the company stating that it has held six workers as bonded labourers. Based on the complaint, a team headed by revenue divisional officer (RDO) north P Suresh and comprising tahsildar, officials from labour department, tribal welfare department and police department had inspected the company on Tuesday. “The workers – five men and a woman – who belong to the tribal community, were from Villupuram district and had started working at the company on their own will in July. But when the workers had expressed their wish to return to their hometown, the company management had refused to grant them permission and forced them to work,” an official said. The workers were paid Rs 360 to Rs 460 as wage per day. “The inquiries had revealed that they were not held as bonded labourers. Their wages were paid regularly, none of their documents were with the company and no agreements were signed,” he added. The officials had rescued and sent them to Villupuram district. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/six-workers-rescued-from-annur-firm/articleshow/77623207.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Woman drowns in Ytl river, 4 dams overflowing||Yavatmal: Incessant rainfall across Yavatmal district has flooded rivers and filled nullahs up to the brim, causing threat to life and property. Gangubai Bapurao Bavane, a 55-year-old woman from Ganesh ward of Pusad, drowned in the Pus river. Pusad police registered accidental death and started further investigation in the matter. Four out of the 10 major irrigation projects — Pus, Saikheda, Borgaon and Navargaon — are now overflowing, forcing the authorities to raise the gates of these dams by 2-25 centimetres. The remaining six projects, namely, Arunavati (65.3%), Bembla (91.7%), Goki (69.1%), Waghadi (96.4%), Lower Pus (85%) and Adan (81.1%) are also nearing full capacity. Nilona dam, which caters to the drinking water needs of city dwellers, is already overflowing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-drowns-in-ytl-river-4-dams-overflowing/articleshow/77621992.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Mumbai||Three years’ rigorous imprisonment for 2 who pushed Mumbai cop on tracks||MUMBAI: A sessions court recently convicted two men, found by police to be moving suspiciously around Andheri station in 2018, to three years’ rigorous imprisonment as they pushed a police naik onto railway tracks during rush hour to escape. Mohammed Shaikh (25) and Abdul Shaikh (30) were acquitted of attempt to murder charge, after the prosecution did not produce the train schedule to prove its version that there was an oncoming Churchgate-bound fast train and other evidence. The court also said the accused did not intend to kill the policeman and only wanted to escape. Refusing to let the accused out on a bond of good behaviour, the court said the offence proved against them cannot be taken lightly as it was an attack on a police officer when he was discharging public duty. “The court has to take the nature of the offence as serious one and to convict the accused with the fullest period of sentence,” the court said. Umesh Satardekar, the police naik, was injured on April 23, 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-years-ri-for-2-who-pushed-mumbai-cop-on-tracks/articleshow/77622295.cms||---
August 19, 2020||India||Farm exports up 23% despite Covid crisis||NEW DELHI: Sustaining the global food supply chain amid Covid-19 situation, India’s export of agricultural commodities during March-June period increased by 23% compared to corresponding period last year. In value terms, the exports of agri commodities during March-June were Rs 25,552 crore against an export of Rs 20,734 crore during the same period in 2019. The increase is attributed primarily to export of wheat, Bengal gram, groundnut oil and tur (pigeon peas). In 2019-20, India exported agricultural & allied products worth Rs 2.52 lakh crore against imports of Rs 1.47 lakh crore. Sharing the country's farm export figures for the period hit by the pandemic, agriculture ministry on Tuesday said, “Even during the difficult time of pandemic lockdown, India took care not to disturb the world food supply chain and continued to export.” The ministry also flagged its comprehensive plan to promote agri trade and referred to recently created product specific export promotion forums (EPF) which, it said, would “lead agri exports to new heights”. The ministry in its plan has emphasised on strengthening the existing 'agri-clusters' and creating more product-specific clusters to fulfil the gap of bulk quantity and quality of supplies. “A time bound action plan has also been prepared for import substitution with particular focus upon edible oils, cashew, fruits and spices thereby making India self-reliant,” it said. The EPFs for eight agri & allied products - grapes, mango, banana, onion, rice, nutri-cereals (coarse grains), pomegranate and floriculture - have been constituted under the Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA) as per the agriculture ministry’s plan to promote farm trade. Each EPF will have exporters of the related commodity as its members along with official members representing concerned ministries of the central and state governments. Chairman APEDA will be the chairman of each of these forums which will constantly monitor and identify/anticipate developments in the external/internal situation pertaining to the production and export of their respective commodity and recommend/intervene for taking the necessary policy/ administrative measures. “They will be actively in touch with the producers, exporters and other relevant stakeholders of respective commodities and hear their problems, and facilitate, support and provide solutions to them. They will regularly study the market for respective commodities on a global basis, and identify opportunities and developments/implications for domestic entities, and disseminate the same expeditiously to domestic producers and exporters,” said the ministry in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farm-exports-up-23-despite-covid-crisis/articleshow/77624426.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Chief edu officer visits plus two students in remote areas||Udhagamandalam: The chief education officer, Nazarudheen, visited at least 12 students of different government higher secondary schools as online classes have already commenced for them. The inspection was conducted in the remote areas in Gudalur taluk and Kotagiri taluks.Under the ‘Veettu Palli’ programme, at least 10 TV channels such as Pudhu Yugam and Sahana among others are broadcasting the online lessons for those belonging to the lower strata of society, according to the chief education officer. “However, for the plus two classes video lessons have been provided to the students. The students were asked to approach the nearby schools with their laptops provided by the government. And the video lessons were uploaded. We have completed this exercise”, said Nazarudheen.“But still we wanted to know how the systems worked when the students handled it. Hence, teachers were deputed to visit students residing closer to their areas and check if everything is functioning properly”, he added.On Tuesday, Nazarudheen visited Sakthi Nagar near Billikambai village and Manavarai colony. The students residing in those two colonies are mostly children of estate workers and they study at Kagguchi government higher secondary school.“I visited at least six students’ houses. I felt that students and parents are happy about the initiative by the government in connection with the video lessons. They seem to be coping with the new way of learning”, said the official.Each teacher has been assigned with a set of students to monitor and help them in any situation of difficulties in the operation of the uploaded lessons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/chief-edu-officer-visits-plus-two-students-in-remote-areas/articleshow/77623211.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||Writing on the wall: Delhi University in race against time for September 14 exams||NEW DELHI: Two attendants of an online open-book examination nodal officer of a Delhi University college developed fever on Monday and were sent for Covid-19 tests on Tuesday. This has scared many DU staffers, adding to the anxieties over holding physical examinations from September 14 as ordered by Delhi high court. Can safety can be ensured when teachers and students meet in big numbers? Beyond safety, outstation students are also asking about their food and lodging needs in Delhi, while Delhi residents worry about commuting when the Delhi Metro is not running. “In this situation, who will willingly come and work?” asked the nodal officer whose attendants are Covid suspects. He has himself gone into self-quarantine, and feels the physical exams will force the students to unnecessarily compromise their health. Balram Pani, DU dean of colleges, acknowledges the problems. “Our officials, the legal cell and dean of examinations will go through the court’s directions and issue a notification soon,” said Pani. “We know many students are not keen on travelling in these circumstances and may not find accommodation in the city.” Since a big portion of those sitting for the physical exams are students with disabilities, who couldn’t write the online OBE, the problems appear tougher. “For OBE, the university was unable to arrange scribes for us. Now how do they expect us to arrange scribes and travel to Delhi? And will hostels be open for us? Where else can we stay?” asked Suyansh Agarwal, a St Stephen’s College student from Chhattisgarh who vacated his hostel room when going home. Manoj Khanna, principal, Ramjas College, was clear. “Providing hostels is not an option because the rooms are being prepared for the next semester,” he said. Another principal added, “Opening hostels will mean starting the mess facility and other services. This will require hostel staffs rejoining work, and raising the risk of infection.” Pani’s only hope is a low number of examinees. But the data submitted to Delhi high court recently showed the opposite. “We are collecting information from colleges and hope to get a clearer idea of those who missed OBE. If there are less than 10% of total examinees, DU can set up exam centres in states with many aspirants,” said Pani. Jaswinder Singh, principal, SGTB Khalsa College and head, DU Principals’ Association, said if exams were held, the most the colleges could do was to ensure social distancing and provide masks to students. Sanitising over 63 colleges and the various departments would be a mammoth task. DU Executive Council member Rajesh Jha brought up another aspect and asked, “How can there be two modes of examination? When one set of the student is appearing for open-book tests, is the other set expected to write the exams under invigilation?” There are also questions on whether teachers are expected to be on invigilation duty or evaluate papers or conduct online classes. Some also pointed out that the admission process would be under way in September for the new session to start in October. As it is, Kumar Ashutosh, nodal officer of College of Vocational Studies, revealed that evaluators already faced a huge task to “identify, stack and locate answer sheets” sent in multiple forms through the exam portal and email. What about students whose online answer sheets weren’t received or were garbled? Rajdhani College professor Pankaj Garg said, “We don’t have information whether such students are to come for the physical exams. Wouldn’t that be unfair for the students?” Watch Delhi University in race against time for September 14 exams||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/writing-on-the-wall-du-in-race-against-time-for-sept-14-exams/articleshow/77622144.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 19, 2020||Pune||Police seize 149 fake Rs 2,000 notes||Pune: The Pimpri police seized 149 counterfeit notes having a face value of Rs2.98 lakh from three persons travelling in a car along the old Pune-Mumbai highway on Sunday night. Police said the seized notes were in the denomination of Rs2,000. “We are trying to ascertain why the three men were carrying the counterfeit notes and to whom were they delivering it. We have arrested the trio,” an officer from the Pimpri police said. A team comprising assistant commissioner of police (crime) Ramchandra Jadhav, senior inspector Milind Waghmare, and inspector Rajendra Nikalje, arrested the three men identified as Abhishekh Pradeep Katariya (19), Omkar Shashikant Jadhav (19), and Suresh Bhagwan Patole (40).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-seize-149-fake-rs-2000-notes/articleshow/77622052.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kochi||Expert team finds lapses on part of Amala Hospital||THRISSUR: The experts’ team appointed by district medical officer (DMO) Dr K J Reena to study the circumstances that led to the spike in Covid-19 cases at Amala Hospital in Thrissur has indicted the hospital for the deterioration of the situation. “This hospital has the technical expertise, human resources and infrastructure in preparing for such an epidemic. However, a lack of cohesive action from all the departments concerned was found even at the time of investigation,” the team led by the deputy DMO Dr Satish K N said in their report submitted to the collector on Tuesday. Recalling that the first Covid-19 case was reported in the district on January 30, the team said, “In spite of having ample time to fortify their system since the first brush with Covid-19 cases and multiple instances of cases or high contacts being traced to have their premises, a much wanted change in policy and implementation on necessary measures towards improving their preparedness was not initiated,” the report said. “Given the current status of their knowledge, action and practice in infection control measures for Covid 19, the institution at present may not be capable of handling Covid and non-Covid cases simultaneously. Hence time may be provided towards filling of the deficiencies identified and to reopen to the general public, when adequately prepared,” the report said. Accordingly, district collector S Shanawas has directed the hospital to close down the general OP wing. Only the chemotherapy and dialysis wings will be permitted to function. The DMO’s team, which had visited the hospital on Monday, has recommended that there was an urgent need to strengthen the infection control measures there. “There should be a separate standard operating procedure on infection control related to Covid care areas to include hand hygiene, PPE, disinfection, biomedical waste management and laundry handling,” Dr Satish said. There are reports more than 100 people have been infected from the Amala cluster already and their number could go up further. The reports said 37 among those who positive on Monday had acquired infection from the cluster formed around Amala medical college and hospital. Those infected from Amala hospital include 13 health workers also. Meanwhile, 48 people tested positive for Covid-19 in the district on Tuesday and 43 of them acquired infection through social contacts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/expert-team-finds-lapses-on-part-of-amala-hosp/articleshow/77620279.cms||T Ramavarman
August 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Cases, casualties pile up: Record 1.7k +ve in Punjab, 35 die of virus||Chandigarh: Punjab recorded 1,704 fresh cases and 35 deaths of Covid-19 on Tuesday, with which the total number of cases rose to 34,400 and the casualty count to 898. The state recorded 212 more cases than Monday, posting the highest single-day spike in confirmed cases. The virus claimed the lives of eight people in Ludhiana, four each in Patiala and Amritsar, three each in Mohali and Nawanshahr, two each in Ropar and Tarn Taran, and one each in Faridkot, Fatehgarh Sahib, Jalandhar, Muktsar and Kapurthala. The trend of high mortality rate is expected to continue as 37 patients are on ventilator support and 336 on oxygen support. Ludhiana contributed the highest number of new cases, 483. It was followed by 338 cases in Patiala, 132 in Jalandhar, 103 in Mohali, 94 in Bathinda, 52 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 50 in Hoshiarpur, 49 in Muktsar, 46 each in Kapurthala, Fazilka, Faridkot and Amritsar, 34 in Ferozepur, 33 in Moga, 26 in Kapurthala, 24 each in Barnala and Ropar, 16 each in Nawanshahr and Pathankot, and seven each in Tarn Taran. Also, 1,582 patients were discharged, taking the number of recovered cases to 20,180. Among new recoveries, 212 are in Ludhiana, 714 in Patiala, 108 in Amritsar, 17 in Mohali, 31 in Sangrur, 42 in Bathinda, 22 in Gurdaspur, 29 in Ferozepur, 71 in Moga, four in Hoshiarpur, 47 in Pathankot, 64 in Barnala, nine in Fatehgarh Sahib, 59 in Faridkot, 55 in Ropar, 18 in Nawanshahr, 27 in Muktsar, 32 in Kapurthala, and 21 in Tarn Taran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cases-casualties-pile-up-record-1-7k-ve-in-punjab-35-die-of-virus/articleshow/77622085.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Pune||Four held for stealing cash & liquor bottles||Pune: A CCTV camera’s footage helped the city police crime branch arrest a criminal on record and his three friends hours after they stole cash and alcohol bottles from a liquor shop at Amar Enclave housing society near Ramtekdi junction around 1.55am on Monday. Sub-inspector Naresh Wadewale from the Wanowrie police said, “The criminal — Atif Shaikh — and his aides — Hatim Mulla, Mohsin Sayyed and Sahil Shaikh — used an iron rod to break the shop’s safety doorlock and a sharp object to uproot the shutter. They picked up 128 bottles of alcohol worth over Rs22,000 and took Rs5,000 from the cash box before feeling.” Sub-inspector Somnath Shendge of the crime branch (Unit V) identified the suspects from the CCTV clip while conducting parallel investigations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-held-for-stealing-cash-liquor-bottles/articleshow/77622079.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Panchaganga nears danger mark again, more rain likely||Kolhapur: The civic authorities have deployed staff and rescue teams to keep a watch and evacuate people in case of an emergency as the water level in the Panchaganga on Tuesday rose to the 40.11-mark, slightly below the danger mark of 43 feet. The India Meteorology Department (IMD), Mumbai, has issued a ‘yellow alert’, which means heavy rain very likely in the next three days in Kolhapur, further heightening tensions in areas that witnessed floods and destruction during the last monsoon. The authorities had expected that the river would breach the danger mark by Tuesday morning, but it did not happen due to the weakening of rainfall activity in catchment areas of dams and in the district. Two of the four gates of Radhanagari dam were closed in the morning, following which the level the Panchaganga remained steady, but still close to the danger mark. Meanwhile, the discharge from Radhanagari dam was 4,256 cusec on Tuesday evening as against 8,500 cusec in the morning. In the last 24 hours, 120 mm rainfall was recorded in the ghat areas of Kolhapur district. The residents of Chikali and Ambewadi have shifted to safe locations while over 15 families from Sutarwada and other low-lying areas were taken to the shelter camps. Currently, 85 barrages along several rivers are submerged under water. All dams, except except Chikotra, are full and the water is being discharged. Heavy rain continued to lash the rural parts of the district in the last 24 hours, causing partial damage to private property and roads. The district administration has deployed teams to estimate the losses and decide on the compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/panchaganga-nears-danger-mark-again-more-rain-likely/articleshow/77622102.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Krishna water level inching up in Sangli||Kolhapur: The Krishna river water level has gone up at several locations in the Sangli district because of continuous discharge from major dams. The raised water levels were reported from Narsimhawadi, Sangli city and Haripur — all these three spots had also faced severe flooding last year. The river was flowing six feet below the danger line at the Irwin bridge near Sangli city on Tuesday evening. Sangli Municipal Corporation has asked people residing in the low-lying areas to shift to safer places. Water level at Haripur, where Krishna and Warna rivers meet, went up by two feet on Tuesday to touch 45 feet. The danger mark is 53 feet. The river water increased by seven feet at Narsimhawadi, the confluence point of Panchaganga and Krishna rivers. The water level at Narsimhawadi was 57 feet on Tuesday evening, while the danger mark is 68 feet. The water level has been increasing though the discharges from the Koyna and Chandoli dams have reduced. Irrigation department officials said the rise was because the water released from the Koyna takes seven hours to reach Sangli. Also, the two tributaries of Krishna river – Panchaganga and Warna – are in spate now. Water release from Chandoli dam in Sangli district came down by around 2,000 cusec on Tuesday, from 12,000 cusec to 10,000 cusec. Chandoli dam is filled with 32 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) water; while its capacity is 34 TMC. Irrigation officials said the state government is coordinating with the Karnataka government in Almatti dam water discharge. Almatti dam is currently receiving 1.67 lakh cusec inflows, while water is being discharged at 2.50 cusec. The dam has a capacity to store 123 TMC water, but it is currently filled up to 100 TMC. As much as 10 TMC water has been discharged in the past 24 hours. The rainfall has reduced in both districts — Satara and Sangli — since Tuesday morning. Water discharge from Koyna dam was around 55,000 cusec throughput the day. Koyna dam was filled up to 92 TMC on Tuesday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/krishna-water-level-inching-up-in-sangli/articleshow/77622131.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||30 institutes from Telangana in ARIIA; UoH ranked 10th||HYDERABAD: Thirty institutions from the state figured in the ministry of education’s Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2020 that were released on Tuesday. University of Hyderabad (UoH) secured 10th rank in the institution of national importance category, while SR Engineering College (now SR University) in Warangal secured the top spot in private or self-financed institutes category. The ARIIA is an initiative to rank all major higher educational institutions on indicators related to innovation and entrepreneurship development amongst students and faculties. The UoH was the only central university in the list of top 10 institutes of national importance and ranked first among the central universities. “More than quantity, we will focus on the quality of innovations and will try to measure the real impact created by these innovations nationally and internationally. This will also set the tone and direction for UoH for future development of the university to be globally competitive and be in the forefront of innovation,” said Prof Appa Rao Podile, vice-chancellor, UoH. The Indian Institute of Technology, Madras secured the top spot in the institute of national importance category. The ranking assessed colleges on parameters such as entrepreneurship development, intellectual property generation, technology transfer, innovative learning method and commercialization. “When we started NEST (Nest for Entrepreneurship in Science & Technology) seven years ago to ignite innovative and creative mindsets of students, we didn’t foresee this multiplier effect. We strongly believe that deep interaction between theory and practice of entrepreneurship creates unique synergies among students,” said Suman Neredla, head, NEST at SR University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/30-institutes-from-t-in-ariia-uoh-ranked-10th/articleshow/77622127.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kochi||Aluva man, 103, is Kerala’s latest centenarian survivor||KOCHI: A 103-year-old man who had been undergoing treatment at the Ernakulam Government Medical College Hospital was discharged on Tuesday. Pareed from Marampilly, near Aluva, was under treatment for 20 days. MCH authorities were present to see him off. Pareed was diagnosed with Covid-19 on July 28 after he complained of severe body pain and fever. “A 103-year-old man has successfully overcome the disease. Pareed, a native of Aluva, was under treatment at Kalamassery Medical College. Elderly people are at a higher risk from Covid-19. But the good work of our health workers is helping us defeat the odds,” health minister K K Shailaja wrote on her Facebook page. Pareed’s son, who also tested positive for Covid-19, had recovered earlier. So far, more than 1,000 coronavirus patients who had been admitted to Ernakulam MCH have recovered. A team of doctors led by Kalamassery Medical College principal Dr V Satheesh; vice principal and nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Fathahuddeen; superintendent Dr Peter Vazhayil; deputy superintendent Dr Gita Nair; and RMO Dr Ganesh Mohan had been monitoring Pareed’s health condition on a daily basis. Asma Beevi, a 105-year-old from Anchal, holds the record for the oldest Covid-19 survivor in the state. She had undergone treatment at Parippallay Government Medical College in Kollam.  A couple, aged 93 and 88, hailing from Pathanamthitta, had also recovered following treatment at Kottayam Government Medical College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/aluva-man-103-is-states-latest-centenarian-survivor/articleshow/77620315.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Pune||MPSC exam centre rule ignores poor students||Pune: Candidates are unhappy with the Maharashtra Public Service Commission’s notification that allows only students who have chosen Pune district as their exam centre to change their centre in the upcoming state services preliminary examination on September 20. The candidates said the option to change the centre should be made available at all district levels. The MPSC deputy secretary, Sunil Autade, however, said that an inter-district change of examination centres was not possible. Some students had also selected Sangli, Satara or nearby areas as their examination centre as Pune was not available. Such students said that now they were stuck with the new notification giving only those who had chosen Pune as their centre a chance to change their preference. Sumit, who studied and taught at Aurangabad to support himself and had chosen Aurangabad as his centre for the exam, returned to his village in Chandrapur after the lockdown was imposed. “It takes me almost 11 hours to reach Aurangabad, which means I need to leave on September 18 to reach the examination centre on time. How will I do that?” Sumit said. Even the students who come under the Pune division cannot ask for a change in the centre. Anup Deshmukh from Solapur had chosen Pune as the exam centre as he was studying there. However, the hostel he used to stay at was shut amid the pandemic. “All this is a problem for poor students because there is hardly any income in the household. The government needs to understand that for us clearing the MPSC exam is the only hope for a better future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mpsc-exam-centre-rule-ignores-poor-students/articleshow/77622139.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 19, 2020||Vadodara||Rickshaw rams into car on Mangal Pandey Road, one dies||Vadodara: An autorickshaw rammed into a car on Mangal Pandey Road in the city on Tuesday morning, leaving the auto driver dead, and his woman passenger seriously injured. According to police, rickshaw driver Bashir Khan Pathan was driving towards VUDA circle on VIP Road from Sama when he rammed into a car which was taking a U-turn. However, as the road was slippery, Pathan probably couldn’t stop the auto immediately and rammed on the car’s rear side. It then skidded to the other lane and suffered a head-on collision with an SUV that was coming from the VUDA circle. Meanwhile, the woman passenger in Pathan’s auto was flung out on the road. Eye-witnesses told the police that she luckily escaped coming under the SUV by a few inches only. Pathan, on the other hand, suffered grievous injuries and was taken to the SSG Hospital where he succumbed during treatment. A case of rash driving was registered at Sama police station. Cops said that they are probing the case based on CCTV camera footage of a nearby shop and eye-witnesses accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/rickshaw-rams-into-car-on-mangal-pandey-road-one-dies/articleshow/77619883.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Principals find schedule for FYJC in-house quota admission flawed||PUNE: The in-house quota admissions for colleges, which were opened on August 12 and will continue till August 22, are riddled with problems, say principals. The common admission process committee has kept the same time-frame for both filling up forms as well as confirming admissions creating confusion among junior colleges. For example, even if a college puts up the last merit list on August 22, and a student fills up the form on August 22 at 11pm which he or she can, the college would not be able to admit the student. The student can always take the college to court for not considering his application, experts said. Moreover, the colleges were sent a list of students based on part I of the form filled by students, but this part does not mention which faculty he/she wants or whether he/she wants admission in the grant or non-grant course. Lastly, if a trust or management runs multiple junior colleges and schools, the same list of students is being sent to all colleges, creating further confusion. “It is when we call the students for admission that they say that their name has appeared in the list of another college too and hence they are choosing that college. What otherwise could have been completed in just one merit list, would now take multiple lists and even that will not solve the problem,” a principal who did not wish to be named said. Colleges are demanding that forms be allowed to be filled as mentioned in the original schedule but they should be allowed to confirm admissions in the next four days. “The students will always uphold the CAP schedule over any schedule given by the college. For example, if we close our last merit list for in-house quota at a cut off of 90% and a student fills up his form online at 10 pm the same day and claims he got 95% and was still denied a chance in admission, they will blame the college for wrongdoing. Hence we are demanding that once the form filling process closes on August 22, colleges must be given at least four days for completing the admission process, so that there is transparency and no student feels cheated,” another principal said. However, assistant director of education Meena Shendkar said that the colleges have been given complete autonomy to design their schedule and that schedule will be given preference over the CAP schedule, in respect to in-house quota admissions. “We have verbally told colleges to declare their own schedules for students. Students need to check this schedule and then apply. For in-house quota, we have only made the process online, otherwise, all other powers lie with the respective colleges. Hence, students need to submit their in-house quota forms and confirm admissions based on the college’s schedule over CAP’s schedule so that they do not lose out on an opportunity,” said Shendkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/principals-find-schedule-for-fyjc-in-house-quota-flawed/articleshow/77622116.cms||Ardhra Nair
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Plaints lodged with TSWB over ‘artificial’ shortage of graves||HYDERABAD: Angry residents from the Old City protested against growing shortage of space in graveyards with many alleging that those with monetary means are still allowed to bury their family members, while the poor continued to suffer. In once instance, the brother of a deceased claimed that he had paid Rs 11,000 to the Asifnagar graveyard committee for the burial of his sister, but was allegedly asked to pay more to make the spot permanent for easy identification. The family has now knocked the doors of the Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) along with other residents facing similar problems. “My sister had passed away on July 9 and we buried her at the Asifnagar graveyard. At the time, we had no option but to pay more for a decent burial,” Syed Munawar Hussain told TOI and added that the graveyard was not being maintained properly. “We have complained with the waqf board on this issue,” he said. TSWB officials told TOI that graveyard caretakers (mutawallis) have been asked not to demand money for burial in Muslim graveyards. “However, our directives are allegedly being flouted by some people and families have had to pay for burial spaces. We will take some action,” said an official. The Association Safe Waqf Property (ASWP) alleged that outsiders are being roped in for burial process. “Strongmen have been hired in some places to deal with those raising an objection over monetary demands in graveyards. TSWB must intervene and inspect graveyards to protect these spaces,” said ASWP general secretary Syed Iftekhari Hussaini.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/plaints-lodged-with-tswb-over-artificial-shortage-of-graves/articleshow/77622154.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Muktsar, Mansa MLAs test positive||Bathinda: Two more MLAs tested Covid-19 positive on Tuesday. Mansa MLA Nazar Singh Manshahia and Mansa SP (headquarters) Satnam Singh, who had come in contact of Punjab revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar, have tested positive. Muktsar MLA Kanwarjit Singh Barkandi also tested positive for the viral infection. When Kangar had gone to Mansa on August 15 to preside over Independence Day function, Manshahia and a score of officers had come in his direct contact. Kangar was tested positive on Saturday and Manshahia tested positive on Tuesday. SAD’s Barkandi had mild symptoms and got himself tested. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/muktsar-mansa-mlas-test-positive/articleshow/77622156.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Pune||8 men attack duo, vandalize five vehicles on Sinhagad Rd||Pune: Eight men travelling on four motorcycles attacked two men with sharp weapons and vandalized five vehicles on Sinhagad Road around 10.30pm on Monday. The police said tempo driver Mahesh Jadhav (25) was parking his vehicle along the road when he saw the four men brandishing weapons and vandalizing vehicles on the stretch between Dandekar bridge chowk and Panmala slum. One of them attacked Jadhav. The group fled after he raised an alarm. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/8-men-attack-duo-vandalize-five-vehicles-on-sinhagad-rd/articleshow/77622158.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Physical exams not an open and shut case||NEW DELHI: Murshid Ibn ur Rahman of Kerala’s Malappuram district missed out on his online exams on August 11 and 13 when heavy rain swamped his hometown. “All the lines snapped, cutting all telephone signals. Accessing even 2G internet service to download the question papers and upload answer sheets was impossible,” said the BA (H) history student of Shyamlal College, one of the many hundreds of Delhi University students who could not sit for the online open book exams that began on August 10. Going by DU’s admission in Delhi high court on August 17, only 48,577 students of the 54,619 scheduled examinees marked their attendance on the first day of the exam. The numbers worsened on August 14, when 2,57,914 students were expected to sit for the tests, but only 1,52,217 registered, of which 1,06,993 eventually wrote the exams. Shalu, a resident of northwest Delhi’s Rohini and a student of School of Open Learning, was one of the many who gave the exams a miss. “We do not have smartphones or a laptop at home and I have no idea how to proceed,” she said. The situation was tougher for the students with disabilities. Shubham Kumar, a political science honours student at Rajdhani College, had to rush home to his village in Ayodhya, UP, after his father suffered a heart attack on June 6. Caught up the final rites for his father, he did not get time to arrange a scribe. He returned to his Naraina home on August 17. “I don’t know how I can arrange a scribe for my exams,” the visually impaired Kumar worried. “I guess I will book a car and reach an exam centre. I cannot afford to lose a year.” It is for students like them who missed the online exams that on Monday Delhi high court asked DU to conduct physical exams from September 14. Suyansh Agrawal of St Stephen’s College too couldn’t find a scribe in his hometown of Korba, Chhattisgarh. On the court’s instruction on physical exams, Agrawal claimed, “The court did not listen to our earlier argument about the non-credibility of OBE. I use the term ‘non-credibility’ because no one is writing the exams honestly. People are getting answers circulated on WhatsApp groups. Only we are being forced to sit for proper exams. In a stressful situation like this, we too are vulnerable to the coronavirus.” Agrawal disclosed that when he left his college for home following the Covid lockdown, he also vacated his hostel. “Even if I travel to Delhi, who will take care of my travel cost and my accommodation? We don’t even have Delhi Metro services running,” he said. He was worried that missing a year would jeopardise his admission in Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “I have been granted provisional admission on condition that I submit my marksheet in the stipulated time. If I don’t sit for my exams, my results will be withheld. In any case, with Covid cases rising in my state, I cannot think of travelling to Delhi,” said Agrawal. Yasin Bin Saleem of Malappuram, Kerala, has already had to wait for almost a year for the Spanish paper that will give him his as-yet-incomplete BA honours degree. “We had heavy rainfall and there’s no net connectivity,” Saleem moaned. “I cannot even travel beyond my district, let alone go all the way to Delhi to appear for a physical exam.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/physical-exams-not-an-open-shut-case/articleshow/77622192.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
August 19, 2020||Pune||Over 50% pupils give their options for courses, colleges||Pune: The number of students, who have filled the option form with college preferences for admission to first year junior college (FYJC, Std XI), is now closer to 50% of the intake capacity in Pune. With over 1 lakh intake capacity in city colleges, 76,000 students have registered for the admission process. Of the total 72,174 verified applicants, over 58,000 students had filled up the option form by Tuesday. The grievance redressal cell of the deputy director of education (Pune region) has been receiving several calls from students and parents regarding doubts in filling the form. Meena Shendkar, joint director and in-charge of FYJC admissions said, “The process of filling the option form is ongoing and the grievance redressal cell of the department is busy tackling queries from students and parents. Our officers are trying their best to solve the queries over the phone itself so that students are able to complete the process in time.” Queries related to bifocal admissions, which was earlier conducted as a separate round and changed to general round this year, are coming up in large numbers from parents. Other queries are related to caste documents, index number, area of college, etc. Students have been given time till August 23 to fill up the option form.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-50-pupils-give-their-options-for-courses-colleges/articleshow/77622151.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Hurdles in road repair work||Kolhapur: Kolhapur residents’ wait for restoration of damaged roads in the city continues as the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) said that it will first undertake drainage and water supply work. The roads in the city worth Rs 78 crore were damaged due to heavy rainfall last year. The civic body had generated funds totalling around Rs 7.5 crore from its own coffers and donations made by trusts. With the available funds, the internal roads in the city were restored. However, due to lack of more funds, the roads from suburbs could not be taken up for restoration. Meanwhile, the drainage and water supply works under AMRUT scheme began, further deteriorating the condition of roads. Just before lockdown was announced in March, the state government had approved Rs 25 crore for road restoration work. The tendering process for the same has been completed, said officials concerned. Chief city engineer of KMC Netradip Sarnobat said, “We will issue work order for road restoration to contractors once the drainage and water supply work is completed. Also, we have to wait for rainfall to stop so that the road repair work can be undertaken. Once the work order is issued, the deadline rule is applied and in current circumstances, there may be delays in starting the work. Also, the contractors are always in a hurry to complete the work before deadline. Therefore, given the present circumstances, the quality of the work may be hampered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/hurdles-in-road-repair-work/articleshow/77622150.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Goa||Shailesh Shetty held for links with Bollywood actor||PANAJI: The Goa police’s crime branch on Tuesday arrested event organiser Shailesh Shetty in connection with the alleged drug-fuelled party at a villa in Arpora on Saturday night. Speaking to TOI, SP Shobhit Saxena confirmed Shetty’s arrest. A senior officer said that Shetty was called in for questioning at 11am on Tuesday, but he turned up at around 2.30pm. He said that after questioning him for nearly two hours, his replies didn’t seem satisfactory, and he was arrested. The SP also said that Shetty, who was quizzed for six hours on Monday, used to host events along with Saturday’s party’s main accused, Kapil Jhaverri, who claims to be a Bollywood actor. On Saturday night, police busted the party at an Arpora villa, arrested 23 persons including 6 foreigners, and seized drugs worth Rs 9 lakh. The raid came even as reports abound that foreigners in Goa continued to organise parties through the pandemic. Jhaverri had organised the party by contacting “customers” on the phone, and the guestlist was limited to his close circuit, Saxena had said. The crime branch filed an FIR against those arrested for endangering public safety and also under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shetty-held-for-links-with-bwood-actor/articleshow/77623212.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||Call on opening of Delhi hotels, gyms today||NEW DELHI: A crucial meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority, which was scheduled for Tuesday, will now be held on Wednesday. Many people have their eyes on the meeting where a final decision on permitting hotels, gyms, yoga institutes and weekly markets is expected to be taken. A total of 17 persons, including chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, deputy CM Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain, revenue minister Kailash Gahlot, chief secretary Vijay Dev and other officials, were scheduled to attend the meeting through videoconferencing. It was to be chaired by the LG. Apart from opening of gyms, hotels, weekly markets and yoga institutes, the DDMA meeting is also likely to discuss delinking of banquet halls and increasing the number of passengers currently allowed in the public transport system, said sources. “The opinion of all the persons scheduled to attend the meeting is important to arrive at a decision. Some persons reported at the last moment that some urgent business had come up and they were required to attend to them, so the meeting was rescheduled,” said sources. There were speculations that the meeting was rescheduled so that the results of the serological survey samples of which were collected early this month could be placed before the DDMA meeting on Wednesday. It was, however, not confirmed by officials. Hotels, gyms and yoga centres are closed since the beginning of the coronavirus lockdown on March 25. The closure of the businesses for over past four months has destroyed the owners’ finances and many of the workers are fighting for survival. AAP government has been pushing for the opening of all these sectors and the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi cabinet had even approved the opening of hotels and weekly markets, which was rejected by the LG citing the fragile Covid situation in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/call-on-opening-of-hotels-gyms-today/articleshow/77622163.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kochi||Workplaces, markets in cluster zones linked to most infections in Kerala||KOCHI: Workplaces and markets — especially those in cluster zones — are the main source of the spread of Covid-19 infection in Kerala. This came to light when the health department analyzed cases with unknown source of infection on day zero in July. As per the report, 17,861 cases were reported on the day of declaration in July, of which 12,275 (69%) got infected by local transmission. Cases for which source could not be traced at the time of declaration were 1,005 (6%). Of these, in 44% of cases the linkage couldn’t be established. In 561 cases possible linkage was established only after detailed epidemiological investigation. The majority of cases that could be established, in fact almost 40%, were people in clusters who had came into contact with positive cases mainly at workplaces or markets. This was followed by contact with positive cases or primary contact of positive cases (30%); hospital acquired (6%) and market (6%) where they would have come in contact with positive cases or asymptomatic carriers. About 5% were healthcare workers or hospital staff or frontline workers who are suspected to have contracted the infection at work. Globally, there is growing consensus that markets, common workspaces and ventilated buildings are potential grounds for spread of the infection. The proportion of unlinked cases on the day of declaration in July was most in Malappuram (13%) and least in Alappuzha (1%). Thiruvananthapuram had the largest number, at 218, of which source could later be identified in 171 cases. In Malappuram, that had 190 cases declared unlinked on day zero, the source could be identified in only 15 cases. Thrissur is the only district in which the administration managed to identify sources of all 25 cases that were declared unlinked on day zero. “The teams are doing further investigations to identify the source of infection of the remaining cases. Epidemiological investigations will assist the department and field teams to take specific interventions,” said principal health secretary Dr Rajan Khobragade. As numbers increase, contact tracing remains the key and therefore police have been roped in. “Early identification and contact tracing remain the key to infection control in the state. This will help us flatten the curve and ensure that the peak is not too sudden,” a health expert said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/workplaces-markets-in-cluster-zones-linked-to-most-infections/articleshow/77620375.cms||Preetu Nair
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Potholes puncture Ahmedabad roads||AHMEDABAD: On Tuesday, road patch-up work took off in full swing in all areas of the city as potholes begin puncturing city roads. The puckered condition of the major thoroughfares and budgetary concerns have already begun giving the councillors nightmares ahead of the municipal elections this year. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) executive wing had made it clear that no road-resurfacing work will continue owing to budgetary concerns. In the posh areas of South West and North West zones, 26 road stretches are to be repaired with patchworks. These areas include Jodhpur, Bodakdev, Thaltej. Gotra, Science City Road, Sola, Makhtampura, Sarkhej and Vejalpur areas. “We are going to face major issue in the newly merged areas like Bopal, where the AMC will not be able to undertake road works this year,” said a senior AMC standing committee member.  In the posh West Zone, road repair works have been undertaken for 17 road stretches. “We are only concentrating on repairing potholes. Major roadworks will be undertaken only after monsoons. These measures will make the city roads at least motorable,” said a senior AMC official in the engineering department. Contrary to previous two years, major repair works are being undertaken in the North and East zones this year. “This year a majority of the road repair issues are emerging from these areas. There are a little less road repair requests from the West Zone compared to previous two years,” said the AMC official. In the last five years, the civic body has spent close to anywhere between Rs 170 crore to Rs 220 crore on just road repairs and laying new TP roads. “This year, road repair activity has seen a drastic reduced by 35%,” said the AMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/potholes-puncture-city-roads/articleshow/77622300.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Sanitized flowers, smaller idols at bonedi bari pujas||KOLKATA: Like baroari (community) pujas, Durga’s homecoming will be very different at the iconic “bonedi baris” or the aristocratic households of Kolkata. The famous families have started framing their own guidelines this Puja by bringing in unprecedented changes to their centuries-old practices. No outsiders, only core family members, reduced size of idols, sanitized flowers for pushpanjali, no cut fruits for prasad, no elaborate ‘kumari puja’ or ‘kala bou snan’ — city bonedi bari pujas are adjusting to the changing times. The Daws of Jorasanko, city’s well-known family of gun merchants, convened a family meeting on Saturday to chalk out a dos-and-don’ts list for their 161st year’s puja. “We will put up a notice outside the house restricting visitors during the five Puja days. This is such an unusual year. As of now, we are going by certain other decisions like reduced size of the idol, sanitizing the flowers for pushpanjali etc. More changes will be introduced during the festival, considering the prevailing situation, ” said Sudip Daw, the family in charge. TimesViewThe celebration plans are welcome news in a year marked by gloom. Durga Puja is still a couple of months away but, if things remain as they are now, all norms laid down by the government and experts should be mandatorily followed. Any lapse can extract a terrible toll.Rituals like ‘kola bou snan’ and ‘kumari puja’ will be basic in most households. The bhog will be home-cooked — no caterer will be allowed. At the illustrious Sovabazar Rajbari, only 25 visitors will allowed at a time, that too, after temperature screening. Only core family members can walk up to the ‘thakur dalan’. “Guards will be assigned to ensure that rules followed. But when it comes to invoking the Goddess, the age-old traditions will be followed,” said Soumit Narayan Deb, a family member. He agreed that some new norms will be in place for the first time since Raja Naba Krishna Deb had started the puja in 1757. The puja now has two addresses on the same street, hosted by the two branches of the family. No visitors will be allowed at the “chhoto rajbari” puja (started in 1790) across the street from the original Rajbari. “But ours is the main puja. So we will allow 25 people at a time,” said Deb. Joydip Kundu of Hatibagan’s Kundu Bari said, “Instead of the standard 8ft idol, we will have a 5ft Goddess this time so that fewer people — mostly family members — can lift it up during installation and immersion. No visitor, no elaborate bhog (edibles), we will live-stream the puja for everyone to watch.” There will be restrictions on entry of outsiders at the famous Laha Bari Ouja on 1 Bechu Chatterjee Street, where Amitabh Bachchan’s Piku had been shot. “We intend to invite a representative from every family in the extended household. There will also be a stall at the entrance where masks and sanitizers would be given out. This time the prasad will be packed in boxes and handed over,” said Sushmeli Dutt, a family member. At Bowbazar’s Haldar Bari puja, which started even before 1847, outsiders’ entry will be restricted, too. “Nobody should be stopped from offering puja but we may have to practise some restrictions keeping in mind the pandemic,” said patriarch Barun Haldar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sanitized-flowers-smaller-idols-at-bonedi-bari-pujas/articleshow/77622172.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
August 19, 2020||Trichy||Father-son duo hacked to death by relatives||TRICHY: A father-son duo were hacked to death by two of their close relatives over a land dispute near Samayapuram in Trichy district on Tuesday. The deceased have been identified as A Rogue Raj, 70, of Nadu Irungalur and his son R John David, 27. The accused, A Jesuraj, 59 and his son, J Prince, 23, of the same village were also injured. The Samayapuram police said that Raj owned a land near Nadukarai. Jesuraj too owned a piece of land close to it. On Tuesday, the pathway that leads to Jesuraj’s land was obstructed with thorns that were placed by Raj. This led to an argument between the two around 10.30am. Police said the argument turned violent. Raj and David were killed using iron rod and sickle by Jesuraj and Prince. Both of them died on the spot. Jesuraj and Prince too were injured and admitted to a private hospital in Irungalur. They were later shifted to another hospital. The two families, who were close relatives, always fought over the pathway between both the lands for several years. Two years ago, Raj was released from prison after he was convicted for murdering his brother Arockiyam, who was Jesuraj’s father. While the injured are undergoing treatment in an ICU at a private hospital, the bodies of the deceased were brought to government hospital in Srirangam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/father-son-duo-hacked-to-death-by-relatives/articleshow/77623230.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||Moderate to heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: Moderate to heavy rain lashed parts of the national capital region on Wednesday morning. Delhi rain live updates"Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Sambhal, Gulaoti, Siyana, Bulandshahar,Khurja, Kosli, Bawal, Nuh, Sohna, Palwal, Hodal, Faridabad, Gurugram, Manesar, Ballabhgarh, Faridabad, Noida, Baraut, Bagpat, Khatoli, Amroha, Moradabad, Meerut, Khurja, few places of entire Delhi during next 2 hours," tweeted IMD at 6.25am on Wednesday morning. IMD DELHI 19-08-2020; 0625 IST; Thunderstorm with Light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining a… https://t.co/xiKNoWqcFX— India Met. Dept. (@Indiametdept) 1597798614000Even as the India Meteorological Department issued a three-day “orange” alert for Delhi on Monday, only light spells of rain were witnessed in isolated parts of the city on Tuesday. The maximum temperature recorded at 35 degree Celsius — one degree above normal for this time of the year, while the humidity varied between 72% and 98% during the last 24-hour period. Rain lashes parts of #Delhi(Visuals from Krishi Bhawan)#DelhiRains https://t.co/cR5AIgKKVP— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597800514000Delhi has, so far, received “normal” rain, with the earlier deficit wiped out by last Thursday’s spell, which was the heaviest of the season. Watch: Rain lashes parts of #Delhi (Visuals from Rajaji Marg)(Video credit: ANI)#DelhiRains https://t.co/phPWRbM5Pb— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597800615000Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said that the axis of monsoon will remain close to the national capital till Thursday. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are also feeding moisture to the region, he said. Video: Rains lash parts of Delhi-NCR; visual from Noida Sector-12#DelhiRains #NoidaRains https://t.co/nmXbAxw8DV— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1597807936000The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, has recorded 139.2mm rainfall against the normal of 157.1mm in August so far, a deficiency of 11 per cent. Overall, it has recorded 457.8mm rainfall, six per cent more than the normal of 433.2mm since June 1 when the monsoon season starts. Heavy rains in various parts of Delhi. #DelhiRains https://t.co/ZFYYpTdbG2— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597810873000“From early morning on Wednesday, we are expecting moderate rainfall in most parts of Delhi, while some regions may receive heavy rain,” he added. Visuals: Rains lash Delhi on Wednesday morning, heavy rainfall expected#DelhiRains https://t.co/yW0Fu0dJMQ— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597811508000Several parts of #Delhi receive heavy rainfall; visuals from ITO#DelhiRains https://t.co/y3xUaAIupL— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597812063000Watch Heavy rains in Delhi NCR, many parts inundated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rain-plays-truant-more-of-same-today/articleshow/77622301.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ghaziabad||Moderate to heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: Moderate to heavy rain lashed parts of the national capital region on Wednesday morning. Delhi rain live updates"Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Sambhal, Gulaoti, Siyana, Bulandshahar,Khurja, Kosli, Bawal, Nuh, Sohna, Palwal, Hodal, Faridabad, Gurugram, Manesar, Ballabhgarh, Faridabad, Noida, Baraut, Bagpat, Khatoli, Amroha, Moradabad, Meerut, Khurja, few places of entire Delhi during next 2 hours," tweeted IMD at 6.25am on Wednesday morning. IMD DELHI 19-08-2020; 0625 IST; Thunderstorm with Light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining a… https://t.co/xiKNoWqcFX— India Met. Dept. (@Indiametdept) 1597798614000Even as the India Meteorological Department issued a three-day “orange” alert for Delhi on Monday, only light spells of rain were witnessed in isolated parts of the city on Tuesday. The maximum temperature recorded at 35 degree Celsius — one degree above normal for this time of the year, while the humidity varied between 72% and 98% during the last 24-hour period. Rain lashes parts of #Delhi(Visuals from Krishi Bhawan)#DelhiRains https://t.co/cR5AIgKKVP— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597800514000Delhi has, so far, received “normal” rain, with the earlier deficit wiped out by last Thursday’s spell, which was the heaviest of the season. Watch: Rain lashes parts of #Delhi (Visuals from Rajaji Marg)(Video credit: ANI)#DelhiRains https://t.co/phPWRbM5Pb— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597800615000Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said that the axis of monsoon will remain close to the national capital till Thursday. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are also feeding moisture to the region, he said. Video: Rains lash parts of Delhi-NCR; visual from Noida Sector-12#DelhiRains #NoidaRains https://t.co/nmXbAxw8DV— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1597807936000The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, has recorded 139.2mm rainfall against the normal of 157.1mm in August so far, a deficiency of 11 per cent. Overall, it has recorded 457.8mm rainfall, six per cent more than the normal of 433.2mm since June 1 when the monsoon season starts. Heavy rains in various parts of Delhi. #DelhiRains https://t.co/ZFYYpTdbG2— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597810873000“From early morning on Wednesday, we are expecting moderate rainfall in most parts of Delhi, while some regions may receive heavy rain,” he added. Visuals: Rains lash Delhi on Wednesday morning, heavy rainfall expected#DelhiRains https://t.co/yW0Fu0dJMQ— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597811508000Several parts of #Delhi receive heavy rainfall; visuals from ITO#DelhiRains https://t.co/y3xUaAIupL— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597812063000Watch Heavy rains in Delhi NCR, many parts inundated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/rain-plays-truant-more-of-same-today/articleshow/77624930.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid, flood fear dampens festive spirit in Kolhapur||KOLHAPUR: The city markets are wearing a deserted and dampened look for the second consecutive year during the festive period that begins with the Ganesh festival this weekend. Last year, the devastating flood had cast a shadow on the festive shopping. Now, the Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions on public movement are leading to subdued celebrations. Moreover, the incessant rainfall over the past week has raised concerns about flooding in the city. Ajit Kothari, trader and president of the electricals’ association, said, “This year, the business is not even 10%. This is mainly because of the Covid fear and rainfall. There is lesser demand for electrical items. We have orders from other districts too, but restrictions on movement are creating problems.” While several Ganesh mandals have dropped their plans to celebrate Ganeshotsav, others have decided to keep the celebrations low key. A large number of mandals are planning to immerse the idols after just one-and-half days, rather than hosting the celebrations for the full 10 days. Many mandals have also cancelled their pre-ordered idols, dealing a severe blow to the artisans and idol makers. They have appealed to their regular customers to continue with their yearly bookings. The authorities have also appealed to citizens to celebrate the festival in eco-friendly ways. However, there are very few options of eco-friendly decorations available. Satish Munde, a trader from Kasba Bawda, said, “We have decorative items, but they are not eco-friendly. The wooden items such as Ganpati thrones are costly and not preferred by the buyers. However, clay diyas and decorative thalis for puja are in demand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/covid-flood-fear-dampens-festive-spirit/articleshow/77622176.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Faridabad||Moderate to heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: Moderate to heavy rain lashed parts of the national capital region on Wednesday morning. Delhi rain live updates"Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Sambhal, Gulaoti, Siyana, Bulandshahar,Khurja, Kosli, Bawal, Nuh, Sohna, Palwal, Hodal, Faridabad, Gurugram, Manesar, Ballabhgarh, Faridabad, Noida, Baraut, Bagpat, Khatoli, Amroha, Moradabad, Meerut, Khurja, few places of entire Delhi during next 2 hours," tweeted IMD at 6.25am on Wednesday morning. IMD DELHI 19-08-2020; 0625 IST; Thunderstorm with Light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining a… https://t.co/xiKNoWqcFX— India Met. Dept. (@Indiametdept) 1597798614000Even as the India Meteorological Department issued a three-day “orange” alert for Delhi on Monday, only light spells of rain were witnessed in isolated parts of the city on Tuesday. The maximum temperature recorded at 35 degree Celsius — one degree above normal for this time of the year, while the humidity varied between 72% and 98% during the last 24-hour period. Rain lashes parts of #Delhi(Visuals from Krishi Bhawan)#DelhiRains https://t.co/cR5AIgKKVP— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597800514000Delhi has, so far, received “normal” rain, with the earlier deficit wiped out by last Thursday’s spell, which was the heaviest of the season. Watch: Rain lashes parts of #Delhi (Visuals from Rajaji Marg)(Video credit: ANI)#DelhiRains https://t.co/phPWRbM5Pb— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597800615000Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said that the axis of monsoon will remain close to the national capital till Thursday. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are also feeding moisture to the region, he said. Video: Rains lash parts of Delhi-NCR; visual from Noida Sector-12#DelhiRains #NoidaRains https://t.co/nmXbAxw8DV— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1597807936000The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, has recorded 139.2mm rainfall against the normal of 157.1mm in August so far, a deficiency of 11 per cent. Overall, it has recorded 457.8mm rainfall, six per cent more than the normal of 433.2mm since June 1 when the monsoon season starts. Heavy rains in various parts of Delhi. #DelhiRains https://t.co/ZFYYpTdbG2— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597810873000“From early morning on Wednesday, we are expecting moderate rainfall in most parts of Delhi, while some regions may receive heavy rain,” he added. Visuals: Rains lash Delhi on Wednesday morning, heavy rainfall expected#DelhiRains https://t.co/yW0Fu0dJMQ— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597811508000Several parts of #Delhi receive heavy rainfall; visuals from ITO#DelhiRains https://t.co/y3xUaAIupL— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597812063000Watch Heavy rains in Delhi NCR, many parts inundated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/rain-plays-truant-more-of-same-today/articleshow/77624932.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Moderate to heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: Moderate to heavy rain lashed parts of the national capital region on Wednesday morning. Delhi rain live updates"Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Sambhal, Gulaoti, Siyana, Bulandshahar,Khurja, Kosli, Bawal, Nuh, Sohna, Palwal, Hodal, Faridabad, Gurugram, Manesar, Ballabhgarh, Faridabad, Noida, Baraut, Bagpat, Khatoli, Amroha, Moradabad, Meerut, Khurja, few places of entire Delhi during next 2 hours," tweeted IMD at 6.25am on Wednesday morning. IMD DELHI 19-08-2020; 0625 IST; Thunderstorm with Light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining a… https://t.co/xiKNoWqcFX— India Met. Dept. (@Indiametdept) 1597798614000Even as the India Meteorological Department issued a three-day “orange” alert for Delhi on Monday, only light spells of rain were witnessed in isolated parts of the city on Tuesday. The maximum temperature recorded at 35 degree Celsius — one degree above normal for this time of the year, while the humidity varied between 72% and 98% during the last 24-hour period. Rain lashes parts of #Delhi(Visuals from Krishi Bhawan)#DelhiRains https://t.co/cR5AIgKKVP— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597800514000Delhi has, so far, received “normal” rain, with the earlier deficit wiped out by last Thursday’s spell, which was the heaviest of the season. Watch: Rain lashes parts of #Delhi (Visuals from Rajaji Marg)(Video credit: ANI)#DelhiRains https://t.co/phPWRbM5Pb— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597800615000Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said that the axis of monsoon will remain close to the national capital till Thursday. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are also feeding moisture to the region, he said. Video: Rains lash parts of Delhi-NCR; visual from Noida Sector-12#DelhiRains #NoidaRains https://t.co/nmXbAxw8DV— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1597807936000The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, has recorded 139.2mm rainfall against the normal of 157.1mm in August so far, a deficiency of 11 per cent. Overall, it has recorded 457.8mm rainfall, six per cent more than the normal of 433.2mm since June 1 when the monsoon season starts. Heavy rains in various parts of Delhi. #DelhiRains https://t.co/ZFYYpTdbG2— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597810873000“From early morning on Wednesday, we are expecting moderate rainfall in most parts of Delhi, while some regions may receive heavy rain,” he added. Visuals: Rains lash Delhi on Wednesday morning, heavy rainfall expected#DelhiRains https://t.co/yW0Fu0dJMQ— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597811508000Several parts of #Delhi receive heavy rainfall; visuals from ITO#DelhiRains https://t.co/y3xUaAIupL— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597812063000Watch Heavy rains in Delhi NCR, many parts inundated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/rain-plays-truant-more-of-same-today/articleshow/77624927.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Noida||Moderate to heavy rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: Moderate to heavy rain lashed parts of the national capital region on Wednesday morning. Delhi rain live updates"Thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Sambhal, Gulaoti, Siyana, Bulandshahar,Khurja, Kosli, Bawal, Nuh, Sohna, Palwal, Hodal, Faridabad, Gurugram, Manesar, Ballabhgarh, Faridabad, Noida, Baraut, Bagpat, Khatoli, Amroha, Moradabad, Meerut, Khurja, few places of entire Delhi during next 2 hours," tweeted IMD at 6.25am on Wednesday morning. IMD DELHI 19-08-2020; 0625 IST; Thunderstorm with Light to moderate intensity rain would occur over and adjoining a… https://t.co/xiKNoWqcFX— India Met. Dept. (@Indiametdept) 1597798614000Even as the India Meteorological Department issued a three-day “orange” alert for Delhi on Monday, only light spells of rain were witnessed in isolated parts of the city on Tuesday. The maximum temperature recorded at 35 degree Celsius — one degree above normal for this time of the year, while the humidity varied between 72% and 98% during the last 24-hour period. Rain lashes parts of #Delhi(Visuals from Krishi Bhawan)#DelhiRains https://t.co/cR5AIgKKVP— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597800514000Delhi has, so far, received “normal” rain, with the earlier deficit wiped out by last Thursday’s spell, which was the heaviest of the season. Watch: Rain lashes parts of #Delhi (Visuals from Rajaji Marg)(Video credit: ANI)#DelhiRains https://t.co/phPWRbM5Pb— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597800615000Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting centre of the IMD, said that the axis of monsoon will remain close to the national capital till Thursday. Southwesterly winds from the Arabian Sea and southeasterly winds from the Bay of Bengal are also feeding moisture to the region, he said. Video: Rains lash parts of Delhi-NCR; visual from Noida Sector-12#DelhiRains #NoidaRains https://t.co/nmXbAxw8DV— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1597807936000The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, has recorded 139.2mm rainfall against the normal of 157.1mm in August so far, a deficiency of 11 per cent. Overall, it has recorded 457.8mm rainfall, six per cent more than the normal of 433.2mm since June 1 when the monsoon season starts. Heavy rains in various parts of Delhi. #DelhiRains https://t.co/ZFYYpTdbG2— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597810873000“From early morning on Wednesday, we are expecting moderate rainfall in most parts of Delhi, while some regions may receive heavy rain,” he added. Visuals: Rains lash Delhi on Wednesday morning, heavy rainfall expected#DelhiRains https://t.co/yW0Fu0dJMQ— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597811508000Several parts of #Delhi receive heavy rainfall; visuals from ITO#DelhiRains https://t.co/y3xUaAIupL— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1597812063000Watch Heavy rains in Delhi NCR, many parts inundated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/rain-plays-truant-more-of-same-today/articleshow/77624928.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolhapur||7 bank employees, 4 cops test positive||Kolhapur: Four police personnel and seven employees of a private bank are among the 290 new Covid-19 patients reported from Satara district. The district also recorded 11 deaths since late night on Monday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases in the district jumped to 7,883, of which, 3,400 are currently active. As many as 4,223 patients have been discharged from various hospitals so far. The death toll of the district stands at 260. Of the recent cases, Karad tehsil has a share of 120 patients, of which, 70 are from the town. Malkapur has also recorded 11 patients. Satara tehsil registered 39 new cases, including 16 from the town. Two police personnel, including a traffic constable, tested positive for the contagion. Around ten people from a single family were among the recent patients from Satara town. Wai tehsil, too, registered a surge in coronavirus cases with 24 new patients. Of these, 12 are from Bawdhan village. In addition, Khatav tehsil traced out 16 patients, including five from Wanjoli village. Cases were also reported from Pahltan, Patan and Mahabaleshwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/7-bank-employees-4-cops-test-positive/articleshow/77622162.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana high court rips into Waqf board for failing to protect assets||HYDERABAD: Making it clear that all the Waqf properties belong to the almighty and officials of Waqf board are mere trustees of such properties, the Telangana high court on Tuesday questioned the chairman and officials as to why they have consistently failed to protect Waqf properties, including scores of graveyards belonging to Muslims in Hyderabad, Secunderabad and Rangareddy. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy wondered whether the complacent attitude on the part of the officials was the result of their direct connivance with those who were encroaching upon various Waqf properties. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by social activist Mohammed Ilyas. The bench went through the counter filed by Waqf board and told its counsel Mirza Safiulla Baig that the Waqf board is not standing by the interests of the minorities. “You narrated 63 instances of encroachment of Waqf properties. Yet, you chose not to file criminal cases, FIRs in any of them. You can describe the encroachers as trespassers and file FIRs under IPC section 447. You merely approach the revenue authorities or civil courts. The counter says there are encroachments of graveyards in the twin cities in 24 acres and no survey numbers have been given. All these are glaring examples of inefficiency on the part of the board,” the bench said. Baig said that there is a need to conduct a survey of all the Waqf properties but they do not have enough staff to do that. The bench reminded him that there is a cabinet minister looking after Waqf affairs. “Tell him the problem. He will interact with the government and ensure that you get the required staff. This is not the property of mere mortals. This is the property of the almighty. This needs to be protected by all of us,” the bench said. The judges at one stage told Baig to ask the Waqf board chairman to be present before the court to explain the failure of his machinery to protect the properties. However, later, the bench refrained from doing so and sought a detailed counter by September 11 on steps the board is taking to protect Waqf properties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-rips-into-waqf-boardfor-failing-to-protect-assets/articleshow/77622179.cms||M Sagar Kumar
August 19, 2020||Agra||Python visits Taj, captured by NGO Wildlife SOS||Agra: The Taj Mahal which has been shut since March 17 had an unusual visitor on Monday evening. A 7-foot-long Indian Rock Python was captured by the NGO Wildlife SOS Rapid Response Unit after it was spotted in the monument’s premises. The reptile was later released into the wild. According to the NGO workers, the python was spotted outside the Taj Museum located at the western side. The security personnel immediately alerted the Forest Department who contacted the NGO’s 24-hour helpline. A two-member team rushed to the spot with necessary equipments to capture the snake. It requires swift skills to handle a python. “The python must have wandered out of the Taj Nature Walk green belt which is home to a variety of wildlife species,” NGO workers said. Meanwhile, another incident took place in Agra’s Irrigation department office where a 5-foot long python was caught. This was followed by the rescue of one more python from a bajra field in Farah, Mathura. Director Conservation Projects for Wildlife SOS Baiju Raj MV said, “We have captured over five pythons in the past one week. Pythons need large undisturbed spaces to move around.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/python-visits-taj-captured-by-ngo-wildlife-sos/articleshow/77620362.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Electrician kills wife, attempts suicide||HYDERABAD: An electrician allegedly strangulated his wife to death and later attempted suicide by consuming phenyl at Miyapur. He survived the suicide bid. The couple got married four months ago. The accused, Motte Yagataiah, 25, an electrician was staying at Gokul plots, Miyapur in a rented house and worked with his brother-in-law as an electrician. He got married to Aruna, 22, his distant relative, in May after his family pressurised him. Soon after his marriage, Yagataiah started consuming alcohol and would allegedly harass Aruna. He was warned several times by his sister, K Rajeshwari. On Monday evening, Aruna went to Rajeshwari’s house to watch TV as she stays close by. She returned home after Yagataiah returned from work. Around 6.15 am on Tuesday, a neighbour called up Rajeshwari and informed that the couple was lying on the floor in a pool of blood in their rooms. The family reached the spot and alerted police. “The accused attempted suicide by consuming phenyl and slitting his wrist. However, he survived the bid. He is undergoing treatment at hospital and said to be out of danger,” Miyapur sub-inspector (SI) Ravi Kiran said. “We found a suicide note saying no one is responsible for their death,” the SI added. “We are still ascertaining details. We found that the accused was not happy with the marriage and hence took the extreme steps,” a police officer said. He has been booked for murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/electrician-kills-wife-attempts-suicide/articleshow/77622242.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||6 names returned by SC collegium: Elevation to Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: In an unprecedented move, the Supreme Court collegium has returned the names of six Delhi district judges who were recommended for elevation by Delhi high court. The apex court collegium, however, at its meeting on August 17, cleared the names of six advocates practising in Delhi for elevation as per the collegium resolution made public on Tuesday. These lawyers had been recommended by the high court collegium last year, along with six judicial officers in the capital. While the lawyers faced no difficulty in their preliminary screening by the Centre and were approved by the SC collegium, it was the elevation from the district judiciary that had run into rough weather, and the names were sent back to the high court for “reconsideration.” It was a rare development because, as per the practice, the government and the SC usually clear names from the bench swiftly, while subjecting those from the bar to intense scrutiny. TOI also learnt that the government had objected to the high court proposal on the judicial officers, citing not just bypassing of seniority norms, but also adverse IB reports, that led it to send negative input to the SC collegium. Taking into account the government’s stand, IB reports along with a representation by one of the senior most district judges, who was overlooked by the high court, the apex court’s five-judge collegium — comprising justices N V Ramana, Arun Mishra, R F Nariman and U U Lalit headed by Chief Justice of India S A Bobde — had returned the six names for a fresh look. Last year, the high court had proposed six names— Poonam A Bamba, Yashwant Kumar, Neena Bansal Krishna, Dharmesh Sharma, Dinesh Kumar Sharma and A K Mendiratta — all of whom presided as district judges. The point of contention arose on their inter-se seniority, with the recommended judges being number 3rd, 9th, 12th,13th, 14th and 15th in seniority, respectively. A source in the high court said some of the senior most judges left out were Girish Kathpalia, Sujata Kohli, A S Jayachandra, Narottam Kaushal. “Representations were sent to the Centre and the Supreme Court judges by a senior judicial officer, who was overlooked, where he raised the issue of ignoring seniority and their annual confidential reports by the high court collegium,” the source said. The advocates whose names were recommended by the SC were Jasmeet Singh, Amit Bansal, Tara Vitasta Ganju, Anish Dayal, Amit Sharma and Mini Pushkarna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/elevation-to-hc-6-names-returned-by-sc-collegium/articleshow/77622298.cms||Abhinav Garg
August 19, 2020||Aurangabad||115 Aurangabad ZP schools to plant trees||Aurangabad: Aurangabad zilla parishad has initiated a drive wherein 115 of its schools will plant 37 indigenous trees each on their campuses. Each of these schools have identified the space for plantation using ‘Miyawaki’ method during the drive which is supported by EcoSattva Environmental Solutions Private Limited and Grind Master Machines Private Limited. Zilla parishad education officer Surajprasad Jaiswal said that Aurangabad was the first district in the country to undertake a tree-plantation drive involving maximum number of indigenous tree species using Miyawaki method. “Each target school has received funding worth Rs 96,000 for plantation. The drive will create ‘green lungs’ for villages with involvement of students and villagers,” Jaiswal said. Natasha Zarine, founder of EcoSattva Environmental Solutions Private Limited, said that the plantation drive can serve as the beginning of a people’s movement in afforestation and climate change. “This is the time to realise that ecology is the foundation of our economy. We have to strive hard to maintain the ecological balance by conserving our natural heritage by involving young students,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/115-aurangabad-zp-schools-to-plant-trees/articleshow/77622239.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Trichy||Only 2 of 100 babies of Covid positive women were infected||Trichy: Of the 100 babies born to Covid-19 positive pregnant women at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy during the pandemic, only two had the infection while 98 other babies tested negative for Covid-19.Since the beginning of the pandemic in March till August 12, the department of obstetrics and gynaecology of MGMGH handled 100 childbirths of Covid-19 positive women, said MGMGH dean Dr K Vanitha. “Treatment of Covid-19 pregnant women requires special attention. We have created a separate isolation ward for providing treatment to them. All the 100 mothers and babies were healthy. Two new born babies were infected but they were also recovered before discharge,” Dr Vanitha told ToI.The department of O&G also said that 78 deliveries were performed through caesarean, while 22 babies were born through normal delivery during the period. The dean said that 98 babies tested negative to Covid-19. “The infection rate of the babies is very low. Even though they get infected, they recover quickly,” said the dean.MGMGH also treated 44 babies who were born to Covid-19 positive mothers in other hospitals. Among them, one baby was tested Covid-19 positive.Neo-natal specialist Dr K Senthilkumar of MGMGH said that 2% new born babies contracted the disease everywhere. “The same is the trend here also. All the babies were breastfeeding, which gives them immunity. None of the baby fell sick during their stay here. The babies were allowed to be with the mother whether they are infected or not,” Senthilkumar told ToI.Dr Senthilkumar said that swabs of babies will be taken within 24 hours of birth and on the fifth day. “All the 98 babies were negative in both the tests,” he said.Dr Vanitha appreciated around 40 doctors including post-graduates, staff nurses and other hospital workers in the department for their service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/only-2-of-100-babies-of-covid-positive-women-were-infected/articleshow/77623247.cms||Gokul Rajendran
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||Officials say letter derogatory, demand action against engrs||LUCKNOW: Taking umbrage at the engineering wing’s letter to railway ministry in which non-technical officers were termed as “low-ranking civil servants”, senior officials took to social media on Tuesday demanding action against those who drafted the letter. Hours after TOI reported that the tussle between Indian Railways’ officers from technical and non-technical backgrounds has reached the ministry, scores of civil servants and others condemned the content of the letter and sought the intervention of the Prime Minister’s office (PMO). In the letter, dated August 12, representatives of the engineering wing termed non-technical officers as “low-ranking civil servants who enter service after several attempts and at an old age”, and demanded that only officers with technical background should manage the railways. “This is preposterous. The PMO and the department of personnel and training has to intervene and give us back the pride of serving the people of India. This bigotry has been around for a long time but now it has been formally endorsed by five engineering services associations. We demand disciplinary action (sic),” an officer tweeted. “The tug of war between technical and non-technical officers in railway service continues. Calling fellow colleagues as low-ranking candidates who enter after several attempts at an old age is utterly unprofessional and needs to be condemned,” an Indian Forest Service officer said. Another IRAS officer wrote, “After completing BTech from IIT-Delhi, I secured first rank in engineering services examination conducted by UPSC but left engineering service for IRAS.” An IRTS officer, who did not wish to be named, said: “There are non-technical officers who join service voluntarily. The letter is an unwelcome move,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/officials-say-letter-derogatory-demand-action-against-engrs/articleshow/77623252.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||Smuggler held, phones worth Rs 2.1L recovered||Pithoragarh: A man, trying to smuggle mobile phones and electronic spare parts to Nepal from Champawat district, was held by police at Banbasa Barrage on Monday. His arrest was made after the police received a tip off in this regard. Lokeswar Singh, SP Champawat, told TOI, “We recovered mobile phones and spare parts worth Rs 2.10 lakh from the accused, identified as Sushil Kumar. The accused is a resident of Banbasa (Champawat) and he has confessed that the phones and the spare parts were bought from Khatema to be sold at higher costs in Nepal.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/smuggler-held-phones-worth-rs-2-1l-recovered/articleshow/77618907.cms||Prem Punetha
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||Process to select RU V-C restarted||Jaipur: The search committee constituted to submit a list of shortlisted candidates for the post of vice-chancellor of Rajasthan University restarted the process on Monday, almost three weeks after the governor had scrapped the names identified by the committee. A three-day meeting which started to re-examine the applications for the post is likely to submit the fresh list after August 19. The committee members include Prof SK Dubey (nominated by the governor), Prof DR Saini (nominated by the RU), Prof PC Trivedi (VC of Jai Narain Vyas University nominated by the government) and Prof GD Sharma (VC of Atal Bihari Vajpayee University in Bilaspur nominated by the UGC). The committee has been directed by the governor to re-visit and re-examine the applications they had received for the VC post. “For the next three days, the committee members will examine the applications on the basis of the documentary submissions. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/process-to-select-ru-v-c-restarted/articleshow/77623255.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 grips 514 more in Lucknow, tally surpasses 18,000-mark||LUCKNOW: Director general medical education and UP State Road Transport Corporation managing director were among the 514 new Covid-19 cases detected in 24 hours till Tuesday evening. Additional chief secretary, cooperative department, N V S Rami Reddy also tested positive. The new cases took the city’s tally to 18,204 since the outbreak. Of these, 10,806 (59%), including 505 on Tuesday, have recovered. Maximum 28 cases were detected in Gomtinagar, followed by 27 in Chowk, 26 from Rae Bareli road, 22 from Hasanganj, 20 from Indiranagar, 19 each from Alambagh and Mahanagar, 17 each from Thakurganj, Husainganj and Talkatora, 16 each from Jankipuram and Krishnanagar, and 15 each from Aashiana and Madiaon. DGME, Dr KK Gupta tested positive during sampling of health officers being done on regular basis but is asymptomatic. “As the transmission rate of virus is high, it is expected that most people will get infected,” he said, when asked how he got exposed to the infection. UPSRTC MD, Raj Shekhar got himself tested after developing mild symptoms and made the news public by sending a message to colleagues and friends when the report came positive. All the officers in UPSRTC headquarters are being tested now. On Monday, chief general manager, technical, UPSRTC, Jai Deep Verma had tested positive. Meanwhile, a private hospital in Mahanagar was sealed for 48 hours for sanitisation after its staff members tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-19-grips-514-more-in-city-tally-surpasses-18k-mark/articleshow/77623260.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Goa||Shripad Nayak stable, AIIMS experts review treatment||PANAJI: Two doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), who arrived in Goa on Tuesday to review the treatment protocol of Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik, expressed satisfaction with the timely medical intervention. Naik, who tested positive for Covid-19 last Wednesday, is stable. “He has responded well to the plasma therapy he received on Monday,” the state information and publicity department said. He is being treated at Manipal hospital, Dona Paula. Chief minister Pramod Sawant visited the hospital again on Tuesday to review Naik’s condition. He also interacted with the AIIMS team and the doctors from Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim, and Manipal hospital, who are treating him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shripad-stable-aiims-experts-review-treatment/articleshow/77623229.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Varanasi||Bismillah Khan’s house being demolished in UP||VARANASI: Just days ahead of the 14th death anniversary of Bharat Ratna Ustad Bismillah Khan (August 21), the Shehnai maestro’s house in Hadha Sarai is being demolished and the room in which he lived and used to do his ‘riyaaz’ has already been razed. Bismillah Khan never wanted to part with the house and had turned down the offer to settle in the US. After he passed away in 2006, his disciples and fans wanted to make a museum in the house to preserve his legacy and heritage, but his kin are getting it demolished as they plan to construct a commercial complex. Ustad’s foster daughter and singer Soma Ghosh made an appeal for conservation of his room and belongings. Ustad lived and did riyaaz in the room on the upper floor of the house he had bought in Bhikhamshah lane in Hadha Sarai locality in 1936. The room was demolished on August 12. The house is now owned by Ustad’s grandsons — sons of late Mehtab Hussain, one of his five sons. “I was shocked to know the room of ‘Baba’ (Khan) was demolished and his belongings thrown away,” said Ghosh. “It was not just a room, but a place of worship for music-lovers. It is a heritage, and I appeal to all to preserve it. The room where he used to do riyaaz, and things he used daily should be preserved,” she added. The kin opposing demolition say the house is being razed to build a complex having shops since it is commercial locality. Khan’s youngest son Nazim Hussain, who was outstation, told TOI over phone, “I have come to know about the demolition. I will look into the matter after I return on August 24.” The maestro played shehnai at Red Fort on August 15, 1947, making his fans proud, but his kin failed to protect his legacy and priceless belongings after his demise. In January 2017, his grandson had stolen his four shehnais, including three made of silver, and sold them to local jewellers for Rs 17,000. UP STF had arrested his grandson and two jewellers and recovered the melted silver. The three silver shehnais had been gifted by former PM Narasimha Rao, RJD chief Lalu Prasad Yadav and Congress leader Kapil Sibal. “I pray good sense prevails among the kin of Ustad, who had declined an offer to settle in the US since he never wanted to leave the place,” said Mohammad Shakeel, a local resident, who organises programme on Ustad’s birth and death anniversaries each year at his memorial in Fatman graveyard to pay tributes to the maestro.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/shehnai-maestro-bismillah-khans-house-being-demolished-by-kin/articleshow/77618892.cms||Binay Singh
August 19, 2020||Agra||Cricketer Deepti Sharma makes it to Arjuna Award list||AGRA: Indian women's team cricketer Deepti Sharma is among 29 sportsperson who has been recommended for the 2020 Arjuna Award by the selection committee on Tuesday. On learning about the recommendation, 24-year old Deepti said, "Now, the responsibility to perform even better has increased. I will try my best to fulfill the expectations. I am thankful to BCCI for nominating me for the prestigious award." She was practising at the net when her brother, Sumit Sharma, broke the news to her. Terming it as a proud moment, the all-rounder thanked her coaches and teammates for their support. Daughter of a retired railway officer, Bhagwan Singh, Deepti is resident of Awadhpuri locality of Agra city. Deepti's interest in cricket started at an early age. She would often accompany brother Sumit, then a pacer in the state team, to Ekalavya sports stadium here. There, she watched him practise with his teammates or play a match. She would often run to fetch a stray ball and throw it back to her brother. During one such practice session, Deepti threw a ball from a 50-metre distance and it hit the stumps. The direct throw was witnessed by the then India's national women's team selector, Hemlata Kala. It was the turning point of her life. By the time she was 15, she was beginning to shape up into an all-rounder but was overlooked by the selectors for state team selection. However, her play caught the eye of a few other selectors and Rita Dey, a former Indian batswoman and selector, decided to mentor her. Today, Deepti holds the record for the second highest individual Women's ODI score (188 off 160 balls with 27 boundaries and 2 sixes) by an Indian player. She is also the only Indian spinner to take 6 WODI wickets. In the Women's T20 World Cup 2020 tournament opener against Australia, Deepti gave away just 17 runs in four overs. Deepti’s brother Sumit, her first coach, said, “She has been working hard for a long time. This will motivate her to train harder and make the nation proud.” Last year, 28 year old Poonam Yadav, another international female cricketer from Agra was conferred Arjuna award by president Ramnath Kovind.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cricketer-deepti-sharma-makes-it-to-arjuna-award-list/articleshow/77618909.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 19, 2020||Trichy||‘Thanjavur cases high, recovery too’||Thanjavur: Even as there is a steady increase in Covid-19 cases in the district, 80% of the patients have recovered, said Thanjavur collector M Govinda Rao on Tuesday. Out of the total 5,000 reported till Monday, 3,999 have been discharged, he added. “Apart from healthy food, positive patients have been provided with immune boosters like kabasura kudineer and antibiotic tablets. This is the main reason for the increase in the number of patients cured. The percentage of positive patients cured is 80%,” the collector further said. The district administration will be inaugurating a Siddha Covid care center at a private college in Kumbakonam on Wednesday. As there is a steady increase in the number of positive cases daily in the district, the number of containment zones has also been enhanced to contain the spread. There are 106 containment zones in the district against 76 a couple of week back. In Kumbakonam, where the number of cases has been on the rise after the spike at Darasuram vegetable market, 14 zones have been made as containment, officials said. “1.25 lakh people have been so far screened at 2,619 medical camps across the district. Thanjavur is one among districts where more number of people have been tested. Strict enforcement is also one of the reasons for the containment of the virus. Rs 43 lakh has been collected from 40,235 people for violating lockdown norms in the district", the collector further stated. “People who test positive can opt for Siddha treatment. Those willing to get Siddha treatment will be brought here. Initially, 50 beds have been made available at the centre. Based on the requirement, it would be increased to 200,” the collector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/thanjavur-cases-high-recovery-too/articleshow/77623254.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 19, 2020||Nashik||Mandals told not to have processions||Nashik: With the threat of Covid-19 outbreak still looming large, police are appealing to Ganesh mandals not to organise processions to bring idols to the pandals on the first day of Ganeshotsav. Senior inspector at Bhadrakali police station Sajan Sonawane said bigger mandals have decided against taking out processions on Ganesh Chaturthi. “Many mandals have assured us that the pandals will not be bigger than 10ftX10ft. We want the smaller mandals to follow suit,” said Sonawane The city police are conducting meetings with peace committee members in their respective jurisdictions. Even the rural police conducted a meeting with Ganesh mandals on Monday requesting them to celebrate the festival as per the guidelines of the state government. Officers from Nashik rural police said after the Covid-19 outbreak, since all festivals were celebrated at home, they were expecting the same for Ganeshotsav. The mandals are also being asked not to take illegal power connection from electricity poles for the pandals and refrain from playing cards inside the pandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mandals-told-not-to-have-processions/articleshow/77618908.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Education department proposes telecast of classes from August 20||HYDERABAD: The school education department has proposed to formally start academic classes through Doordarshan and T-SAT channels for the students of all the government and private schools in the state from August 20. However, not all students have smartphones and televisions at their homes in rural areas, particularly in agency areas. According to a survey by the National Sample Survey Office, as many as 93% households have televisions. Though many private schools have been conducting online classes from the last two months, the government is yet to formally start the teaching process for the academic year. Education department officials said they are working out modalities to ensure they reach every single student on Doordarshan and T-SAT channels. “We are aware that some of the students in rural areas do not have TV sets at homes. But this is a very small number. We had opted for conducting classes on Doordarshan because a large number of government school students may not have smartphones if online classes were conducted,” said an official. Utilising televisions in gram panchayat offices is also under consideration. One or two students can attend the classes at gram panchayat offices while maintaining physical distance. This would be done under supervision of a local teacher. However, the school education department is awaiting approval from state government to start classes from August 20 or afterwards. Over 1,000 recorded lessons have already been prepared by the State Institute of Educational Technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/edu-dept-proposes-telecast-of-classes-from-august-20/articleshow/77622296.cms||Roushan Ali
August 19, 2020||Aurangabad||115 Aurangabad ZP schools to plant trees||Aurangabad: Aurangabad zilla parishad has initiated a drive wherein 115 of its schools will plant 37 indigenous trees each on their campuses. Each of these schools have identified the space for plantation using ‘Miyawaki’ method during the drive which is supported by EcoSattva Environmental Solutions Private Limited and Grind Master Machines Private Limited. Zilla parishad education officer Surajprasad Jaiswal said that Aurangabad was the first district in the country to undertake a tree-plantation drive involving maximum number of indigenous tree species using Miyawaki method. “Each target school has received funding worth Rs 96,000 for plantation. The drive will create ‘green lungs’ for villages with involvement of students and villagers,” Jaiswal said. Natasha Zarine, founder of EcoSattva Environmental Solutions Private Limited, said that the plantation drive can serve as the beginning of a people’s movement in afforestation and climate change. “This is the time to realise that ecology is the foundation of our economy. We have to strive hard to maintain the ecological balance by conserving our natural heritage by involving young students,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/115-aurangabad-zp-schools-to-plant-trees/articleshow/77622250.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Colombian parkour gang that burgled 31 houses jumps bail||BENGALURU: Two Colombian nationals who scaled walls and hopped across rooftops to commit 31 burglaries in the city and their woman associate have gone missing after they were released on bail by the high court. Police have decided to approach the trial court seeking cancellation of their bail. While Liedy Stefania Munoz Monsalye, 23, zeroed in on the houses, Willian Padilla Martinez, 48, and Christian Yeinis Navarro Olarte, 34, burgled them. They were arrested in March in connection with a burglary in Kothanur but were granted bail by the HC on June 16. Martinez and Olarte were adept in parkour — an obstacle race-like discipline used to move from one point to another without help. “The trio came out of jail in the first week of July after completing a 14-day quarantine period due to Covid-19. They were supposed to visit Kothanur police on the second and fourth Saturday of every month. But they never did,” Kothanur police said. Curiously, police are silent on how the three foreigners, who are suspected to be involved in 30 more burglaries, were arrested only in connection with one case, making it easy for them to avail bail and go on the lam. Police held a press conference on July 30 and trumpeted how they had cracked 31 burglaries by the three Colombian nationals, who, however, were already out on bail. Police claimed to have recovered stolen booty worth Rs 2.6 crore. “They are wanted in 30 other cases. They are also wanted by Salem police in Tamil Nadu. Efforts are on to trace them,” said Bhimashankar S Guled, deputy commissioner of police (northeast). Police have issued several notices to the accused to appear for investigation. But they haven’t done so, Guled said, adding police will approach the trial court for bail cancellation as the trio has violated conditions imposed by the HC. Guled claimed they walked out on bail even before the process to arrest them for other burglaries could be initiated. As their passports have been impounded, police say they won’t be able to leave the country. The three were close associates of Gustavo Adolfo alias Jaramillo Giraldo, who was arrested by Jayanagar police in June 2018 along with four others in connection with burglaries in south Bengaluru. Booty worth Rs 80 lakh was recovered from them. Gustavo and his aides had burgled the HSR Layout residence of former Karnataka chief secretary Kaushik Mukherjee in 2016. This case was solved when Gustavo was nabbed in 2018. All the accused were later released, but they jumped bail. Guastavo was later joined by Martinez, Olarte and Monsalye in burgling a house near Manyata Tech Park. On February 27, the quartet burgled a house in Bachappa Layout near Kothanur. While Gustavo remained at large, police managed to arrest the trio and book them for the Kothanur burglary. Granting bail, the HC considered the fact that they had already spent 91 days in custody, apart from the Covid situation. They were asked to execute a personal bond for Rs 1 lakh with a surety. Trial court had denied bail on multiple grounds On May 8, the 21st additional city civil judge had denied them bail saying they were involved in four more cases of similar nature, live bullets had been recovered from them and investigation was in the preliminary stage. It also pointed out that the accused hadn’t produced medical records to show they were sick or documents to show they were senior citizens. The court had also taken note of the accused overstaying in India by violating section 12-B of Foreigners Act, adding if released on bail, it would be tantamount to unauthorised stay. It pointed out that in view of lockdown, no transport facility was available (air or sea) for them to return to their country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/colombian-parkour-gang-that-burgled-31-houses-jumps-bail/articleshow/77620633.cms||Vasantha Kumar
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||More than 30 RKM monks, staffers sent to hospital||Howrah: More than 30 monks and support staff from Ramakrishna Mission headquarters Belur Math in Howrah have been admitted to an isolation facility at Ramakrishna Mission Seva Pratishthan in south Kolkata after they tested positive for Covid-19. All of them were transferred within hours of receiving test results to protect other monks and workers who stay on the sprawling premises in Belur. All 600 residents at Belur Math were tested in batches last week after two senior monks contracted the virus and developed complications. Both have since recovered. According to the SOP at Belur Math, all those who are testing positive are being dashed off to the isolation centre to undergo treatment for a fortnight. They will then be transported back to Belur Math but confined to a quarantine centre for another fortnight before being allowed to return to regular duties. Sources said the virus may have crept into the campus via workers from Rajasthan who were restoring the sandstone main temple, or through devotees who had access to the mission before the doors were closed after the two senior monks contracted the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/more-than-30-rkm-monks-staffers-sent-to-hospital/articleshow/77622320.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 19, 2020||Goa||Goa: Sudin, Nilkanth test positive for Covid-19||PANAJI: More than two weeks after Cuncolim MLA Clafasio Dias was cured of Covid-19, two more legislators detected positive on Tuesday. Former deputy chief minister and MGP leader Ramkrishna Dhavalikar and Tivim MLA Nilkant Halarnkar have contracted the virus. Dhavalikar’s wife too has tested positive. Dr Smita Parsekar, health officer of primary health centre, Ponda, said the process of deciding where Dhavalikar should be shifted for treatment was under way. The Tivim MLA who tested positive earlier in the day, is asymptomatic and hence opted for home quarantine. A health officer of Mapusa primary health centre said they have checked on Halarnkar and he was doing fine in home isolation. However, his wife has tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sudin-nilkanth-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77623250.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Agra||UP: Man ‘strangles’ wife, calls cops to ‘confess his crime’ in Kasganj district||AGRA: A 35-year-old man allegedly strangled his 30-year-old wife in Kasganj district on Tuesday and then made a call to police emergency helpline number 112 and “admitted his crime”. He was arrested by police, and later sent to jail following a court order. The eight-year-old daughter of the accused told police that her father used to beat up her mother daily. According to police, the accused already has a case under the Dowry Prohibition Act pending at an Etah court. Rampal, a resident of Etah district, had married off his daughter Neelam to Subhash, a resident of Kurmai village in Kasganj, eight years ago. According to police, the couple had a bad relationship following a dowry dispute. On Tuesday morning, Subhash, a jobless, had a fight with his wife. In a fit of rage, he strangled her and then called the emergency helpline number and confessed his crime, said police. Kotwali station house officer Rajiv Sirohi said, “Despite a bad relationship, the couple was living together under family pressure. The accused was booked for murder. He was sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-strangles-wife-calls-cops-to-confess-his-crime/articleshow/77620389.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana sees 1,682 new cases, 8 more deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 1,682 new Covid-19 cases and eight deaths, raising the total number of cases to 93,937 and death toll to 711. Telangana has 21,024 active patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals with 72,202 patients having recovered from the coronavirus infection in the state so far. The GHMC area recorded 235 cases on Tuesday. Among other districts, Rangareddy had the most cases with 166 followed by Warangal (urban) with 107 cases, Medchal-Malkajgiri with 106 cases, Nizamabad with 94 cases, Karimnagar with 88 cases and Mancherial with 79 cases. All other districts in the state also recorded new cases. “There is a need to increasing the number of beds and manpower in many districts,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-sees-1682-new-cases-8-more-deaths/articleshow/77622146.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Agra||Jeweller set on fire in his shop in busy Firozabad market, critical; Akhilesh Yadav slams law and order||AGRA: A 40-year-old man was set on fire allegedly by his cousin inside his jewellery shop in a busy Firozabad market on Tuesday afternoon, with CCTV cameras capturing the jeweller turning into a ball of fire and running on the street for some help. Passersby and a few shopkeepers indeed rushed for Rakseh Verma’s help, but by then he had sustained serious burn injuries. According to police, Verma’s cousin Robin allegedly poured highly-inflammable industrial thinner (methyl) on him and lit the fire after a brief argument. Police said that it was a case of personal enmity. Rakesh was first admitted to Firozabad’s district hospital. Later, he was referred to SN Medical College in Agra due to his serious condition. Police had launched a manhunt for the accused. Senior superintendent of police, Sachindra Patel, said, “The jeweller is in a critical condition at the SN Medical College in Agra. We are trying to record his statement. Primary investigation revealed that Puja Verma, wife of Robin had committed suicide on August 12. There seems to be some dispute over it in the family. And it led to the attack. Four teams have been tasked to arrest Robin.” Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party leader and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Akhilesh Yadav has slammed the state government over “spike in crime”. He tweeted, “The leaders of BJP are raising serious questions about the law and order situation in their own government. There is no stopping the crime in UP. Now, we are hearing the sad news about a man from the business community being burnt alive in Firozabad. It seems the leadership of the state has gone into the wrong hands.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/jeweller-set-on-fire-in-his-shop-in-busy-firozabad-market-critical-akhilesh-slams-law-order/articleshow/77620378.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi buses may be allowed to carry more passengers||NEW DELHI: Buses in the capital might run with full seating capacity soon if the transport department’s proposal is found suitable by Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). At present, only 20 passengers are allowed in each bus at any given time to ensure social distancing. Delhi, which has just about half the number of required buses, is witnessing crowds at bus stops during peak hours. The waiting period for commuters is long as most buses arrive full. A transport department official said, “With only 20 passengers allowed in each bus, there is bound to be a shortage even if the combined fleet of 6,598 buses of Delhi Transport Corporation and cluster scheme is deployed on the roads. That is why we have prepared a proposal to allow commuters to occupy all seats in buses. But no standing passengers will be allowed. Buses can seat around 35 commuters at a time. This will increase their carrying capacity by 75%.” To ensure the safety of commuters, face masks won’t be allowed to be removed at any time during the journey. “The problem will remain till Delhi Metro services resume as buses cannot be a substitute for a rapid mass transit system,” the official said. “Apart from increasing the carrying capacity of buses, revenue losses also need to be taken into account. We had increased the number of bus trips and rationalised them to provide transportation to as many commuters as possible. But more trips also mean more revenue loss as it becomes difficult to recover even the operational cost,” said the official. The proposal is expected to be reviewed in a meeting of DDMA, which is chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. The meeting was scheduled to take place on Tuesday, but was postponed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/buses-may-be-allowed-to-carry-more-passengers/articleshow/77622350.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man held for taking obscene pics of daughter||HYDERABAD: A 40-year-old restaurant owner was arrested by Nacharam police for taking obscene pictures of his step-daughter when she was a minor. The now 20-year-old law student found the pictures while using her step-father’s laptop in July. “Her mother was the accused’s second wife. The girl was around 14 or 15-years-old when the pictures were taken,” said Nacharam inspector, Kiran Kumar. The 20-year-old, upon finding the file containing the pictures, informed her mother who then approached the police to lodge a complaint. “The case was registered on July 29. We had initially arrested the accused earlier but he tested positive for Covid-19. After he recovered, he was taken in custody again on Monday,” said Malkajgiri ACP, Narsimha Reddy. The accused was booked under Pocso, other IPC sections and sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-taking-obscene-pics-of-daughter/articleshow/77622171.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Private schools begin conducting online exams||HYDERABAD: Even before the state started conducting digital classes for students studying in government schools, private schools are conducting examinations based on online classes for students as young as six. While many schools are sending question papers via e-mails or through WhatsApp, few schools are said to be dictating questions. “My daughter, who is in class 1, had to appear for assessments. The teacher was dictating questions and she had to write answers. This practice was followed for all subjects,” said a parent of a student in a private school in Secunderabad. Parents and teachers said schools have been conducting formative exams or assessments and grading students on performance. “ These tests are causing tremendous mental pressure on children and parents, who are forced to sit with children, leaving their day-to-day activities,” said Venkat Sainath K, joint secretary, Hyderabad School Parents Association, adding, conducting these tests are against Pragyata guidelines.  “Many students are not understanding online classes. For now, concentration should be only on ensuring students continue learning. Assessments can wait till schools are reopened,” said Shabir Ali, president, Telangana Private Teachers Forum.  “It is against norms to conduct exams during this time. Action will be initiated against erring schools if we receive any complaint,” said Venkata Narassama B, DEO, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/private-schools-begin-conducting-online-exams/articleshow/77622347.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: District hospitals turn away critical patients||HYDERABAD: Several district hospitals have reportedly been turning away critical patients citing a lack of oxygen equipment and, in some cases, expertise to deal with such cases. This, as private hospitals continue to quote exorbitant amounts for treatment. In two instances — one in Bhongir and the other in Yadadri — patients died during transit. Other districts too are redirecting patients to Hyderabad as per sources at Gandhi Hospital. In one case, a 20-year-old who suffered seizures and breathlessness was redirected by a government hospital and lost his life due to lack of proper treatment. “On Thursday, he had fits and we took him took to the government hospital. However, ther told us there was no oxygen available and that we should rush him to a private hospital or to Hyderabad since his life was in danger. We took him to a private hospital in Ramanthapur and for one day, the bill ran up to Rs 1.5 lakh. When we asked for concession, we were told to vacate. The hospital said they could use the bed and get money from another patient. We had to take him back in a critical state and died within 15 minutes of reaching home,” said Pentamma, mother of the 20-year-old. Elsewhere, an elderly patient who was on dialysis and had contracted Covid-19, succumbed after doing rounds of hospitals. “We took our grandfather to the Bhongir district hospital but they said they can’t treat him as they had no oxygen facility and redirected us to Gandhi Hospital. The next morning we came to Gandhi but there too we had to wait for three hours. He died soon after admission,” said Kavya V. Meanwhile, Yadadri district is in a tight spot with the district seeing 97 new cases in the last one week. It, however, has only one government facility for Covid-19 patients, the Bhongir district hospital. However, the facility does not have a single oxygen bed nor an ICU bed. “District hospitals redirecting patients to Hyderabad goes against the government’s plan to treat locally and avoid cross-infection due to movement between districts and the city. However, many hospitals in districts do not have oxygen facilities which makes it mandatory for them to redirect patients to Hyderabad. This might trigger a rise in cases under GHMC limits which currently seeing a decline,” said an official from the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/district-hosps-turn-away-critical-patients/articleshow/77622051.cms||Amrita Didyala
August 19, 2020||Vadodara||Continents apart, buddies fight Covid-19 with plasma||Vadodara: When Vipul Patel, had tested positive for Covid-19 in March, hardly would he have imagined that he would be playing a key role in the treatment of others like him. Not only is Patel set to donate plasma for convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) for Covid-19 patients for the third time, he has also motivated two friends who returned to The United Kingdom to do so. Patel, who hails from Sunav village in Anand district, had accompanied another friend from UK who was to undergo ayurvedic therapy to the city. But as fate would have it, the friend tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to the GMERS Gotri Hospital as the first Covid-19 patient there. Patel too was diagnosed with the viral infection soon after his friend and was the second patient to be admitted at the hospital. Both friends recovered well. But they were not the only ones amongst the group of friends to test positive. “We were a group of four that had travelled together. Two of us returned to UK and one of them tested positive soon after going there while the other friend caught the infection sometime later,” said Patel. After recovering Patel who is born in Kenya, but now a British citizen, would not have expected that after discharge he would get a chance to pay back the hospital to which he owed a lot. Patel was discharged in April, but it was only in May that the hospital where he was treated got permission for plasma therapy. Patel donated plasma on May 20 and it was used for a patient at the GMERS Gotri Hospital. The therapy did not gain much momentum after this till late last month when new guidelines made it possible for more hospitals to take it up. Patel donated plasma again earlier this month and it was used for CPT at a private hospital. Not only did Patel do his bit for other patients like him, but his experience also ensured that his two friends who had tested positive in UK did the same. “I discussed my experience with them and they donated plasma in UK,” he said. Patel is looking to donate plasma again at city-based Indu Blood Bank that has issued 51 units of plasma so far. “I am ready to donate it whenever asked to. I would appreciate if others do the same. The therapy can help in vulnerable patients ensuring faster recovery,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/continents-apart-buddies-fight-covid-19-with-plasma/articleshow/77619730.cms||Sachin Sharma
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||To prevent flooding, wall height at Albert Hall to be raised||Jaipur: Electricity is disconnected in the Albert Hall since the control room of the museum got flooded with rainwater during downpour in the city on August 14. The officials are planning to make some emergency arrangements to prevent this from happening again at Rajasthan’s oldest museum . Director state archaeology and museum department Prakash Sharma said that sudden flooding of the museum happened because of the low boundary level at the parking lot. “We are planning to raise the boundary wall and the ramp near the parking lot. We have already constructed a cemented wall for the time being but the project will be expanded,” Sharma. On Friday last week, basement of Albert Hall and office of state archaeology and museum department, Jaipur was five-feet underwater which caused damage to the files and other objects. The department is also planning to install permanent mud-pumps in the basement and two in the premises of the museum so that in future if such situation occurs, they do not have to depend on outside help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/to-prevent-flooding-wall-height-at-albert-hall-to-be-raised/articleshow/77623453.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kochi||Covid no longer trending on Malayalam Wiki||KOCHI: As a free online encyclopedia created and edited by volunteers, Wikipedia is often considered a source of authentic information. For the first three months of the lockdown -- April, May and June -- Corona Virus and CoronaVirus Disease-2019 were articles that had the most number of views in the Malayalam edition of Wikipedia, indicating the seriousness that people ascribed the pandemic. However in July, when Covid-19 numbers in the state began to rise, the CoronaVirus Disease-2019 article fell to 12th position with Malayalam litterateur Vaikkom Mohammed Basheer taking top place, a trend that continues in August, as per data with stats.wikimedia.org. One reason could be that the death anniversary of the fabled writer, known as the Beypore Sultan, fell on July 5. The most viewed article in March was also related to the coronavirus. Malayalam Wikipedia has been clocking an average of 10 million page views every month since April this year, but in terms of reach it is behind other major regional language editions. “We have now completed a milestone of 70,000 pages but content generation had been taking place at a slow pace," said Manoj Karingamadathil, a Wikipedian and open source enthusiast. Renjith Siji, another Wikipedian, said on average Malayalam Wikipedia is adding close to 10,000 articles per year. "In December 2018 we had 60,000 pages. Ideally, we should have touched the 70,000-mark in December 2019, but it took many more months. The lockdown has had an impact because we could not organize programmes in schools and colleges," said Renjith, who volunteers as a Wikipedia bureaucrat. According to him, Malayalam Wikipedia gathered momentum in 2004 after the arrival of the Unicode consortium and stable tools which made writing and editing in Malayalam accessible. "In the beginning authors took care to make articles structured, informative and packed with references. Over the years the rigour has been lost, but there are few who are dedicated, which helps to bestow standards when compared to other Indian languages which have more views," said Renjith.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-no-longer-trending-on-malayalam-wiki/articleshow/77620399.cms||Binu Karunakaran
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||HRC notice to GHMC chief over park encroachments||HYDERABAD: The state human rights commission on Tuesday issued a notice to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) commissioner over encroachment and non-maintenance of two parks in Jubilee Hills and directed him to submit a report on action taken against the encroachers by September 18. Responding to the complaint filed by the resident welfare association of Jubilee Hills road number 86 and 87 that two parks — the 30-acre Rock Garden park, and a two-acre GHMC park in road number 87 — are being encroached upon by using bogus sale deeds, the commission directed the commissioner to report about the total extent of the parks encroached and action taken against the encroachers. It also asked for the bogus sale deeds, if any, and what action has been initiated by the authorities against those who encroached the park using fake documents.The commission also directed the officials to erect stone fencing to the park and arrange necessary protection/ security persons for the parks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hrc-notice-to-ghmc-chief-over-park-encroachments/articleshow/77622363.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Illegal water connection at Andhra Pradesh-based IPS officer’s house||HYDERABAD: The personal residence of an Andhra Pradesh-based IPS officer at Prashasan Nagar in Jubilee Hills was found to have an illegal water connection on Tuesday. The officer is currently posted as director general, commissioner of enquiries in AP. “During enquiry we found out that the current residents, Bhaskar Raju and Madhu Varma, had been drawing water through a connection which has not been sanctioned by the water boards,” HMWS&SB chief vigilance officer (CVO) Ravi Chandan Reddy told TOI. “We have verified water board records and found out that a connection had initially been sanctioned in the name of Tushar Aditya Tripathi but then in November 2019, it was disconnected over non-payment of dues to the tune of nearly Rs 1 lakh,” the CVO said. “While concerned technical staff were disconnecting the illegal water connection, the premise occupants Bhaskar Raju and Madhu Varma obstructed the legitimate duties of HMWS&SB and scolded the technical staff using abusive words and threatened to kill the staff if they disconnected illegal restored water connection,” the water board vigilance officer said in an official statement. Based on the complaints lodged by the manager of Jubilee Hills section O&M Division-VI, an FIR had been registered against the two persons under IPC sections 269, 430, 353, 379 and PDPP Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/illegal-water-connection-at-ips-officers-house/articleshow/77622271.cms||Sunil Mungara
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: After lakes, attention turns to Khajaguda rock formations||HYDERABAD: A day after the high court took notice of encroachements around Khajaguda lake, activists have raised alarm over the frenetic pace of activity around rock formations in the area, which they say are being destroyed in a systematic manner. “During lockdown, a lot of activity has taken place. Rocks can be seen decimated all over, especially near a religious structure, the shoe rock area and near the lake,” said Great Hyderabad Action Club (GHAC) member, Ananth Krishnan. While there is some private land on the hillock, the government has not clarified ownership. “I have been asking the authorities for years to give clarity over the ownership but have not received a proper reply,” said Society to Save Rocks secretary, Frauke Quader. She said the current work on the hillock is against the high court order. The order dated April 30, 2019, directed GHMC and HMDA to ensure that the rocks are “not disturbed or damaged, or destroyed by the owner of the said property during the pendency of this writ petition.” The order provides for action to be taken against the owner of the property if there is any damage to the boulders. GHMC sources said they were looking into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-lakes-attention-turns-to-khajaguda-rock-formations/articleshow/77622326.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Ailing 8-year-old cheetah dies at Nehru Zoological Park||HYDERABAD: Hiba, an eight-year-old female cheetah who had suffering from a problem in the hind legs and limping for nearly three years, died at the Nehru Zoological Park on Tuesday. Hiba had arrived at the city zoo along with her male sibling Abdullah as a gift from the government of Saudi Arabia in 2013. According to zoo authorities, Hiba had been diagnosed with paraplegia on August 15 and was under intensive care treatment. “A team of veterinarians were looking after her but she was unable to get up since the past three days. She was suffering for the past three or four years. We were hoping she would recover but unfortunately she stopped responding to treatment,” said zoo curator N Kshitija.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ailing-8-yr-old-cheetah-dies-at-nehru-zoo/articleshow/77622198.cms||Moulika.KV
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Call for antigen testing in priavte labs grows||HYDERABAD: Permissions to conduct Covid-19 antigen tests in private facilities has become a bone of contention between state authorities and private institutes. While authorities claimed that no private institutes had approached them for permission, the latter said they had not received any clarity over the matter. While the government has increased the number of antigen test centres from 320 to 1,000, no private institutes were granted permission for antigen testing. Currently, only 23 private labs are being allowed to conduct RT-PCR tests. Many of these private labs and hospitals complained that the burden on them has increased to a point where they are now unable to take more cases. “When we send swabs for RT-PCR examination it takes time. It would be helpful to those with symptoms if we are allowed to conduct antigen testing because then we will know immediately,” said the owner of a private hospital in Warangal. Other private hospital owners said that antigen testing will also help them prevent transmission of cases between outpatient and Covid-19 wards. Sources said the government was still apprehensive about giving more permissions to private institutes with health minister Eatala Rajender also denying permissions for testing at private institutes. Earlier, when many doctors had been infected at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), medical staffers had demanded that all patients who undergo surgery be tested before procedure as positive patient being operated had led to infection. “Since the numbers have increased now, we want outpatients also to be tested for safety purposes in case they have symptoms” said a private hospital owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/call-for-antigen-testing-in-pvt-labs-grows/articleshow/77621927.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rain weakens foundation of flats built by JMC for the poor||JAIPUR: Hundreds of flats constructed under Rajiv Awas Yojana in 2015 for lower income groups in the city’s Sanjay Nagar Bhatta Basti are still lying vacant with water seeping into the structures which may lead to their collapse during heavy rains. More than 1,500 flats, constructed by Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), haven’t been allotted to anyone. Heavy rainfall on Friday last created havoc in the city and the foundations of these houses have been weakened. Altaf Ahmad, a resident of the slum, said heavy rainfall on August 14 covered the entire area under 4 feet water. “Since that time, big pits have been created under the flats which could be dangerous,” said Ahmad. People in the slum (Kacchi Basti) nearby are living in pathetic conditions with many still calculating the losses of heavy rainfall. “I took Rs 30,000 loan to construct the wall in my courtyard but these rains just swept everything away. I don’t know how am I supposed to pay back?” said Shamina, resident of the slum. Just behind Shamina’s house stays Sabina Bibi who house has been severely damaged because of the rains. She is now living in neighbour’s house till she can arrange some money to construct again. Iqbal Khan, an old watchman of flats appointed on a monthly salary by the JMC, said recently a few people started to live inside the flats with an intention of encroaching it. “Police later came and removed the encroachers. But why can’t government just allot these flats to the needy. Already people have suffered heavy losses in the rains and these flats would be a lifesaver for poor people who are still paying monthly rent,” said Khan. Watch Rajiv Awas Yojana: Hundreds of JMC flats for the poor remain uninhabited in Jaipur||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rain-weakens-foundation-of-flats-built-by-jmc-for-the-poor/articleshow/77623459.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Trade licence, development fees may go up 5% in Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Residents and traders reeling under the pandemic’s impact in Bengaluru may soon be forced to shell out more in local taxes. As part of its revenue mobilisation strategy, the government has sought proposals from Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) to revise trade licence fee, development fee and khata charges by 5%. “It’s a nominal hike, considering no revision in these charges has happened in the past four years. Under normal circumstances, we are supposed to revise them by 15% every three years. We’ve decided to increase them by 5% every year to minimise the burden,” said BBMP commissioner Manjunatha Prasad. He said the proposal will be placed before the BBMP council, which will meet on August 28, and will later be sent to the government for final approval. After property tax, trade licence fee is second biggest revenue grosser for civic bodies in the state. At a meeting held on August 10 to discuss strategies on revenue mobilisation, chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar sought proposals from BBMP and BDA to revise various fees/charges after getting the council’s nod and submit them at the next meeting for approval. “Our July-August tax receipts have already seen a dip compared to the same time last year, dropping almost by 50%. Economic impact of the lockdown has begun to hurt. We will have no choice but to raise taxes to cover the fund gap,’’ said a senior BBMP official handling taxes. BBMP and BDA have also been asked to launch a stringent crackdown against tax evasion, and bring more traders in the tax net. Among the few revenue sources for the Palike are trade licences that are issued for over 50 different kinds of businesses in the city. However, their number has not crossed even 1 lakh in the recent past, which civic officials admit is a fraction of the number of commercial power connections in the city. To increase revenue by plugging leakage, BBMP also plans to bring more trades under its ambit with help of data on commercial power connections from Bescom, which has around 6 lakh such connections in BBMP limits. “The government may be forced to shift from its conservative stand not to increase taxes to keep its vote bank happy ahead of BBMP polls by balancing the books and making up for lost revenue,” said a senior revenue department official. Government burdening us: TradersThe hike in trade licence fee will deal a big blow to traders and may draw strong opposition from them. “We have been hit hard by the lockdown. Instead of extending some relief to the trading community to overcome the crisis, the government has been trying to put more financial burden on us,’’ they said. Municipalities may get free handThe government is planning to give a free hand to all urban local bodies to increase trade licence fee to meet growing financial requirements. Under the Karnataka Municipal Act, the revised fee structure will have to be approved by the elected general body. The existing fee structure of some municipal bodies was revised a decade ago and the agencies are struggling hard to generate revenue and meet financial requirements at local level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/trade-licence-development-fees-may-go-up-5-in-bluru/articleshow/77620528.cms||---
August 19, 2020||India||EC to stick to Bihar poll dates, with Covid norms||NEW DELHI: In a clear indication that Bihar assembly polls will be held as per schedule -- notwithstanding demands from parties like Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and RJD to defer the exercise in view of rising Covid-19 cases -- the poll panel is giving final touches to broad guidelines that will ensure physical campaigning and well as conduct of polling in the state with strict adherence to social distancing norms. Sources told TOI that the EC guidelines to be out in the next three days, will require candidates to be accompanied by only two persons during filing of nomination, limit the vehicles allowed in a roadshow to five, ensure 'two gaz ki doori' (six feet distance) among spectators at public meetings and rallies, besides allowing just three persons to visit houses during door-to-door campaign. The district election officers will specify the maximum number of spectators that can be allowed at rallies, by evaluating the ground's capacity based on the "minimum six feet distance" principle. All members of the public attending the rallies will have to mandatorily wear masks. Health officials may be roped in to oversee adherence to health ministry norms. On polling day, protection for polling personnel shall be ensured by providing them with sanitisers, masks and gloves. All polling staff will wear face shields. Voters will be asked to maintain social distancing while awaiting their turn to vote. While electors are expected to turn up at the polling station in masks, the EC will provide masks in case they are not wearing one. Local health workers will be posted at each polling station. The EC norms discount the possibility of deferment of the first state election to be held following Covid-19 outbreak, despite RJD, LJP and Congress favouring it. At the same time, it takes care of parties' concerns about too much reliance on digital campaign, a proposition that would give cash-rich parties an unfair advantage, by allowing rallies and door-to-door campaign. A senior EC functionary told TOI that poll panel will only give the broad outline on how best to ensure social distancing during Bihar poll -- due before the term of current state assembly expires on November 29, 2020 -- and other bye-polls in the country, with the chief electoral officers and district election officers expected to work out the finer details of the measures to be enforced on the ground to facilitate campaigning using traditional methods like public meetings and rallies as well as door-to-door canvassing, while ensuring social distancing. EC, TOI has learnt, has been working for almost a month to evaluate the conditions and poll preparedness in Bihar, while also consulting political parties, chief electoral officers and other officers on how polling and campaigning can be done safely with minimal risk of infection and proper adherence to health ministry norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-to-stick-to-bihar-poll-dates-with-covid-norms/articleshow/77624450.cms||Bharti Jain
August 19, 2020||Agra||Agra div commissioner’s office sealed after officer tests Covid-19 +ve, cases rise in Meerut & Bareilly||Agra: The Agra divisional commissioner’s office was sealed for 48 hours on Tuesday for sanitization, after an administrative officer tested Covid-19 positive. Earlier, both parents of the divisional commissioner had also tested positive, and are now under treatment at a private hospital in Noida. So far, seven staffers of the divisional commissioner’s office have tested positive. Meanwhile, work at Agra Development Authority, Agra Municipal Corporation and Jal Sansthan remained affected, after six staffers of these departments tested positive, earlier this month. At least 14 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Tuesday evening, taking the district tally to 2,367. According to health department officials, 35 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Tuesday. Out of the 2,367 cases reported in the district, 82.27% have been declared cured and discharged. There are currently 316 active Covid-19 cases in the district. Chief medical officer R C Pandey said, “So far, 1,949 people have been cured of the infection and discharged. Besides, people who have come in contact with Covid-19 patients are being screened. Health department teams are conducting door-to-door check-up of people in hotspot areas, and samples of suspected patients are being sent for lab test.” Across the state in Meerut, at least 50 Covid-19 positive cases were recorded on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 2,930. The new positive cases included two toddlers aged six months and two months. There was one death, which took the toll to 105, confirmed Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar. Over at Bareilly, at least 138 people tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday and one person succumbed to the virus, said additional CMO Dr Ashok Kumar. With this, Bareilly’s tally of total cases rose to 5,226, including 98 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-div-commissioners-office-sealed-after-officer-tests-covid-19-ve-cases-rise-in-meerut-bareilly/articleshow/77620412.cms||Deepak Lavania
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||300-bed hosp to come up in Doon||Dehradun: A 300-bed hospital would be constructed in Harrawala area, situated on the outskirts of Dehradun city. For the project worth Rs 106 crore, the Uttarakhand government has already sanctioned Rs 10 crore, whereas the remaining amount of Rs 96 crore will be provided by the Union government. Following the instructions of Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, an amount of Rs 10 crore was sanctioned for the 300-bed facility, which would be called Shakuntala Rani Sardari Maternity and Cancer Hospital. The fund for the project has been made available to the Mission Director of National Health Mission. CM Rawat described the construction of the hospital as a major achievement in the field of healthcare. He said that there was a need for a well-equipped hospital in the Harrawala area as “it will provide better health facilities to the people”. A letter issued by health secretary Amit Singh Negi mentions that the hospital will be constructed in Harrawala on the land provided to the health department as a gift by Jeevan Jyoti Cancer Hospital Trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/300-bed-hosp-to-come-up-in-doon/articleshow/77618957.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Junior health minister tests positive for coronavirus||LUCKNOW: Minister of state for medical and health Atul Garg is the latest entrant to the list of politicians who have tested positive for novel coronavirus. Prior to Garg, his senior, cabinet minister for medical and health Jay Prakash Singh had also tested Covid-19 positive. He has recovered now. Garg, whose test report came back positive on Monday night, took to social media on Tuesday to declare the status of his health and to sound caution to those who have been in touch with him over the past few days. Garg is the ninth UP government minister to get Covid-19. Two ministers, Kamal Rani Varun and Chetan Chauhan, have lost their battle with the disease. Garg, who is 62 years old, wrote on his social media post that his sample was tested through RT-PCR on August 15 but his result came back negative for the contagious disease. “My rapid test report which came in at 9pm on Monday has confirmed Covid-19. Those who met me between August 16 and August 18 should get themselves tested for the sake of their own health. My associates and myself can be contacted for any help,” his official social media account stated. So far, over 20 state or national-level politicians from UP and around 35 of their contacts have been diagnosed with Covid-19 since the outbreak in March. These include nine UP government ministers, a minister-rank functionary and five sitting MLAs/MLCs. Others include leader of Opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary, UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh and senior CPI leader Atul Kumar Anjaan. Former minister in SP government Ghura Ram and former deputy mayor Abhay Seth have succumbed to novel coronavirus infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/junior-health-minister-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/articleshow/77623270.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city betters state’s figure with 82% recovery rate||Nashik: The rate of patient recovery in Nashik city is much higher than the state and national averages. Nearly 82% of the patients detected with Covid-19 had recovered in Nashik city till August 17. For comparison, the rate of recovery in the state currently stands at 70% and it is 73% in the country.The recovery rate is the percentage of patients recovering from Covid-19. The rate has been fluctuating over the past month. However, officials said aggressive testing and contact tracing have helped in early detection and recovery of patients.Of the total 16,968 positive patients detected in the city so far, 13,960 have recovered till August 17. At present, 2,608 patients are undergoing treatment in the city and 400 people have succumbed to the disease.Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials said the recovery rate in the city by June 30 was only 42.60%. The rate had improved to 77% by July 31. It then dipped slightly in the first week of August to 72%.“We have increased the tracing of high-risk and low-risk contacts of patients and are conducting antigen tests for early detection. Detected patients are provided with immediate treatment. This has yielded good results and the recovery rate of Covid-19 patients of the city increased,” a civic official said.The official added that the civic body has launched the ‘Mission zero Nashik’ with the help NGO and corporators, who helped trace people with Covid-19 symptoms and comorbidities. An NGO had provided 20 mobile clinics for the mission. Over 30,000 antigen tests were conducted in just 20 days and over 4,000 patients tested Covid-19 positive.“Early detection and immediate treatment of patients have led to the rise in the recovery rate and have helped bring down the death rate to some extent,” an NMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-betters-states-figure-with-82-recovery-rate/articleshow/77618951.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||City set to get 50 new e-buses||Kolkata: The fleet of zero-emission electric-buses in the city will be augmented with 50 new vehicles soon. The West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC), a state transport undertaking, finalised the acquisition of 50 AC buses on Tuesday. This augmentation will take the total number of e-buses to 130 in the city. Currently, the WBTC runs 80 e-buses that received international recognition recently due to efficient operations and integration with stakeholders. The WBTC has an ambitious plan of shifting completely from fossil fuel to carbon-neutral fuel by 2030. E-buses are only a part of that road-map. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-set-to-get-50-new-e-buses/articleshow/77622354.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Pvt hospitals run short of beds for patients with Covid-like symptoms||Nagpur: Private hospitals in the city are now forced to divert flow of critically-ill non-Covid patients to government hospitals, which are already under tremendous pressure. As per norms, private hospitals have to set up triage wards with 3 to 8 beds for patients with influenza-like symptoms (ILI), but all of them are continuously occupied because of increased wait time in getting admission. The city has 635 private hospitals having 10,726 beds registered with the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Of them, eight are Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCHs). Some private hospitals have switched to OPD examination and advising a test from outside before admission due to lack of beds in their triage ward. As patients under investigation remain admitted in triage wards, the wait-list is getting longer for ILI patients and even for those having other illnesses. Some hospitals are administering oxygen to critically-ill patients under specialized care till their relatives find another bed in private or government facility. Convener of Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) and director of Orange City Hospital Dr Anup Marar said most of the hospitals have demarcated wards with 3-6-8 beds as per available segregated area. “When beds of such patient under investigation unit (PUIU) are full or if they do not have the PUIU, the concerned hospitals are forced to refer incoming symptomatic ILI patients in need of admission to GMC/IGGMC as the patients cannot be sent to private Covid hospitals. A Covid positive classification is must before patients are referred to a private DCH,” he said. The guidelines states that incoming OPD patient with ILI symptoms should be provided prescriptions, advised Covid testing and informing civic officials. “For patients with ILI symptoms in need of admission, triage has to be done and they are stationed in separate PUIU. Covid test is to be done simultaneously along with rendition of treatment and communication to NMC officials,” he said. Though rapid antigen test, which provides on the spot result, is available, hospitals are not taking chances in case of patients with symptoms. “Even if rapid antigen test is negative in such cases, RT-PCR has to be done,” said Dr Marar. False negativity rate of antigen test is around 60%. The high number of cases has delayed testing. “Nowadays, it takes at least 24-36 hours in private set up to obtain RT-PCR reports. Thus, the beds in PUIU are occupied for 24-36 hours,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hospitals-run-short-of-beds-for-patients-with-covid-like-symptoms/articleshow/77622397.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Graft case: ACB seeks custody of tahsildar||HYDERABAD: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Tuesday filed a petition before a local court seeking four-day custody of arrested Keesara tahsildar E B Nagaraj. ACB is also trying to find out how the tahsildar managed to secure collector office documents and it is also being verified if Nagaraj has gifted a guest house in Shamirpet to a former revenue department official, who earlier worked in Medchal-Malkajgiri district. On August 14, ACB had conducted a surprise check at a house in Kapra and arrested Nagaraj along with, Rampally village revenue assistant (VRA) B Sai Raj, realtors Ch Srinath Yadav and K Anji Reddy for being in possession of Rs 1.1 crore cash, which the realtors brought to give it to the tahsildar to get an official favour related to 19 acre 39 gunts disputed land in Rampally Dayara village of Keesara. During further searches, ACB had discovered Rs 36 lakh cash from Nagaraj’s car and his house in Alwal along with half a kilo gram of gold jewellery. There were no property documents found at the tahsildar’s house. ACB sleuths were gathering details of plots and other properties registered in the name of the tehsildar and his family members through the registration department. Searches were also conducted at Srinath and Anji Reddy’s houses and certain incriminating evidence was seized. It is learnt that several plots were registered in the name of a family member. ACB is also inquiring into the details of Nagaraj allegedly gifting a guest house at Shamirpet to a revenue official, who had earlier worked in Medhal-Malkajgiri district. “We will have to verify the property records and payment details,” an ACB official said. ACB seized Medchal-Malkajgiri collector’s office note files on disputed land in possession of the tahsildar at the time of his arrest. “The document was unsigned and undated. Nagaraj brought it to show the real estate businessmen that he could get the documents signed if Rs 2 crore bribe was paid. We are trying to find out how he got them,” an ACB official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/graft-case-acb-seeks-custody-of-tahsildar/articleshow/77622376.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Cancel odd-even, we will observe weekend janata curfew, say traders||Nagpur: Various traders’ organizations, including Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (Camit), Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), Nagpur Residential Hotels Association (NRHA), and Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA), on Tuesday rejected mayor Sandip Joshi’s proposal to observe janata curfew on weekends to help break the Covid-19 chain in the city. Representatives of the traders’ bodies suggested the mayor should first cancel the odd-even day formula for shopkeepers, due to which they were facing huge financial losses. “If janata curfew is imposed two days a week with this odd and even formula, it will further hit financial situation for businessmen,” pointed out Camit president Dipen Agrawal. Following a spike in Covid-19 cases in the city, the mayor met different trade bodies and discussed how traders could help NMC contain further spread of the infection. The administration is projecting the city’s traders as villains for the spread of Covid-29 cases, which is absolutely wrong, the traders said. For the last several months, shops have been closed and according to the formula, one has to keep the shop open only for 15 days in a month. If janata curfew is imposed, a trader who opens his shop on Friday will get a chance to open his shop directly on Tuesday, said VTA secretary Tejinder Singh Renu. “So we demanded cancellation of the odd-even formula first, if NMC wanted city traders to observe self-imposed janata curfew on every Saturday and Sunday,” he said. The mayor expressed helplessness with this, saying that even his directives to municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe to allow opening of shops on both sides of wide roads like Central Avenue, Wardha Road etc were rejected. The traders’ bodies also lodged a protest with the mayor over frequent threats by civic chief about sealing their shops if they do not get themselves and their staff tested for Covid-19. Joshi said all traders’ associations have sought the support of elected representatives against the civic administration over mandatory Covid-19 tests. “We have unconditionally decided to extend our support to them,” the mayor said. “We have also noted our protest against NMC’s move for mandatory shop license for professionals in the city,” said Agrawal. Tejinder Singh Renu, president NRHA, and honorary secretary VTA, has sought minister Aaditya Thackeray’s intervention in NMC’s plan to impose a new license system for shopkeepers. In a WhatsApp message, Renu said, “Just wanted to submit a humble request that Nagpur Municipal Corporation imposing new license in city, which is or may be good in long run, but during a pandemic not recommended. Moreover, it will be enforced retrospectively & will just cause chaos and unrest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cancel-odd-even-we-will-observe-weekend-janata-curfew-say-traders/articleshow/77750442.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
August 19, 2020||Goa||Governor Satya Pal Malik, who became voice of Goans in 10 months, transferred to Meghalaya||PANAJI: Goa governor Satya Pal Malik, who became people’s voice and popular among Goans in his short tenure of 10 months, was transferred to Meghalaya on Tuesday. Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari will hold additional charge of Goa, the Rashtrapati Bhavan said in a statement. Malik, who saw the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh into Union territories as its governor before moving to Goa in November 2019, was proactive and outspoken about several issues relevant to the state, including the state government’s handling of the Covid-19 crisis. Malik had ticked off the state government for mismanaging the Covid-19 crisis by taking incorrect decisions and had warned CM Pramod Sawant that New Delhi was keeping close watch on Goa’s Covid situation, advising Sawant to “pull up his socks”. Malik had also called out a lie by Sawant for saying the governor had said though the government was managing Covid situation very well, the media was portraying a negative image. “It was irresponsible… he (Sawant) has done mischief,” he had told TOI. With Sawant failing to make any progress on the two crucial issues plaguing the state—the Mhadei water sharing and restart of mining operations—Malik had filled the vacuum by raising these issues with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah and got a favourable response from the Centre. “I had a good experience in Goa, and the government was cooperative,” he told TOI on Tuesday. “The situation was such that other than Covid, we couldn’t concentrate on anything else. I wanted to do something (more for the state), but could not,” he said. Malik, who had asked the state government to put on hold the decision to construct a new Raj Bhavan, calling it “irrational and imprudent to even think of it when the state is reeling under an acute financial crisis amid the pandemic”, said there were many unresolved issues that needed to be sorted out. “The state is facing the coronavirus problem, there is little revenue, and the non-resumption of mining remains a problem. People have left agriculture, and this should be revived. Issues with other states must also be resolved,” he said. In April, Malik wrote to Shah asking him to intervene and facilitate the early resumption of mining in Goa. In December, after Malik’s intervention, Modi assured the governor that he would resolve the Mhadei issue, and after that, the Centre decided to keep in abeyance the environment approval it granted to Karnataka for the Kalasa-Bhandura water diversion project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/guv-malik-who-became-voice-of-goans-in-10-months-transferred-to-meghalaya/articleshow/77623253.cms||Murari Shetye
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||Cash crunch forces Lucknow zoo to put up 1,000 inmates for adoption||LUCKNOW: Lockdown offer: A tiger or white tiger for Rs 6.75 lakh per annum, leopard and panther Rs 1.7 lakh each, hoolock gibbon Rs 32,500 and white peacock just Rs 3,200. Reeling under major financial crisis, the Nawab Wajid Ali Shah Zoological Garden or Lucknow Zoo on Tuesday posted an open letter calling on animal lovers and philanthropists to support the adoption scheme and wildlife conservation. Launching a public support campaign on its Facebook page, the 99-year-old zoo has pinned its hopes on corporates and citizens to come forward and adopt its animals as part of their corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities. “To continue appropriate feed to animals, security and cleanliness of campus and to maintain the greenery, flow of funds is indispensable... Due to lockdown, the zoo income has come to a standstill. At present, barely 1% visitors of previous years are visiting the zoo. We desperately need at least Rs 1 crore per month to run our zoo,” said the letter signed by zoo director R K Singh. The letter has attached a list of animals available for adoption. The zoo is home to 1,000 animals of 100 species. “Being a trust, the zoo largely depends on entrance fee. The average number of visitors per year is around 16 lakh. However, first due to anti-CAA protests and later, because of Covid-19, there has been very less footfall. Unlike previous years when around 8,000 visitors used to throng the zoo per day, we now only receive 100. Since most of the feed for animals is met through ticket sales, it’s difficult for us,” said Singh. “The funds we have at present will last for 3-4 weeks,” he added. “The scheme will also benefit patrons in the form of Income Tax rebate under 80G. The name and address of adopters will be displayed at enclosures,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cash-crunch-forces-lucknow-zoo-to-put-up-1000-inmates-for-adoption/articleshow/77623281.cms||Aditi Singh
August 19, 2020||Nashik||Incessant rain bares road quality in many areas||Nashik: Several potholes have surfaced on many roads, including the internal thoroughfares of the two industrial areas, following incessant rain in the city and its adjoining areas over the last seven days. Potholes have surfaced on the roads in Dwarka, Chopda lawns, Kamatwade, areas near Nimani bus stand, Peth Road, Shingada talav and some stretches in the Ambad and Satpur industrial estates. Atul Shinde, a resident of Tavli Phata on the Peth Road area, said, “Large potholes have surfaced near Tavli Phata in the last two to three days due to incessant rainfall. It is very risky to drive on these roads as the chances of accident are high.” Varun Talwar, president of the Ambad Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (AIMA), said, “There are some stretches of road in the industrial areas which are in a deplorable condition. Several potholes have surfaced on many internal and major roads in Ambad industrial estate. We want the civic body to undertake the repair works immediately.” “Apart from potholes, waterlogging at some locations in the industrial areas is another issue. The side strips of the road are damaged. It is risky to commute there considering that many trucks and container carrying goods frequent the industrial estates,” said Manish Rawal, an industrialist. A delegation of Nashik Industries & Manufacturers’ Association (NIMA) recently met the civic body officials and sought immediate repair of potholes. Civic officials said they would start filling the potholes as soon as the rain subsided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/incessant-rain-bares-road-quality-in-many-areas/articleshow/77618975.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 19, 2020||Trichy||Govt school told to return fee collected from parents||Trichy: The Trichy district chief education officer (CEO) has ordered an inquiry after a government school was allegedly found to be collecting Rs 2,000 as school fee from parents coming for admission on Tuesday. As education is free in government schools, the CEO, S Santhi directed the school to return the fee collected and sought a report from the education officer after inquiry. The incident occurred at a government model girls higher secondary school in Manachanallur. One of the popular government girls schools in Trichy district, the school functioned with over 2,700 students and 67 teachers till last year. The school which had classes from VI to XII till 2018, had kindergarten classes introduced from 2019 and classes I to V from this year onwards. Going ahead with the admission for I to X, the school admitted over 270 students in the last two days. According to headmaster S Anbusekaran, the school collected Rs 300-400 from parents as part of the parent teacher association (PTA) fund. He went on to say that primary classes from I to V are English medium classes for which no teachers had been sanctioned. The school had to arrange for teachers on consolidated pay and give them salary from PTA fund. Asked about collecting Rs 2,000, he said the contribution is voluntary and they didn’t demand money from parents. Speaking to TOI, S Santhi said that surplus teachers in the district will be allotted for the primary classes in the schools for English medium classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/govt-school-told-to-return-fee-collected-from-parents/articleshow/77623276.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||11,000 discharges in 18 days lower Kolkata bed occupancy from 80% to 72%||KOLKATA: The daily rise in people contracting the novel coronavirus in Kolkata notwithstanding, the Covid facilities in the city registered a dip in occupancy in August so far. With the health facilities reporting a slight drop in the demand for Covid beds, experts said if the trend continued for the next week, it could be an early indication that morbidity and mortality of the disease were slowing down, especially in the city. In Kolkata, 10,897 patients have been released from hospitals from August 1 till Tuesday, which has off-set the spike in new cases (11,114) in the period. “We are noticing a gradual decrease in the demand for Covid beds for a week or 10 days. Also, the number of critical patients coming to our hospital is also on the decline. If this trend is true for other hospitals, we might see flattening of the curve soon,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Kolkata’s active Covid cases—patients needing medical attention—reduced from 6,485 on August 1 to 6,371 on Tuesday. In this period, 331 Covid deaths were reported. The higher recovery rate has also brought down hospital occupancy in the city from 79.5% to 72% in the past 18 days. The state health department data stated Covid bed occupancy in private facilities had decreased from 81.2% to 75.6% and that in government facilities, from 77.6% to 67.8%. The 62 private Covid facilities in Kolkata include isolation beds and 13 satellite facilities. Occupancy at state safe homes in Kolkata are not immediately available. “July was the peak when I could not provide beds to even those patients I have been treating for years. August looks better. For at least 10 days, we will be able to give beds without asking patients to wait,” said Fortis consultant internal medicine Basab Bijoy Sarkar . “The morbidity and mortality definitely seem to be coming down, despite the rising incidence. This is a good sign.” A source at a private hospital off EM Bypass said a patient had to wait for two to three days to get admission in their facility. But since the start of August, the waiting period has been down. “For the past few days, patients are getting admission easily. Some of the reasons are the satellite facilities/safe homes, homecare services and the high discharge rate. Also, fewer patients needing hospital care means the morbidity must have come down. But we have to observe for at least one more week,” said the source. Kolkata Covid hospitals, many of which are tertiary Covid care facilities and get referral patients from districts, have always shown a higher occupancy rate. In Bengal, Covid bed occupancy was 39% on August 1 but it was 36.8% on Tuesday, the drop being sharper in Kolkata .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/11k-discharges-in-18-days-lower-kol-bed-occupancy-from-80-to-72/articleshow/77622509.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Accolades & stardom have had little effect on Dhoni’s humility’||Hyderabad People see him as a great cricketer, I know former India captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni as a humble friend. Not just to me, but also to my dog Gabbar, a Newfoundland. Once, he visited my house just a few hours before a match in Hyderabad. Gabbar loves to chase and be chased. Dhoni would play hide and seek with him in the garden. It was fun to watch their affection, as Dhoni has been a dog lover. Gabbar became a celebrity because of Dhoni. Gabbar was so excited to see Dhoni that he jumped on him. It scared all of us, as we were making sure Dhoni doesn’t sustain an injury before the match. We had to calm Gabbar down. I have known Dhoni since his early cricketing days. Even after achieving so much success and stardom, he remains a humble person. Dhoni has simple food habits, while his discipline toward fitness is inspiring. He loves shooting too. It is no secret that being a cop, I too have a passion for shooting. Dhoni has taught people that with hard work, determination and self-discipline, one can achieve anything. As we grew up watching cricket, the Australian team always seemed invincible. With Dhoni and his team's determination, we beat the Australian team in the World Cup in 2011. A proud and satisfying moment for every Indian. It is unfortunate that Gabbar died last month. However, due to pandemic duties, I did not get the chance to inform Dhoni about his demise. — Anjani Kumar, Hyderabad police commissioner (As told to Aditi Mallick)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/accolades-stardom-have-had-little-effect-on-dhonis-humility/articleshow/77622406.cms||Aditi Mallick
August 19, 2020||Agra||Taj Mahal & Agra Fort likely to re-open mid-September||Agra: The Agra district administration (ADA) is planning to re-open the Taj Mahal and Agra Fort for the public in the second week of September. However, other ASI protected monuments in the region will open by the end of this month.District magistrate PN Singh said that the date of re-opening of the Taj Mahal and Agra Fort has not been decided yet. “We are planning to open other historical monuments, including Fatehpur Sikri and Sikandara Tomb, next week in the first phase while Taj Mahal and Agra Fort will open in mid-September,” he said.Since Covid cases are now under control in Agra and Noida, the administration has planned to open the historical monuments, he added. Tourism industry representatives, however, were expecting Taj Mahal and Agra Fort to be re-opened from September 1.Vice president of Agra Tourist Guild, Rajeev Saxena, said that in order to save lakhs of jobs of tourism professionals and to provide tourists the opportunity to experience the Taj with physical distancing and other prescribed norms, the administration should allow the tourists entry as early as possible.“One should not forget that Agra’s economy would only start churning when tourism activity gets going, be it restaurants, hotels, travel agents, emporium’s, rickshaws, tongas, and street vendors," he said.The cultural ministry had re-opened all ASI-protected monuments for public across the nation from July 6. At the beginning of this month, ADA reopened the panoramic view point of the Taj Mahal, situated on a platform across the Yamuna river near Mehtab Bagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/taj-mahal-agra-fort-likely-to-re-open-mid-september/articleshow/77620439.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Agra||AMU holds webinar on Khilafat movement, local BJP leadership irked||Agra: A webinar organized by Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) to discuss Khilafat movement has irked BJP’s local unit which has now written to the Union ministry of education (MoE) seeking an inquiry and action against the varsity. The BJP functionaries have alleged that it was a threat to the country's “internal security”. The webinar was conducted on August 13 and a Turkish professor also took part in the discussion on the movement. Khilafat movement was a protest campaign launched by Muslims to influence the British government and protect the Ottoman caliphate after the defeat of Turkey in World War I. It also had the support of Mahatma Gandhi. The movement came to an end in 1924 after the abolition of the caliphate by Kemal Atatürk-- who brought sweeping reforms in the country to make it a secular and modern nation. But, the AMU’s event has not gone down well with the local rung of BJP in Aligarh. In a letter to the Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, BJP’s former media spokesperson of the city, Nishit Sharma, demanded strict action against the varsity’s vice chancellor and organizers of the event. Sharma said that the webinar details should be looked into by an inquiry committee, as the matter is related to “internal security”. “AMU invites the professor from Turkey to express her views on the Khilafat movement despite knowing that the country supports Pakistan and opposes India in every decision including the revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in August last year,” Sharma said. BJP’s district vice president Guarav Sharma claimed that Khilafat movement was responsible for division of the country and “massacre across the world”. “Now, some network is working to revive this movement and organizing such webinars in the AMU gives signal of preparation being made for Khilafat 2.0 movement,” he said. Manvendra Pratap Singh, member of national monitoring committee for minority educational institutes and also the vice president of BJP’s Braj region, said, “It is unfortunate that a Turkish professor was invited for the webinar in AMU despite the fact that the country has opposed India multiple times. The initiative seems to aim at restarting the Khilafat movement, which amounts to ‘rajdroh’ (treason).” The webinar was presided over by AMU’s vice chancellor and the keynote speaker was a Turkish professor, Dr H Hilal Sahin. When contacted, the proctor of the university, professor Wasim Ali, said, “The Turkish professor was a speaker because she is an expert on Khilafat movement. It was purely an academic program and there was no politics involved in it. The varsity always organizes such events in which international speakers participate.” The proctor added, “There is no advisory from the government over inviting speakers in webinars. We invite well-known academicians in discussions and Turkey’s professor invite was a routine.” “We will send the webinar proceedings to UGC and MoE which is a usual process,” Ali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-holds-webinar-on-khilafat-movement-local-bjp-leadership-irked/articleshow/77618969.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||Covid cloud over monsoon session||LUCKNOW: As the scare of novel coronavirus looms large over the state Legislative Assembly's monsoon session, starting on August 20, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath reviewed preparations along with UP Speaker Hriday Narayan Dikshit and parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Khanna and asked for maximum precautions. Earlier, during the day, the Speaker, who had convened a meeting of top authorities of the home and police department, issued necessary directions for making foolproof security measures. Amidst the pandemic fear the monsoon session has been curtailed to a four-day affair, having hardly two working days. Leader of Opposition and senior Samajwadi Party leader Ram Govind Chaudhary has informed the Speaker that he would not be able to attend the House and in his absence Narendra Verma, a senior MLA of the party, would be discharging his duties. Choudhary had been infected with coronavirus. Meanwhile, another minister Sanjay Garg and two MLAs tested positive on Tuesday, making the Speaker's task to hold the session even more challenging. The pandemic has already claimed the life of two senior ministers Kamal Rani and Chetan Chauhan, while a dozen of other ministers are recuperating with Covid-19. The Speaker has asked MLAs to come to the House with minimum staff and all of them, including their drivers, would have to undergo Covid-19 test. MLAs have also been advised to undergo the same test. This is the first time when lawmakers would be seated in a staggered manner on the ground and the first floor. Also for the first time the media would not be allowed to witness proceedings and special arrangements have been made for them in a separate enclosure. The House canteen would remain shut during the four-day session. MLAs would also be requested to maintain adequate distancing. Taking no chance, the Speaker made the Covid test mandatory for the 600 employees of secretariat. Out of the total staff, 20 have tested positive. On Tuesday, the CM reviewed preparations for the monsoon session at his residence. Besides the Speaker and the parliamentary affairs minister, principal secretary, state legislature, PradipDubey was also present. Main highlight of the monsoon session is likely to be the passage of nearly 12 bills promulgated in the form of ordinances by the Yogi government in the last six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-cloud-over-monsoon-session/articleshow/77623290.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 19, 2020||Varanasi||Soldier from Mirzapur martyred in encounter with terrorists in J&K||A soldier from Gaura village in Jigna area of Mirzapur district Ravi Singh (25) was martyred in an encounter with terrorists in Baramulla in J&K on Monday. A pall of gloom descended on the village after the news of his martyrdom reached on Tuesday. The entire village assembled at his house to console the bereaved family. His father Sanjay Singh, a farmer, said that the family had a video chat with him on Monday just before he left for the operation. Later, the news of his sacrifice came to him. He was married to Priyanka of Prayagraj district just two years back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/soldier-from-mirzapur-martyred-in-encounter-with-terrorists-in-jk/articleshow/77618986.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||‘Chandi Devi temple-Har ki Pauri ropeway project to be discussed in Cabinet meet’||Dehradun: In an important meeting held on Tuesday, state urban development minister Madan Kaushik gave a go ahead to a ropeway project from Har-ki-Pauri to Chandi Devi temple. The proposal and the detailed project report (DPR) for the ropeway has been prepared and it is likely to be discussed in the next Cabinet meeting scheduled on August 26. “We are confident that the Har-ki-Pauri to Chandi Devi ropeway project will get the nod from the Cabinet and work will soon be started,” said Kaushik. Meanwhile, the urban development department has received the DPR for the Dehradun-Haridwar metro project. “Though we have received the DPR for the metro project, we still need to study some aspects and take a call on them. The project is likely to be brought up before the Cabinet after November,” said the senior minister. On the development relating to personal rapid transit (PRT) or pod cars, the minister said that the DPR would be prepared and handed over in November this year. He added that the state government is working on other ropeways projects, including one in Rishikesh, and a final decision would be taken in the month of November. With the aim to reduce the burden of traffic on roads, the Uttarakhand government has come up with a number of proposals for districts like Dehradun and Hariwdar, which witness a high tourist footfall during the tourist seasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chandi-devi-temple-har-ki-pauri-ropeway-project-to-be-discussed-in-cabinet-meet/articleshow/77619013.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Enforcement officials of transport department to get new vehicles||NEW DELHI: If you haven’t got the Pollution Under Control (PUC) check of your vehicle done, beware of the transport department’s enforcement officials who have got new pairs of wheels to chase and penalise violators. On Wednesday, the fleet of transport department’s enforcement vehicles will more than double. The last time the transport department’s enforcement wing got new vehicles was in October 2018 when it got 27 customised vehicles. The department is now going to get 30 new vehicles, which are likely to be launched by transport minister Kailash Gahlot on Wednesday. The enforcement wing is tasked with checking and prosecuting polluting vehicles in the capital, which has more than one crore registered vehicles. However, the department has faced acute manpower shortage for this enormous task for many years, with improvement only in the last three years. New personnel have been recruited in the last few years and ex-servicemen have also been deployed with enforcement teams. “We have around 60 teams with four to five personnel in each team who keep a watch on polluting vehicles and those violating other norms. With the addition of 30 new vehicles, the mobility of the enforcement teams would vastly improve and result in large scale of prosecutions,” a transport department official said, adding that till 2018, the department faced a huge shortage of vehicles too. “There have been other improvements as well, such as handheld and state-of-the-art e-challan devices. Each of the 60 teams has at least one such device, which is linked to the central Vahan 4 software,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/enforcement-officials-of-transport-dept-to-get-new-vehicles/articleshow/77622453.cms||Sidharatha Roy
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Total cases increase as many retest themselves||NAGPUR: Though few in number, some Covid positive patients are getting themselves retested. Also, many who tested negative in Rapid Antigen Test are getting a second test under Real Time (RT) PCR. This is inflating the number of tests being conducted in the district. Experts say this will not give a proper positivity rate of the district. A government doctor involved in containing spread of Covid-19, contact tracing and treatment of patients tested positive for the novel coronavirus on August 5. After a 10-day treatment, he submitted his samples for a retest to check for recovery. It was a must for him as he was a likely spreader at work. The doctor’s retest report came positive on August 16 as the virus remains in body for 14-28 days. The list released by the NMC head office to 10 zones for isolation of positive persons and contact tracing mentioned the doctor’s name. He had been counted twice. A person from North Nagpur tested positive a couple of days ago in Rapid Antigen. As he was asymptomatic, he gave his samples again for an RT PCR test a day later. He too has been counted twice. A doctor from a private-run dedicated Covid hospital told TOI that as per central government guidelines a patient should not be tested again after admission and treatment. “We discharge patients when they show no symptoms and also after the prescribed days of treatment. Some have got themselves retested after discharge,” he said. Such patients too may have been counted twice. Around 308 convicts from Central Jail tested positive between June 30 and July 9. Some had tested positive in Rapid Antigen. The civic body had registered them at that time. Due to some miscommunication, the state’s health department uploaded details of some inmates’ results on website of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on August 7 and 8. They were counted again in district’s tally. Experts said this will lead to improper number of total positive cases in the district. An NMC official told TOI that the data of total number of cases is sourced from ICMR’s website. “There are less chances of double counting of positive persons as the website gives alert to operator uploading the case if the name and age is same. Patients need to disclose if they are submitting samples for testing a second time,” he said. There is a separate column on ICMR’s website for displaying if the sample is being given for testing a second time. “Double counting can happen if the operator uploads with a different spellings and age. Laboratories should realize its responsibilities and upload proper data,” the official said. Earlier, only government-run laboratories used to test. Now, there are three private laboratories for RT PCR and many for Rapid Antigen tests. Positivity rate is crucial to know the ratio of infection. It is derived by calculating total number of positive persons with total tests. Earlier, testing of suspected patients at quarantine centres was done a second time to send the number of tests northward. Now, the NMC is running 15 centres for Rapid Antigen and few private laboratories too are doing it. The patient with symptoms has to do a retest in RT PCR if negative in Rapid Antigen. Experts say the number of tests will not reveal the exact number of positive persons so positivity rate may not be accurate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/total-cases-increase-as-many-retest-themselves/articleshow/77622427.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||Met issues red alert of very heavy rainfall in 3 dists of U’khand||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre on Tuesday issued a red alert of heavy to very rainfall in three hill districts — Pithoragarh, Bageshwar and Chamoli — during the next 48 hours starting from Tuesday evening. Besides, the Met office has forecast increased rain activity across Uttarakhand on August 19 and 20 with spells of heavy to very rainfall expected in Nainital, Udham Singh Nagar, Champawat, Dehradun, Haridwar, Tehri, and Pauri districts. Giving details, Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre, said, “Monsoon would remain active over Uttarakhand for the next 48 hours with widespread showers expected till August 20. Particularly, Pithoragarh, Bageshwar and Chamoli districts are likely to receive intense rains during the next couple of days.” On Tuesday, Dehradun received heavy showers and further rain spells are predicted to lash the state capital on August 19 and 20. Several other places received light to moderate rainfall since Monday night. Didihat in Pithoragarh and Roshanabad in Haridwar recorded 60 mm rainfall. Meanwhile, the Gangotri and Badrinath national highways were blocked following landslides triggered by heavy showers. The Gangotri highway was obstructed at Naagni, while the Badrinath highway remained intermittently closed on different locations. Also, multiple landslides near Mandal village in Chamoli district blocked the Chamoli-Gopeshwar-Ukhimath highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/met-issues-red-alert-of-very-heavy-rainfall-in-3-dists-of-ukhand/articleshow/77619033.cms||Gaurav Talwar
August 19, 2020||Trichy||Mahaveer sculpture from 11th century CE found near Pudukottai||TRICHY: A three-foot bas-relief sculpture of Mahaveer, the 24th and last Jain Tirthankara, dating back to 11th century CE was found near Pudukottai district on Tuesday. The partially-damaged sculpture of Mahaveer in a meditating posture was found at Mangalakoil near Gandharvakottai in Pudukottai district on the northern bank of the Agniyar River. Local people assumed that the sculpture, which was half buried in an agriculture land in the village, is that of Hindu deity Kali. It is not clear as to how long the sculpture was there, but the local people didn’t disturb it assuming that it is holy. U Arasappan, a villager, informed the Archaeological Research Foundation of Pudukkottai that he has suspicion that the sculpture has archaeological relevance. A team from the foundation visited the village and assessed the sculpture. Manganoor A Manikandan, PhD scholar in ancient science at Tamil University, Thanjavur, said that the sculpture dates back to 11th Century CE. The three-step canopy on top of the sculpture, lengthy ear holes, broad chest are some of the features that help us identify it as Mahaveer sculpture, he said. The 1.5-foot wide sculpture also has two figures on both the sides of Mahaveer, but the face of the sculpture is damaged beyond recognition as it was abandoned for decades. No other sculpture could be found from the place. Manikandan said that archaeological remains of Jainism were found in the past in the neighbouring villages. The team informed the district collector and the state archaeology department about the sculpture and urged them to take necessary steps to carry out exploration in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mahaveer-sculpture-from-11th-century-ce-found-near-pudukottai/articleshow/77623292.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 19, 2020||Nashik||NMC plans action against new hirees evading duty||Nashik: The civic body has decided to take action against candidates who did not join their duties even after being issued appointment letters (ALs) following interviews for various posts of doctors and para-medical staff for Covid-19 management. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishna Game, taking a serious note of this issue, has directed the officials to file cases against such individuals under the Maharashtra Essential Services Maintenance Act (MESMA). There are 200 candidates who are yet to join their duties after the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) issued the ALs to them. NMC officials said the civic administration had conducted interviews for 811 posts of doctors, nurses and other para-medical staff — temporarily on honorarium basis for a period of six months — and had given appointment letters to 708 eligible candidates. Of them, around 500 candidates have already joined, said the NMC officials. The civic body’s health department has also issued a statement informing that the action is to be taken against the candidates avoiding joining their duties under MESMA as per the directive of the municipal commissioner. NMC has already issued notices to 70 candidates, while notices are being served to the remaining 130. “The existing doctors and para-medical employees of the NMC are under pressure dealing with the rising number of Covid-19 patients in the city. We need more doctors and medical staff to treat patients in the Covid care centres and hospitals,” said NMC officials. “Therefore, we had conducted a walk-in interview in July. We gave appointment letters to eligible candidates who had promised to join the posts. But some of them failed to do so,” added a civic officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-plans-action-against-new-hirees-evading-duty/articleshow/77619017.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 19, 2020||Vadodara||Skyline not the limit: Gujarat to get 70-storey realty||GANDHINAGAR: In a significant decision made on Tuesday, the Gujarat government approved the construction of buildings of more than 70 floors in five big cities — Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Vadodara, Surat, and Rajkot. The announcement, which comes ahead of civic body polls in cities later this year, is aimed at providing urban infrastructure to accommodate the rising population. The new rules will now permit developers to construct skyscrapers of more than 70 floors; the earlier cap was 23 floors. The provision for the construction of such tall buildings will be made in the Common General Development Control Regulations (CGDCR), 2017. The government said a special technical committee (STC) will be formed to scrutinize the proposals for tall buildings in the state. The proposals for such buildings will be examined by the committee before being sent to the competent authority for approval. The maximum FSI (Floor Space Index) will not be more than 5.4 in any case. Premium FSI will be available on a chargeable basis. The premium FSI charges will be 50% of the Jantri rate of non-agriculture land, the government said. The provisions will be applicable in D1 category in areas of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA), Surat (SUDA), Vadodara (VUDA), Rajkot (RUDA) and Gandhinagar (GUDA), where the permissible base FSI is equal to or more than 1.2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/skyline-not-the-limit-guj-to-get-70-storey-realty/articleshow/77624816.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Surat||Skyline not the limit: Gujarat to get 70-storey realty||GANDHINAGAR: In a significant decision made on Tuesday, the Gujarat government approved the construction of buildings of more than 70 floors in five big cities — Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Vadodara, Surat, and Rajkot. The announcement, which comes ahead of civic body polls in cities later this year, is aimed at providing urban infrastructure to accommodate the rising population. The new rules will now permit developers to construct skyscrapers of more than 70 floors; the earlier cap was 23 floors. The provision for the construction of such tall buildings will be made in the Common General Development Control Regulations (CGDCR), 2017. The government said a special technical committee (STC) will be formed to scrutinize the proposals for tall buildings in the state. The proposals for such buildings will be examined by the committee before being sent to the competent authority for approval. The maximum FSI (Floor Space Index) will not be more than 5.4 in any case. Premium FSI will be available on a chargeable basis. The premium FSI charges will be 50% of the Jantri rate of non-agriculture land, the government said. The provisions will be applicable in D1 category in areas of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA), Surat (SUDA), Vadodara (VUDA), Rajkot (RUDA) and Gandhinagar (GUDA), where the permissible base FSI is equal to or more than 1.2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/skyline-not-the-limit-guj-to-get-70-storey-realty/articleshow/77624819.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Ragpicker held for theft at temple in Kalyan Nagar||HYDERABAD: A thief stole a gold stud decorated on Durga idol at a small temple in Kalyan Nagar and escaped with the hundi on Monday night. According to police, Ashok, an electricity department employee, had built a temple in front of his home for goddess Durga. On Tuesday morning, Ashok noticed that the gold nose stud on the Durga idol and a steel hundi at the temple had been stolen. Ashok lodged a complaint with Jubilee Hills police and a case was registered under section 380 of IPC. Police identified a ragpicker as the culprit. He was taken into custody and the hundi was recovered from his possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ragpicker-held-for-theft-at-temple/articleshow/77622430.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 60-year-old retired driver found dead in Vanasthalipuram||HYDERABAD: A 60-year-old retired lorry driver was found dead with his hands and legs tied in his house in Vanasthalipuram on Tuesday. Police have registered a murder case. The victim was identified as Mohammed Kareemuddin, a resident of Hakeemabad Colony. He had been staying alone for over a decade. His elder son, residing in Madhura Nagar, used to visit often to check up on his needs. “His elder son met with him last on August 15. Since yesterday, he was not picking up his calls. He came by to check up on him on Tuesday. Instead, he found his father’s partially decomposed body,” said Vanasthalipuram inspector, Murali Mohan. Police suspect the victim was strangulated after being tied up. “The body was partially decomposed, so we could not see any external injuries. We are waiting for the post-mortem examination report. He did not have any valuable items, so the offender’s motive to kill was not for the purpose of theft,” added the officer. Kareemuddin had been staying separate from his wife, who has been residing in Yakuthpura for over a decade. He had four sons and two daughters, some of whom are working in Gulf countries. His elder son used to provide him with essentials.. Police have registered a murder case and taken up the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/60-year-old-retired-driver-found-dead/articleshow/77622471.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Rajkot||Skyline not the limit: Gujarat to get 70-storey realty||GANDHINAGAR: In a significant decision made on Tuesday, the Gujarat government approved the construction of buildings of more than 70 floors in five big cities — Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Vadodara, Surat, and Rajkot. The announcement, which comes ahead of civic body polls in cities later this year, is aimed at providing urban infrastructure to accommodate the rising population. The new rules will now permit developers to construct skyscrapers of more than 70 floors; the earlier cap was 23 floors. The provision for the construction of such tall buildings will be made in the Common General Development Control Regulations (CGDCR), 2017. The government said a special technical committee (STC) will be formed to scrutinize the proposals for tall buildings in the state. The proposals for such buildings will be examined by the committee before being sent to the competent authority for approval. The maximum FSI (Floor Space Index) will not be more than 5.4 in any case. Premium FSI will be available on a chargeable basis. The premium FSI charges will be 50% of the Jantri rate of non-agriculture land, the government said. The provisions will be applicable in D1 category in areas of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA), Surat (SUDA), Vadodara (VUDA), Rajkot (RUDA) and Gandhinagar (GUDA), where the permissible base FSI is equal to or more than 1.2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/skyline-not-the-limit-guj-to-get-70-storey-realty/articleshow/77624817.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Skyline not the limit: Gujarat to get 70-storey realty||GANDHINAGAR: In a significant decision made on Tuesday, the Gujarat government approved the construction of buildings of more than 70 floors in five big cities — Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Vadodara, Surat, and Rajkot. The announcement, which comes ahead of civic body polls in cities later this year, is aimed at providing urban infrastructure to accommodate the rising population. The new rules will now permit developers to construct skyscrapers of more than 70 floors; the earlier cap was 23 floors. The provision for the construction of such tall buildings will be made in the Common General Development Control Regulations (CGDCR), 2017. The government said a special technical committee (STC) will be formed to scrutinize the proposals for tall buildings in the state. The proposals for such buildings will be examined by the committee before being sent to the competent authority for approval. The maximum FSI (Floor Space Index) will not be more than 5.4 in any case. Premium FSI will be available on a chargeable basis. The premium FSI charges will be 50% of the Jantri rate of non-agriculture land, the government said. The provisions will be applicable in D1 category in areas of Ahmedabad Urban Development Authority (AUDA), Surat (SUDA), Vadodara (VUDA), Rajkot (RUDA) and Gandhinagar (GUDA), where the permissible base FSI is equal to or more than 1.2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/skyline-not-the-limit-guj-to-get-70-storey-realty/articleshow/77622460.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nashik||Burglars walkaway with dryfruits, cash||Nashik: Burglars targeted a grocery story early on Monday morning and stole Rs 6,500 and dry fruits worth Rs 2,500, sending police in a tizzy as they suspect the same gang that had recently made an unsuccessful attempt to steal jewellery from two shops in the city. If it is the same gang, as the car caught in the CCTV cameras outside the grocery store appears to be same, then it is obvious that the burglars are desperate and trying to steal anything from jewellery to food items. Four men arrived in a silver car at the grocery store near Varad Vinayak temple along the Amrutdham-Meri Link road in Pancahvati. They cut open the shutter with an instrument and entered the shop and fled with cash and dry fruits, said police. There were attempts, apparently by the same gang, to commit burglaries in two jewellery stores on Thursday morning. The thieves, however, could not take the ornaments as they were kept in safe vaults. According to police, the suspects are around 30 years old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/burglars-walkaway-with-dryfruits-cash/articleshow/77619057.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Coaching institutes brace for Sept tests||Nagpur: Coaching institutes are now preparing the ground to boost students’ morale as now there seems to be certainty about JEE and NEET dates. The Supreme Court on Monday had ruled out change of dates which means that the highly delayed exams will finally get underway. Panini Telang, director of Pioneer Study Centre, says, “The delay has already affected students. Any delay or confusion over dates always affects students psychologically. The momentum is lost whenever things drag out.” He added that though the Supreme Court ruling was more from a non-interference point of view, the government may still give in to demands from parents/students and extend dates. “That’s why a little bit of uncertainty is still present, which is not a good thing at all,” said Telang. Sarang Upganlwar, director of ICAD, agreed saying it is not an easy job to keep morale high over a long period. “In fact, there comes a point after which you cannot do anything. The exam was slotted for summer, and dates keep getting pushed with everyday being full of confusion. When such things prolong, it’s a tough job for everyone,” said Upganlawar. He added that now with September being the exam month, students too are slowly getting charged up. “Now that they have realized that it’s finally happening, it will help us to interact with them in a more meaningful way,” said Upganlawar. Rajnikant Bondre, director of Sneha Classes, said students’ morale needs to be kept up both by motivational talks plus focus on studies. “The motivational talks are extremely important to keep pushing them and ensuring that they hold on till the exam date. Also to ensure that their focus is maintained, studies and mock tests are continuing,” said Bondre. National Testing Agency (NTA), the nodal authority for conducting both JEE and NEET, is planning to go ahead with the exams in September. Details of how Covid-19 guidelines will be adhered to are still awaited, but it’s certain that seating arrangement will undergo a drastic change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/coaching-institutes-brace-for-sept-tests/articleshow/77622504.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Skyscraper cloud: Aviation, fire safety||Ahmedabad: The latest policy for allowing buildings with 70 floors or more has the potential to change the skylines of large Gujarat cities. But the policy will face several challenges. Early this year, a meeting was held at the urban development department in the context of pending proposals for tall buildings. It was learnt that in 86% of 350 proposals, developers had not even begun construction nor had they submitted basic project management plans after taking permissions. A few civic officials from Surat and Ahmedabad pointed out that getting civil aviation authorities’ permissions for buildings of 100 metres or more was an onerous process. They said it involved getting clearances from national and international civil aviation bodies, which take a long time to secure and add to project overruns. “Civil aviation permissions are still a major issue for the iconic GIFT City tower, a building yet to be realized,” said a senior AMC official. “Also, none of the planned building footprints of GIFT City conform to the new policy specifications.” The official pointed out that the skyscraper policy does not throw much light on fire safety issues which need to be mentioned in detail after the recent spate of fire accidents. In fact, the high court had asked searching questions on fire safety. Another issue discussed in the meeting was the likelihood of the per capita floor space in the post-Covid situation for tall buildings increasing from 13 sq metres to 25-30 sq metres. “A minimum of Rs 250 crore will be required for such projects which banks are reluctant to fund,” said the official. He also pointed out that the 1:9 aspect ratio for tall buildings was debated as a major chunk of space, about 40%, will be consumed for parking, in case the developer utilizes the entire 5.4 FSI. “There are few contractors and structural engineering firms in the country to handle such complex projects,” revealed the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/skyscraper-cloud-aviation-fire-safety/articleshow/77622481.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Trichy||Mannargudi Jeeyar seeks to lift ban on installing Ganesh idols||Trichy: Fear of losing the minority votes has made the chief minister impose a ban on installing Ganesh idols in public places during Chathurthi festival on August 22, Mannargudi Chendalankara Shenbaka Mannar Jeeyar alleged.Speaking to the reporters at Srirangam here on Tuesday, he alleged that while the ruling AIADMK is providing full support to minorities and their religious activities in the state, the government is showing bias towards Hindus. The government is trying to stall the festival in the name of Covid-19 outbreak, he said.“A government should treat all religions without any discrimination. However, the government has imposed a ban for installing Ganesh idol and taking out processions, when nobody took any steps to conduct the event, the pontiff of a mutt in Mannargudi said. Amid the pandemic, the entire Tasmac outlets are open across the state. So, Ganesh Chaturthi should also be allowed to be conducted,” Jeeyar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mannargudi-jeeyar-seeks-to-lift-ban-on-installing-ganesh-idols/articleshow/77623310.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||Weekend curbs to stay, cops told to be more strict||LUCKNOW: There will be no relaxation from the weekend restrictions for the time being. In fact, as cases continue to rise in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to implement the restrictions even more strictly. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said the home department had issued directions to police officials in major districts to strictly implement wearing of masks and social distancing norms. “The CM has said that Saturday and Sunday curbs should be strictly followed across the state. No religious and cultural programmes will be allowed in public places. They can only be held at home,” he said. The CM has asked officials to track the situation in districts like Bareily, Gorakhpur, Prayagraj and Basti and pay special emphasis on controlling the spread of the virus in Kanpur and Lucknow, the two districts which are reporting the highest number of cases. “The CM has said that even though UP is carrying out the highest number of tests in the country, we should increase our daily count to 1.25 lakh with 75,000-80,000 rapid antigen tests and 40,000-45,000 RTPCR tests. This month several new RTPCR testing labs will become operational,” Awasthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/weekend-curbs-to-stay-cops-told-to-be-more-strict/articleshow/77623308.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Most shops in Nagpur to remain closed today||NAGPUR: All major trade organizations in the city have extended their support to the Nagpur bandh called by Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC) on Wednesday. All shops, except groceries and pharmacies, will remain closed. Addressing a press conference on Tuesday, NVCC president Ashwin Mehadia said organizations like Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA), Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA), Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT), Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) etc have extended support to the bandh. “Wholesale grain market will be closed, but neighbourhood groceries and pharmacies will remain open as they come under the essential services. However, owners will work wearing black armbands,” said Mehadia. Meanwhile, on Tuesday evening, BJP’s trade cell also announced its support to the bandh. The traders are up in arms against municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe’s order asking them to obtain trade licence. Obtaining the licence is a cumbersome procedure and will require no objection certificates (NOCs) from several agencies. Moreover, the shop owner will have to issue a public notice seeking permission from neighbours to do business. They will also have to pay a hefty fee to the NMC. Mayor Sandip Joshi has included the issue of trade licence in the agenda of general body meeting of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to be held on August 20. BJP is likely to overrule the commissioner’s decision. Mehadia said the bandh was to exert pressure on corporators of all political parties to overrule Mundhe’s decision. “We have elected them and they have a moral responsibility to protect our interests,” he added. A trade leader said shopkeepers would sustain loss due to the bandh but they were willing to bear it for the sake of future. “If this trade licence rule is implemented, it will cause untold harassment to shopkeepers and hence we are ready to take a hit,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/most-shops-in-nagpur-to-remain-closed-today/articleshow/77622475.cms||Ashish Roy
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Maharashtra burglar held with stolen laptops||HYDERABAD: An inter-state burglar was arrested and Rs 15 lakh worth stolen property, including laptops, were recovered from his possession. The accused Vishnu Munnu Rathod, 21, is a driver from Purna village near Bivondi in Thane in Maharashtra. In the early hours of August 3, Vishnu, on the guidance of his associate Irfan, currently in Gulbarga prison, along with his associates Kumar, Javeed and Arshad broke shutter lock of Bluedart warehouse at Gowlidoddi, Gachibowli and stole 68 sealed boxes containing laptops and other electronic gadgets worth Rs 15 lakh. Based on the complaint lodged by the representatives of the warehouse, Gachibowli police registered a burglary case. During investigation, police identified that some of the accused came in an SUV from Karnataka to Hyderabad. Police verified CCTV camera footage and cell phone details to zero in on Vishnu in the city at CTC, Secunderabad on Tuesday. Police recovered 22 laptops and a few other electronic items from his possession. “Vishnu confessed to have committed the crime and he told us that they came from Karnataka well prepared with knives and iron rods to assault if anyone tried to stop them while committing the crime,” Gachibowli inspector (detective) K Kastro said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maha-burglar-held-with-stolen-laptops/articleshow/77622497.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nashik||NMC to build new jackwell ahead of Chehedi weir||Nashik: The civic body has decided to construct a new jackwell upstream of the Chehedi weir on the Darna river, a move that would bring clean water to the Nashik Road division. The water downstream of Chehedi weir is contaminated due to sewage discharge from nearby villages into the Waldevi river. The water is also not effectively purified at the treatment plant. This water is currently being supplied to Nashik Road division. The corporators from the division had raised concern over the water supply during the recent standing committee and general body meetings of the Nashik Municipal Corporation. During a recent meeting, mayor Satish Kulkarni had assured the corporators that a separate meeting with officials from the water supply department would be held on the issue. It was decided that a new jackwell should be built upstream of Chehedi weir to stop the supply of contaminated water. Mayor said this work is to be done under the Centre’s AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) scheme. “This project is a part of the total Rs 225 crore water supply project for the city that has already been submitted to the government. Priority is to be given to the work once government gives approval to the proposal,” said an NMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-build-new-jackwell-ahead-of-chehedi-weir/articleshow/77619044.cms||Tushar Pawar
August 19, 2020||India||Age of marriage: Legal bar needs to be raised for women, health ministry conveys to task force||NEW DELHI: Three days after PM Narendra Modi hinted in his Independence Day speech that the government was considering revising upward the legal age of marriage for girls from the existing 18 years, the health ministry on Tuesday said it supported the idea. Sources in the ministry said they had conveyed to the task force studying the matter that delaying the age of marriage would enable girls to complete their education and empower them to take informed decisions on marriage and motherhood. In his I-Day speech, PM Modi said a decision on “what should be the right age of marriage for girls” would be taken as soon as a committee set up to study the issue gives its report. The health secretary is one of the members of the task force, led by social activist Jaya Jaitly, that is looking into the issue of age of motherhood and related issues. Sharing the submissions made to the task force, the health ministry in a post on its official Twitter handle stated, “Delaying the age of marriage would provide more time for completion of education for girls and prepare them physiologically and psychologically to shoulder the responsibility of marriage and children. This, in turn, has a potential of positively impacting the health of her progeny in the future.” The ministry goes on to say that “this would also empower them to take informed autonomous decisions regarding their fertility preferences and care during ante-natal, around birth and post- natal period. This will lead to better chances of joining the work force”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/age-of-marriage-legal-bar-needs-to-be-raised-for-women-health-ministry-conveys-to-task-force/articleshow/77624461.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nashik||MIDC police arrest truck driver from Aurangabad||Nashik: The MIDC Sinnar police claimed to have cracked a rape case within four days of the incident by arresting a truck driver, aged 25, from Aurangabad after studying the footage of CCTVs at toll plazas. A 35-year-old woman had lodged a police complaint on Wednesday that she was waiting for a bus near Wavi on the Sinnar-Shirdi road when a truck river offered to drop her at Sinnar. He allegedly raped her in the truck before dropping her off at the Sinnar bus stand. Police inspector Ashok Rahate said they only had the description of the truck, on the basis of which they checked the CCTV footage of all the toll plazas on the highways connecting Sinnar. “The suspect, Pradip Santosh Kale of Bhabarda in Aurangabad district, allegedly raped the woman in the Mohadari Ghat area of Sinnar around 6.30 pm last Wednesday. He was arrested from Aurangabad on Sunday,” said the officer. Police said they identified the truck, as described by the rape survivor, from the CCTV footage of the Shinde toll plaza. They took the registration number of the vehicle, got the details of the truck driver and arrested him. The suspect was on Monday produced in a Sinnar court, which remanded him in two days of police custody, added the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/midc-police-arrest-truck-driver-from-aurangabad/articleshow/77619071.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||Fasting Matri Sadan founder questions PM’s silence on Ganga protection||Dehradun: Sixteen days into his indefinite hunger strike demanding protection of the Ganges, Matri Sadan founder Swami Shivanand, in a video, questioned Narendra Modi’s silence on the issue, and suggested that the Prime Minister meditate to realise the real reason behind the spurt in Covid cases across the country. “It is the 16th day of my fast, and I’m unable to understand why PM Modi is silent about it, despite giving us written assurance? If he calls himself a yogi, how can he step back from the word he has given to a seer sitting on penance?” he said in the video. On October 9, 2018, the central government agreed in principle to meet the demands made by Matri Sadan. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank visited them twice as the Centre’s emissary. But till date, they have done nothing. This is why Matri Sadan seers, who have been long involved in the fight to save the river from being exploited for profit by destroying its ecology, are most disappointed and angry. The Swamiji also advised the PM to “see” the reason behind the sudden spurt in Covid cases in the country in the past fortnight through ‘meditation’. “If he is a yogi, he should see it through meditation why all of a sudden India has surpassed most countries in Covid-19 cases in the past 14 days?” he said. Seers of Matri Sadan want mining and hydropower plants on Ganga to be stopped, and the alleged killing of professor G D Agrawal probed. In his August 3 communiqué, the seer had updated the PM on the failure of both the central and state governments in meeting the demands of the protesters, after which he decided to sit on an indefinite hunger strike. But so far, he hasn’t heard from anyone. Meanwhile, social activists like “India’s Waterman” Rajendera Singh and others, have come forward in his support, by fasting for a day across the country. Matri Sadan has already lost four seers in the cause of protecting the Ganga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/fasting-matri-sadan-founder-questions-pms-silence-on-ganga-protection/articleshow/77619074.cms||Shivani Azad
August 19, 2020||Surat||Students oppose SVNIT’s fees demand, seek relaxation||Surat: The students of BTech, MTech and MSc courses at the Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) have raised objection to the fees demand raised by the institute claiming it was higher than the previous year. They have also claimed that the institute was asking for hostel fees when the students are not utilising the facility and studying remotely from their homes. Several students have also requested fees waiver or relaxation in payment as parents of many have lost their source of income and are not in a position to pay fees for the entire semester. Some students are also opposing the tuition fees claiming that the institute was not incurring other costs of coaching. However, authorities at the SVNIT claimed that they were merely collecting maintenance charges and not full fees for hostels from the 4,000-odd students studying there. “Students are studying at their own place through online classes. Hence the students should be given some relaxation in fees till the normal operations of the institute resumes,” said a BTech student. Students of MTech have also raised the issue through their representative in students’ council. “Despite multiple requests, the institute authorities are not doing anything to solve the problem,” said an MTech student. “We don’t have the financial flexibility to waive off fees in the current situation. The institute has to pay for maintenance and upkeep for which we are collecting only expenses from the students and not full hostel fees,” said S R Gandhi, director, SVNIT. He claimed that the collection of charges was approved during a meeting of directors of all NITs. With regard to the increase in hostel fees, Gandhi said, “The hostel fees have not been revised for the last 10 years. We were told by the Ministry of Education to revise the fees on a regular basis, hence we have increased it.” “The institute allowed local students to stay at their place but they will have to pay for the hostel fees since we have developed the facility and maintaining it. There are no plans of relaxation in fees for local students currently,” Gandhi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/students-oppose-svnits-fees-demand-seek-relaxation/articleshow/77620622.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
August 19, 2020||Varanasi||Hallowed ‘Banaras’ to replace unsung ‘Manduadih’ railway station||VARANASI: After almost 65 years, ‘Banaras’ is back on the map of Indian Railways as Manduadih Railway Station has been renamed as Banaras Railway Station. The maps of then Bengal & North Western Railway, available in Railways records of 1909 and 1937, contain the name of Varanasi Junction as ‘Benaras Cant’. UP minister of state with independent charge and MLA from Varanasi North Ravindra Jaiswal confirmed the news. “The Union home minister’s office has given the confirmation,” he said. “Varanasi’s Manduadih Railway Station has been renamed as Banaras. The Central government has changed the name, sensing public sentiments. Home minister’s office has confirmed this, congratulations to all, thanks to Piyush Goyal, Manoj Singh, PMO, Amit Shah,” Jaiswal said. Jaiswal added that people of the city were grateful to Union home minister Amit Shah and also chief minister Yogi Aityanath for fulfiling their long- pending demand. “I had also put the demand for renaming before Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union ministers including Sadanand Gauda, Suresh Prabhu, Piyush Goyal and also Manoj Sinha.” Earlier in UP, names of Mughalsarai and Allahabad railway stations were changed to Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction and Prayagraj Junction, respectively. North Eastern Railway officials, however, said on Wednesday that an official communication from the railway ministry in this regard is awaited at their offices. “We have not received any official communication regarding renaming of Mandiadih railway station from the railway ministry so far,” said NER Varanasi division spokesman Ashok Kumar. NER officials said former minister of state for railways and now Lt Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha had initiated the move of renaming of Manduadih station as Banaras station in February 2019. As the Yogi government accepted the idea and forwarded it to the Union ministry of home affairs, the process gained momentum. Renowned historian Prof Rana PB Singh said, “Since the introduction of rail service in India by the British and spread of Bengal & North Western Railway, the railway station in Varanasi was known as ‘Benaras Cant’. When Dr Sampurnanad became second chief minister of UP, he ensured renaming of the district from Benaras to Varanasi and Benaras Cant railway station to Varanasi Junction on May 24, 1956.” TProf Singh welcomed the move, saying the “name Banaras should not be forgotten as it exists since Buddhist era as mentioned in Pali literature”. Retired senior officer of culture department Ratnesh Verma said, “This holy city is known by names like Kashi, Varanasi and Banaras. Most of its world famous products including sari and paan (betel) are famous as Banarasi. Thus, the people of the city are demanding a milestone in the name of Banaras.” The Railways has about a dozen railway station in the region including Varanasi Junction, Varanasi City, Kashi, Manduadih, Sarnath, Bhullanpur, Shivpur, Vyas Nagar, Awadhoot Bhagwan Ram Halt, Shivpur and Babatpur among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/manduadih-rly-stn-renamed-as-banaras/articleshow/77619065.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man beaten for refusing to pay ‘hafta’||Ahmedabad: A man from the Juhapura who works for a transport firm in the Idgah area of Madhavpura, on Monday filed a police complaint alleging that he was attacked by a local goon who was demanding Rs 5,000 as hafta (protection money) to allow any business establishment to operate. Imrankhan Mansuri, 30, the branch manager of Bhavnagar Transport, in his FIR stated that the accused, Sandip Babalu, barged into his office on Monday morning. “Babalu first put his foot on my table and then began demanding money and abusing me. He told me to give him Rs 5,000 immediately as hafta if I wanted to keep my workplace open. When I told him that I would have to call my employer before giving anyone money, he began assaulting me,” Mansuri stated.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-beaten-for-refusing-to-pay-hafta/articleshow/77622502.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh govt eases norms for establishing MSME units||LUCKNOW: In a step that will significantly ease the conditions for setting up MSME units in Uttar Pradesh, the state is bringing in an Act under which an investor will be given 1,000 days to get necessary clearances after the first go-ahead. As per the new UP MSME (Establishment and Operations) Act of 2020, cleared by the cabinet on Tuesday, a person will have to make an application through a Declaration of Intent to a district-level nodal agency, which will have to issue an acknowledgment within 72 hours of receiving the application. On the basis of this acknowledgement, one will be able to establish their unit. At present, someone intending to set up an MSME unit in UP has to get clearances from 29 different departments before being allowed to establish their unit. “So far UP did not have its own Act and was working on the basis of the central Act. The major hurdles being faced were that of land use and ceiling. The district level nodal agencies (DLNA) being set up, under the district magistrates, will have as members officials from the revenue department, pollution control department etc to sort out these issues there and then. While an application may be rejected at this point, the idea of the Act is to allow projects to proceed,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary (MSME). The Act will be applicable for new units or those seeking to expand or diversify, provided they increase their gross block by 25%. Units that will not be covered by the Act include those related to tobacco products, gutka, pan masala etc, alcohol, carbonated drinks, fire crackers, plastic bags of 40 microns or less or as banned by the government from time to time, any other item banned by the government and those units which are identified by UP Pollution Control Board as red category. “Those processes identified as orange or green category will be allowed to apply under the new rule. A member of the pollution control board will be part of the DLNA and will be able to assess the project immediately,” Sehgal said. The DLNA will be headed by the respective DMs and have as members the additional DM, district official of UPPCB, superintendent engineer of district power corporation, additional director of power safety, district manager of UPSIDC, additional labour commissioner or assistant labour commissioner, district fire officer and additional commissioner of the district industries and enterprise promotion centre. If, for any reason, the DLNA is unable to meet, then applications will be cleared through circulation. A high level state empowered committee, headed by the chief secretary and with additional CS/principal secretary/secretary MSME as its member secretary, will work to resolve policy or interdepartmental issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-eases-norms-for-establishing-msme-units/articleshow/77623313.cms||Neha Lalchandani
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Serial blasts accused won’t depose via video||AHMEDABAD: One of the persons accused in the 2008 serial blasts case has refused to give his statement to the court during the trial through video conference, insisted that he be brought to Sabarmati central jail from Taloja jail in Mumbai. The special court rejected his demand for the jail transfer citing the Covid-19 situation. The court recorded his assertion that he would not give his statement through video conference from Mumbai, and would do so only after being brought to Ahmedabad. The accused in question is Anik Saiyed, one of 78 persons being tried for the blasts that killed 56 persons in the city. He has been lodged in Taloja jail for the last seven years. In 2018, he was handed down the death penalty by a court in Hyderabad in connection with blasts in which 12 persons had lost their lives. As the special court hearing the serial blasts case is at the fag end of recording ‘further statements’ of the accused under Section 313 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC), Saiyed filed an application and told the court he would give his statement only after he is transferred to Sabarmati central jail. He complained that he had not attended the proceedings before and therefore this was not a fair trial. He did not have case papers, but once given papers he could consult his lawyer in Ahmedabad and give his statement to the court. He also complained that the Taloja jail superintendent earlier did not obey the Ahmedabad court’s warrant for him and did not shift him to Ahmedabad. He demanded action against the jail official. The state government opposed the demand and submitted that Saiyed has engaged a lawyer, who is regularly attending the case and had even cross-examined witnesses. Saiyed never raised grievances earlier when the court recorded the prosecution’s evidence for the last few years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/serial-blasts-accused-wont-depose-via-video/articleshow/77622512.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Varanasi||Uttar Pradesh: Sant Kabir Nagar MP tests positive for Covid-19||GORAKHPUR: BJP MP of Sant Kabir Nagar district Praveen Nishad has been tested Covid-19 positive on Monday and has gone into home quarantine at his residence in Delhi, said the MP’s representative Anand Tiwari. MP’s father and Nishad Party’s national president Sanjay Nishad, his younger brother and his representative in Delhi have also tested positive for the infection, Tiwari said. Praveen Nishad earlier won Gorakhpur Sadar parliamentary seat in 2018 on SP ticket, He joined hands with BJP and won Sant Kabir Nagar seat on BJP ticket in 2019. In Gorakhpur, Covid-19 tally has reached 5,890 and on Tuesday 231 people were tested positive. 1,104 patients have been discharged so far and 88 died. At present 2,578 are under treatmet in the district, said Gorakhpur CMO, Srikant Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sant-kabir-nagar-mp-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/77619080.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Three held for murder bid on auto driver||HYDERABAD: Three offenders were nabbed on Tuesday and booked for kidnapping and attempting to murder an auto driver on August 14. The prime offender, Shaik Asif, 22, was arrested with two associates, Shaik Anwar and Mohammed Aslam. Asif allegedly had an illicit relationship with the victim, Mohammed Abdul Sameer’s wife. Asif and Sameer were friends. According to police, Sameer had warned Asif 15 days ago, suspecting the relationship. Asif along with his two associates, met Sameer on August 14, asking him to join a function. Asif and Sameer had a heated argument about the affair. “Asif attempted to strangulate the victim, but he managed to escape. They stabbed him multiple times,” said a cop. The victim was rushed to hospital by locals. The police traced the accused with the help of CCTV footage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-held-for-murder-bid-on-auto-driver/articleshow/77622516.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Pay or subsidize if you want returning workers tested for Covid: Industry to govt||NAGPUR: As workers are returning after the exodus during lockdown, industries in areas like Butibori and Hingna have been asked to get each of the returning workers tested for Covid. Though their return is seen as a sign of revival, the test order has left industrialists concerned. They say it may not be practically possible to get every worker tested. Letters have been sent to the units by Gram Panchayat Takalghat and the tehsildar Hingna pointing out a standard preparing procedure. Apart from mandatory tests, it also calls for 14-day quarantine for the returning workers. The industrial estates, located outside municipal limits, are governed by the concerned gram panchayats. The letter by the Takalghat Gram panchayat says as workers are returning to industrial estates there are chances they may be suffering from Covid. It calls for mandatory testing and quarantine. The tehsildar letter is prior to this and also directs the management of units in Hingna and Butibori to get workers tested. “It may turn out to be a major outgo for the industries. Workers have slowly begun returning. Industries are ready to get the tests done if it is subsidized by the government,” said Nitin Lonkar, former president of Butibori Manufacturers’ Association (BMA). Suresh Rathi, president of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA), said, “the units are already taking enough care, temperature is taken at entry and the area is sanitized. Getting tests will only add to hassles.” However, Indo Rama Synthetics India Ltd (IRISL), the oldest and largest unit at Butibori, has laid down a strict protocol. “We are testing not only the workers returning from out of Nagpur but all those reporting to work after a gap. So far, 2000 have been tested and around 25 were found positive. The strict rule has prevented the infected persons from entering the premises,” said an official here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pay-or-subsidize-if-you-want-returning-workers-tested-for-covid-industry-to-govt/articleshow/77622521.cms||Shishir Arya
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid doctors under fire from expense-wary patients’ kin||KOLKATA: Patients’ relatives’ suspicion of billing practices and their financial worries, stemming from a perceived lack of transparency in charges and treatment (including ‘overuse of ventilators and ICU overstay’) are ostensibly taking a toll on doctors. Physicians dealing with Covid patients are now complaining of too many queries from patients’ families, primarily on the use of ventilators and investigations, which, they point out, may impact treatment. At some hospitals, doctors even have refused to interact with patients’ families, after allegedly being bullied, and left it to the authorities to handle their grievances. Covid treatment is expensive, especially for serious patients, who require more frequent tests, expensive drugs, injections and in many cases, ventilation, say doctors and hospital authorities. “We are still exploring the best possible and the most effective combination of drugs for Covid. But it’s an evolving science and we must go on searching for the right one even as we treat patients. We started using steroids and heparin to deal with severe cases without waiting for conclusive evidence or a government advisory. They were effective and the government included it in their advisory. You must trust doctors,” said Belle Vue internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. AMRI Hospitals has over the past week come across several cases where patients’ families reportedly questioned the investigations done and the use of ventilation. “Ever since we stepped up communication with patients, there has been a deluge of queries and demands for meetings with doctors. While many have been cooperative and accepted our reasons for adopting a particular line of treatment, some went on arguing with our doctors, based on their sketchy knowledge from the internet,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. This not only discouraged doctors from interacting with the patients’ families but also led to a loss of trust between the two, he added. “Families seem to think all ICU admissions are suspect and they will invariably be overcharged. It has become difficult to convince them severe cases require expensive drugs and repeat tests to gauge how they are responding to treatment... Payment refusals have shot up,” said Barua. Last week, the state government issued an advisory to private hospitals saying, they must intimate patients’ kin on investigations and explain why they were being repeated. At Medica Superspecialty, too, bills and treatment methods are being questioned, hampering treatment, claims chairperson Alok Roy. “Till a patient is in a ward, there’s hardly any issue. The moment s/he is moved to ICU and the charges escalate, few are happy with the treatment and they refuse to accept that costs, too, will be steep. Interactions with doctors and our counsellors have helped but not always,” Roy said. Another hospital official said some patients’ families had not only refused to accept doctors’ versions but also sought withdrawal of ventilation support. “Patience is needed both from doctors and patients’ families...” said Jain. Drugs, such as meropenem, tocilizumab, remdesivir and enoxaparin, used on serious patients are costly, he said. “Expensive tests, like IL6, D dimer, Procalcitonin amd arterial blood gas analysis, were often repeated as therapy depended on them.” Uninformed advice from families was an obstacle, said Fortis Hospital pulomonologist Raja Dhar. “Covid treatment is bound to be expensive for serious patients as the methods vary. There is no single line of treatment and we are trying out combinations. Doctors are keen to detect deterioration early so investigations are being recommended and repeated,” said Dhar, adding he was yet come across interference but apprehended it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-docs-under-fire-from-expense-wary-patients-kin/articleshow/77622525.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
August 19, 2020||Trichy||Staff test -ve: Covid testing lab reopens at Pudukottai MCH||Trichy: The RT-PCR testing lab at the Pudukottai government medical college hospital resumed operation on Tuesday after it was shut for fumigation on Sunday after a few staff tested positive for Covid-19. The lab is operating round the clock with staff working in shifts to clear samples received across the district. Operating with three RT-PCR equipment, it is handling over 3,000 samples per day, said heath staff. Dean M Poovathi said that only a few staff had tested positive while rest were negative. Initially most of the staff tested positive but most of them tested negative during counter checks in other labs. “We have started testing from afternoon on Tuesday and the staffers who tested negative will return for work on Wednesday,” the dean said.The district has so far reported over 4,400 Covid-19 cases and around 100 positive cases daily. The district health staff have increased sample collection from 1,500 till last week to close to 3,000 samples over the last few days.District health workers alleged that delay in getting results will affect measures to contain Covid-19 spread. “It is better to isolate the positive patients at the earliest to reduce the chances of them infecting others,” they said. “We had to divert samples to Thanjvaur medical college on Monday. But the laboratory has started functioning from Tuesday and there will not be any further delay,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/staff-test-ve-covid-testing-lab-reopens-at-pudukottai-mch/articleshow/77623318.cms||Sampath Kumar
August 19, 2020||Hyderabad||10-year-old Telugu boy from Ohio motivates people to donate plasma||HYDERABAD: A 10-year-old boy in the US is encouraging plasma donors in India to come forward through his motivational videos. Mukund Shivakumar is creating videos which are being circulated on social media to encourage more people to donate. Telugu-origin Shivakumar, lives in Columbus, Ohio. Mukund has started volunteering with plasma coordinators by making and editing videos of donors’ contributions. “I learnt how to make these videos due to an interest in editing. I used to edit my own videos and that of my sisters and cousins. Over a period of time I began using some of the iOS tools to self-learn and create collage videos,” said the class V student. Shivakumar’s initiation into helping out with plasma contributions was through his aunt, Hyderabad-native Rajinipriya Pabbathi, who started a huge volunteering effort. “I am happy to help. My work can motivate many donors and save lives,” said Shivakumar. He has also won empathy awards at school for his work. Asked about how he is coping with online classes and volunteering as well, he said, “While it is summer vacation time, I do have some online classes but I make time to help with content over the weekend after class”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-year-old-telugu-boy-from-ohio-motivates-people-to-donate-plasma/articleshow/77622571.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Man falls out of AMTS bus, dies on spot||Ahmedabad: An unidentified man of around 45, died after falling out of the rear door of an AMTS (Ahmedabad Municipal Transport Service) bus near the Nirnaynagar underpass on Monday morning. According to an FIR filed with A division traffic police, Sanjay Solanki, 23, the bus constructor, the unknown man boarded bus number 71/1 at Vadaj bus stop and stood at the steps at the rear door from where passengers usually board. Solanki said he had told the man to get in but he stayed on the steps. When the bus was passing near the Nirnaynagar underpass, at speed, the man fell out. Solanki said he immediately asked the driver to stop and he and other passengers went to the man. They found that he was already dead. To avoid the public’s ire, the driver ran away from the spot. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-falls-out-of-amts-bus-dies-on-spot/articleshow/77622524.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||First 3D global virtual ODOP show next month||LUCKNOW: To attract investment and increase exports from the state, the Yogi government is all set to hold the first of its kind 3D global virtual exhibition of the state’s ODOP (one district one product) programme. Giving this information to TOI here on Tuesday, MSME and exports’ promotion minister Sidharth Nath Singh said that he has directed his department and FICCI to make necessary arrangements in this regard. He said that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath would be invited to inaugurate the 3D global virtual exhibition which would be aggressively publicized in the countries which are main importers of products made under the ODOP programme. “This is a flagship scheme of the CM and even Prime Minister Narendra Modi has praised it from different public platforms,” the minister said. Singh further said that amidst the novel coronavirus pandemic, it was not possible to organise traditional export ‘melas’ and exhibitions to attract buyers. “Thus, to promote exports from the state under the ODOP programme, the MSME department has decided to organise the 3D virtual global exhibition,” he added. Singh stated that the virtual exhibition will have a full reception for potential customers, a gallery and stalls displaying ODOP items. “There would be over 100 ODOP items and 650 dealers and buyers. They would be allowed to strike their deals online,” additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal said and added that the exhibition would be organised in September. Sehgal also said that exports from the state have risen as the CM has evinced a keen interest in the ODOPprogramme. Besides, Uttar Pradesh’s traditional handicraft is giving maximum employment to youths, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/first-3d-global-virtual-odop-show-next-month/articleshow/77623317.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarkashi villagers observe ‘black day’ to protest lack of relief, a year after Arakot cloudburst||Uttarkashi: Villagers of Mori in Uttarkashi observed a ‘Black Day’ on Tuesday, to mark the first anniversary of the Arakot cloudburst, which claimed over a dozen lives and caused widespread devastation in the region. The villagers expressed anger that even after a year, rehabilitation work was slow and basic facilities in the area were still lacking. The villagers assembled under the banner of Bangaan Sangharsh Samiti at Tikochi village, which was one of the three most affected villages, the others being Makuri and Arakot. At the meeting, the villagers paid tributes to the victims of the disaster and expressed their resentment against the government by wearing black armbands. They demanded that government departments involved in the disaster restoration works reveal details of money spent in their name, and also demanded waiver of agriculture loans and allotment of land to affected people. They also threatened to begin an intensive protest if the government failed to fulfill their demands within 10 days. Former gram pradhan of Chivan village, Upendra Singh Chauhan, said, “After the cloudburst, the state government launched a large-scale relief operation and assured to bring back normalcy at the earliest. However, soon after the initial relief operation was completed, government agencies stopped rehabilitation work and the government washed its hands off after distributing relief cheques worth a mere Rs 1,000-Rs 7,000.” He added, “Basic facilities like roads, bridges, irrigation canals, water and electricity supply are still in poor shape. We feel we’ve simply been abandoned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarkashi-villagers-observe-black-day-to-protest-lack-of-relief-a-year-after-arakot-cloudburst/articleshow/77619104.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vismay to surrender 4 months after SC turned down appeal||Ahmedabad: Vismay Shah, convicted in the Vastrapur hit-and-run case, will finally surrender to jail authorities four months after the Supreme Court dismissed his appeal against his five-year jail term, which was upheld by the Gujarat high court.Appearing for Shah, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi submitted before a three-judge bench of the apex court on Tuesday that any relaxation that Shah was seeking due to the Covid-19 pandemic with regard to his surrender and serving the sentence in prison would now be sought from the Gujarat HC after his surrender. This happened after the SC refused to grant Shah any more relaxations in surrendering to the jail authorities, the relief he was getting for more than four months after his conviction was confirmed and the SC asked him to surrender to jail “forthwith”.Earlier this year, the HC had granted six weeks to Shah to surrender to jail and in the meanwhile he could approach the apex court. His deadline to surrender was extended till May by the HC. His relief continued till Tuesday, when the apex court refused to extend it any further and insisted on his surrender, sources said.Shah has been punished for the accident in which two youths riding on a two-wheeler — Shivam Dave and Rahul Patel — were killed in 2013 in the Vastrapur area of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vismay-to-surrender-4-months-after-sc-turned-down-appeal/articleshow/77622572.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||No request for exemptions made in 2 years: Kerala protocol officer||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State protocol officer is learnt to have informed customs that there was no formal request for exemption certificate from any government department for receiving cargo from the UAE consulate in the last two years. The revelation hints at the possibility of forged documents being used for obtaining customs clearance for cargo, including the Ramzan relief kits received by minister K T Jaleel. The protocol officer in his reply to summons by customs, said between FY 2019 and 2021 no officials from any government department has approached seeking exemption certificate for releasing cargo materials. N S Dev, assistant commissioner of customs in the summons had asked the protocol officer to submit certified copies of protocol manual relating to duty-free clearance of goods imported by diplomatic missions and details of exemption certificate granted to the UAE consulate for 2019-20 and 2020-21. Customs had also sought details of officers who signed and applied for the exemption certificates. To this, the protocol officer has given a detailed written reply to the customs officer. Customs had asked the protocol officer to submit the relevant documents on this before August 20. The protocol officer has replied by email and also by speed post to customs. As per protocol, clearance from external affairs department is necessary to get duty-free goods dispatched through diplomatic baggage which are valued above Rs 20 lakh. If the goods are below Rs 20 lakh, then duty-free clearance has to be given by the state protocol officer. While reacting to the clarification by government’s protocol officer that he had not issued permission to the UAE consulate for the last one year to avail diplomatic immunity for consignments addressed to the consulate, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala asked “whether Swapna Suresh had then forged permission.” The present protocol officer had taken charge recently and there are reports that all records kept at the protocol office during the tenure of the previous protocol officer have been destroyed. The investigating agencies and the government need to clarify on this, said Ramesh. Meanwhile, National Investigation Agency’s (NIA) request for CCTV visuals of the Secretariat is also pending as copying the huge data for one year since July 1, 2019 is a herculean task. It is learnt that the authorities are unable to provide these visuals since the data load is huge. Hence the Secretariat authorities are learnt to have sought more time for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-request-for-exemptions-made-in-2-yrs-protocol-officer/articleshow/77620682.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Pune||Mystery shrouds death of 27-year-old house intruder||PUNE: A 27-year-old man died under mysterious circumstances after some residents of Bhosarigaon intercepted him for entering a house in the wee hours of Tuesday and tied his hands and legs with a rope to ensure that he did not flee till police arrived. Police identified the victim as Santosh Mahadev Havase, a labourer from Dighi. Hailing from a very poor family, he was suffering from tuberculosis and other ailments. Senior inspector Shankar Awatade of the Bhosari police said, “Our team did not find any external injury marks during the preliminary inspection of the body.” Later in the evening, the Bhosari police received the post-mortem report. “It states that Havase died because of Cardiac Temponade and did not suffer any major injuries,” Awatade said. “We suspect that Havase died because of extreme fear after he was caught by the family members of the house he entered into. We are filing a case under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code against them. Further investigations are on,” he said. Awatade said, “Havase had a verbal duel with his labour contractor on Monday evening, following which he left Dighi. Around 5am on Tuesday, he entered an independent house of Narayan Vithoba Phuge, a farmer, at Bhosarigaon and bolted it from inside. The Phuge family members were sleeping in the adjacent house.” Havase allegedly opened the wooden cupboard in the house, pulled out all the clothes and documents from it. The police said the Phuge family members woke up when he started screaming at the top of his voice. “Some members of Phuge’s family and a few neighbours opened the door of the house Havase had entered and apprehended him. They tied his limbs and took him out. By the time police reached the spot, Havase was motionless. We rushed him to a hospital where he was declared dead,” Awatade said. Narayan Phuge’s son, Sonal Phuge, told TOI, “After hearing noises from our adjacent house, we thought a thief had struck. When we knocked on its door, he started screaming. When we took him out, he did not resist us. He just screamed and said his ‘six accomplices’ were moving in the area and they would teach a lesson to the residents of the area. So, we tied him up. We did not beat him up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mystery-shrouds-death-of-27-yr-old-house-intruder/articleshow/77622559.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ludhiana||MC invites Model Town residents’ wrath for illegal closure of gates||Ludhiana: Residents of Model Town have opened a front against municipal corporation, Ludhiana, claiming that the department has failed to take action against illegal permanent closure of gates by residents of a locality near Krishna Mandir. The residents have accused the MC of ignoring their complaints and reminders due to which they are facing huge problems. They have also demanded that it should be inquired whether or not the gates were installed legally and if found illegal these should be uprooted and action should be taken against those who installed these. Residents have also said that due to closure of gates of this locality, which is surrounding the Jhoolewala Park and school, not only the park, but the two roads which pass through this locality have become inaccessible to others except for the residents living inside this gated locality. Giving more information, Ashish Singhania, who resides near this locality, said, “Four gates have been illegally installed by some people in the locality surrounding the Jhoolewala park and school and these gates are being kept closed permanently for the last few months and only one gate is opened, through which only the people living inside this locality are allowed to go in and come out. This locality, the Jhoolewala Park and the school are in between two roads and now with the gates being closed the access for other people to the park, school and even going from one road to another is not possible. Moreover, there is a renowned doctor inside this colony and it has become very difficult to visit the doctors for outsiders as the visitors and patients are grilled at the gate by the guard before being allowed to visit the doctor.” Singhania also added, “On July 10, I, along with other prominent residents of Model Town, gave a written complaint against this illegal act to the MC and demanded for immediate removal of the gates installed in the vicinity of the Jhoolewala Park. But to our shock despite our repeated reminders, no action in this case was taken and till now the gates are being kept closed even during the day by the residents of this locality, which is in violation of various court orders. We will be left with no option other than to protest against the department, if no action in this matter is taken by its officials.” According to Amarjit Singh Makkar, “The gates of this colony have been permanently closed for months now by some residents living inside this area. This was done by them on the excuse of checking the spread of coronavirus, whereas how using two important roads by people will spread coronavirus, only God knows. On one side of this gated locality a gurdwara is situated while on the other end a temple is situated and devotees, particularly senior citizens and kids used the road inside this locality to go to both these places of worship. But now with gates on both ends closed they have to use the main road, which is dangerous for pedestrians since there is huge rush of traffic on it all the time. We had been pursuing this issue for a long time with the MC but nothing has been done even after we lodged a written complaint.” Meanwhile, speaking on the issue, municipal town planner, S S Bindra, said, “This matter has come to my knowledge and we are going to issue a notice to the residents of this locality and take action in case they do not comply with the regulations. As of now, it is yet to be seen whether or not the gates have been installed illegally or its encroachment, but it is certain that no one can keep the gates closed between 5am till 10pm and moreover, from 10pm onwards it is mandatory to have guards manning the gate to facilitate the entry and exit of the residents.” Box – What do the rules say As per the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, “The MC can develop only those streets, roads that are declared as ‘public streets’ and nobody has the right to stop any person from using a ‘public street’ at any given time. The MC general house in 2014 had passed a resolution according to which gates were allowed to be installed from security point of view, but some conditions were imposed in the resolution. First was that all residents welfare association should apply for permission. The colony will designate three persons to sign an agreement with the MC and the latter will allow gates only in those colonies which will be recommended by the police department. The association of that area will ensure that gates remain open during day time and at night when the gates will remain closed then gatekeepers will remain there to open the gates in case of some emergency.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-invites-model-town-residents-wrath-for-illegal-closure-of-gates/articleshow/77620671.cms||Mohit Behl
August 19, 2020||Nashik||Sinnar: nCoV cases rise 60% in about a fortnight, officials stress on awareness||Nashik: Health officials in Sinnar taluka are working hard to spread awareness on the importance of self-care during the pandemic. In just over a fortnight, Covid-19 cases went up by approximately 60% here. While on August 1 the taluka had 568 confirmed cases, the number increased to 913 by August 17. Meanwhile, five Covid-related deaths have also been reported in the taluka. Currently, there are 101 containment areas in the taluka. So far, there have been 186 containment zones here. Lahu Patil, the taluka Covid nodal officer, said: “Sinnar has two major industrial areas, where thousands of people come to work from across the district. Three busy highways pass through the taluka. Moreover, Sinnar is also a big market place. Given these conditions, the infection is spreading rapidly. Our attempt is to sensitize people that the infection can be controlled if precautionary measures are taken.” Patil said the aim is to break the cycle of the infection and conduct the maximum number of Covid tests. The number of tests has already increased since mid-July when just 15-20 tests were conducted every day. Now, the health department is conducting 100-150 tests daily. Therefore, even if the cases are increasing, the infected people are being brought under treatment early. Patil said most importantly, the health department has started convincing people that it is upon them to avoid getting the coronavirus infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sinnar-ncov-cases-rise-60-in-about-a-fortnight-officials-stress-on-awareness/articleshow/77619086.cms||Santosh Sonawane
August 19, 2020||Allahabad||Two-year-old boy features in India Book of Records||PRAYAGRAJ: A two-and-a-half year-old boy suffering from cerebral palsy, has brought laurels to the city as his name was registered in India Book of Records owing to his extraordinary intelligence. Master Advik came to the Trishla Foundation at the age of one when he could not even sit. However, under the guidance of cerebral palsy specialist Dr Jitendra Jain, he soon started walking with support. During treatment, doctors realized that Advik has an extraordinary ability to learn and receive. Adivik, by his intellectual ability, quickly explores animals, trains, fruits, antonyms, animal voices, week days, names of months, Sanskrit verses, colour identities, names of birds , musical instruments, name of insects. He can also recognize people and speak and solve jigsaw puzzles in seconds. Coming across Adivik’s talent, India Book of Records gave him the title of the most talented child affected by any cerebral palsy for the first time. He has also been given the title of Grand Master in the Asia Book of Records. Dr Jain said that 50-60% of the children suffering from cerebral palsy are of general intelligence, while few possess higher intelligence than normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/2-year-old-boy-features-in-india-book-of-records/articleshow/77617906.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Gadchiroli collector calls for deliveries at home||NAGPUR: Gadchiroli collector Deepak Singla has instructed the district health officials to ensure deliveries at homes, to avoid risking lives of the women undergoing labour pain by trying to attend to them in the open during emergencies. The instruction came a day after TOI reported about 27-year-old Bharti Dorpeti having to deliver under a tree in south Gadchiroli. Dr Anilkumar Rudy, civil surgeon, said he wanted to revive the proposal of ‘floating ambulances’ for the district, on the lines of Sindhudurg and Nandurbar. “We already have bike ambulances for remote locations, but floating ambulances too can be handy for us, in case there are water bodies to be crossed,” he said. “A letter has already been sent to the higher authorities, and we will follow up on it,” said the civil surgeon. Bharti, whose expected date of delivery was August 28, delivered the baby girl on August 12 after she got stuck in the forest as the ambulance, supposed to ferry her to Gatta primary health centre (PHC), was unable to move on a flooded nullah near Gilanguda. The contractual nurse, Soni Durge of Gatta PHC’s sub-centre, along with Asha worker Savita Alam, was compelled to facilitate the delivery in the forest under a tree amid heavy rains. The flooded nullahs had cut off the villages with the rest of the talukas, with vehicles stranded at different places in the water. District health officer (DHO) Shashikant Shambarkar said the collector had stated that in emergency cases, the health team should try to reach the homes of the women undergoing labour at remote villages, from where transportation may not be possible. “Under extraordinary circumstances, our health workers would now try to reach women in labour pain in situations where their travel can be hampered or there are no means. Deliveries in the open would be discouraged,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gchiroli-collector-calls-for-deliveries-at-home/articleshow/77622575.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 19, 2020||Trichy||Biometric system an ordeal for many ration cardholders in Trichy district||Trichy: The biometric system installed to curb malpractices in the public distribution system (PDS) has become an ordeal for many ration cardholders. As Aadhaar-based biometric authentication is mandatory for supply of essentials, non-matching of fingerprints keeps them waiting for hours. Many cardholders are forced to return without getting their monthly ration due to frequent malfunction, beneficiaries said. The devices placed at the ration shops verify the identity of the cardholders by matching their fingerprints against the Aadhaar database over the internet. However, this procedure has started causing problems at the ration shops since the devices are often not identifying the cardholders’ fingerprints. This has forced ration shop salesmen to refuse monthly essentials.“I am waiting here patiently for hours for a call from the salesman. When I put my fingers on the machine, it could not authenticate. So he asked me to wait”, said Janaki, an elderly woman from Eda Street. Around 50 cardholders were waiting in front of a ration shop in Eda Street. Despite several attempts, fingerprints of many did not match, though all of them were genuine cardholders, another beneficiary said.Activists said the system should not be used at a time like the pandemic, but it has been thrust on all the 1,224 shops in the district. Joint registrar of cooperative department K P Arularasu said they received such complaints from a few ration shops, which they were trying to solve.“If anyone’s fingerprint does not match with Aadhaar, they will get an OTP on their registered mobile number. Once they mention the OTP, they can get their ration immediately. Many have changed their mobile phone numbers. We have asked them to link their new number with Aadhaar which will solve the issue”, the joint registrar told TOI. There were complaints of irregularities in the distribution of ration to cardholders. However, after the implementation of the biometric system, only genuine cardholders are getting essentials, he further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/biometric-system-an-ordeal-for-many-ration-cardholders-in-trichy-district/articleshow/77623332.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||No fine on late EMIs from March-August for Uttar Pradesh govt houses||LUCKNOW: In a relief to home buyers hit by the coronavirus pandemic, the state government has decided not to impose any penalty on delayed payment of instalments for the period between March 1 and August 31. Besides, the government has also advised the development authorities and the housing board to charge simple interest for this period of six months. According to a notification issued by the state housing and urban planning department, the benefit can be availed only by the buyers who will clear their dues by September 30. An order issued by principal secretary, housing and urban planning, Deepak Kumar and addressed to all DMs, vice-chairpersons of development authorities and housing commissioner, states that simple interest can be charged from home buyers who fail to pay the instalments for the six-month period (March to August). Scores of home buyers could not pay their instalments owing to the financial crunch triggered by the lockdown. Housing officials said the department felt the need to give a buffer period to the home buyers in the wake of the Covid crisis. The offer, however, comes with a rider: rebate on full payment will not be taken into account for the period between March and August. The order also states that the terms and conditions of the agreement signed at the time of the home purchase will remain unchanged. Kumar in his order said that the decision has been taken in the wake of the Covid pandemic and the Union housing and urban development ministry directive to extend relief to home buyers for payment of instalments. UP government had recently extended the deadline for completion of housing projects in the National Capital Region from June 2020 to December 2021 on the request of developers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-fine-on-late-emis-from-mar-aug-for-govt-houses/articleshow/77623329.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Rail tracks in Tadoba ESZ sound death knell for wildlife||Nagpur: Even as wild animals continue to die due to frequent train hits on the Gondia-Ballarshah section, the South East Central Railway (SECR) has failed to take any wildlife mitigation measures, especially the track that falls in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ) of Tadaoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR). According to the official data, since over a decade, more than 50 wild animals have died in train hits. These deaths include 5 tigers, 3 sloth bears, 2 leopards, 4 hyenas, 4 gaurs, over 20 wild boars, several nilgais and a deer. In June, when the lockdown was in force, 13 wild boars died in train hit. All these deaths have occurred between Ballarshah-Junona-Sindewahi-Talodi-Nagbhid-Brahmapuri section. The death toll may be even high if the section near Navegaon National Park is taken into consideration. Several wild animal deaths also go unrecorded. Last month, one of the biggest tigers in the country nicknamed named Waghdoh, chronicled as T-38, missed death by a whisker while crossing the tracks near Junona. The issue once again surfaced with the death of a sloth bear after a freight train hit the animal near Talodhi railway station on Monday (August 17). “After the death of 3 tiger cubs on November 15, 2018, in Junona area by a speeding train, outgoing Chandrapur chief conservator of forests (CCF) SV Ramarao had ordered a survey on mitigation steps to be suggested to SECR and accordingly has recommended a five-pronged strategy. We identified at least 19 railway poles where trains should run with a caution of 40 kmph. These patches fall under Junona, Mamla, Babupeth, Lohara, Mindala, and Brahmapuri,” said state wildlife board member Bandu Dhotre, who was part of the survey. Ramarao had suggested new underpasses in most vulnerable forested ranges of Mamla, Junona, Sindewahi, Chichpalli, Talodhi, Balapur and Nagbhid ranges in Brahmapuri and Chandrapur divisions. “However, none of the measures are being followed and no mitigation steps like underpasses are being taken,” Dhotre added. The Gondia-Chandrapur-Ballarshah section has 60km of the railway line passing through dense forest patches inhabited by wild animals and more importantly, it is a corridor used by tigers. Forest officials have been writing to the railways since 2012 but till now, no efforts have been taken to mitigate the damage. SECR’s chief public relation officer (CPRO) Saket Ranjan, Bilaspur, said, “We have already issued instructions to train drivers to restrict speed on tracks around Tadoba landscape. They have also been told to blow the whistle continuously and blink lights on forest stretches so that animals are alerted. Though there is no special plan for physical mitigation measures as such. We are ready to discuss with the forest department.” Chandrapur chief conservator of forests (CCF) NR Praveen said, “Frequent deaths of wild animals in train accidents are a cause for concern. I will take the follow up of the report submitted by my predecessor Ramarao. Most of the tracks around Tadoba landscape fall in the ESZ and hence, strong mitigation measures by railways are the need of hour.” Suresh Chopne, regional empowered committee (REC) member of MoEFCC, said, “This was for the first time that the survey was done after the Gondia-Ballarshah broad gauge was fully commissioned in 1999. In th years to come, the number of trains will increase and apparently will affect more animals.” Dhotre said this is one of main reasons why greens are opposing upgradation of the railway line through the Melghat Tiger Reserve in Amravati. During maintenance and construction works along the tracks, railway contractors have made some small pits in the area near tracks. “These unwanted water-filled pits attract animals who get killed by speeding trains. During the survey, many unwanted pits were found between Bramhapuri-Sindewahi-Chandrapur. Besides, animals also get attracted to waste food thrown by passengers near the tracks,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rail-tracks-in-tadoba-esz-sound-death-knell-for-wildlife/articleshow/77622632.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
August 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Jalna teacher accuses educationist of rape||Aurangabad: A teacher from Jalna has complained that an educationist had raped her over the past three years and also taken her videos and photographs in compromising positions. A case has been registered with the Cidco police. Inspector Ashok Giri told TOI, “The woman is a teacher and she used to work at a school, where she came in contact with the suspect.” The complainant and her husband lived in Aurangabad. The suspects also resided in the same locality. The suspect first sent a text message to the complainant in February 2017 using his wife’s mobile, inviting her (the complainant) to their home. When the complainant reached the suspect’s residence, she noticed that his wife was not around. The complainant has told the police that the suspect overpowered and raped her. The suspect allegedly also video recorded the woman and started using the video to blackmail and harass her. This allegedly went on for another couple of years. The complainant expected the suspect to mend his ways, but he continued with the blackmail and sexual harassment. Eventually, she shared her ordeal with her husband. The couple then lodged a complaint with the Cidco police in Aurangabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jalna-teacher-accuses-educationist-of-rape/articleshow/77619127.cms||Mohammed Akhef
August 19, 2020||Nashik||MNGL’s green fuel project a hit in city||Nashik: Over 15,000 households in the city have shown interest in getting piped natural gas (PNG) for their cooking needs. The state owned Maharashtra Natural Gas Ltd (MNGL) is creating infrastructure in the city to supply compressed natural gas (CNG) for vehicles and PNG for households. “We are carrying out an awareness among residential societies about the benefits of using PNG as cooking gas replacing the conventional LPG cylinders. Over 15,000 flat owners have envisaged interest in getting PNG connections at their homes. We are confident that this number would further swell,” said Sandeep Srivastava, head of MNGL in Nashik. Srivastava said that the company, a joint venture between GAIL and BPCL, are setting up underground pipelines at a rapid pace for the supply of PNG to households. “We have already created the infrastructure for supplying PNG at 2,000 households so far. We would be able to start the supply of the fuel to households by end of this year,” said Srivastava. The company is presently concentrating in localities such as Gangapur Road, Indiranagar, Rajiv Nagar, Prashant Nagar, etc. to create infrastructure required for supplying PNG to the residential societies. Later, it would expand to other localities. “PNG will cost about 30% lesser than LPG cylinders. It is more safe and would be available 24×7. Consumers need not take the trouble of booking LPG cylinders and wait for its arrival. We are sure that our project will get overwhelming response in the city,” added Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mngls-green-fuel-project-a-hit-in-city/articleshow/77619112.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
August 19, 2020||Pune||Sleep lost, man throws stone at Covid care hub||Pune: Disturbed by the constant noise of loading and unloading of oxygen cylinders in front of a covid care centre on the Kharadi–Mundhwa road, a 32-year-old resident of a neighbouring housing society threw stones and damaged the glass panes of the facility on Monday afternoon — only to be arrested by the Chandannagar police the same night. Senior inspector Shankar Khatke of the Chandannagar police told TOI, “Ganesh Dnyaneshwar Gade (32) works with a private steel company on night shifts and sleeps in the afternoons. Goods carriers reach the health facility mostly in the afternoon for offloading the oxygen cylinders. The noise would disturb Gade’s sleep to the extent that he reacted violently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sleep-lost-man-throws-stone-at-covid-care-hub/articleshow/77622604.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Agri machinery manufacturers welcome import restriction||Ludhiana: Agricultural machinery and component manufacturers of the city have welcomed the move of the Centre to impose restrictions on the import of power tillers into the country. But at the same time the industrialists are demanding that the government takes corrective steps to bring down the cost of engines of the tillers so that manufacturers reap the actual benefit of curbs on the imports. Businessmen are of the view that if action is taken by the government in this regard , they will succeed in bringing down the cost of the tillers by almost Rs 20,000. Giving more information, Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), who is a agricultural machinery manufacturer, said, “Punjab is a very big hub for the manufacturing of power tillers and huge quantity is being manufactured here locally in cities like Ludhiana, Phagwara and Jalandhar, etc. The recent measures by the government to curb import of the power tillers from China is definitely a welcome step as the local industry was struggling a lot for the past few years due to the huge price difference of our products with the Chinese manufacturers, which was almost Rs. 20,000 per piece. The curbs on imports will definitely give a bit of breather to the local manufacturers but it will not be possible to capture the market until the government supports the manufacturers in bringing down the cost of engine of power tiller, which is a major rate deciding factor.” Ahuja added that, “We recently took up this matter with Union minister of MSME Nitin Gadkari and urged him to take measures to support the power tillers manufacturing industry. We are hoping that the minister will definitely look into our demand and take necessary steps to ensure the product cost is brought down, so that the manufacturers can get actual benefit of the curbs imposed on the imports of power tillers.” Speaking to TOI, Jujhar Singh, a power tiller trader, said, “There is no doubt that the government has good intention in curbing the imports of power tiller, which was hurting us very badly as cheap Chinese products had eaten up a huge share of sales of local manufacturers. Slowly several manufacturers had started winding up operations of manufacturing the power tillers and switched on to other product line. So, in the wake of such a situation it is very good that the restrictions on import of power tillers have been imposed by the Centre. But in order to make sure that on ground the benefit of these measures reach the local industry, it is must that support is given to manufacturers to bring down the cost of their product and some research and development centres work on developing low cost, high efficiency engines, which can prove to be a game changer for the industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/agri-machinery-manufacturers-welcome-import-restriction/articleshow/77620677.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Pune||PMPML plans to ply buses on shorter routes||Pune: Buses of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) will initially ply on shorter routes with fewer stops to ensure minimum time spent in buses by passengers while travelling. Some of the routes are Pune Municipal Corporation to Kothurd, Swargate to Katraj, Pune Railway Station to Hadapsar, among others. On busier routes, the buses will ply at an interval of 10 minutes, official said. “We intend to start with shorter routes so that passengers won’t need to travel in buses for long. The buses also won’t have many stops. Around 450 buses are expected to run from next week. More buses can be pressed into service depending on the response. We can also gradually increase the length of routes. For now, the buses will run as a shuttle service between two points,” an official told TOI. Rajendra Jagtap, chairman and managing director, PMPML, said that a meeting with the municipal commissioners of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, will be held on Wednesday. “The deputy chief minister had told us that the services can start on or before August 22. But he also mentioned that we should meet the commissioners and discuss with them the current Covid situation based on which a final decision would be taken,” he said. Normal tickets for now Officials said that for now, conductors will issue tickets to passengers. “There has been a plan to introduce QR codes in buses and at bus stops to enable passengers to pay the fares and show the confirmation on their mobile phones to the conductor. However, the plan is still being finalised,” an official said. Monthly pass holders in a fix Around 40,000 commuters with monthly passes said that the passes issued earlier should be considered valid. “I renewed my pass for a month around mid-March. However, the lockdown was clamped soon after. Now that the PMPML services are set to resume, the pass should be considered valid as I haven’t used it,” a regular commuter said. Passenger flow a cause of concern The PMPML sources said that the passenger flow would be monitored as majority of commuters are from the working classes. “However, we do not expect many passengers to use the service immediately,” an official said. The PMPML used to ferry around 10 lakh passengers daily in 1,600 buses before the lockdown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-plans-to-ply-buses-on-shorter-routes/articleshow/77622578.cms||Joy Sengupta
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Bail denied to Pocso accused for lie about mother’s death||Ahmedabad: A city sessions court has denied temporary bail to a man accused of offences under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act after it learned that the accused lied to the court that his mother had passed away recently. Police informed the court that the prisoner’s mother had actually died 20 years ago.The case involves Ajay Sharma, who is accused of abducting and raping a minor. The FIR was lodged against him by his younger brother with Gomtipur police in 2018.Last week, Sharma requested the court to grant him bail for 30 days to the attend the post-death rituals of his mother. He told the court that he was behind bars since May 2019. When he called home from the prison, he came to know that his mother had passed away on August 1. He claimed that his presence was necessary for the rituals.The Gomtipur police inspector inquired into Sharma’s claims. Since, Sharma’s younger brother is a complainant in this case, the police inspector recorded his statement and placed it before the court on August 14. Sharma’s younger brother stated that their mother had passed away 20 years ago and the accused was presenting a false reason to get bail. The court took into consideration the report placed by the inspector and observed that the prisoner was trying to get bail in any way possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bail-denied-to-pocso-accused-for-lie-about-mothers-death/articleshow/77622603.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||Repatriation flights resume; charter plane brings back 173 Bengalis from Kuwait||KOLKATA: An international charter flight on Tuesday brought back 173 Bengalis from Kuwait City, marking the revival of repatriation flights to the state after a 44-day gap. The returnees, mostly labourers and professionals, were out of jobs. The last Vande Bharat flight to city arrived on July 5 from Dubai. The packed GoAir flight, G87442, from Kuwait touched down at the city airport at 6.33pm on Tuesday with all passengers carrying Covid-negative test reports — a mandatory document as per the revised SOP issued by the state. While previously passengers from abroad were sent for mandatory quarantine stay at hotels or government quarantine centres, as per the revised SOP, the flyer could directly go home on Tuesday where they need to stay in quarantine for the next two weeks. “I had no job for the last five months and practically survived on cheap boiled vegetables like bottle gourd and pumpkin. At one point, I thought I would die out of hunger in a foreign country without being able to meet my family members. I am glad to be finally back home,” said Suleiman Sheikh, a resident of Amtala, who used to work as an AC technician in Kuwait. Tears flowed down the cheeks of Barasat resident Tapan Das as he came out of the Kolkata airport. “I had gone to Kuwait in January this year with the hope of earning more and securing the future of my family. But the dream turned into a nightmare as I was out of job in a month. There are lakhs of migrant labourers like me, who wish to come back home but are stuck there and dying a slow death. I am lucky to be back,” said Das, who bought a ticket spending Rs 28,000 and spent another Rs 8,000 for the RT-PCR test. With 77,470 net cases and 505 deaths in the last five months, the small country of Kuwait with 47.8 lakhs population, is at no. 7 in the list of Covid prevalent nations, if counted on the basis of cases per population. One fifth of the population is currently suffering from Covid-19. As per that list, India is at no. 89. All the passengers, who disembarked the flight, were thermal checked at the airport. Their Covid negative certificates were also checked along with other documents before being allowed to go home. All passengers were asked to stay in home isolation for the next 14 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/repatriation-flights-resume-charter-plane-brings-back-173-from-kuwait/articleshow/77622599.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||Eye on 2022 polls, rural roads to get facelift under PM scheme||LUCKNOW: Bolstering its rural outreach ahead of the 2022 assembly elections, the state government has hammered out a roadmap to refurbish over 9,300km of rural roads under the Centre’s flagship PM Grameen Sadak Yojana (PMGSY). Of the 9,300km roads, over 5,000km would be repaired by PWD while the rest 4,000km would be taken care of by the rural engineering department (RED). According to the proposal moved by the rural development department, PWD has identified 700 roads and the RED has zeroed in on 571 roads across all 75 districts of the state. The PWD would execute rural road projects in 42 districts, while the RED in 33districts. The districts where PWD would take up road repairs include Agra, Prayagraj, Bareilly, Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad. The RED world work in Aligarh, Baghpat, Etawah, Jaunpur and Farrukhabad. Chief executive officer, PMGSY, Sujit Kumar said the department has given preference to three categories of roads — those joining kisan mandis, connecting hospitals and providing a road link to schools and colleges. “Roads connecting mandis will be most crucial for economic development of farmers as they will be able to transport their produce on time,” he said. According to PMGSY guidelines, if the road fulfils the norms, its width may be increased up to 5.50 metres. The scheme also paves way for the construction of bridges up to a length of 150 metres. The roads constructed under the scheme would be maintained for a period of five years after which they may be subjected to renovation and subsequent maintenance for next five years. Essentially, the roads having a minimum length of 5km would be eligible to be taken up under PMGSY. The roads having a design life of 10 years would not be taken up under the scheme, according to the guidelines. The state government would also be geo-tagging the establishments, which would be connected by the roads under PMGSY. The government would resort to photographing every kilometre of roads constructed under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eye-on-22-polls-rural-roads-to-get-facelift-under-pm-scheme/articleshow/77623347.cms||Pankaj Shah
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||Prepare long term drainage plan, identify local encroachments: CM directs Doon DM||Dehradun: Waterlogging and rainwater entering houses have become recurring issues in Dehradun and the problem aggravates in several areas of the city during the monsoon season. Following heavy rain spells this month, waterlogging has been constantly reported in several areas, including those located in the heart of the city. A lot of damage was also caused last week due to water entering houses as well as in the wards of Doon Hospital. Miffed with the situation after every downpour, locals and Opposition parties raised the issue with BJP legislators and city mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama on Tuesday. Taking cognisance of the problem, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat spoke to Dehradun district magistrate (DM) Ashish Kumar Srivastava regarding the issue and directed the official to prepare a long-term solution for the drainage issue. “The bottlenecks need to be examined and the issue needs to be resolved at the earliest,” said the CM. He added that illegal encroachments and construction within the city and along the river banks were primarily adding to the waterlogging issue. “The district authorities have been told to identify the encroachments and the people responsible for it. If possible, these people can be shifted to other locations,” he said, while adding that the illegal constructions close to river banks “are extremely dangerous as the rivers and rivulets in Dehradun swell during the monsoon”. During the rains this year, waterlogging was reported in several areas, including those close to Clock Tower, Rajpur Road, Patel Nagar, Khudbuda, Lakhibagh, Dehrakhas, Banjarawala, Mothrowala, and Kargi Chowk area. The rains last week especially had caused several low-lying areas in the city getting inundated. The heavy rainfall last Saturday caused damage to public and private properties in various parts of the city, including Premnagar locality, where a vacant house and three temporary shops collapsed, and Lakhibagh area, where a part of the road caved in after an electric pole got uprooted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/prepare-long-term-drainage-plan-identify-local-encroachments-cm-directs-doon-dm/articleshow/77619199.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 19, 2020||Chennai||Green spaces shut, walkers sweat it out on T Nagar plaza||CHENNAI: The city’s parks, which offer greenery, fresh air, and numerous activities ranging from yoga to roller skating have been the go-to place with morning walkers and fitness enthusiasts. And though the pandemic swung the park doors shut, people have found other spots in their neighbourhoods where they can get their daily dose of exercise in the great outdoors. In T Nagar, with Natesan Park and Jeeva Park remaining closed, many of the regulars have made their way to the neighbouring Pedestrian Plaza. A busy commercial hub by day, in the wee hours of the morning, the broad pavements see the footfalls of runners and walkers. Many pause for a cup of hot filter coffee once they are done, as the Plaza has plenty of places to sit and relax, though you may have to share your space with a young couple or two trying to snatch a few moments together. A small group has even begun using the space to play shuttle. “I have been going to Jeeva park every morning for years. But it’s been closed for months and I miss my morning walks. Jogging on the terrace is not the same and walking out in the open is safer anyway,’ says 68-year-old Raju Chari, adding that he keeps his mask handy. “I only pull it up when I pass any crowds.” At the Corporation playground on Venkatnarayana road, a group of young girls are busy warming up for a game even as another group plays basketball. “We are from a government school and are on the basketball team. After months of ‘house arrest’ we want to ensure we remain fit and in touch with the sport,” says a 16-year-old, adding that they have been practising there for the last couple of weeks. The beaches – Marina and Elliot’s – have always drawn fitness enthusiasts and they continue to draw a crowd. In Madipakkam, the Karthikepuram lake has become a hotspot for walkers, with an elevated track built along the lake for runners. Before the pandemic, Uma Maheshwaran, 55, would go with her grandchildren to their neighbourhood park every evening to meet her friends. But, for the first time four months ago, the homemaker got a pair of walking shoes and decided to go the extra distance to walk by the scenic lake. “I don’t take the kids along, but my friends, who preferred to sit on the park bench and chat, have also taken to it. And there are benches here if we want a break,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/green-spaces-shut-walkers-sweat-it-out-on-t-nagar-plaza/articleshow/77622629.cms||Priya Menon
August 19, 2020||Pune||Fraudster uses techie’s PAN details to get credit card, spends Rs 5L||Pune: A 40-year-old software engineer from Hinjewadi has registered a complaint with the Wakad police on Monday night, claiming that fraudsters misused his PAN details to obtain a credit card in his name from a nationalized bank and made purchases worth Rs5 lakh. According to the complainant, Lokesh D’mello, the fraud occurred between September and December 2019. To D’mello’s knowledge, no other documents — such as address proof — were submitted, and no physical verification was carried out before the card was issued. Police said they would seek these details from the public sector bank in question. The fraud came to light after D’mello started receiving phone calls from bank representatives, asking him to clear the credit card dues. Once he realized about the fraud, D’mello visited the bank and submitted a complaint stating that he did not apply for the card. The bank then blocked the card, but he continued to get calls to pay the bill, police said, adding that D’mello found out at the bank that the fraudsters had used his name and PAN details, but the photograph and signature on the credit card documents belonged to someone else. In July this year, D’mello filed a complaint application with the Pimpri Chinchwad police, who transferred it to the Wakad police station, who then registered an FIR on Monday. “We will decide on our plan of action after receiving the details of the transactions from the bank,” senior inspector Vivek Muglikar from the Wakad police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fraudster-uses-techies-pan-details-to-get-credit-card-spends-rs-5l/articleshow/77622638.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Trichy||Trichy must be second capital: MP||Trichy: Pitching for Trichy in the debate for the state’s second capital, Trichy MP Su Thirunavukkarasar claimed that he was the first one to remind the state government on making Trichy as the second capital as per the wish of former chief minister M G Ramachandran. Trichy is the heart of the state and it can be reached in four hours by road from any parts of the state. To decongest Chennai and to ease the travel of people to various head offices, the government must consider the proposal of building future office buildings of these departments in Trichy, he said. Trichy has all the requirements for becoming the second capital such as road, rail and air connectivity apart from availability of space and water. He said he is proposing Trichy after considering the convenience of people without ruling out uniqueness of other cities of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-must-be-second-capital-mp/articleshow/77623350.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kochi||Builder was asked to meet M Sivasankar: ED||KOCHI: The representatives of a construction company which was awarded the work on the Life Mission apartment project in Wadakkanchery were asked by the UAE consul general to meet former principal secretary M Sivasankar, Directorate of Enforcement on Tuesday submitted before a court here. While hearing the bail plea by Swapna Suresh before the special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cases here, ED special prosecutor T A Unnikrishnan submitted that the accused received 6% commission from Unitac Builders for helping them gain the contract for constructing the apartment complex sponsored by UAE-based organization Red Crescent. The amount and gold seized from the bank locker of the petitioner accused is inconsistent with the statement of the petitioner accused and the timeline and purpose of operation of the bank locker does not match its contents. The amount and gold kept in the bank locker is nothing but proceeds of crime defined in Section 2(1)(u) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. The persons who knowingly assisted her in a money laundering offence have to be further examined in detail, the counsel submitted, while opposing the bail plea. The proceeds of the crime was kept by the accused in a bank locker jointly opened with a third person as per the instruction of Sivasankar. “The gravity of the offence committed is very high and on that count also the petitioner is not entitled for bail at this stage,” the counsel submitted. ED also reminded the court that the accused has revealed her closeness to the former principal secretary of chief minister and has considerable influence in the chief minister’s office. Sufficient materials have been collected by the investigating agency to reach the conclusion that Suresh and other accused committed offences of money laundering as defined under Section 3 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, for which offenders are liable to be punished up to a period of seven years of imprisonment and fined. The NIA on Tuesday was granted custody of four persons — Mohammed Anwar, Hamzath Abdusalam, Samju T M and Hamjad Ali — who were earlier arrested by customs. All four are buyers and financiers of smuggled gold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/builder-was-asked-to-meet-sivasankar-ed/articleshow/77620755.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Just 1 hour rain exposes city’s poor drainage system||Ludhiana: Less than an hour’s rainfall on Tuesday afternoon submerged many city roads under water, giving tough time to the commuters in reaching their destinations. While for some it was a breather from the humid weather, but for many people this rainfall brought troubles as they got stuck midway. Water-logging was witnessed on Chandigarh Road, Haibowal, Chander Nagar, Clock Tower, Raikhy Cinema chowk, Shingaar Cinema road, Kailash Nagar, Rahon road, Subhash Nagar, New Shakti Nagar and many other places. The shopkeepers at clock tower road got stuck inside their shops as the road outside the shops got submerged under rain water. A car driver got stuck inside his car on Shingaar Chinema road as due to deep water-logging his car stopped on the road. He made many frantic calls for getting some help to move out. The water falling down from the elevated road were providing additional problem for the commuters passing under the bridge as already they were passing through a water-logged road and water spilling from the flyover drenched them more. A resident of Chander Nagar, Saurabh Prashar, who got stuck near Clock Tower rued that there was so much water on the road that it became difficult to pass through it. He claimed that his bike got stopped and he reached the nearby mechanic after pushing it through water with great difficulty. Meanwhile, a resident of Sector 32 on Chandigarh Road, Karamjit Singh, rued that though the area was among the posh areas of the city but the drainage system of the colony was bad, such that even after passing of almost five to six hours since the rainfall stopped, the water did not drain out from the colony. He claimed that the entire Chandigarh road was fully covered by rainwater and it happened almost every time when there was even moderate rainfall. Another resident from Rahon road Jyoti Sharma said this road was totally a mess as there was not even a single day in the past two years when this road was seen dry. She said earlier due to sewerage blockage and now due to rainfall there was always water-logging on this road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/just-1-hour-rain-exposes-citys-poor-drainage-system/articleshow/77620712.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Illegal parking on Baner Road sparks congestion||PUNE: Cars parked illegally and haphazardly along Baner Road have sparked regular traffic jams, much to the chagrin of local residents. The entire 5km stretch was declared a no-parking zone last year, but it did not deter people from parking their vehicles all along the road. In some instances, residents and commuters said vehicles can be seen parked right under no-parking signs and claimed that the authorities were not taking any action. “Cars are parked on both sides of Baner Road even though the entire stretch is a no-parking zone,” Balewadi resident Pooja Agarwal said. Agarwal said the residents of the area had opposed the move to make the road a no-parking zone, and blamed the authorities for not enforcing it properly. “Apart from illegal parking, one can also see double parking, which narrows the carriageway and leads to more congestion,” she said. Agarwal said many people have taken to picking up takeaways from restaurants and eating them in cars parked outside the outlet. “Dine-in service is shut, so people found a loophole. They park their vehicles for long periods of time,” she said. Baner resident Shruti Shete said the problem was worse at Balewadi Phata junction and Pancard Club junction. “People park anywhere and anyhow. Rules have gone out of the window. Illegally parked and double parked cars block almost half the carriageway. This, coupled with vehicles turning in and out of various lanes, leads to chaos, especially during peak hours,” she said. Police said they have been unable to focus on the illegal parking issue because of the demolition of the University flyover. “Most of our personnel were deployed at SPPU junction to manage traffic, in light of diversions caused by the demolition,” assistant police inspector Prakash More of the Chatushrungi traffic division said. “Once the diversions removed, we will deploy manpower to take action against illegally parked vehicles along the stretch,” More said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/illegal-parking-on-baner-road-sparks-congestion/articleshow/77622614.cms||Rujuta Parekh
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Rajpath Club, Karnavati Club to reopen by August-end||AHMEDABAD: Finally to the relief of members of Rajpath Club and Karnavati Club, the facilities will open, albeit under a completely new normal. The managements of both clubs indicated that while a date has not been finalized, the clubs are likely to resume operations by the end of the month. Apart from offering several amenities, the clubs give people a space to socialize. However, as the clubs resume operations, a select few activities and amenities — with limited access — will be permitted. “At Rajpath Club, we will open the gym, jogging track, and tennis, table tennis, volleyball and badminton facilities,” said Mishal Patel, secretary, Rajpath Club. “However, access will be given by prior appointment only and for a limited time. Each member will be allowed inside the club for 70-75 minutes only.” Each member will be able to access the gym with prior appointment for an hour for three days a week. People will be allowed in batches of 30 into the gym with a capacity of 150 people. After each batch’s session, 15 minutes will be allotted to sanitize the gym before the next batch enters, explained Patel. Rajpath Club will open its food court at 65% capacity while the other restaurants will remain closed. Both the clubs have restricted the entry of persons above 65 years of age and below 10. The clubs have not just restricted the timings but have also barred the entry of visitors’ guests. Rajpath has also decided not to allot rooms for the time being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rajpath-karnavati-to-reopen-by-aug-end/articleshow/77622634.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Allahabad||Govt schools to get high-speed internet for online classes||PRAYAGRAJ: At a time when internet has become an essential part of everyday working of the schools, be it administrative work or online teaching owing to Covid-19 pandemic, authorities have focused on providing high-speed internet facility at the government-run primary and upper primary schools located in the gram panchayats of seven development blocks of Prayagraj district. The facility of free high-speed broadband internet connection, being provided by BharatNet, a central government initiative under Digital India, would be extended to all the schools in phased wise manner. Following this, these government schools would get high-speed internet throughout the year. From sharing academic content with students largely on whatsapp or to be able to conduct classes online, the facility would help teachers, especially during the present crisis, feels the officials. “The initiative will cover such schools located in Manda, Pratappur, Bahadurpur, Bahariya, Soraon, Karchana and Phulpur development blocks”, said basic shiksha adhikari (BSA), Prayagraj, Sanjay Kumar Kushwaha. “Once the facility is ready, teachers would now be coming to schools to take virtual classes. The Block Education Officers (BEOs) of these seven blocks have been instructed to make available one passport size photograph, Aadhaar card and an identity proof of each of the headmaster or principal of these schools at the earliest to us for the free high-speed broadband internet connections to their respective institutions,” he said. Kushwaha said that the district administration was also overseeing the project and the chief development officer had chaired a meeting in this regard on August 7 in which he instructed that the free high-speed broadband internet connections to these schools be provided at the earliest. “During the corona crisis, we are called at the schools and we try our best to continue teaching online, but internet is a huge issue which hinders our effort. Now, when we would be provided with high-speed internet connection, it would take care of many of the problems that we face”, said a primary teacher, posted at a primary government school at Karchana block of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/govt-schools-to-get-high-speed-internet-for-online-classes/articleshow/77617934.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||Grade relief for section of Kolkata’s international students||KOLKATA: Students and teachers from the city were equally relieved after Cambridge Assessment International Education (CAIE) announced grades for June 2020 series would not be lower than the predicted grades submitted by the school. If the grades CAIE issued last week turned out to be higher than the predicted grade given by the schools, the higher score will stand. “As the exams were cancelled and the students could not take the tests, the schools sent the predicted grades to Cambridge International, based on their school performance. Instead, CAIE used the students’ ranks and the last three years’ performance in individual subjects by the same school students and the global average of June to calculate the grades. There was a huge disparity in the final grades awarded and what the candidates were predicted to deserve. Following an appeal from schools across the globe running the curriculum, CAIE will revise their awarded grades and no student will score less than the predicted marks sent by the schools. Many students, who would have otherwise lost a seat in the university, will now get the benefit and find a place in their coveted institutions,” said a teacher from a school who runs the programme. “We received the grade change from International Baccalaureate Diploma Program (IBDP), where most children have had an increase in the grade point. Now, the CAIE is looking at grade changes. They said whatever be the predicted grades from schools, students will secure at least that, if not higher. Students are delighted with the information. Those who were given conditional admissions in other higher education institutions will now be able to make the cut. Around 25 candidates took CAIE and 29 IBDP from the school,” said The Heritage School principal Seema Sapru. “We have not been impacted by the order as our primary sections between Classes I and V are affiliated to CAIE. But we have received the circular,” said South City International School principal John Bagul. The CAIE also told schools, “We will issue new grades as soon as possible. We will also share the new grades with universities and admissions organisations as soon as we can. We will post the new grades to Cambridge International Direct. In April, we asked our schools to work collaboratively with us. We know teachers worked extremely hard to gather evidence and work out predicted grades, and we have viewed a significant proportion of the evidence schools used to make their predictions.” It added, “It is important to us that Cambridge students can compete equally with students who have similar national or international qualifications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/grade-relief-for-section-of-citys-intl-students/articleshow/77622657.cms||Somdatta Basu
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||Delhi journalist arrested for offensive post on Ram temple||LUCKNOW: Hours after registering a case at Hazratganj police station, Lucknow Police on Tuesday arrested a freelance journalist Prashant Kanojiya from Delhi for posting objectionable remarks on Ram Mandir. Deputy commissioner of police, central, Somen Barma told TOI that the journalist had tweeted “No Shudra, SC, ST or OBCs will be allowed inside Ram Mandir.” Kanojia had attached a photo of local politician Sushil Tiwari,” said Barma. He said a morphed photo was also used to spread enmity between various groups. Taking cognisance of the tweet, sub-inspector Shrawan Shukla of Hazratganj police lodged a case against Kanojiya under the charges of promoting enmity between different religious groups, writing comments against national integration, dishonesty, forgery of valuable, forgery for purpose of cheating, spreading rumours and making or possessing counterfeit seal. A team was sent to Delhi to arrest Kanojiya and bring him to Lucknow. “Some men who claimed to be from UP police came to our residence at around 1pm and arrested Kanojiya and took him to Vasant Vihar police station,” his wife Jagisha Arora tweeted minutes after his arrest. This is the third time Lucknow Police has registered an FIR against Kanojiya in connection with an objectionable social media post. Kanojiya was also arrested in 2019 for putting 'distasteful' social media posts about CM Yogi Adityanath. In April this year, he was booked for posting offensive remarks against PM Narendra Modi and CM Yogi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/delhi-journalist-arrested-for-offensive-post-on-ram-temple/articleshow/77623373.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Enforce laws boldly, Gujarat CM tells top cops||GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Tuesday told top police officials to enforce laws boldly to ensure that law and order is maintained in the state. He added that a favourable law and order situation is a pre-condition for all-round development of Gujarat. Rupani said that actions of police should create a perception among the people that the force is on their side and for their welfare. He said that all anti-social activities should be dealt with sternly. The CM was speaking from Gandhinagar at a video-conference with police commissioners, range IGs and district police chiefs. The video-conference was also attended by minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja, DGP Ashish Bhatia, and other top officials . Rupani congratulated all cops for their role as corona warriors in enforcing the lockdown guidelines during the pandemic. Jadeja said the state policehas created a new image by adopting an approach of firmness with sensitivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/enforce-laws-boldly-cm-tells-top-cops/articleshow/77622652.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Pune||Man missing since he jumps into river||Pune: A 37-year-old man has been missing since he jumped into the Mula-Mutha river from the Mundhwa-Kharadi bridge around 2pm on Tuesday, following a phone call to his wife where he let her know that he was ending his life. Officer Dattatraya Chaudhary of the Hadapsar sub-fire station said, “The man parked his motorcycle on the bridge and called his wife before jumping into the river.” Chaudhary said, “Three eye witnesses informed the central fire brigade control room and the Mundhwa police about the incident. We have launched a search operation. The victim’s wife could not give us any clue as to why her husband took the step.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-missing-since-he-jumps-into-river/articleshow/77622644.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Trichy||Water released into Pullambadi canal||Trichy: Water has been released into the Pullambadi canal from Mukkombu barrage for cultivation on Tuesday. “Farmers from the Pullambadi block in Trichy district and Ariyalur district will benefit from the move. Around 22,000 acres from both the district will get water,” officials said. District collector S Sivarasu raised the sluices of the barrage near Vathalai here on Tuesday. Water would be released in the canal for 136 days, the collector said. “A total of 500 cusecs is being released into the canal to irrigate of 22,114 acres of lands situated in both Pullambadi block and some parts of Ariyalur district. Of the total acres, 8,831 acres will be irrigated directly from the canal, while the remaining 13,283 acres will get water from the tanks,” the collector said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/water-released-into-pullambadi-canal/articleshow/77623364.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Only 4 from Vidarbha find place in Atal innovation rankings||NAGPUR: Vidarbha’s three engineering colleges and one deemed to be university found their names in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA), launched by vice-president Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday. Under it, the educational institutions and universities are systematically ranked on innovation and entrepreneurship-related indicators. All major indicators, commonly used globally to rank most innovative education institutions/universities, are followed while finalizing the rankings. This is the second year of ARIIA rankings launched by the ministry of education in association with MHRD’s innovation cell and AICTE. The Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) is ranked between 11th and 25th position among institutions of national importance and central universities. Hingna-based GH Raisoni College of Engineering bagged second rank among self-financed and private colleges in the country. Prof Ram Meghe College of Engineering and Management, Badnera, secured a rank between 6th and 25th in the same category. The Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha, is placed between 26th and 50th position in the list of self-financed or private universities. None of traditional universities from Vidarbha — Nagpur, Amravati and Gondwana — were able to find their place in the rankings. However, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University in Aurangabad secured a rank between 6th and 25th among all government and aided universities, primarily due to initiatives taken to establish Covid-19 testing laboratory by its administration. The Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS) in Mumbai is another institution from the state in this list. The prestigious Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT), Mumbai, leads this segment, but even universities like Mumbai and Pune didn’t find a place in these rankings. Pune, in fact, had ranked highly in HRD ministry’s National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF). Among government and aided colleges, three are from Maharashtra. The College of Engineering in Pune (COEP) has been ranked first while Shri Guru Gobind Singhji Institute of Engineering and Technology in Nanded is at third place. The Veermata Jeejabai Technical Institute (VJTI) in Mumbai is at sixth spot. The Raisoni Group attributed GHRCE’s success to all activities being undertaken for overall growth of students. It was ranked 8th in India in ‘top patent filers’ as per patent report released last year. It has also got platinum status under AICTE-CII survey for best industry-linked institute for the past five consecutive years, according to its officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-4-from-vid-find-place-in-atal-innovation-rankings/articleshow/77622661.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
August 19, 2020||India||Can states cancel exams? SC reserves judgment||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday reserved its verdict on the question whether state governments had power under the Disaster Management Act to cancel final examinations for award of degrees to college students even though the University Grants Commission has asked universities to conduct final examinations by September 30. Maharashtra, West Bengal, Odisha and Delhi said the UGC could not have taken a unilateral decision to hold final examinations, turning a blind eye to the Covid-19 pandemic which is accounting for over 50,000 new infections daily. Though there had been a push to empower students with laptops for years, the common refrain of these four states was that most students were from rural areas and did not have access to laptops. Giving examinations with mobile phones would be extremely difficult and connectivity and internet speed were perennial issues that could raise the level of anxiety among students and deprive them of doing well in the examinations, the states said. Senior advocates and advocates general of these states argued that when no public transport was available and when state governments had been empowered under the Disaster Management Act to take strict containment action during the pandemic, holding final examinations would be endangering the lives of many. They said past examination performance sheets of each student, along with internal assessments, were available with colleges and it would be easy to evaluate them on that basis and promote them without final examinations. However, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R S Reddy and M R Shah said when UGC guidelines, as shown by solicitor general Tushar Mehta, were binding on universities, the commission’s decision not to recognise degrees without passing final examinations would also be binding. Before reserving its order, the SC said the only question was whether state governments, in a pandemic situation, had power under the DM Act to decide when to hold final examinations, especially when they pleaded that many colleges had been converted into Covid-19 testing centres. The bench refused to interfere in the ongoing final examinations in Delhi University colleges. Mehta said the UGC guidelines had given three options — online, offline or hybrid system of examinations for final year students. He said around 300 universities had already conducted final examinations and another 400 were in the process of doing so. Mehta said the UGC had made a provision that if any student, for a genuine reason, could not appear in the final examination held before September 30, then she would be given one more chance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/can-states-cancel-exams-sc-reserves-judgment/articleshow/77624467.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
August 19, 2020||Varanasi||Madhya Pradesh farmer roams barefoot in Varanasi to trace missing son||VARANASI: Pradeep Kumar Trivedi, a farmer from Panna, Madhya Pradesh, has been running from pillar to post — and that too barefoot — to trace his missing son Shiv Kumar Trivedi, who was doing BSc from BHU, for the past six months. Trivedi had taken a pledge to remain barefoot till he finds his son. The distraught father roams around the city in the day to trace his missing son and sleeps on Assi Ghat at night. Shiv, a BSc-II student, was found unconscious in the amphitheatre ground of BHU on February 12 night by another student Arjun Singh, who called 112 after which cops took him to Lanka police station from where he went missing. Bhelupur circle officer Amaresh Baghel said, “On February 12, Shiv was brought to Lanka police station from where he went away the next day and disappeared. As he had not committed any crime, we could not stop him forcibly at the police station. His father submitted a missing complaint after which a case was registered on February 16. We took all measures like publishing his photo and details on various communication mediums but could not trace him so far.” “I have only two sons and one of them is missing due to laxity of Lanka police, who were never serious in tracing him even though he disappeared from their custody. Former SSP Prabhakar Chawdhary took some interest which resulted in change of behaviour of cops who had been rude, but my son is still missing,” said Trivedi. The 50-year-old father questions how police could let go a youth, who was not in normal condition. “My son stayed in a lodge at Chhittupur gate. When I could not contact him for two days I called the lodge owner, who informed Shiv has not returned while his mobile phone and other belongings were in room. I reached Varanasi on February 16 and lodged complaint,” said Trivedi. Initially, police denied Shiv was at the police station. When I posted messages about Shiv on social media, Arjun responded and provided details of the complaint, he added. “When I produced details, cops admitted that Shiv was brought to the police station. They said he was not behaving properly and urinated in his clothes,” said Trivedi. I kept making complaints to IG Varanasi range, ADG Varanasi Zone and on the PMO portal. BHU students also started a campaign on social media to find Shiv. On Monday, a lawyer Saurabh Tiwari, a BHU alumnus, filed a PIL in Allahabad High Court seeking its intervention in tracing Shiv.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mp-farmer-roams-barefoot-in-city-to-trace-missing-son/articleshow/77619207.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||AAP MP Sanjay Singh to write to VP over 9 FIRs against him by UP||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh on Wednesday attacked Uttar Pradesh government for filing nine different police complaints against him “to suppress his voice”. Singh said that he would write to vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu to apprise him of all the complaints lodged against him. “The UP government has filed nine different police complaints against me because I wanted to show the mirror to it. It is trying to make me a history-sheeter. Every section and community in UP is unhappy with the Yogi Adityanath government,” Singh claimed at a press conference, alleging that the UP government is biased on caste lines. Accusing Adityanath of running a government for Thakurs, Singh said: “I questioned the Yogi government for not appointing people from other castes and communities on important posts. I asked how many senior district officials UP government has from other castes. The same question goes for senior police officials, officials of state secretariat and others.” “I raised questions against Prabhat Mishra’s fake encounter. Khushi Dubey, who was newly married, was arrested by police wrongfully. I asked questions regarding her arrest,” Singh added. The AAP functionary said he would continue to raise questions against the “injustice” done by the UP government. “This is not an issue about myself, but this is about the respect of the Upper House of the Parliament. Does a member of Rajya Sabha not have the right to talk about injustice against the people of other communities? And if we do that, the government tries to suppress our voice by lodging FIRs,” Singh claimed. Singh also alleged that the UP government had sealed AAP’s office in Lucknow and called it unfortunate. “Yogi government can file as many FIRs against me as it wishes, but I will not bow down to you,” said Singh. In the press conference, several local functionaries of Delhi BJP and JDU joined AAP. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said that Sanjay Singh is the MP of Delhi and he should concentrate on issues specific to the capital because the life of people here is in mess. “AAP is not concentrating on development issues, people are living a miserable life due to lockdown and the AAP MP is talking about UP,” Kapoor added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-mp-to-write-to-vp-over-9-firs-against-him-by-up/articleshow/77643035.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Custodial death: Metropolitan court gets HC rap||AHMEDABAD: The chief metropolitan magistrate got a rap from the Gujarat high court for his “casual” approach as the head of the institution towards conducting an inquiry into a custodial death case. Last week, Justice R P Dholaria ordered the chief metropolitan magistrate to personally conclude the inquiry into the custodial death case and submit his report within 15 days to the HC. The HC was upset because its order passed in March for completion of the inquiry was not complied with by the metropolitan court. In this case, one Umang alias Sonu Chhatral died in Sabarmati jail. His autopsy suggested he had 11 ante-mortem injuries. His brother Pritesh filed a complaint seeking an inquiry into the death, accusing Shahibaug police of torturing Sonu in custody in November 2016. As the judicial inquiry into the custodial death did not make any headway for nearly three years, Pritesh Chhatral moved the high court through advocate N M Kapadia, seeking directions to the metropolitan court to do the needful at the earliest. On March 5, the HC sought a report from the metropolitan court, which tendered a report prepared on March 19. After perusing the report, the HC said, “…it appears that the learned Chief Metropolitan Magistrate has adopted casual approach in spite of he being a head of the Institution and he could not comply with the order dated 05.03.2020 passed by this Court.” The HC has now ordered the chief metropolitan magistrate to personally inquire and conclude proceeding within 15 days and place a report before the HC. A further hearing has been posted for September 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/custodial-death-metropolitan-court-gets-hc-rap/articleshow/77622666.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case: Reveal Swapna Suresh’s role in Life Mission, says Ramesh Chennithala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala demanded the LDF government to disclose the names of all top bureaucrats who are alleged to be involved in the gold smuggling case, in the wake of the disclosure of the enforcement directorate (ED) before the Kochi court that top bureaucrats other than M Sivasankar are also involved in the case. “The chief minister has been claiming that M Sivasankar was the only bureaucrat involved in the case and with his suspension the responsibility of government in the smuggling case has ended. However, ED’s latest disclosure has put the LDF government under suspicion and hence Pinarayi Vijayan has to clarify on this,” said Chennithala. “Reports have come out that anti-national activities, including gold smuggling, have been taking place in Kerala with the help of top bureaucrats since 2017. Why didn’t the CM know about it? Swapna Suresh had accompanied Sivasankar twice during his UAE trips. When the CM went to the UAE for getting aid for flood relief, Swapna was there. Reports have come out that Sarith and Sandeep Nair, the other accused in the case, were in Dubai when Swapna was there. There are reasons to infer that the smuggling cartel had used CM’s trips to further their interests,” he said. “The CM needs to clarify as to how Swapna found a place in the official team? Did she meet the CM or hold discussions with him? If so, what was it about? Anyway, it is interesting to note that people who have no chance to become part of the delegation of the CM, got a chance to get involved,” said Chennithala. The CM should reveal the role of Swapna, prime accused in gold smuggling, in the Life Mission project. he said. “According to media reports, Suresh got Rs.3 crore as commission. Though I have demanded a copy of the MoU signed by the Life Mission with Dubai-based NGO Emirates Red Crescent for funds for the housing project, the government has not yet responded even after eight days.” Swapna’s confession that she got commission from Life Mission project reveals that the housing scheme implemented by the mission at Vadakancherry for the poor is a pretext for corruption. A UDF team led by convener Benny Behanan had visited the project site and found that the buildings do not conform to safety standards, he said. The opposition leader said the chief minister has undertaken several foreign trips during his tenure and used to announce new projects with foreign aid on his return. “He should make public the details of fund received and projects completed.” How could minister K T Jaleel bring 1,500kg parcel, reportedly containing holy Quran, from the UAE without permission from the protocol office of the state government. It needs to be investigated if any permission was forged, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/reveal-swapnas-role-in-life-mission/articleshow/77620829.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Cyber frauds dupe professor, two others||KOLKATA: Three persons — a computer science lecturer in Salt Lake, a Beniapukur student and a Tangra resident — were the latest victims of online fraud in Kolkata though the modus operandi in each of the case was different. On Tuesday, TOI had highlighted how cases of cyber crime have risen in the city ever since the pandemic struck and more people moved to online platforms for essential work. There has been a 15% rise in cyber fraud in June-July as compared to March, when the lockdown started. In the first case, Saswati Chakraborty, a computer science lecturer and a resident of IA Block in Salt Lake, used a fake online coupon to place an order for food on I-Day, thinking she was contacting a top-end Park Street restaurant. The man posing as a delivery boy first asked her to download an app. When she failed, the person at the other end asked her to fill up a Google form link. She was asked to share the OTP after payment. As soon as she did so, she lost Rs 50,000. The Bidhannagar South police has now registered an FIR. In the second incident, Suresh Sarkar Road resident Baktawara Khan alleged that between July 20 and August 16, unknown people impersonated themselves as employees of a leading e-commerce portal and informed her that she had won first prize in a lucky draw and had won a SUV car. They induced her to pay Rs 94,000 as basic processing money. But they never delivered any prize nor returned the money. In the third incident, Baishnab Seth Lane resident Rajeshwar Prasad Singh complained that one Prasant Kumar impersonated himself as an agent of a private bank and induced the complainant that he would process the complainant’s current account into an overdraft account with an overdraft limit up to Rs 15 lakh and thus asked the complainant to pay Rs 69,795 as application charges, security deposit and other charges. “After receiving the money the accused person neither made any overdraft account for the complainant nor returned the money,” the FIR stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyber-frauds-dupe-prof-two-others/articleshow/77620859.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||1,434 FIRs, 265 arrests in a year under triple talaq law in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: In a year since the instant Triple Talaq was made punishable in the country, Uttar Pradesh police has filed 1,434 FIRs – roughly four cases a day – and made 265 arrests. According to UP Police sources, investigation is pending in at least 1,119 cases while the final report has been submitted in 50 others. Maximum 376 cases have been registered in Meerut police zone while maximum number of 132 chargesheets have been filed in Agra. Most of the FIRs also included dowry, property disputes and domestic violence charges. The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act was passed by both the Houses of Parliament and approved by the President in July last year. The first FIR in the state under the new Act was lodged in Mathura on August 2, 2019. The Act made instant verbal triple talaq a criminal offence with provisions of jail term up to three years. It also made illegal the pronouncement of talaq thrice in spoken, written or through SMS or WhatsApp or any other electronic chat in one sitting. Under the law, an aggrieved woman is entitled to demand maintenance from her husband for herself and her dependent children. Additional Director General (ADG), law & order, Prashant Kumar said, “The law has brought a great relief to the society. It shows that the Constitution and the rule of law are paramount.” “The law has been implemented in letter and spirit in the state to provide justice to women. The district police chiefs have been instructed to follow the law and immediately arrest the accused,” he said. Another officer at the DGP headquarters said a probe was still under way in many cases as the accused were not in India. A senior police officer said soon cops would also carry out an analysis of the impact of the instant talaq law to ensure justice to Muslim women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1434-firs-265-arrests-in-a-year-under-triple-talaq-law/articleshow/77623417.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Maid uses dead man’s ATM card to siphon Rs 35 lakh during lockdown||KOLKATA: The detective department has arrested a maid servant — employed at a house on Anwar Shah Road for last seven years — and her two accomplices for allegedly stealing the ATM card of her employer, who had passed away during the initial lockdown days, and withdrawing Rs 35 lakh from his account over the next two months. The cops have arrested main accused Rita Roy (45), a resident of Nakashipara in Nadia, her son-in-law Ranjit Mullick (31), a resident of Karimpur in Nadia, and Mullick’s brother-in-law Soumitra Sarkar (45) of Guptipara in Hooghly. Police have recovered Rs 27 lakh from the accused so far. According to joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma, Anurag Agarwal, a resident of City High on Prince Anwar Shah Road, had alleged that someone had stolen the ATM card of his father Satyanarayan Agarwal, who had died during the first week of lockdown. Using the card, the accused had withdrawn Rs 34,90,000 from different ATM counters between March 30 and May 30. A case was registered at Jadavpur police station. “Since it was a full lockdown phase and no one was going to banks, no one had an inkling that money was being withdrawn. The son stayed in another flat. The mobile phone that belonged to Satyanarayan was switched off, so the SMS alerts never reached his family members. The deceased’s son had SMSed the PIN of the card to his father since Satyanarayan used to forget it often. The maid got the PIN from the mobile,” said an investigating officer. It was when Anurag went to the bank to take stock of his father’s accounts on June 1 that he realized about the theft. During investigation, cops collected the transaction details and CCTV footage of the ATM counters from where money was withdrawn. It was found that two persons had withdrawn the cash wearing masks and caps. They also chose ATM counters of different banks at Karimpur, Krishnagore and Ranaghat in Nadia and Guptipara in Hooghly. “With no other lead, CCTV footage were shown to local sources and a ground survey was carried out around the ATMs. Finally, we identified both Mullick and Sarkar and they were arrested on August 13 from their respective residences,” said Sharma. The accused were interrogated and it was found that they were brothers-in-law and that they had got the ATM card from Mullick’s mother-in-law, the maid servant of the complainant’s father. Roy, the maid servant, was arrested from Kolkata where she continued to work. “Searches were carried out at their respective residences. While Rs 16 lakh was recovered from Mullick, Rs 2 lakh and the ATM card was seized from Sarkar and another Rs 9 lakh was recovered from Roy,” said Sharma. The cops have taken custody of the accused till August 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/maid-uses-dead-mans-atm-card-to-siphon-rs-35-lakh-during-lockdown/articleshow/77620842.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
August 19, 2020||Bhopal||Govt jobs only for MP domiciles may not pass legal test: Experts||Bhopal: Bhopal: According to legal experts, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's announcement to give government jobs only to domiciles of MP would not stand the test of law. They point out that other states have also made such attempts in the past, but every time they lost the battle in court. Even the erstwhile Congress government’s decision in June 2019 to raise the upper limit for non-domicile candidates in MPPSC examination from 28 to 35 was struck down by Supreme Court, which said the age limit of domicile and non-domicile candidates may not be different. Asked about Chouhan’s local-only push for state government jobs, former advocate general Ravinandan Singh said: “To me, it is one of those ‘populist’ announcements, which always fail the test of law. What the chief minister announced today, if implemented, would be in violation of Article 14, Article 16, and Article 18 of the Constitution. My modest knowledge of the Constitution suggests that there should be open competition among all sections of people for government jobs and no preferential treatment can be given to anyone. Congress had also raised the OBC quota to 27%, which was stayed by the court.” Such issues have already been settled by the courts in the past, said senior counsel Naman Nagrath. “Preference to domicile candidates in some form is one thing but how can you have 100% reservation for domiciles? Still, I would like to wait for what actually the CM meant by ‘jobs only to domiciles’ because what he said is not a cabinet decision but an announcement by the chief minister with no details. Let them work it out, then we will know,” he said. MP high court advocate Aditya Sanghi said: “What the CM wants to do may be good but it is not in keeping with the constitutional scheme of things. ‘Preference’ for domicile candidates can still be considered by courts as it did for PG medical students in 2016, but jobs only for MP domiciles doesn't seem feasible.” Advocate Pankaj Dubey said, “This has no meaning. Many states in the past have tried to do it but the courts could never be convinced. It is in stark contrast to Directive Principles of the State Policy. You can’t confine jobs to one group of people or ‘discriminate’ with other citizens of India on any ground or for any reason.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-jobs-only-for-mp-domiciles-may-not-pass-legal-test-experts/articleshow/77622669.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC orders probe into girl’s child marriage||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court on Monday ordered an inquiry into a complaint of child marriage made by a 17-year-old before the court, who stated that she had been married off to a person who is now 32 years old. The girl told the court that she was married off when she was in Class IV according to the barter marriage system. The case is from Banaskantha district. The issue came before the HC after the girl eloped with her 21-year-old boyfriend and police brought them back in response to a habeas corpus petition filed by the girl’s parents. The girl flatly refused to go with her parents and told the court that she would marry with her boyfriend, who also expressed his desire to settle down with her. The girl was sent to the women’s shelter home in Palanpur after she complained that her parents were forcing her to live with her husband, which she did not want. She broke down before the court while narrating her story. The HC ordered the authorities to take care of her in the shelter home for a year and in the meantime ordered recording of her statement under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) because her boyfriend is facing charges under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (Pocso). The HC has ordered police to “inquire into the aspect of child marriage of the corpus so that appropriate actions can be initiated against the persons concerned, if found to be true”. The HC posted a further hearing on this matter for September 16 and ordered the investigator to complete the investigation to “bring the aspect of child marriage of the corpus to its logical conclusion”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-orders-probe-into-girls-child-marriage/articleshow/77622671.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Jetalpur vegetable trade stops||Ahmedabad: Wholesale vegetable traders outside the Jetalpur APMC called off trading from Tuesday after local residents threatened them against trading on service roads. In the absence of an exclusive space for business, they were forced to carry out trading on the service road outside the APMC. On Monday night, the local residents told the traders that due to overcrowding outside the market, it was becoming difficult for them to move in the area. “It may also spread the corona virus,” said a resident. The decision will lead to increase in prices of vegetables from Wednesday, said a trader. The traders said that since the trading was being done outside the APMC premises, the police too was unwilling to intervene in the matter. The office-bearer of Ahmedabad Vegetable General Commission Agent Cooperative Society urged the authorities to find an amicable solution. “We have been carrying out the trade from the service road so that farmers are not forced to sell their produce at throwaway prices,” said Bharat Khamar, president of the cooperative society. “It is good for the citizens as they have been getting vegetables at cheaper prices,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/jetalpur-vegetable-trade-stops/articleshow/77622714.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman with learning difficulties gang-raped by 5 in Viramgam||AHMEDABAD: A 21-year-old woman, who has learning difficulties and has trouble walking and speaking, was allegedly gang-raped by five men in Viramgam town of Ahmedabad district on the night of August 15. An FIR filed with Viramgam town police states that one of the men accosted her when she was going towards the hospital where her mother works as a midwife. The victim’s father is bed-ridden and the family depends on her mother’s income. The victim’s mother, in her FIR, stated that her daughter has been mentally unsound since her childhood but can understand things and manages to communicate with others. “On August 15, at around 8pm, my son called me up and told me that my daughter had been missing for a couple of hours. My older daughter and I went to search for her in the night. When we were looking for her near Kasampura village, next to the Munsar lake, I saw her on the passenger seat of an autorickshaw. We tried to chase the rickshaw but its driver managed to get away,” the victim’s mother states in the FIR. The mother and family members ended their search after a couple of hours. At around 1am on August 16, the victim returned home and narrated her ordeal. “She told me that a man named Rahul Bharwad, who was known to our family, met her near our house when she was going towards the hospital. He told her to sit in the rickshaw and when she refused he forced her to get in and took her to a secluded place near Munsar lake,” the FIR reads. She further states that Bharwad first raped her in the bushes near Munsar lake and then called his friends, telling them to come soon if they wanted to rape a disabled woman. After a while, Bharwad’s four friends arrived on two motorcycles and also raped the victim. She was half conscious after being brutalized, the FIR states. Bharwad then made her sit in his rickshaw and dumped her near her house. Viramgam town police registered a complaint for rape and illegal confinement and began an investigation. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-with-learning-difficulties-gang-raped-by-5-in-viramgam/articleshow/77622716.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Allahabad||Uttar Pradesh: People shift to safer places as rivers Ganga & Yamuna swell||PRAYAGRAJ: With parts of Uttrakhand, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan receiving heavy rainfall last week, the Ganga and Yamuna rivers have started to swell at various places in the district. With the rise in water level, those living near the banks of these rivers have started shifting to safer places. As flood water has started inundating low-lying areas of Phaphamau, Salori, Daraganj, Jhunsi, etc., worries for the people living in these areas have increased, though the rate of increase in water is not alarming. The water level of Ganga at Phaphamau and of Yamuna at Naini, rose by 2 cm in past 24 hours. The water level of Ganga increased from 78.69 meters on Monday to 78.71mt on Tuesday. The danger mark of the river is at 84.73mt. Similarly, the water level of the Yamuna at Naini) was 76.27mt on Monday, it increased to 76.29mt on Tuesday. The rate of increase in the water level of both the rivers is slightly slower than the rate of increase as recorded as compared to first week of this month when the water was increasing by around 25cm. Likewise, the level of water in the Ganga at Chatnaag — around 3 kilometres downstream of Sangam — too is increasing and was recorded as 75.74mt on Tuesday as against 75.70mt on Monday. Because of the rise in water level in both the rivers, around 60% of the bank of the Sangam area has been submerged in flood water. Engineers of the irrigation department said the discharge of water in the Ganga is increasing from the Kanpur barrage. Around 1.30 cusecs of water has been discharged from the barrage which is expected to further increase the water level. “Compared to last year, the level of water in both the rivers is around 2 meters less, but because of the heavy rainfall in Utrrakhand and several parts of Madhya Pradesh, the water level could increase rapidly. We are also keeping a close vigil on rainfall in Rajasthan, which can also have an impact on volume of water in Yamuna and Ganga,” said executive engineer of flood control department, Brijesh Kumar Verma. With apprehension that flood situation in the district including many localities of the urban limits could become grim in the coming days, the team of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has been visiting several localities near the banks of the Ganga and Yamuna.The areas included Daraganj, Nagwasuki, Baghada, Chhota Baghada, Salori, Rasulabad. These areas have been largely affected by the floods in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/people-shift-to-safer-places-as-rivers-ganga-yamuna-swell/articleshow/77618054.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Chikali, Ambewadi residents leave as Panchaganga rises||Kolhapur: Residents of areas like Chikali and Ambewadi villages have started moving to shelter camps as the water level in Panchaganga river has once again crossed the alert mark and is inching towards the danger level. According to a district administration official, around 40% of the families from both villages have now shifted to nearby villages where shelter camps have been set up. “The catchment areas of the river received around 60mm of rain between Sunday and Monday. All major dams are full and water discharge has increased. Four gates of Radhanagari dam has been opened and around 7,000 cusec of water is being released at the moment. The water dischager from Dudhganga dam is 11,500 cusec,” he said. “The inflow of water has increased the water level of Panchaganga river to the alert mark of 39 feet. We have issued an emergency alert for villages located downstream. As per our estimate, the danger mark of 43 feet will be crossed on Tuesday morning,” he added. The official said that owing to rise in water level major roads like Kolhapur-Ratnagiri highway, Gaganbawda Road, Shiye-Bawda Road are likely to be submerged under flood water by Tuesday morning. All barrages along the Panchaganga river were under water by Monday evening. According to forecast of India Meteorological Department (IMD), heavy rainfall will continue till Tuesday following which the intensity will reduce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/chikali-ambewadi-residents-leave-as-panchaganga-rises/articleshow/77597954.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||Panel to check financial accounts of schools: Calcutta HC||KOLKATA: The Calcutta HC has asked the two-member committee it had formed on Tuesday to look into the audited financial statements of schools involved in an ongoing PIL that seeks relief for parents in fee payment. The PIL was heard by the division bench of justices Sanjib Banerjee and Moushumi Bhattacharya for the second consecutive day virtually. The court on Tuesday named Gopa Datta, former head of both the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education and West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, as the second member of the committee. On Monday, the court had named JU VC Suranjan Das as one of the members. Both Das and Dutta have given their consent. “I feel proud that the court has asked me to do this work and I will do it to the best of my capacity. School education cannot be compromised and schools, parents and students are crucial stakeholders in the system,” Datta said. The PIL has been filed by Vineet Ruia. The committee, the order said, will also ascertain whether "concession in fees, if justified on facts, can be passed on to students.” The committee has been asked to submit its views before the next hearing on September 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/panel-to-check-fin-accounts-of-schools-/articleshow/77620869.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
August 19, 2020||Kochi||UDF seeks resignation of minister A C Moideen||THRISSUR: UDF leaders on Tuesday described the alleged corruption in the Life Mission flat construction project at Wadakkanchery as a “second Lavalin scam” involving CM Pinarai Vijayan and demanded the resignation of minister A C Moideen, who is facing accusations in the project deal. The UDF team led by convener Benny Behanan and comprising MPs Remya Haridas, T N Prathapan, MLAs Anil Akkara and Anup Jacob visited the site where the flat construction is going on. After the visit, the convener demanded a CBI enquiry into the allegations against the project. Behanan said the government must clarify who gave the sanction to Unitac to construct the flats by using funds from a foreign charitable society, in a land owned by the revenue department and under the possession of the municipality. Akkara recalled that in the earlier Lavalin scam the fund for construction of the hospital was given to a consultant Technicaliya instead of the Malabar Cancer Society. “Here too, the fund from the UAE’s Red Crescent for construction of the flat complex was given to Unitac, instead of handing it over to the Life Mission. There is a hospital project in both the projects. There are strong allegations of violations foreign exchange laws in both the cases. Interestingly Pinarayi Vijayan and Sivasankar were the key players in both the deals,” Akkara alleged. Minister Moideen is supervising the construction of flat complex at Wadakkanchery, and he was instrumental in getting the sanctions for the project executed by Unitac, and he must either quit or be expelled for ensuring a transparent probe into the allegations on the project, the UDF convener demanded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/udf-seeks-resignation-of-minister-moideen/articleshow/77620883.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Hit hard by pandemic, cab operators focus on inter-city routes||BENGALURU: Limited inter-city train and bus services and reluctance to take flights have prompted cab operators to change track. They are now focusing on inter-city routes instead. While intra-city cab rides have reduced due to virus scare and the work from home option, more people are opting for cabs to travel between Bengaluru and other cities. Cabs provide dedicated personal space, door-to-door connectivity to reduce exposure of high-risk places and some have facilities like fibreglass partition, Covid-19 insurance, cashless travel, masks and sanitisers. “There is a surge in demand for car rentals as people are looking for safe commute options for emergency/essential travel needs,” said Gaurav Aggarwal, founder and CEO, Savaari Car Rentals. Ram Prasath, CEO of Ezi Drive, said the popular routes to and from Bengaluru are Chennai, Salem, Coimbatore, Chittoor, Vijayawada and Tirupati and intra-state routes are Mysuru, Tumakuru and Madikeri. “With Bengaluru being a hub of working professionals and millennials, who are looking to take a break from the city or even return to their hometowns, we are seeing a large number of requests for both inter and intra-state travel,” said an Ola spokesperson. “With more cities relaxing lockdown norms, the demand for inter-city travel has gone up. We have witnessed an increase in our bookings from Bengaluru to cities in Tamil Nadu and Hyderabad,” said a spokesperson of Meru Cabs. An Uber spokesperson said their inter-city service is showing positive signs of recovery with a significant increase in rider demand.  “The inter-city routes to and from Bengaluru witnessed a 4X growth in demand in June-July compared to April-May. While it is relatively easy to obtain an e-pass from Karnataka’s Seva Sindhu portal (24 to 48 hours), issuance of the same from states such as Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra may take longer,” said Aggarwal. “We can’t deploy a vehicle unless the customer gets an e-pass with our vehicle number. Currently, we have zero requests for any leisure travel,” said Prasath. “Applying for a state pass and getting travel approval are a bit difficult, especially if the ride is to Tamil Nadu or Kerala,” said a Meru Cabs spokesperson. “Of the booking requests we receive, we service nearly 33% of the rides in a day. This is mainly because the customers would have failed to get a travel pass,” he added. “Booking data have shown that nearly 80% of the outstation bookings over the last few weeks have been for one-way trips,” said the Ola spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hit-hard-by-pandemic-cab-operators-focus-on-inter-city-routes/articleshow/77619955.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold prices up Rs 1,150 in single day||Ahmedabad: After staying more or less stagnant for about a week, the price of gold surged again on Tuesday to settle at Rs 55,850 per 10g. In a single day, the price rose sharply by Rs 1,150 against Monday’s price of Rs 54,700. Analysts attribute the increase in gold prices to global factors including the uncertainty over the US presidential elections and escalating tensions between US and China. “Gold prices hit a peak of Rs 58,000 earlier this month. After a correction through the past week, it has begun to climb again due to escalating trade tensions between US and China; in addition to the uncertainty over the US presidential elections,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association. Despite the correction, prices have remained on the higher side due to which retail demand for gold in terms of jewellery has fallen. While jewellery stores have been deserted ever since they resumed business, demand for gold from investors has remained buoyant, in bullion purchases or through exchange traded funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-prices-up-rs-1150-in-single-day/articleshow/77622744.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||‘Tribunals dictatorial as cases can be filed only after govt nod’||LUCKNOW: Questioning the government's sanction to two tribunals to recover riot damages, Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday said that the fact that people will neither have the right to hire a lawyer or appeal against the tribunals' decision is reminiscent of the state of affairs that prevailed in the country during the emergency. The former UP CM said that lawyers will have no scope to appeal against the tribunals' decision. “Not only this, cases related to riots or violence will be lodged after due sanctions from the government. This means the government will have the sole discretion to decide if any case is fit for such a tribunal and the manner in which compensation will be realised from those held responsible for it. This is dictatorial in nature,” Akhilesh said. Lambasting the government over rising crime against women and children across the state, Akhilesh said the ruling BJP has failed to provide security to them despite having promised the same before the elections. “The government had constituted anti-Romeo squads which instead of providing protection to women started harassing them. Now when there is hardly any time left for the government to implement any new policy or bring about any noticeable change in governance, the party is trying to constitute organisations and appoint police officers to check crime against women,” the SP national president said. He said the government is functioning as if they are the sole authority in the country and that no one could question them because they have a sweeping majority in the Assembly. This was against fundamentals and the spirit of democracy and needed to be checked. Akhilesh said people in UP are now fed-up with the government and would teach the BJP a lesson in the Assembly elections in 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tribunals-dictatorial-as-cases-can-be-filed-only-after-govt-nod/articleshow/77623450.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat Technological University among top five govt-aided varsities||AHMEDABAD: Two universities from Gujarat — the Anand Agriculture University and Gujarat Technological University (GTU) have found a place among the top 5 government and grant-in aid varsities of India in the Atal Rankings of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2020. The latest rankings announced on Tuesday by vice president M Venkaiah Naidu through a video conference, saw Institute of Chemical Technology, Maharashtra and Panjab University, Chandigarh bagging the first and second spot in this category. Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agriculture University, Haryana took the third place. Gujarat’s Anand Agriculture University and Periyar University of Tamil Nadu shared the fourth position. Delhi’s Netaji Subhash Institute of Technology and GTU took the fifth position. GTU has been adjudged the fifth rank in start-up projects and the best entrepreneurship by the Union HRD ministry, the varsity said in a media statement. GTU vice chancellor, Navin Sheth and registrar K N Kher have complimented GTU innovation cell head, Sanjay Chauhan and his team and students for this achievement, it said in a media statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gtu-among-top-five-govt-aided-varsities/articleshow/77622767.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Vadodara||Boman Irani to tip cricketers on life skills||VADODARA: From being a dyslexic child to working as a waiter to eke a living, versatile actor Boman Irani had seen the rough pitch of life up and close. However, the challenges and rejections only succeeded in moulding him to the iconic status he enjoys today. The 60-year-old Bollywood legend will chat up with the young cricketers, who under tremendous pressure to perform their best in the cricketing season, on how not to think ‘life is a race’, but stick to the wicket and duck the googly balls life keeps throwing at players. Wary of youngsters taking extreme steps due to rejection in the cash-rich Indian Premier League (IPL), the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) has roped in the actor to inspire its cricketers. “When the stakes are high, the pressure to get selected and perform is extreme. Young cricketers are not prepared to handle such pressure and some of them may end up taking extreme steps. The association was worried about it and hence decided to organize the talk,” said Shishir Hattangadi, CEO of BCA. The move follows the suicide by a 27-year-old Mumbai cricketer, Karan Tiwari, who took his own life three days ago out of depression from rejection in the IPL as well as lack of opportunities. “The incident triggered us into thinking and we felt that our cricketers too would be facing such pressure. They have to learn to handle rejections and failures. It is time that we start mentoring young cricketers about how to create balance in their life,” Hattangadi told TOI. After discussing a few names, the BCA decided to invite Irani who has had his shares of failures before becoming a famed actor. “Irani said that he would be more than happy to talk with the cricketers. The BCA has always given the best of the facilities and enhanced the career of its cricketers but the association also is concerned about the mental health of those who couldn’t achieve their goals,” Hattangadi added. The hour-long session will see participation of cricketers of all age groups along with coaches and former cricketers. (With inputs from Gaurav Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/boman-irani-to-tip-cricketers-on-life-skills/articleshow/77619936.cms||Tushar Tere
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Brace for extended monsoon this year||JAIPUR: Southwest monsoon will remain active in the state for another month with conditions favourable for its extension till September 17. Usually, monsoon gets over by August 31.  “The ongoing cyclonic circulation and high humidity levels in almost every part of the state indicate that Rajasthan is likely to get monsoon rainfall till September 17,” said Radhey Shyam, director, Jaipur Met office, while talking to TOI on Tuesday. Jaipur Met officials said districts including Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara, Chittorgarh, Bhilwara, Ajmer, Kota, Jhalawar, Baran, Bundi, Tonk, Jaipur, Dausa, Alwar, Sawai Madhopur and Bharatpur can expect an extended monsoon rainfall till September 17. “There is also a possibility that many places in Udaipur and Kota division may get excess or abnormal rainfall by the end of monsoon season. Also, the ongoing deficit of 18% less rainfall compared to 2019 is likely to end by August 31,” said a senior officer. Meanwhile, mild to moderate showers continued at many places in the southern and eastern parts of the state. Some parts received rainfall varying from 150mm to 100mm. In Jaipur, only scattered rainfall was witnessed. “In Jaipur, the monsoon winds are weak and after Friday no major rainfall has been reported. However, Jamwaramgarh, Viratnagar and Shahpura received rainfall varying from 200mm to 150mm,” a senior officer of Jaipur Met office said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/brace-for-extended-monsoon-this-year/articleshow/77623464.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 19, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Brace for extended monsoon this year||JAIPUR: Southwest monsoon will remain active in the state for another month with conditions favourable for its extension till September 17. Usually, monsoon gets over by August 31.  “The ongoing cyclonic circulation and high humidity levels in almost every part of the state indicate that Rajasthan is likely to get monsoon rainfall till September 17,” said Radhey Shyam, director, Jaipur Met office, while talking to TOI on Tuesday. Jaipur Met officials said districts including Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara, Chittorgarh, Bhilwara, Ajmer, Kota, Jhalawar, Baran, Bundi, Tonk, Jaipur, Dausa, Alwar, Sawai Madhopur and Bharatpur can expect an extended monsoon rainfall till September 17. “There is also a possibility that many places in Udaipur and Kota division may get excess or abnormal rainfall by the end of monsoon season. Also, the ongoing deficit of 18% less rainfall compared to 2019 is likely to end by August 31,” said a senior officer. Meanwhile, mild to moderate showers continued at many places in the southern and eastern parts of the state. Some parts received rainfall varying from 150mm to 100mm. In Jaipur, only scattered rainfall was witnessed. “In Jaipur, the monsoon winds are weak and after Friday no major rainfall has been reported. However, Jamwaramgarh, Viratnagar and Shahpura received rainfall varying from 200mm to 150mm,” a senior officer of Jaipur Met office said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/brace-for-extended-monsoon-this-year/articleshow/77631561.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 19, 2020||Surat||305 patients discharged, 175 more test positive||Surat: The Diamond City on Tuesday reported 175 fresh Covid-19 cases, while 305 patients were discharged from different hospitals after they fought off the virus successfully. Four patients also succumbed to Covid-19 on Tuesday taking the death toll in the city to 580 so far. According to Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), Covid-19 cases have witnessed a fall in the past 20 days as the city is reporting less than 200 cases daily while the number of deaths too have become fewer in the same period. Athwa and Rander zones continued to register high number of cases, while with 1,935 cases Rander zone is now the second highest after Katargam zone which has 2,822 positive cases. Posh Athwa has 1,830 cases till now. Of the 175 fresh cases on Tuesday, highest daily of 35 was reported in Katargam followed by 27 in Athwa, 25 in Rander, 23 each in Central and Limbayat, 20 in Udhna, 15 in Varachha (A) and six cases were reported from Varachha (B) zone. Meanwhile, Surat rural reported 77 fresh positive cases on Tuesday taking the Covid-19 tally to 3,712 in the district. Three patients succumbed to the virus taking the death toll to 167 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/305-patients-discharged-175-more-test-positive/articleshow/77619313.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Brace for extended monsoon this year||JAIPUR: Southwest monsoon will remain active in the state for another month with conditions favourable for its extension till September 17. Usually, monsoon gets over by August 31.  “The ongoing cyclonic circulation and high humidity levels in almost every part of the state indicate that Rajasthan is likely to get monsoon rainfall till September 17,” said Radhey Shyam, director, Jaipur Met office, while talking to TOI on Tuesday. Jaipur Met officials said districts including Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara, Chittorgarh, Bhilwara, Ajmer, Kota, Jhalawar, Baran, Bundi, Tonk, Jaipur, Dausa, Alwar, Sawai Madhopur and Bharatpur can expect an extended monsoon rainfall till September 17. “There is also a possibility that many places in Udaipur and Kota division may get excess or abnormal rainfall by the end of monsoon season. Also, the ongoing deficit of 18% less rainfall compared to 2019 is likely to end by August 31,” said a senior officer. Meanwhile, mild to moderate showers continued at many places in the southern and eastern parts of the state. Some parts received rainfall varying from 150mm to 100mm. In Jaipur, only scattered rainfall was witnessed. “In Jaipur, the monsoon winds are weak and after Friday no major rainfall has been reported. However, Jamwaramgarh, Viratnagar and Shahpura received rainfall varying from 200mm to 150mm,” a senior officer of Jaipur Met office said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/brace-for-extended-monsoon-this-year/articleshow/77631566.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Brace for extended monsoon this year||JAIPUR: Southwest monsoon will remain active in the state for another month with conditions favourable for its extension till September 17. Usually, monsoon gets over by August 31.  “The ongoing cyclonic circulation and high humidity levels in almost every part of the state indicate that Rajasthan is likely to get monsoon rainfall till September 17,” said Radhey Shyam, director, Jaipur Met office, while talking to TOI on Tuesday. Jaipur Met officials said districts including Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswara, Chittorgarh, Bhilwara, Ajmer, Kota, Jhalawar, Baran, Bundi, Tonk, Jaipur, Dausa, Alwar, Sawai Madhopur and Bharatpur can expect an extended monsoon rainfall till September 17. “There is also a possibility that many places in Udaipur and Kota division may get excess or abnormal rainfall by the end of monsoon season. Also, the ongoing deficit of 18% less rainfall compared to 2019 is likely to end by August 31,” said a senior officer. Meanwhile, mild to moderate showers continued at many places in the southern and eastern parts of the state. Some parts received rainfall varying from 150mm to 100mm. In Jaipur, only scattered rainfall was witnessed. “In Jaipur, the monsoon winds are weak and after Friday no major rainfall has been reported. However, Jamwaramgarh, Viratnagar and Shahpura received rainfall varying from 200mm to 150mm,” a senior officer of Jaipur Met office said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/brace-for-extended-monsoon-this-year/articleshow/77631563.cms||Ashish Mehta
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: 5,000-odd people put in containment in Isanpur||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has declared Samratnagar in Isanpur a micro-containment zone. The locality has 5,000-odd residents and was cordoned off as residents of the area were resisting testing. Bhavin Solanki, AMC medical health officer, said that there were eight cases in the area and when the teams arrived for checking, there was severe resistance from residents and hence all 10 sectors of Samratnagar were declared a micro-containment zone. Solanki said the residents, who are from lower income groups, were resisting and once testing was done and not many cases emerged, the area would be opened up again. A senior officer said that from Wednesday a drive will be taken up in the area and Dhanvantri and Sanjivani raths will also be stationed there to ensure all residents are properly screened. Several societies with 40 or more houses were declared micro-containment zones on Tuesday. In Kaligam, 44 homes in Block-C of Shantidhan and 40 houses in Madhav Residency in Chanlodia were among those areas put under containment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/5000-odd-people-put-in-containment-in-isanpur/articleshow/77622778.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||HC: La Mart board to start functioning||Kolkata: The board of La Martiniere schools will start functioning once again, the high court has said. The single bench order of Justice Arindam Sinha vacated the interim order, saying that the tenure of the four former governors, who had filed the case complaining that they had been forcibly removed, has ended along with the tenure of the new governors and hence the order is no longer valid. The present board is headed by Bishop Paritosh Canning, the chairman of the school. Four governors, Anil Mukherjee, Suchitra Guha, Anjali Das and Gerry Arathoon, had been removed in mid-2019 and four new members had been inducted into the board. They were Alwin Masey, T H Ireland, P C Singh and Abir Adhikary. However, the term of these members has expired as well. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-la-mart-board-to-start-functioning/articleshow/77620889.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary reopens today||KOZHIKODE: Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS), which was closed for over four months following Covid lockdown, will reopen for visitors from August 19. WWS warden PK Asif said that the chief wildlife warden had directed to begin eco-tourism activities that had been hit for the past six months. WWS had barred entry from March 1, even before Covid-19 lockdown in view of the forest fire threat. However visitors will be allowed to enter Muthanga and Tholpetty eco- tourism centre by strictly adhering to Covid protocols. Only 60 vehicles will be allowed inside the forests and visitors should wear face masks. “Only four passengers will be allowed in each jeep and children aged below 10 and persons aged above 65 will be denied entry,” he added. Tourists will not be allowed to remain in groups in front of eco-tourism centre and hand sanitizers and hand wash will be made available at ticket counters. Also, thermal scanners will be deployed for screening them. Stay at the ecotourism centre will not be permitted. Lockdown had hit the livelihoods of hundreds of workers under the eco development committees and Vana Samrakshana Samitis. However forest officials said they aren’t expecting a crowd in initial days. Also’, tourists from Karnataka made up for a significant number of the total visitors and tourist arrivals from other states are unlikely to resume soon. Meanwhile, forest department decided to reopen Silent Valley National Park as directed by Union Ministry of Forest & Environment. The bookings for visitors started on Tuesday and for the time being, they will be allowed to undertake Keeripara trekking and Sairandhri Safari by adhering to Covid regulations. Some officials felt that it will be difficult to manage visitors amid heavy rain and Covid-19 and authorities should have waited for some more days to reopen the park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wayanad-sanctuary-reopens-today/articleshow/77620897.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Flood fury in Andhra Pradesh: As water enters hamlets, nearly 20,000 marooned villagers shifted||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jaganmohan Reddy has directed the collectors of East and West Godavari districts to distribute essentials and Rs 2,000 each to the flood-affected families. The CM, who conducted an aerial survey of the flood-hit areas on Tuesday, also told them to conduct an assessment of damage to crops and houses once flood water recedes. “Open rehabilitation centres and shift families from the marooned villages. Arrange health camps at the rehabilitation centres and ensure that there is no dearth of relief activities for flood victims,” Jagan told officials. Around 95 relief camps have been set up in East Godavari and 14,477 people have been moved to the camps. Over 100 villages are affected by the floods while communication network to 77 villages has been hit in the district. In West Godavari, 26 relief camps have been set up for around 5,000 flood-affected people, while flood waters have entered 71 villages. The chief minister told officials to deploy NDRF to help the administration in rescue operations, adding that additional teams would be deployed if required. Ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy and Perni Venkatramaiah, chief secretary Nilam Sahwney, DGP Gautam Sawang accompanied the CM. Meanwhile, the Sunkesula dam in Kurnool district has reached its full capacity, prompting officials to sound an alert in the low-lying villages and colonies downstream. Fishermen have also been advised not to venture into the waters till further notice. The inflows received at Sunkesula dam was 24,200 cusecs as of Tuesday, while the outflow was around 22,000 cusecs. Six crest gates have been lifted to release water. Kurnool district collector G Veerapandian has instructed officials not to allow any visitors or entertain tourism activities at the dam site till the flood situation improves. The collector has also asked officials of irrigation, revenue and police department to keep a tab on the situation at all vulnerable villages and evacuate people if required. The collector also reviewed the flood situation at Srisailam project and other reservoirs in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/flood-fury-in-andhra-pradesh-as-water-enters-hamlets-nearly-20000-marooned-villagers-shifted/articleshow/77620893.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||After blackout fiasco, UPPCL team of experts to review smart meters||LUCKNOW: No laxity will be tolerated in the implementation of the smart meter scheme in the state and top authorities would be made accountable for faults that led to 'blackout' in several districts on Janmashtami. Reviewing the smart meter scheme in the state on Tuesday, energy minister Srikant Sharma asked chairman and directors of UPPCL to see why only one company has been engaged to supply smart meters. Top officers cannot wash their hands off the Janmashtami fiasco only by shifting the blame on a few lower rung officials and engineers, he added. The energy minister has written to UPPCL chairman Arvind Kumar, who is also principal secretary, energy, for setting up an experts' committee to find out if there is any fault in smart meters.The minister himself appears to be not satisfied with the smart meters' performance and has hinted at replacing them if similar faults occur in future. “Why should the state government suffer from wrongdoings of higher authorities of UPPCL. They should be made accountable for this,” reiterated Sharma who has slammed UPPCLofficers for tripping of over 1.50 lakh smart meters on the Janmashtami, triggering darkness in lakhs of houses across the state. Taking a strong note of the forced 'blackout' on Janmashtami due to some snag in smart meters, the energy minister had written to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath requesting him to order an STF inquiry to look into causes which led to the power failure in several districts. The CM had released orders for the STF probe as the energy minister had smelled a foul play. At the review meeting, Sharma said that his department had been flawless in the last three-and-a-half-year period, but it had to face criticism from the public on the mass tripping of smart meters in the state. The energy minister had ensured adequate power supply in scorching summers and his department was supplying adequate power to farmers for agriculture purposes. Sharma has also introduced several reforms to curtail the transmission and distribution losses and time-bound replacement of transformers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-blackout-fiasco-uppcl-team-of-experts-to-review-smart-meters/articleshow/77623468.cms||Subhash Mishra
August 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s heritage building list to be updated after 20 years||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation will expand the heritage list that has been lying static since 2000 to add more buildings of historical, cultural and architectural significance so that they can be conserved for posterity. The civic body has also inducted an architect and a structural engineer in its Heritage Conservation Committee and put the list of members as well as minutes of its meetings in public domain, ending the practice of downgrading heritage buildings without public knowledge to enable their demolition. The KMC is also considering proposals that have been submitted by heritage enthusiasts and architects on declaring parts of the city as heritage precincts to control development and preserve its unique character. These are among several positive steps that have emerged after KMC set up a panel to evaluate proposals put forth by heritage enthusiasts. The Indian National Trust for Art & Cultural Heritage (Intach) and Calcutta Architectural Legacies (CAL) had moved the high court last year, citing KMC’s arbitrary actions in dealing with heritage matters. The heritage status of at least two buildings — the Old Kenilworth Hotel and Roxy Cinema — were quietly downgraded a couple of years ago. It only came to light when a consortium of developers that had taken over the property engaged labourers to demolish it. The three storied building was torn down before heritage activists could react. Following the writ petition, the HC had asked KMC to set up a panel to resolve the matters. The committee included former PMU chief and present buildings director general Anindya Karforma, architect Sanghamitra Basu, structural engineer Himadri Guha, Intach convener G M Kapur and CAL founder and writer Amit Chaudhuri. “Several positive steps have been taken following KMC’s willingness to work with citizens who care for the city’s heritage. Among the things that need to be urgently taken up is the inclusion of heritage precinct in the Heritage Conservation Rules in the amended KMC Act,” said Chaudhuri. “We need heritage precincts in Kolkata to preserve the characteristics of neighbourhoods in both north and south. Most historical cities in the world have them. Even in India, you have heritage precincts in Mumbai, Pondicherry and Delhi where development is regulated,” said architect Partha Ranjan Das who has submitted a fresh proposal on the issue to KMC. An official at KMC’s project management Unit, which oversees heritage matters, said meetings were being regularly held now. “They will help iron out differences and also consider fresh proposals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/citys-heritage-bldg-list-to-be-updated-after-20-yrs/articleshow/77620896.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||38% Covid deaths in past 18 days: Lucknow, Kanpur lead toll in 24hrs||LUCKNOW: Over 38% of the total Covid deaths reported in Uttar Pradesh, so far, have surfaced in the past 18 days. The state also recorded 77 deaths in the past 24 hours – which is maximum in a single day. Kanpur and Lucknow recorded 14 deaths each followed by Ballia six and Prayagraj five deaths. Of the total 2,585 Covid casualties in UP, 985 or around 38% have been reported in August alone. Trends indicate that the death rate in August was higher than that in July. The average number of deaths per day in July was 30, while in August it is 54. Nationally, UP accounts for over 4.9% of the total deaths in the country. The proportion was 4.5% in July. In terms of case fatality rate or the number of Covid patients who died among those tested positive was 1.58% which is lower than the national average of 1.9%. It is way lesser than some of the big states, including Maharashtra (3.4%), Delhi (2.7%), Punjab (2.6%), Madhya Pradesh (2.4%) and Bengal (2.1%). Experts, however, said that even a lesser CFR in a state like UP translates into loss of more lives because of the sheer difference in population size. For example: In Punjab the CFR of 2.6% meant loss of 898 lives, while in UP casualties has already crossed 2,500. Scenario also changes because of the case positivity rate. Additional chief secretary, medical education, UP, Dr Rajneesh Dube said that deaths were a reflection of the surge in Covid cases in the state. “Till June 15, medical colleges -- which form the bulk of level-2 and entire level-3 Covid care – were attending to about 1,500 patients at a time. By mid of July, the case load had gone up to 3,500 which crossed to 4,200 mark around Independence Day,” he stated. On reasons behind the deaths, he said: “Co-morbid conditions and delay in reaching level-2 and level-3 facilities contributed to deaths. Over 85% of the patients under our care have at least one co-morbid condition which makes it easier for the pandemic virus to prey.” Meanwhile, additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad stated that 4,336 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours. With this, the state tally reached 1,63,037. A look at the Covid bulletin revealed that Lucknow (514), Gorakhpur (267), Kanpur (261), Prayagraj (175), Ghaziabad (156), Varanasi (148), Kushinagar (137), Bareilly (130), Moradabad (103) and Aligarh (100) accounted for 46% (or 1991) cases. The number of hotspots in the state has grown further to touch 13,386 on Tuesday. More than 36,000 cases have been reported from these areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/38-covid-deaths-in-past-18-days-lucknow-kanpur-lead-toll-in-24hrs/articleshow/77623474.cms||Shailvee Sharda
August 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh floods: Low-lying areas grapple with inundation||VIJAYAWADA: Water levels in the Krishna river near Prakasam Barrage fell on Tuesday. All 70 gates of Prakasam Barrage were lifted, discharging 95,000 cusecs of floodwater into the Bay of Bengal. Outflow from the Munneru rivulet fell to 55,000 cusecs by Tuesday afternoon while inflows from Wyra and Cuttaleru rivulets also fell, contributing to the fall in water level at the Prakasam Barrage. Efforts to restore normalcy at Taraka Rama Nagar, Bhupesh Gupta Nagar and other low-lying areas that were inundated continued on Tuesday. Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) authorities held special camps and asked flood-displaced persons to not leave the camps till further order. Meanwhile, those shifted to the camps demanded that the state government allocate houses for them. “State government is simply making promises to construct houses for us. Volunteers and ward secretaries collected data from us promising houses last year but later ignored the promise,” said K Murthy, a resident of Taraka Rama Nagar bund. Vijayawada (East) legislator Gadde Rama Mohan Rao toured flood-affected areas in the city and demanded the state government announce immediate financial assistance for flood victims. Chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy conducted a video conference with district authorities on the flood situation. District collector A Mohammed Imtiaz explained to the chief minister that water levels are coming down and chances of further inundation low. The chief minister directed officials to help flood victims. Relief measures are underway in the Munneru rivulet basin. The agriculture department has started to assess crop damage in Nandigama, Kanchikacherla and Tiruvuru mandals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/low-lying-areas-grapple-with-inundation/articleshow/77620902.cms||Venu Lanka
August 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu gangster kills cop in bomb attack, dies of injury||TUTICORIN: A policeman who was attacked with a country bomb by a history-sheeter on his head died on the spot at Vallanadu Reserve Forest area in Tuticorin district on Tuesday. According to police, constable Subramanian, 28, was part of a team that was in hot pursuit of Duraimuthu, 26, when it came under attack. The gangster, too, suffered fatal injuries and died on the way to hospital. The deadly clash happened near the hideout of the accused in the forest area at Manakarai in Srivaikuntam where a special police team landed to catch him. Duraimuthu and three others were hiding in a small forest department building when the team led by a sub-inspector reached the spot around 1pm. “Our teams surrounded three of his companions but Duraimuthu fled the spot. Subramanian followed him,” Tuticorin S Jayakumar said. A country bomb was hurled by the accused which however did not harm anyone. After a nearly 200 metre chase, the constable almost caught hold of the accused when he hurled another country bomb which landed on Subramanian’s head, leaving him dead in a pool of blood. “The accused was also badly injured as the pellets and iron nails in the bomb damaged his hand and stomach, leaving him battling for life,” Tuticorin superintendent of police S Jayakumar said. Denying it was an encounter killing, the SP said he suffered blood loss and died on the way to the hospital. The body of the cop and the injured history-sheeter were taken to the Tirunelveli government medical college and hospital in the SP’s striking force vehicle. A car used by the accused to reach the spot and weapons were recovered from them. A case has been registered against the history-sheeter for murder and under sections of the Explosive Substances Act. Duraimuthu of Velur near Srivaikuntam hails from the thevar community and has three murder cases against him. The first was carried out in Velur in 2015 and second a double murder at Eral, also in Tuticorin, while the third one was at Pettai in Tirunelveli last year. The victims were all dalits belonging to the pallar community. These were in addition to attempts to murder and harm cases and he has been absconding. “We got information that he was plotting a murder and the Srivaikuntam DSP got intelligence about his hideout. Constable Subramanian was among the six-member special team that set out to nab Duraimuthu,” Jayakumar told TOI. Subramanian who joined the police force as constable in 2017 got married less than two years ago and has a 10-month-old baby. Condoling Subramanian’s death, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs 50 lakh to his family and a government job based on education qualification to a relative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-gangster-kills-cop-in-bomb-attack-dies-of-injury/articleshow/77620968.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Your mediclaim of no use as pvt hosps refuse Covid care under it||NAGPUR: Private hospitals in the city treating Covid-19 patients are denying cashless admission under any Third Party Assurance (TPA) system. Hospitals are asking for advance payment in cash, with those having insurance being asked to get the expenses reimbursed later, instead of the popular cashless service. While insurance policy holders are suffering due to this, hospitals have their own reasons to back this policy. “Four big hospitals in the city said no beds were available when we asked for cashless cover under TPA. Finally, I had to admit my mother in a private hospital after paying cash advance,” said a software professional, who was not willing to be named as his mother is still being treated at the private hospital. Due to the same reason, people are not coming forward to lodge complaints against hospitals. On the other hand, hospitals have blamed past experience, where patients created conflict situation after their claim was rejected by the TPA, and said there is a lack of clarity in insurance policies. “We had started admitting patients with cashless claims. But TPAs refused claims of some patients initially. There is no clarity about treating asymptomatic and mild-symptomatic patients. Moreover, many TPAs don’t pay for disposables. PPE kits, masks, face shields and many other surgical equipment used in Covid treatment are disposables,” said Dr Anup Marar, director of Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI). Dr Marar said IRDA has also capped rates for Covid treatment in line with the government. The MOU with health insurance company binds hospitals to forward scanned copies of indoor files for final release of sanctioned payment at the time of discharge. However, the files cannot be taken from Covid units for scanning purposes. By this time, the patient and relatives get jittery and start accusing the hospital of unnecessary delay in discharge. “Thus, with due intimation to competent authorities, we are requesting all cashless beneficiaries to share the burden by clearing the bills as per capped charges, and claim reimbursement subsequently from their respective companies,” he said. Vidarbha Hospitals Association (VHA) president Dr Ashok Arbat said hospitals are already working under tremendous pressure. “Expenses of Covid-19 patients are much more than common patients. We have to pay more to doctors, nurses and supporting staff. Even as per government rates, bill of a patient will reach Rs2.5-3.5 lakh easily for 14 days stay,” he said. Injections like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab are very costly, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/your-mediclaim-of-no-use-as-pvt-hosps-refuse-covid-care-under-it/articleshow/77622810.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Doctor, hubby & 2 kids found dead at home||NAGPUR: A doctor, her husband, and their two children were found dead at their residence in Jagnade Society, Om Nagar on Tuesday under unexplained circumstances. Several years back, the previous occupant of the house — a barber — too had ended his life. The bodies of assistant professor Dhiraj Rane (42) and his children Dhruv (11) and Vannya (5) were found in the bedroom. Dhiraj’s wife Dr Sushma was found hanging in the adjacent room. Police said Dhiraj’s aunt Pramila Shashtrakar, who stayed in the adjacent room, had called out for Sushma and Dhiraj at 10.30am as there was no sound from their room. Sushma replied that they wanted to be excused as they had gone to bed late, last evening. At around 12.45pm, Pramila again tried to beckon Sushma and Dhiraj, but Sushma said they were exhausted and wanted to rest more. After 1pm, Pramila pushed the door open and entered the room, only to find Dhiraj and the two children lying motionless on the bed. She then went to the other room, where Sushma’s body was hanging from the ceiling fan. Pramila rushed out to raise an alarm in the neighbourhood and a neighbour alerted the police control room. Three injection syringes, an empty anaesthesia bottle, a strip of strong tranquillizer pills and a suicide note were found in the room. Several empty beer and liquor bottles too were found in the house. Sources said Dhiraj was being sedated with liquor by Sushma. The police remained tight-lipped regarding the incident. Sources from Sushma's family said Dhiraj was of a suspicious nature. He would repeatedly call to know her whereabouts and often picked up quarrels on the issue. It's reliably learnt that Sushma wrote in the suicide note, “Dhiraj, I cannot see you in tension everyday and slipping away in this manner, and hence am taking the decision to end everyone’s life,” Dhiraj was very often found sitting in his car in the evenings, talking on the phone. A day before the incident, a neighbour had spotted the couple sitting in the car for a long time in front of their house. Some neighbours recalled that the children had enjoyed Pola festival with decorated bulls last year, and also the colourful Ganpati festival. Dhiraj, who worked as a computer science faculty, was an MTech. He was brought up by aunt Pramila. Dhruv was a martial art champion from an early age. It’s learnt that Sushma, who worked at a private hospital as resident medical officer (RMO) and at the intensive care unit, touched upon depression, life’s lost vision and the pressures of pending loans and mounting liabilities during the lockdown in the suicide note. She also mentioned their ATM numbers on the suicide note with a request to pay off the pending loans, it’s learnt. Some “personal issues” were also mentioned in the note. Sources said Dhiraj’s salary was heavily slashed during the lockdown. He was also not regular at college last month. Koradi police have registered the case as accidental death after sending the bodies for post-mortem at Mayo hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doc-hubby-2-kids-found-dead-at-home/articleshow/77622793.cms||Soumitra Bose
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||Water supply better but poor roads, waste disposal remain concerns in Raipur constituency||Dehradun: Raipur, one of the biggest assembly constituencies of Uttarakhand, was secured by Umesh Sharma Kau in two successive state elections in 2012 and 2017. While Kau secured the seat for the first time as a Congress candidate, he joined the BJP in 2017 and won the elections in Raipur again with the saffron party’s ticket. An analysis of the works undertaken by Kau in the constituency, which has about 1.64 lakh voters, shows that the pace of projects has slowed down in the last three years i.e during the current term of the legislator when he is representing the seat on a BJP ticket (In his earlier term, he was with Congress). According to government data, a total of 413 roads were approved and 355 were constructed between 2012 and 2017. During this period, the total length of roads constructed was 289 kilometre. In comparison, only 58 roads have been approved and 30 have been constructed in the three years of the MLA’s second term in office and the total length of these roads is just 50.16 kilometre. Similarly, 12 bridges were approved and as many were constructed in Congress tenure but only five have been approved and just two of them were constructed in past three years. From 2012 to 2017, a total of 27 villages and habitats were connected with roads in the constituency, whereas only two such projects have been completed in the last three years. A total of 148 villages and habitats were connected with drinking water supply in the 2012-2107 period whereas in the last three years, 37 such locations have been provided water supply. Also, electrification was done in 431 villages and habitats between 2012 and 2017 but only 71 such areas received power supply in the last three years. When queried, Umesh Sharma Kau told TOI, “The government and I have been equally focused on the development works in the key Raipur constituency. We are taking up issues seriously and have been successful in solving the problems in the area to a large extent.” Out of the total approved projects worth Rs 3.51 crore for Raipur for the financial year 2019-20, a fund of Rs 2.85 crore has already been released. The majority of the works done include a community hall at Ajabpur Kala, road and nullah construction, parks, shifting of electricity poles for road widening projects, drinking water pipeline projects, solar light installation, and toilet construction. Meanwhile, Illiyas Ansari, Congress ward corporator from Raipur’s Bhagat Singh Colony alleged that infrasture in the constituency needed much more work. “The roads are in a dilapidated condition and the drains are dysfunctional. This causes waterlogging during the monsoon season. I have got a few works done but due to the lack of adequate funds, the major infrastructure projects have not even been initiated. We have communicated the issue to the MLA and also to the mayor but nothing concrete has been done for the area as yet.” Ravi Singh Rawat, BJP ward councilor from Mohkampur, maintained, “Water shortage was the biggest problem that the locals faced here. The MLA has got a water pipeline built for the area and that has brought a great relief for the people. This year, not a single water tanker had to be called for supplying water due to shortage.” Mohammad Salman, a resident of Bhagat Singh colony, said, “The roads are in a poor state and several areas lack basic infrastructure. Garbage disposal also doesn’t take place properly.” Another resident Anup Dhanai said, “The ward is in a deplorable state. Even the water supply is not adequate and people take turns to take water from the public tap. The area needs a major overhaul and the public representatives need to pay attention to our needs.” The residents from Mohkampur ward feel that the water pipeline has made life a little easy but more work is required. Chetan Sharma, another local resident, said, “The area has faced acute shortage of water in the past but now, we are getting good water supply. However, the roads need to be maintained and the potholes must be filled to avert major accidents during the monsoon.” MLA Kau added, “We have focused on different sections and on the overall development of the area. There may be some issues but we are quick to respond and despite all challenges, we have been successful in solving the majority of the problems in the constituency.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/water-supply-better-but-poor-roads-waste-disposal-remain-concerns-in-raipur-constituency/articleshow/77619364.cms||Kautilya Singh
August 19, 2020||Kochi||Wild elephant with jaw injuries found in Kerala's Sholayur||PALAKKAD: A wild makhna (male elephant without tusks), which used to raid the human settlements of Sholayur in Attapadi – whom residents nicknamed ‘bulldozer’ was found in a critical condition. The animal is unable to eat food as it has grievous injuries on its jaw, which authorities suspect might have been inflicted by some explosives or crackers. Mannarkkad forest divisional officer KK Sunil Kumar said, “The elephant was missing from the area since July 22 and it was found in Sholayur on Sunday night with injuries. Our veterinary doctors are observing it. They said that the animal cannot be tranquilized for treatment now. This happened when we got permission from forest department to put a radio collar on the animal to monitor its movement.” He said that department officials from Coimbatore forest range informed them about this injured elephant. Clinical observations sent to additional principal chief conservator of forest by forest veterinary officer at Coimbatore Dr A Sukumar stated that the elephant is in a critical condition and may die soon if it is unable to consume food. “The elephant, aged between 20 and 35 years, is weak and moderately dehydrated. Slight dropping of both lower jaws observed. Swelling on the right lower jaw is noticed. Slight dropping of tongue also observed. Continuous drooling of saliva from the mouth noticed. Blood is also observed in the saliva. If the elephant is unable to eat then it may die soon,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/wild-elephant-with-jaw-injuries-found-in-sholayur/articleshow/77620972.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Rain batters south Andhra Pradesh but deficit in north||VISAKHAPATNAM: The north-coastal districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam that register normal or excess rainfall every southwest monsoon has this year recorded low rainfall compared to other districts in the state. Data with AP State Development Planning Society (APSDPS), which maintains records of rainfall levels, show Srikakulam registered only 322.2 mm of rainfall against its average of 442.7 mm, with a minus 27.2% deficit while Vizianagaram registered 370.1mm of rainfall against its average of 434.7 mm, a deficit of minus 14.9%. Visakhapatnam, however, registered 473.3 mm of rainfall against an average of 450.9 mm, only 5% higher than the normal, between June 1 and August 18. India Meteorological Department (IMD) director, Amaravati Centre, S Stella said the southwest-monsoon has been favourable over south-coastal Andhra Pradesh and Rayalaseema districts in the last 10 days. Conditions favouring rainfall include the formation of an east-west shear zone and the presence of wind convergence in the last 10 days. “These technical reasons played a crucial role in giving bountiful rainfall in the two regions. Srikakulam and Vizianagaram registered ‘minus’ rainfall levels compared to the normal and Visakhapatnam received normal rainfall,” Stella told TOI. These conditions, Stella said, may not continue and rainfall levels would fall below or return to the normal soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rain-batters-south-andhra-pradesh-but-deficit-in-north/articleshow/77620966.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
August 19, 2020||Kanpur||State Bar Council asks elders’ panel to hold Bar Association polls||KANPUR: The Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh has asked the elders’ committee of Kanpur Bar Association to “conduct the annual general elections in favourable and appropriate condition”. The committee used to conduct the annual general election of Kanpur Bar Association for the last many years. The annual elections were due in March this year. All preparations were made but a complaint regarding the electoral list to the Bar Council of UP forced it to intervene in the matter. The Bar Council stayed the elections and summoned the electoral list for examination. Besides, the Bar Council deputed two of its members to conduct the election of Kanpur Bar Association. Since countrywide lockdown was imposed in view of corona pandemic, the elections too were stayed. According to general secretary of the Kanpur Bar Association Kapil Deep Sachan, president of the Bar Council of UP Janki Sharan Pandey had heard the matter of Kanpur Association and vacated the stay and asked the elders’ committee to conduct the election. The president also directed the elders’ committee to amend the electoral list and remove all errors which were pointed out earlier. The elders’ committee would conduct the election with the help of district administration. Neither any new member would be made or added nor re-nomination process would take place. However, the elders’ committee would ask for appointing an observer. The Bar Council would take action against erring persons. Vice-president of Bar Council of UP Ankaj Mishra said the election would be conducted and organized by the elders’ committee. The Bar Council would take action against those who would not follow the code of conduct.Talking to TOI, Sachan said the conditions were not favourable right now. Therefore, the elders’ committee has no other option but to wait for favourable conditions to hold the elections, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/state-bar-council-asks-elders-panel-to-hold-bar-assn-polls/articleshow/77622796.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
August 19, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Lockdown leaves musicians in misery||AHMEDABAD: Audiences always cheered ‘once more’ whenever Zakir Qureshi of Rajkot rendered the poignant Baiju Bawra classic ‘O Duniya Ke Rakhwale, Sun Dard Bhare Mere Naale.’ Ironically, no other pathos-filled song describes Qureshi’s life more aptly these days as he desperately prays for an end to his misery caused after the Covid-induced lockdown. From a rented Rs 10,000 per month flat, this singer-cum-tabla player has been forced into a little room in Rajkot’s Parsananagar locality. Every morning, he steps out with a bundle of kurtis and squats on any road with the hope that selling two pieces (Rs 50 profit per kurta) would ensure milk and vegetables for his three-member family the next day. Like Qureshi, there are hundreds of musicians whose harmony and rhythms have ornamented songs on the grand stage not just in India, but in foreign countries too. The fact that they remained unsung throughout their decades of music career doesn’t hurt them any more as the lockdown and pandemic pushed them into such penury which has made meeting two ends a daily drudgery. The same hands which played tabla, drums, octapad and violins are now taking up odd jobs to meet the expenses of ill parents’ medicines, bank EMIs, children’s education, electricity bills, house rent and even daily essentials like vegetables, milk and groceries. If someone like Prakash Raja, an Ahmedabad-based singer, has learnt stitching handkerchiefs, there are others like drummer Jayesh Bagde who has been forced to start a tea stall in Ghodasar area of Ahmedabad since July 5. “I used to earn around Rs 25,000 a month before lockdown. These days I earn around Rs 300 a day by selling tea,” said Bagde, who used up his savings to pay a total of Rs 96,000 as fees for his son’s diploma engineering course and his daughter Surali’s tuition and school fees for Class VII. “Of the total fees, I used Rs 15,000 from the credit card, but now I am unable to repay,” rues Bagde. Said Raja, “My friend offered me a job of stitching the borders of handkerchiefs in Isanpur. I worked there from March to May, but his migrant workers who were already skilled at the job, started returning.” “There was a day when I didn’t have money to buy LPG cylinder and had to borrow Rs 1,500 from a friend,” added Raja who has also toured the US, UK and Dubai in his 25 years career. The woes of 29-year-old Sunil Nimavat of Rajkot are no different. A versatile percussionist since the age of 15, Nimavat has taken up labourer’s work of centering at a construction site for Rs 500 daily wage in June. “But hardly a month had passed that my father was detected with colon cancer. Fortunately, my friend lent me Rs one lakh for his hospitalization and medicines,’ said Nimavat, who used to earn Rs 25,000 a month from live programmes and recordings. Nimavat had purchased a house in Ghanteshwar five years by taking Rs 6.5 lakh loan and putting in his savings, but he is unable to pay EMIs for the last four months now as joblessness has left his five-member family including ill father in a lurch. Dilip Kholiya, a regular tabla player in bhajan programmes, is bed-ridden since February after both his hip balls were replaced. The cost of Rs lakh for the operation was borne by friend Mehndi Hassan Khan, a tabla player, who also paid his house rent and purchased groceries. An octapad player from Ahmedabad, Rane now drives Ola and Uber cabs. A regular member of several orchestra bands, Rane, 39, was hoping that Navrati would help him tide over the crunch. “Many shows abroad too were lined up, but all are cancelled. I have to pay Rs 8,977 as a car loan every month, but I hardly manage to earn Rs 10,000 from driving cabs whole day,” he said. Rane is getting some help from his in-laws and parents and his mother underwent angioplasty in February. “I plan to go and live with my parents in Maninagar now as I can’t afford the house rent of Rs 6,000 now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/lockdown-leaves-musicians-in-misery/articleshow/77619494.cms||Tushar Prabhune
August 19, 2020||Lucknow||UP key to ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ success, says Nabard chairman||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday launched a Nabard project for development of terracotta artisans in two blocks of Gorakhpur. In a meeting with Nabard chairperson GR Chintala, who is in Lucknow for a two-day visit, Yogi also discussed the various initiatives taken up by regulatory body in UP in the aftermath of the Covid-19 pandemic. Chintala said if the PM’s vision of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ had to be fulfilled, it would have to be grounded in UP due to the sheer size of the state. The chairperson enumerated the steps taken by the bank in UP over the past few months, including formation of 362 farmer producer organisations (FPOs), providing liquidity of Rs 1,730 crore to banks and launching of skill development programmes focussing on migrant workers back in the state. The bank has also provided financial support to rural infrastructure projects including for major irrigation projects like Arjun Sahayak, Madhya Ganga and Saryu Nahar. “As per the central government plan, there will be an additional 1,600 FPOs in UP over the coming years. To realise the PM’s vision of making India a $5 trillion economy, UP should have a major share in projects and there is also a need to empower women by forming at least 15 lakh women self help groups,” he said. He added that the support of the state government was required to strengthen the financial health of cooperatives and also requested it to consider the recommendation of merger of cooperatives. Yogi said the state government has prioritised setting up of FPOs in each block. Meanwhile, work was ongoing to strengthen infrastructure in the state through expressways which would be linked to all major road of districts and improvement of basic facilities in schools by providing solar panels, toilets. Thanking Nabard for its financial support, the CM said: “It is the endeavour of the state to provide potable drinking water to every household in three districts of Bundelkhand initially and then in villages affected by arsenic and fluoride contamination. Long pending irrigation projects like Ban Sagar have also been completed in record time for providing water to Mirzapur and Prayagraj districts. The other major projects like Sarayu Nahar, Madhya Ganga and Arjun Sahayak will be completed in the current year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-key-to-atmanirbhar-bharat-success-says-nabard-chairman/articleshow/77623492.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Tobacco Board cuts AP crop size by 15%||Guntur: With global demand for tobacco at an all-time low in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian Tobacco Board has slashed the crop size for Andhra Pradesh to 115 million kg. A meeting of the board’s governing council held here on Tuesday decided to cut the crop size by nearly 15%. This is nearly 21 million kg less than the crop size allowed during the last season. The board meeting was chaired by chairman Yadlapati Raghunatha Babu. “The indents given by manufacturers and exporters through Indian Tobacco Association (ITA) and problems faced by growers for sale of tobacco due to Covid-19 and poor international demand were taken into consideration in fixing the crop size,” said Raghunatha Babu. Growers have faced hardship during the current season as traders have been reluctant to buy. Sales picked up after chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy deputed AP Markfed to buy stocks three weeks ago. While the Northern Black Soils (NBS) region was given a quota of 3.21 million kg (mkg), Northern Light Soils (NLS) was spared 40.45 mkg. Similarly, Southern Light Soils (SLS) got 37.91 mkg and Southern Black Soils (SBS) 33.43 mkg. Tobacco-growing areas are classified into different regions based on soil and the crop quota. The NLS region spread over West Godavari district is known for high-quality produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tobacco-board-cuts-ap-crop-size-by-15/articleshow/77620980.cms||Samdani MN
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||45 deaths, 1,615 Covid positive cases in a day in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: Vidarbha region recorded the highest-ever single-day spike of 1615 cases and 45 deaths due to Covid-19 on August 18. With this, the Covid-19 death toll of region reached 950 while cases in the region surpassed 35000-mark and reached 35045. Earlier, 45 deaths had been reported only once on August 7. Highest 37 of the 45 deaths were from Nagpur. These include 30 deaths from Nagpur city alone, 4 from Nagpur rural and 3 from other states/districts. With Gondia (2), Yavatmal (2), Washim (1), Amravati (1), Akola (1), and Bhandara (1) on Tuesday, total death toll reached 950. Amravati became third district in Vidarbha and 13th in Maharashtra to report more than 100 Covid-19 deaths. However, as new cases were more, the case fatality rate remained steady at 2.7%. Out of 950 deaths due to Covid-19 in Vidarbha, 563 have been reported only in the 18 days of August which is highly alarming. Nagpur once again reported more than 1000 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday. Total 1107 cases were reported in the district. These include 1001 from Nagpur municipal corporation area, 103 from Nagpur rural and three from other states/districts. Nagpur was followed by Amravati (116), Yavatmal (104), Buldhana (104), Chandrapur (44), Akola (39), Wardha (32), Bhandara (28), Gondia (23), Washim (12) and Gadchiroli (6). Recoveries were at all time high on Monday, but the figure came down to 729 on Tuesday. With Nagpur (281), Yavatmal (112), Amravati (71), Akola (64), Buldhana (50), Gondia (40), Chandrapur (35), Washim (31), Bhandara (19), Wardha (17) and Gadchiroli (9); total 19370 patients have recovered till date from Vidarbha region which is near about 55% recovery rate. With the death of a 65-year-old man from Jakir colony here, the district posted its 100th covid death since the first was reported on April 2. With a spike of 116 cases on Tuesday, the district also took its Covid count past 4000 to 4045. Seventy-one patients got discharge who took the number of recovered patients to 2751. This left 1184 active cases, including 27 taking treatment in Nagpur and 315 advised home quarantine. The rural belt reported 47 cases to take its count to 1092. Of these 47, Chandur Bazar accounted for 19 to take its score to 82. Achalpur reported 13 to take its tally to 81. Paratwada in Achalpur tehsil gave four to take its count to 58 while Daryapur reported five to take its count to 72. Morshi gave two on Tuesday to take its count to 65. Single cases came from four other rural places. In the city , Krushnagar gave five cases to take its score to 49 while Badnera gave four that took its count to 269. Six cases came for the first time from Priya Township. Pannalal Bagicha reported three to take its count to seven. Two cases each came from Gadgenagar police station, Rampuri Camp, Vishwakarma Colony, Prashant Nagar, Puja Colony, Durga Vihar, Camp, Jay Siyaram Nagar and Rajapeth that took their respective count to five, 80, two, five, six, three, 27, two and 22. Single cases came from 30 other localities in the city. GONDIA: Gondia district reported two deaths due to Covid, an increase of 23 positive patients and 40 recoveries on Tuesday. Patients who succumbed to the disease include a 34-year-old man hailing from Katangi Kala and a 62-year-old man, a native of Dongargaon Khadki village. Now, Gondia has 834 total Covid-19 cases, including 587 recovered and 11 deaths. Total 236 patients are under treatment. YAVATMAL: The district once again reported 2 deaths of Covid-19 positive patients. A 55-year-old man from Athawadi Bazar area in Darwha tehsil and a 40-year-old man from Khatib ward in Pusad died while undergoing treatment. With this, Covid-19 death toll of Yavatmal reached 62. Total 104 new cases were reported in Yavatmal district. These include 62 from various parts of Yavatmal city and others from Digras, Pusad, Kalamb and Umarkhed tehsils. With 112 patients recovered and discharged in a day, total 704 patients are under treatment in Yavatmal. Out of these, 573 are in institutional isolation while 131 are in home isolation. More than 479 reports are still awaited. AKOLA: A 74-year-old man from Siddharth Nagar area in Old Akola died on Tuesday. He was under treatment since August 13. This took the total Covid-19 death toll of Akola to 137. Total 328 test reports were received on Tuesday out of which 39 tested positive taking the total number of cases in Akola district to 3290. Total 64 patients recovered in a day and were discharged. Now, 2759 patients have recovered from Akola and 394 patients are under treatment. Most of the 39 patients reported on August 18 were from Akola rural. WASHIM: Worst-hit by Covid-19, the Karanja Lad tehsil in Washim district reported one more death on August 18. A 53-year-old woman from Anand Nagar in Karanja-Lad who tested positive in Amravati hospital on August 13 died during treatment there on Tuesday. This was the 21st Covid-19 death of Washim. The district reported 12 new cases while 31 patients received discharge in a day. Now, Washim has 1239 cases, including 850 patients recovered. Total 368 patients from Washim are still under treatment. BHANDARA: A 75-year-old Covid-19 positive man from Bhandara died in the isolation ward on August 18. Bhandara reported Covid death for the second day in a row. Now, total Covid-19 death toll of Bhandara reached 9. Total 28 new cases were reported from Bhandara (8), Sakoli (12), Mohadi (4), Tumsar (1), Lakhni (2) and Paoni (1). Total 19 patients discharged on Tuesday. Now, Bhandara has 596 total cases, including 368 recovered, 9 deaths and 219 under treatment. CHANDRAPUR: District registered a spike of 44 new cases as the Covid-19 total climbed up to 1165 on Tuesday. The day also witnessed the discharge of 35 patients taking the total of cured patients to 784. There are now 372 active patients being treated at Covid Care Centres and Covid Hospitals. No death was registered during the day. Newfound patients on Tuesday include 14 from Rajrua, nine from Ballarpur, seven from Chandrapur city, five from Jiwti, three from Chimur, two from Warora and one each from Mul and Saoli tehsils. BULDHANA: Record breaking 104 patients tested Covid-19 positive in Buldhana on Tuesday. More serious is that only 259 reports were received in a day in Buldhana which means samples positivity rate for the day was more than 40%. Now, Buldhana has 2356 total Covid-19 cases. Total 50 patients recovered in a day taking their number to 1449. With 40 deaths reported till date, total 867 patients are under treatment in the district. WARDHA: Total 32 persons, including 21 men and 11 women tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday in the district while 17 were discharged from the hospital after recovering from Covid-19. The highest positive were detected in Wardha (13), in Hinganghat (7), five positive each in Arvi and Selu, while one each from Samudrapur and Pulgaon. A 6-year-old boy of Walisaheb ward of Arvi was the youngest while 72-year-old woman from Dayalnagar, Wardha, was the oldest among the positive on Tuesday. 127 reports came on Tuesday and 32 of them were positive, 110 persons were released from Covid centres after receiving negative reports. The active positive patients reached 117. They are undergoing treatment at Kasturba Hospital, Sewagram and Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital, Sawangi. The total count of positive patient in district reached 455 while 337 have been discharged after recovering from coronavirus. GADCHIROLI: One positive patient fled from Q-centre-turned-CCC at Korchi. He was untraceable after dinner on Aug 17. The man, who had returned from Tamil Nadu on August 9, was kept at the centre. His result had come positive on Monday and subsequently, he fled. The man sneaked through the bathroom window. He is yet to be traced. Gadchiroli reported 6 new patients while 9 recovered. Now, the district has 849 total cases, 711 of them recovered and 137 under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/45-deaths-1615-covid-positive-cases-in-a-day-in-vidarbha/articleshow/77622830.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
August 19, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Covid ambulance management handy for other exigencies||KOZHIKODE: The ambulance management module of Covid-19 Jagratha portal –which saw over 2,900 ambulances across the state registering under it– is proving its utility beyond fighting the pandemic. It became evident when it became an emergency response system during the plane crash at Karipur International Airport by tapping into the ambulance database in Kozhikode and Malappuram to help rush survivors for medical care. Kozhikode collector S Sambasiva Rao said that ambulance management module of the portal helped to dispatch around 100 ambulances in the district to the airport by tapping into the database within 30 minutes of the disaster. “All ambulances in the district were under our disposal and we could send all of them to the site of accident,” he added. The ambulance management module of Covid-19 Jagratha portal offers the facility for ambulance owners and service providers to register their vehicles for Covid-duty. Also it enables public to request an ambulance by downloading Covid-19 Jagratha mobile app. It also allows tracking the vehicle and provides information about drivers and about how many ambulances are engaged and which are all available for service. Following the utility of the ambulance database for rescue operations after the AIE flight crash at Karipur airport, officials said that the system should continue beyond Covid-19 management and other critical emergency resources should be mapped likewise. Rao said that the administration was planning to map other emergency resources related to disaster management so that there can be a fast response during emergencies. Covid-19 Jagratha, initially developed by Kozhikode administration as an online health monitoring system in the early days of the Covid-19 pandemic has become a comprehensive Covid-19 management solution for the entire state. Now, it has separate modules for hospital management which enables hospital infrastructure monitoring, including the current occupancy of beds, ICUs and ventilators, referral from medical officer to online health consultation and patient management. Also, the web application has been helping in Covid-19 testing and result recording, contact marking and tracking, antigen test marking apart from ambulance management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/covid-ambulance-mgmt-handy-for-other-exigencies/articleshow/77621022.cms||K R Rajeev
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Liquor mafia attack police team, ASI injured||CHANDRAPUR: An assistant subinspector (ASI) of Shegaon police was injured when a team raiding a liquor den was attacked on Tuesday afternoon. The incident has exposed the growing might and daring of liquor mafia in the dry district. Sources said Shegaon police got a tip-off that liquor peddler Prakash Thawre from village Savri (Bidkar) was hoarding liquor for Pola festivities. A team comprising ASI Ashok Kshirsagar and constable Sameer Pathan led by PI Borkute went to the village on Tuesday afternoon to search Thawre’s house for liquor. Prakash Thawre fled on coming to know of the police arrival. However, his relatives, including Sandeep Thawre, Satiram Thawre, Pravin Thawre, Shubham Thaware and Mangesh Jumde, started fighting with the police party. While they abused the cops in vulgar language, some cornered ASI Kshirsagar and manhandled him. ASI Kshirsagar sustained minor injury in the scuffle. When the police retaliated, the assailants fled from the scene. PI Borkute told TOI they thwarted the attack, forcing the miscreants to flee, however, one personnel suffered minor injuries. Five assailants were booked for the attack and a hunt is underway for them. Cops have been posted in the village, he said. The liquor mafia has grown quite strong in the district. They are not afraid of showing their muscle and money power whenever there is a need. There have been many incidents of attack on police parties in the past by liquor mafia. In fact two cops including an officers have been killed in liquor mafia attacks in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/liquor-mafia-attack-police-team-asi-injured/articleshow/77622807.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid care centres in Bengaluru left with huge number of vacant beds||BENGALURU: With the government changing tack and allowing asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic Covid-19 patients to remain in home care (home isolation), there has been a drastic drop in bed-occupancy levels at BIEC Covid Care Centre (CCC). The 1,500-bed facility currently has only about 600 patients. The BIEC CCC, even before it opened, had attracted attention for the wrong reasons after it was found officials were hiring equipment such as beds and fans at huge costs when it would have been cheaper to buy these items. Now, officials say, over 60% of the facility has been vacant and has been for some time. They claim the idea of converting it into a CCC was ill-conceived as it came at a time when the government allowed home isolation. “The CCC was poorly planned, especially since officials in the government were already working towards scrapping the idea of institutional care and implementing home isolation,” a senior BBMP official in charge of the CCC admitted. In all, there are 4,576 beds in CCCs across Bengaluru and only 2,869 of them are currently occupied. CCCs in Bengaluru see about 430 admissions and about 420 discharges daily. “Former BBMP commissioner BH Anil Kumar had come up with the idea of converting BIEC into a CCC to house patients, but new commissioner Manjunatha Prasad suggested home isolation,” the official said. The facilities in BIEC border on the luxurious, but very few people want to be housed there. A senior officer working in BIEC says many senior citizens have opted to stay at the centre only because monitoring their health at home would have been a challenge. “Nearly 70% of patients at BIEC are in the age group 50-70 years and are receiving extensive care,” the official said. Rajendra Kumar Kataria, IAS officer in charge of CCCs in Bengaluru, said the home isolation concept wasn’t planned until mid-June and the decision to set up BIEC was made when cases were rising rapidly. “Many patients do not want to come to BIEC because it is far from local residences which is one reason why it has few takers,” Kataria said. Also, there are several other CCCs set up jointly by RWAs and hotels. “Many hospitals also have CCCs for which we don’t manage the data,” Kataria said. “Many people are having a good time at BIEC and request to stay there a little longer. We are doing everything correctly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cccs-in-bengaluru-left-with-huge-number-of-vacant-beds/articleshow/77619856.cms||Nithya Mandyam
August 19, 2020||Surat||Call centre racket busted, 19 held||Surat: The prevention of crime branch of Surat city police busted a call centre in Jahangirpura area on Monday and arrested 19 persons from the spot. However, the owners of the call centre are yet to get arrested. The accused were held from the third floor of Green Aristo Plaza on Vaishnodevi Canal Road during a raid. Police also booked Vikash alias Vicky Mehta and his sister Neha for allegedly running the call centre. The duo are yet to be arrested. Investigation revealed that the accused used to make calls and send messages to individual offering schemes to invest in the forex market. The accused used to cheat the investor by offering them attractive schemes, police informed. Cops recovered 56 mobile phones, eight laptops, four desktop computers and one IPad, total worth Rs 6.31 lakh from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/call-centre-racket-busted-19-held/articleshow/77621001.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Delhi||Several cars dented as boundary wall of school in Delhi's Saket crumbles||NEW DELHI: The residents of Saket in south Delhi woke up to bad news on Wednesday morning. At 5.30am, the wall of Apeejay School in J Block collapsed in the rain and severely damaged seven cars. Businessman Manish Chawla had his two of his cars affected, a Santro and an Innova Crest he had bought just six months ago. “After getting the information from my brother, we dialled 100 and sought assistance. We have been parking in this space for two decades,” said Chawla. He alleged that the wall wasn’t properly built and that there were no pillars, only bricks, for a wall of its size. A Renault belonging to Shreya Agnihotri too was ravaged. “It is not as if an earthquake caused the wall to fall,” she said. “The construction must be faulty. Fortunately, the children were not in school when this happened.” An Etios and Honda City were covered with bricks and iron grills, while a Hector Hybrid was maimed in the front. A resident whose Swift Desire is damaged beyond redemption rued she had decided to park there. “I never did parked here, but the space I usually used was not available yesterday,” she said. “On the other side of the wall, you can see that it has been casually built.” The car owners are unsure if they can claim insurance and felt the school should at least pay the differential amount, taking responsibility for the incident. Some of them also registered a complaint with police. Fire service and Delhi Disaster Management Authority officials visited the site. School representative Pratik Singh claimed the wall was raised “as per the directive of the government”. He said, “It was built to the specified height of 8ft to deter terrorists or miscreants.” Later, the school said in a statement, “Due to extremely heavy rains across the city, a small part of our boundary wall broke down in an area where vehicles are not meant to be parked. There are no injuries. We regret that since the school is in Covid-19 mode, an immediate response was not possible. We are working with the authorities to rebuild the wall. Our focus is to first remove the debris and ensure the safety of everyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/several-cars-dented-as-boundary-wall-of-school-in-saket-crumbles/articleshow/77643228.cms||Shradha Chettri
August 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Three held for rape of minor in Tenali||VIJAYAWADA: Police arrested three persons for allegedly kidnapping and raping a 14-year-old girl in Tenali. The incident happened on July 26 but came to light on Tuesday. According to Tenali DSP Srilakshmi, the 14-year-old girl from Muttem Settipalem village was kidnapped and raped by a youth who later her dropped her near Vaikuntapuram village. Fearing backlash, the girl decided to go to her friend’s place but on the way met a home guard who assured to take her home. However, the guard took a detour to his place and locked her up. He and his friend then raped her repeatedly. On August 13, the girl escaped and returned home and narrated the ordeal to her parents who lodged a complaint with One Town police. A case under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-held-for-rape-of-minor/articleshow/77620993.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Surat||Heavy rain in Bardoli, Mithi Khadi starts swelling again||Surat: The water levels in the Mithi khadi (creek) continued to remain high on Tuesday following incessant rains in the catchment areas of the district over the last 24 hours. The water level in the creek rose marginally from 8.2metres to 8.4metres on Tuesday. Official sources said that the water level in Mithi Khadi had broken the record of the last 16 years by as it crossed 9m-mark last week after heavy rains in the catchment areas of Bardoli, Palsana and Kamrej in Surat district. Subsequently, as the rains subsided, the water level had receded to 8.2 metres. Talking to TOI, executive engineer of Limbayat zone, Bhairav Desai said, “There has been waterlogging in some of the low-lying areas of Parvat Patiya and Limbayat due to the spilling over of the water from the creek.” Desai added, “The catchment area of Mithi Khadi is spread in 138 sq km area consisting of Bardoli, Palsana and Kamrej talukas. The rainwater flows into the creek passing through the city before reaching the Arabian sea.” The civic body has opened about five relief centres in Limbayat zone for those affected by the flooding in the creek areas. Officials said that about seven teams of health officials and firemen have been deployed in the low-lying areas to help the residents. De-watering machines have been placed in several areas of Parvat Patiya and Limbayat for removing the flood waters. Desai said, “. We have also deployed gulper machines at various places to keep the drainage lines clean and to prevent the flood waters from entering the houses .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/heavy-rain-in-bardoli-mithi-khadi-starts-swelling-again/articleshow/77619416.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Govt projects 50,000 new cases in next one month in Nagpur district||NAGPUR: Considering the spread of the pandemic, the state government has reportedly projected 50,000 new Covid-19 cases in the district in next one month. However, to detect all the infected persons as per the projections, the administration will have to increase testing in a big way over the next one month. BJP MLA from Hingna Sameer Meghe released an audio clip on social media on Tuesday. In the clip, Meghe said, “Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis took review of pandemic with collector and divisional commissioner, who said projection is of 40,000-50,000 cases in the district in next one month.” Talking to TOI, Meghe said, “The projection seems to consider the way cases have increased in the district. The officials told us 50,000 is projected number of new cases in the district one month from now. They say the district is likely to witness peak of Covid-19 in next 8-10 days, with the peak likely to remain for one or one-and-a-half months.” Meghe said he revealed the projected number of cases to spread awareness among people. “Only a few people are following guidelines of Covid distancing, wearing mask etc. Through audio and video clips, I have appealed on social media to people to stay at home and step outside only for essential service,” he said. Fadnavis held the review meeting at collector office and also Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Monday. BJP legislators were present. Collector Ravindra Thakre has reportedly informed all about the projection of cases. After the meeting, Fadnavis had given a statement to mediapersons that next one month will be very critical for the district. One of the legislators present in the meeting said the government projected 44,000 cumulative cases by end of August. As on Tuesday, the number of cases in the district was 17,872. MLC Parinay Fuke said, “It depends upon number of tests. If 10% of total tested samples are testing positive, we need to do 5,00,000 tests in next one month. Therefore, Fadnavis directed officials to increase testing so that cases are detected early and given treatment in time to prevent deaths as well as containing spread of Covid-19. But the state government and NMC have miserably failed to increase the testing. At present, only 3,000 tests are being done in a day in the city, which should be above 5,000 and increase gradually.” Thakre did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages. If the projections come true, a major problem for the district will be availability of beds for treatment of symptomatic patients. TOI had highlighted symptomatic patients were finding it difficult to get admission in government and private hospitals even now. At present, the number of active cases is around 9,000. It will increase manifold if district registers 50,000 cases in one month. Meghe and Fuke said, “Fadnavis has given a good suggestion to officials to increase number of Covid Care Centres (CCCs) for patients with moderate symptoms. Some private hospitals should be kept for non-Covid patients and these hospitals should be tied-up with CCCs for monitoring and treatment of patients. Much depends upon the people and every situation can be controlled if all follow the guidelines.” Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar said, “The administration is prepared for every situation. There are less chances of peak in all districts of Vidarbha at one time. In Nagpur district, we have started Covid-19 services at Lata Mangeshkar Hospital and Shalinitai Meghe Hospital. We also plan to treat patients at Wardha, where 1,000 beds are available. We have capacity of 1,200 in GMCH and IGGMCH, which will get sufficient staff. NMC has also developed hospitals. Some more private hospitals will also begin service for Covid-19.” In April, the government had projected peak and 18,902 cases in 10 days between May 15 and 31 to prepare the health infrastructure. But experts in epidemiology said it was prevented with full lockdown in April and May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-projects-50k-new-cases-in-next-one-month-in-nagpur-district/articleshow/77622841.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rescued tiger cub dies in Kota zoo||Jaipur: A cub rescued from Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR) after the death of its mother, tigress MT-2, died at the Kota zoo on Tuesday. The four-month-old cub was undergoing medical treatment. The possibility of survival of this cub after the rescue operation was less as it was recovered in a weak condition. A senior official said, “The haemoglobin of the cub fell to 2.6 on Monday. We were planning for blood transfusion and samples of other big cats were collected. However, it died due to weakness.” Earlier, it was suspected that the cub could have been carrying the deadly and highly contagious canine distemper virus (CDV) - usually found in dogs. Blood samples for presence of the virus were also sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI). However, the report came negative. “We received the IVRI report and CDV was not found in the cub,” said a senior official. On August 3, MT-2 died in a suspected territorial fight. Traces of one female cub born to the tigress have not been found yet, while the male cub (which died on Tuesday) was found in a weak condition near the Bewda Talai area. After continuous deaths of tigers, member of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) Diya Kumari wrote a letter to Union minister of environment and forests Prakash Javedkar to take proper measures for conservation and promotion of tigers in Rajasthan. Kumari said, “Many tourists come to Rajasthan to see tigers in the state’s tiger sanctuaries, which is also an important source of income for the state. The Centre should issue necessary guidelines to the state government to investigate the causes of recent tiger deaths so that such incidents do not repeat.” Though MHTR is spread over 759.99 sqkm covering the four districts of Kota, Bundi, Chittorgarh and Jhalawar, only 200 sqkm in Jhalawar is dedicated to tigers. As only two big cats - MT-1 (male) and (MT-4) - remain at the reserve, the future of the sanctuary, where the country’s third tiger reintroduction programme was initiated, looks bleak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rescued-tiger-cub-dies-in-kota-zoo/articleshow/77622876.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Nagpur||Tiger kills a farmer in Virur forest range||CHANDRAPUR: Terror returned to villages of Virur range after a farmer was killed by a tiger in Navegaon forest on Tuesday evening. Foresters suspect it’s the same troublesome tiger that’s responsible for the earlier five human kills in Virur and Rajura range. Victim Vasudev Kondekar (55) was out in the forest to graze his cattle when a lurking tiger attacked and killed him in compartment No. 145 in Navegaon forest under Virur range. This is the sixth human kill in the adjacent Virur and Rajura ranges since November 2019. Officials, however, claimed that they need to confirm whether the same tiger is responsible for the latest kill. The forest department had issued capture orders for this dreaded tiger way back in January. The last human kill by the tiger was reported in village Chunala in Rajura range. However, attacks on human had stopped since then. So far, all the efforts to capture the problem tiger have failed. The operation to capture the tiger resumed briefly in Rajura range after a farmer was mauled in Kavithpeth village, but again, the big cat eluded the hunters. This is 20th incident of human kill in predator attacks in Chandrapur this year. Tigers have killed 19 humans, while one fell prey to a leopard attack. Last year witnessed 23 human kills in predator attacks in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-kills-a-farmer-in-virur-forest-range/articleshow/77622837.cms||Mazhar Ali
August 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fourth generation of Port City’s first photographer keeps the tradition going||In 1887, C Moonuswamy Mudaliar (Mooduliar), who would become the first resident photographer of Vizag, came to the Port City from Chennai. Today, fourth-generation members of the family continue to carry on the tradition as freelance photographers. The earliest pictures of Vizag on film can be traced to the late-19th century and the city’s first family of photographers. In the 1870s, landscapes, seascapes and portraits were photographed for local royalty and missionaries, with the held of Madras-based photography companies such as Nicholas and Co., Hughes Brothers and Wiele and Klein. “In those days, while still in high school, I used to bring photo-sensitive material like negatives and paper from Calcutta and the processing was done in Bombay Kodak studio,” Moonuswamy’s great grandson P Rajagopal Narayanaswami told TOI. Through photographs, Moonuswamy’s Rathnam Studios documented Waltair’s landscape and the construction of the new Vizag harbour in the 1920s. His studios were located on Harbour Road, opposite the present-day Queen Mary High School. With the coming of the Railways to Vizag in the 1890s and the promotion of Vizag and Waltair as tourist spots, Mudaliar used the medium to promote the new East Coast Railway line to Vizagapatam in a magazine brought out by the Madras Railway Company in 1902. “He was a member of the Madras Photographic Society. As postcards grew in popularity, Mudaliar sold his own postcards that were printed in England and also sold his images to the Railways for the postcards they printed and sold around 1910. He also experimented with the first handpainted images of Vizag,” said John Castellas, a researcher who has worked on Vizag. “Moonuswamy Mudaliar’s son-in-law was P Natesan Mudaliar. Natesan’s son, that is my father PN Rajagopal, was the official photographer of Andhra University in the early 1940s. Currently, two of my siblings, PR Srinivas and R Vijay Kumar are into freelance photography and also have a studio in Dabagardens,” said Rajagopal Narayanaswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fourth-generation-of-port-citys-first-photographer-keeps-the-tradition-going/articleshow/77621005.cms||Sulogna Mehta
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 497 cases, six deaths||Dehradun: With 497 fresh cases of Covid-19 recorded in Uttarakhand on Tuesday, the tally of coronavirus cases reached 12,961 in the state. Also, six deaths were reported on the day, taking the toll of the virus to 164 in the state. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, informed that All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Rishikesh reported six deaths on Tuesday. All the victims had comorbidities along with Covid-19 infection. “As many as 239 people recovered from Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. With this, the recovery rate touched 67.3% on the day,” added Tripathi. Among the 497 fresh cases, the maximum of 105 were reported from Udham Singh Nagar, followed by 99 cases from Dehradun, 98 from Nainital, 68 from Haridwar, 39 from Pauri Garhwal, 42 from Tehri Garhwal, 22 from Champawat, 10 from Bageshwar, eight from Uttarkashi, four from Almora, and one case each from Pithoragarh and Rudraprayag districts. The state has been reporting over 300 Covid-19 cases on an average basis for the last fortnight. Health watchers believe that the case tally of Covid-19 in Uttarakhand will cross 25,000 by September 30. Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation, an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state, said, “If this trend continues during the coming days, Uttarakhand would touch 25,000 cases by September 25-30. The good thing is that we also have a 65%-70% recovery rate.” Meanwhile, the daily Covid-19 bulletin released by the health directorate on Monday which stated 41 fresh cases in Rudraprayag was later termed incorrect. The health department termed it a “manual error” and clarified that just three cases had surfaced from the district on the day. The announcement of the figure had led to panic among residents of the town and authorities concerned were flooded with calls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-497-cases-six-deaths/articleshow/77619453.cms||Ishita Mishra
August 19, 2020||Hubballi||Thanks to pandemic, cadaver donations come to a standstill||HUBBALLI: While the pandemic has hit virtually every facet of life, it has also taken a toll on body donations for research too. Since March when the pandemic hit, most medical colleges in the state stopped accepting body donations thanks to restrictions imposed by ICMR. As a result, medical colleges in North Karnataka alone could not accept at least 32 bodies that were pledged for research. Since practical classes for medical students are not being held in view of the pandemic, body donations have declined sharply. Dr Mahantesh Ramannavar, a Belagavi-based anatomy lecturer and founder of Dr Ramannavar Charitable Trust, which is involved in spreading awareness on cadaver donations, said as many as 16 people, who had pledged to donate their bodies, died since March and although their families were willing to go ahead with the donation, colleges and research institutions could not accept. “As per WHO and ICMR guidelines, cadavers cannot be transported from one place to another and cannot be preserved,” Dr Ramannavar said. “Embalming is also not allowed now. So we have had to defer accepting donations.” Dr Ramannavar said there was urgent need for a regulating authority to coordinate with colleges to ensure a balance of cadavers in all medical colleges. “Currently, people pledge to donate their bodies to a particular institution or hospital and sign a consent form. The form should be revised to allow transfer of a cadaver to other medical colleges if required,” he said. Dr Ramalingappa Antaratani, director, KIMS, Hubballi, said guidelines allow colleges to accept cadavers if the deceased in from the same locality. “We will take care to prevent any type of infections if we get cadavers,” he said. However, Dr Channabasanagouda Patil, head, department of anatomy, Koppal Institute of Medical Sciences, said: “For the time being, colleges can teach without dissecting cadavers. It need not be an issue.” But a doctor from GIMS, requesting anonymity, said, “If the Covid-19 induced restrictions on cadaver donation are not lifted, it will affect the quality of education.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/thanks-to-pandemic-cadaver-donations-come-to-a-standstill/articleshow/77619914.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
August 19, 2020||Chennai||Relaxation only for e-pass; Chennai corporation’s home quarantine rules to continue||CHENNAI: Residents of Chennai and thousands of others who are returning to the city should realise that the relaxation allowed by the Tamil Nadu government is only in terms of the e-pass. The quarantine system followed by Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) will continue to be as strict as it was. Those coming in to Chennai will have to quarantine themselves as per the existing rules and their movements will be strictly monitored by officials. For instance, those coming to Chennai from other districts of the state and leaving the city within 48 hours will not have to follow the home quarantine rules. However, they would have to quarantine themselves when they return to the native district. In case someone comes to Chennai and is not returning within 48 hours, they would have to undergo quarantine for 14 days. “A home quarantine sticker would be pasted on their residence,” a senior civic body official said. The address would already be provided when the person applies for the e-pass, the official added. The corporation already has a strong home quarantine monitoring system using which they track several categories of people including those who are positive, contacts of positive patients, those tested and waiting for results and those who have returned from foreign countries, other states and other districts. In fact, residents have been getting calls from the cyber cell of police if found venturing out of their homes, in a few cases. There has been a huge influx of people into the city after the e-pass system was made simpler from Sunday. People wishing to travel between districts of the state just have to apply on the e-pass portal with their Aadhaar card or ration card details. No additional documents are required. On Monday alone, the civic body issued e-passes to 14,355 people, official data showed. Of this, 11,608 were people who were returning from other districts of the state. Compared to this, when the e-pass regulations were strict till last week, only around 5,000 people were coming into Chennai on a daily basis, data showed. This is obviously going to increase the workload and tracking mechanism for the corporation officials on the ground as the numbers are only going to increase everyday. Corporation commissioner G Prakash said that this would be one area where systems would have to be followed strongly now. However, officials say they are geared up. “We have a proper volunteer mechanism as well as tracking system which will help us ensure minimum lapses,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/relaxation-only-for-e-pass-corpns-home-quarantine-rules-to-continue/articleshow/77622884.cms||Siddharth Prabhakar
August 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Rs 455 crore relief package for tourism||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State tourism department has announced Rs.455cr subsidized loan assistance scheme for helping the crisis ridden industry. Tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran said small players in the industry can avail up to Rs.2 lakh and medium sized businesses can avail up to Rs.25 lakh loan from the tourism department for revival of their existing projects. The minister said the tourism sector suffered a loss of Rs.25,000 crore due to the pandemic. The sector used to provide job opportunities for around 15 lakh people. Around 12 lakh foreign tourists had visited the state during the last season and the number of domestic tourists too had almost touched two crore then. The industry brought as foreign exchange Rs.45,000 cr during the last season. The state tourism department would pay 50% of the interest on loans for the first year for entrepreneurs who avail loans up to Rs.25 lakh for the revival of their business. The second scheme is for employees in the sector. In association with Kerala Bank, the department would help them to avail loans up to Rs.30,000 at 9% interest rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rs-455cr-relief-package-for-tourism/articleshow/77621080.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Seven held on charges of trespassing, land grab||VISAKHAPATNAM: MVP Colony police arrested seven persons for illegally entering and ransacking a marble godown at Isukathota adjacent to NH-16 in the wee hours of Sunday. Police said the godown was being operated by Santosh Kumar Bucha, who had taken the land on lease from Kovvuri Srinivasa Reddy. The accused were booked on charges of trespassing and land-grabbing. Ch Shanmukha Rao, inspector of MVP Colony police station, said some more persons are also involved in the case and they would be arrested soon. Of the arrested persons, five are locals while the other two are from Guntur and Nellore. Meanwhile, one G Raghavi Reddy, whose name appears in the billboard put by the intruders, told the police she was the rightful owner of the land. She claimed the land was purchased by her grandfather P Ramanaidu, which was later inherited by his sons, who subsequently transferred the land in her name. She also said the land was encroached upon as she lived in Hyderabad and rarely visited Vizag. However, complainant Santosh said the vacant plot is in a prime area and, many people have been eyeing it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/7-held-on-charges-of-trespassing-land-grab/articleshow/77621034.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath writes to Shivraj Singh Chouhan, says Covid testing dismal in MP||BHOPAL: Former chief minister Kamal Nath on Tuesday shot a letter to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan pointing out that compared to rest of the country, testing for Corona virus in Madhya Pradesh is dismal. “It is a matter of great disappointment that compared to other states, testing for Corona in Madhya Pradesh is extremely low. And you know that the only way to control this epidemic is to identify those infected by the virus and keep them away from the healthy persons,” Kamal Nath wrote. The senior Congress leader recalled that in mid-August, out of every ten lakh population, the number of tests conducted by Madhya Pradesh was only 12,000 while states like Delhi, Andhra Pradesh and Assam were doing more than 50,000 tests. “On this count, Madhya Pradesh is among the 15 most infected states and with the least number of tests,” Nath said. He alleged that in the Shivraj government, number of tests conducted are very little and this is cause of worry. “In your government, the campaign against this serious virus is limited to implementation of basic formalities and publicity. It is clear that the government efforts are not serious and not in the direction to free the common man of this epidemic and giving healthy life,” the letter accused. “I request you that the government start working seriously on the Coronavirus issue so the state can become an example not just in the country but the world for becoming free from Corona. And the people of Madhya Pradesh can be free of the epidemic,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kamal-nath-writes-to-chouhan-says-corona-testing-dismal-in-mp/articleshow/77621085.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Thane||Covid positivity rate: Seven Maharashtra districts figure in India's top 10||MUMBAI: Seven of the ten districts in India with the highest Covid-19 positivity rate (PR) are from Maharashtra, indicating that the virus is spreading fast in the state and testing needs to increase. Raigad, with a PR of 31.7%, is on the top of the national list and is closely followed by Thane (29.4%). Bihar is the second most affected state with Rohtas occupying third position and Darbhanga and Patna in fifth and tenth spots. Public health experts consider positivity rate, which is the proportion of tests that return a positive result, a key benchmark to gauge transmission. Overall, India's positivity rate is currently at 7.7%. The PRs of Thane and Raigad are particularly high and way above the state's positivity of 18%. Mumbai, with a positivity of 19.7%, is not among the top 10, nor is Delhi (7%). Though, surprisingly, even a remote district in Maharashtra such as Nandurbar (19.9%) with a predominantly tribal population has a PR that is comparable with Mumbai's. Nashik (26.7%), Dhule (25.7%), Pune (23.4%), Jalgaon (22%) and Satara (21%) are the other districts with maximum positivity. A common thread seen in all these districts, said officials, is proximity to highways, reopening of industries and high people movement. In Maharashtra, the most affected areas are in the western and northern regions whereas in Bihar, the districts are in the north (Darbhanga), central region (Patna) and south close to the Jharkhand border (Rohtas). Higher positivity rate only reflects many more undetected cases: DocA senior doctor said “a higher positivity rate only shows there are many more undetected cases.” Dr Subhash Salunkhe, member of a state technical committee, said Maharashtra’s high transmission or positivity rate was linked to its geo-strategic status. “The infection arrived in India through two major international hubs, Mumbai and Delhi. Thereafter, lockdown halted its spread to some extent but that couldn't have been stopped forever,” he said. “As long as deaths are under control, a rise in cases shouldn't be alarming any longer,” he said. Raigad collector Nidhi Chaudhari attributed the incidence in her district to an increase in testing. The district has thus far tested 73,000, of which 17,000 were with the rapid antigen kit. Those tested mainly included frontline workers, including government staff, and those at industries who were urged to test their employees. “Since we are testing more we are finding more cases,” said Chaudhari. Cyclone Nisarga too played a role in pushing up cases since many were out of their homes to carry out repair and reconstruction, she said. Raigad administration is now bracing for 20,000-40,000 more people to arrive home for Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the next few days. Thane district that comprises the densely populated cities of Kalyan, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Bhiwandi has been witnessing a surge since July when the virus started spreading out of Mumbai. In Dhule, Jalgaon, Nashik, the infection continues to spread in areas around industries or highways. Civil Surgeon of Dhule Dr Manik Sangle said the PR recently breached 20% after Shindkheda taluka started reporting cases in bulk. “Here, there is also the issue of non-cooperation of people who despite being in containment zones don't wear masks or follow social distancing,” he said, adding that the local taluka has over 500 cases. The district saw a surge soon after lockdown was lifted. A senior doctor, however, said the explanation that the positivity rate rises because of more testing was flawed. He pointed out that according to the WHO, a region should not lift restrictions before PR drops to 5% or less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/covid-positivity-rate-seven-maharashtra-districts-figure-in-indias-top-10/articleshow/77624503.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Man held for attempting to sexually assault minor||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Airport police on Tuesday arrested an auto driver for allegedly attempting to sexually assault a minor girl. The victim, who lost her mother some years back, has been staying with her aunt in the city. The accused is known to the victim’s aunt and used to often visit her house. Recently, when the girl was alone in the house, he tried to sexually assault her. The girl, who studies in class VII in a local school, narrated the matter to her friend (a minor boy) who spoke to his parents and family members, who in turn approached the police and lodged a complaint. Based on the complaint, a case was registered under the POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/man-held-for-attempting-to-sexually-assault-minor/articleshow/77621091.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Tipplers turn up at Tasmac outlets in trickles||CHENNAI: Tipplers in Chennai spoiled Tasmac’s party on Tuesday, turning up only in trickles as liquor vends reopened in the city after five months. Most outlets saw just a handful of people waiting in line in the morning, and though sales picked up in the evening, they were nowhere near the levels expected. The state’s sole retailer of liquor had made elaborate preparations, hiring extra staff and building barricades in front of its outlets, expecting the kind of mad rush when shops reopened in the rest of the state a couple of months back. But that spirit was missing in Chennai. Policemen and Tasmac employees outnumbered customers at most shop. A few like Ponurangam of Kodambakkam, who came straight to a liquor shop at T Nagar after getting off the night shift, lined up at daybreak. But they need not have bothered, especially in the suburbs. Shops in the city proper saw more sales. “Wine shops at Poonamallee and Tambaram saw less sale compared to those in Greater Chennai Corporation limits. While 175 coupons were issued during the first few hours at a wine shop in Egmore, not even 50 visited the outlet at Madhavaram," a TASMAC official said. The Tasmac elite shops saw even less crowds. An outlet at Egmore was empty of customers for most of the day. According to Tasmac sources, Tuesday's sales were much below their expections. By late evening, the 660 shops in the Greater Chennai Police limits had sold liquor for around Rs20 crores, which is Rs8 crores more than the average daily sales of Rs12 crores recorded before the lockdown. But then the prices have been raised compared to pre-lockdown rates, and Tasmac had expected a much higher revenue, given the experience when liquor vends reopened in the rest of the state. Tasmac insiders attribute, the muted demand to three main reasons: 1) Chennaiites had regular access to liquor that flowed into the city from neighbouring districts; 2) there has been an exodus of migrant workers from the city; and 3) the economic crisis triggered by the outbreak of Covid-19. By evening there was the odd complaint of overcharging at the shops. A Tasmac official said that was because the old rates were displayed at the shops, though prices had been raised when shops reopened in mid-May in the rest of the state. Watch Tipplers show little enthusiasm as liquor shops open in Chennai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tipplers-turn-up-at-tasmac-outlets-in-trickles/articleshow/77622915.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Rs 1.3cr ganja seized from onion-laden truck, 2 held||CHENNAI: In one of the biggest hauls in recent times, the Red Hills police on Monday night seized about 461kg ganja worth Rs 1.3crore. Police intercepted a gang that was smuggling the contraband in a truck loaded with onion and arrested the driver and owner of the vehicle. The gang was transporting the contraband from Andhra Pradesh to Madurai. On suspicion, a special team headed by joint commissioner (north) V Balakrishnan and deputy commissioner (Madhavaram) K Balakrishnan intercepted a mini truck laden with onions at a check post in Padianallur. When the driver gave contradictory replies, police personnel checked the vehicle and found huge quantity of ganja hidden under piles of onions. In all, about 461kg ganja was found hidden in 42 bags of onions. The driver of the truck was identified as M Vignesh, 28, of Madurai. Interrogations with them revealed that the owner of the truck was leading the vehicle in a car. Police identified the truck owner as G Arunpandian, 31, of Madurai. Police made the driver to call up the owner saying that he was caught in the check post for driving without license. He was made to request him to come back to pay the penalty. Believing his request to be genuine, Arunpandian came back to pay the fine when police caught him. Police let off the driver of the car in which Arunpandian was travelling since he was not part of the gang. Police sources said the owner agreed to pay Rs 1lakh to Vignesh if the consignment was sent to the destination without any trouble. The contraband is bought at a cheaper rate in Andhra Pradesh and sold at a higher price outside. “They bought the contraband in Andhra Pradesh and were planning to distribute it to the peddlers in Madurai,” said deputy commissioner, Madhavaram, Balakrishnan. Apart from the ganja and the vehicle, Rs 38,000 in cash was also seized before the driver and the owner of the truck were remanded in judicial custody under the NDPS Act. Police raised suspicion as it was not the usual route that mini trucks take to reach places like Madurai. Moreover, most of the onions are transported in bulk in a huge truck. Police are probing whether there is big network behind the smuggling. Additional commissioner of police (north) A Arun rewarded the team for the huge catch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rs-1-3cr-ganja-seized-from-onion-laden-truck-2-held/articleshow/77622885.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Mumbai||Covid positivity rate: Seven Maharashtra districts figure in India's top 10||MUMBAI: Seven of the ten districts in India with the highest Covid-19 positivity rate (PR) are from Maharashtra, indicating that the virus is spreading fast in the state and testing needs to increase. Raigad, with a PR of 31.7%, is on the top of the national list and is closely followed by Thane (29.4%). Bihar is the second most affected state with Rohtas occupying third position and Darbhanga and Patna in fifth and tenth spots. Public health experts consider positivity rate, which is the proportion of tests that return a positive result, a key benchmark to gauge transmission. Overall, India's positivity rate is currently at 7.7%. The PRs of Thane and Raigad are particularly high and way above the state's positivity of 18%. Mumbai, with a positivity of 19.7%, is not among the top 10, nor is Delhi (7%). Though, surprisingly, even a remote district in Maharashtra such as Nandurbar (19.9%) with a predominantly tribal population has a PR that is comparable with Mumbai's. Nashik (26.7%), Dhule (25.7%), Pune (23.4%), Jalgaon (22%) and Satara (21%) are the other districts with maximum positivity. A common thread seen in all these districts, said officials, is proximity to highways, reopening of industries and high people movement. In Maharashtra, the most affected areas are in the western and northern regions whereas in Bihar, the districts are in the north (Darbhanga), central region (Patna) and south close to the Jharkhand border (Rohtas). Higher positivity rate only reflects many more undetected cases: DocA senior doctor said “a higher positivity rate only shows there are many more undetected cases.” Dr Subhash Salunkhe, member of a state technical committee, said Maharashtra’s high transmission or positivity rate was linked to its geo-strategic status. “The infection arrived in India through two major international hubs, Mumbai and Delhi. Thereafter, lockdown halted its spread to some extent but that couldn't have been stopped forever,” he said. “As long as deaths are under control, a rise in cases shouldn't be alarming any longer,” he said. Raigad collector Nidhi Chaudhari attributed the incidence in her district to an increase in testing. The district has thus far tested 73,000, of which 17,000 were with the rapid antigen kit. Those tested mainly included frontline workers, including government staff, and those at industries who were urged to test their employees. “Since we are testing more we are finding more cases,” said Chaudhari. Cyclone Nisarga too played a role in pushing up cases since many were out of their homes to carry out repair and reconstruction, she said. Raigad administration is now bracing for 20,000-40,000 more people to arrive home for Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations in the next few days. Thane district that comprises the densely populated cities of Kalyan, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath and Bhiwandi has been witnessing a surge since July when the virus started spreading out of Mumbai. In Dhule, Jalgaon, Nashik, the infection continues to spread in areas around industries or highways. Civil Surgeon of Dhule Dr Manik Sangle said the PR recently breached 20% after Shindkheda taluka started reporting cases in bulk. “Here, there is also the issue of non-cooperation of people who despite being in containment zones don't wear masks or follow social distancing,” he said, adding that the local taluka has over 500 cases. The district saw a surge soon after lockdown was lifted. A senior doctor, however, said the explanation that the positivity rate rises because of more testing was flawed. He pointed out that according to the WHO, a region should not lift restrictions before PR drops to 5% or less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-positivity-rate-seven-maharashtra-districts-figure-in-indias-top-10/articleshow/77624487.cms||Bhavika Jain
August 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag to compete in Centre’s Cycles4Change challenge||VISAKHAPATNAM: Vizag city will be competing in the Centre’s India Cycles4Change challenge which seeks to promote cycling as a popular means of transport. The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has registered for the challenge and is currently seeking public opinion through an online survey on people’s cycling habits, barriers to cycling, preferred routes and sharing systems. The challenge is open to all cities under the Smart Cities Mission, state capitals as well as cities with a population of over five lakh. The challenge will take place in two stages. In the first stage, which will run till October, cities will focus on piloting quick interventions to promote cycling and developing a scaling-up strategy. In October, some cities among those registered will be selected and given an award of Rs 1 crore. Further, the selected cities will be guided by national and international experts on scaling-up their initiatives in the second stage which will run till May, 2021. The India Programme of Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP) is the knowledge partner and will assist the Smart Cities Mission conduct this challenge and guide cities in developing and implementing ideas. As per a recent ITDP survey, cycling will increase by 50-65% as cities come out of lockdown. According to ITDP, cycling can help cities move towards a green economic recovery. Further, cities may also see investment in cycling infrastructure. The GVMC has already launched several cycling-friendly initiatives. The Smart Streets project currently being implemented envisions the creation of dedicated cycling lanes. Six streets are being converted into ‘smart streets’. The project however is yet to make any headway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-to-compete-in-centres-cycles4change-challenge/articleshow/77621134.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||Over 62k anganwadi staff burdened with extra work||Jaipur: Over 62,000 anganwadi workers are unable to perform their duties of providing early childhood education and supplying food supplements and monitoring health of children aged between three and six years due to additional responsibilities given to them either by the government or the local administrations.The anganwadi workers have the responsibilities of providing nine services or assistance to around 12 lakh children in the state.They have been extensively engaged in carrying out door-to-door survey on Covid-19 with asha sahyoginis. Besides, they are involved in distributing food supplements under the central and the state government schemes at doorsteps of the families of beneficiaries.The social activists working closely with anganwadi workers say that they should be given enough time to focus on their primary work. “They are already understaffed and by giving them additional work, they will not able to keep a track of the progress of each child in terms of his/her health and education,” said K B Kothari, managing trustee, Pratham, which closely works with the anganwadi workers.TOI spoke to some anganwadi workers who says that their entire workflow has been disturbed due to additional work.“I understand it is a time of crisis and every assignment is like serving the nation but if these children don’t get special attention and focus the poor result in their academics will come to the light in the coming years,” Ranu Ram, an anganwadi worker working in Jaipur. They have yet to start non-formal and preschool activities. These workers say that they have not given the learning material to be distributed among the children.Kothari fears that any derailment in discharging their actual duties would lead to poor learning outcomes and poor health indicators. “A through three-year early childhood education eradicates dropouts. The government should leave them for serving children only,” said Kothari.The department of women and child says that they soon will distribute learning material which the anganwadi workers will distribute to those who have enrolled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-62k-anganwadi-staff-burdened-with-extra-work/articleshow/77622935.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Chennai||When there’s no park for that brisk walk||CHENNAI: In July, C Shekar was among the many senior citizens fined Rs 100 for strolling on the Pondy Bazaar pedestrian plaza. Now, the 64-year-old wants to know if parks will be safe to be relieved of stress and to keep fit. Several others are writing to Greater Chennai Corporation, urging it to open parks at a time when liquor shops, gyms and yoga centres have reopened. The civic body is, however, yet to take a call on the issue. Officials of the corporation, with around 660 parks under it, fear the opening of such facilities could encourage people to gather in large numbers and lead to the emergence of new clusters of Covid-19. V Rama Rao, a senior citizen in Nanganallur who hasn’t gone for a morning walk for six months, said there were many ways to ensure people follow rules. “Shops are open, markets are open then what is wrong with parks? The staff employed can be utilized to oversee this. Entry and exit points can be regulated and a register can be maintained,” he said. He also suggested that parks could be a place where new infections could be detected by conducting trials. Greater Chennai Exnora president R Govindarajan said most senior citizens used parks only early in the morning and always maintain social distancing. Epidemiologists across the world have suggested opening parks, stating open spaces are safer in comparison to enclosed ones. Countries like the US, Spain, Italy and Britain have all opened up gardens and green spaces putting in covid rules and regulations. P Madhusudhan Reddy, joint commissioner, health, said, “Parks are like gathering places. It is in the interest of senior citizens not to get exposed to crowds. The decision will be taken by the government of India and government of Tamil Nadu guidelines.” A TOI visit to some city showed extensive cleaning work would be needed before they are thrown open. At T Nagar’s Panagal Park, one of the largest in the city, concrete slabs in the sitting area were found broken with the cement filling out and the walking area was littered with fallen tree branches. At Nageswara Rao park in Mylapore, the steel rim fencing at the southern entrance was damaged. In a few other parks too, the general upkeep was found wanting with many twigs and tree branches littering the walking area. The garden area in all parks was found to be tidy and well-watered. A senior corporation official said contractors were given control of 569 parks and nearly 40 lakh sanctioned for maintenance even during the pandemic. “Contractors also have to ensure that physical exercise equipment and play areaa are in perfect condition. We shall be conducting reviews soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-theres-no-park-for-that-brisk-walk/articleshow/77622926.cms||Komal Gautham
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||For farmers’ sake, CM bats for agro-processing scheme||Jaipur: To increase farmers’ income and get remunerative price for their produce, the scheme to set up agro-processing units will be encouraged, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Tuesday.Gehlot was holding a review meeting of agriculture, cooperative and other departments at his residence on Tuesday.He directed the officials of agriculture and related departments to help the farmers in getting loan from the banks under the scheme and to give sufficient publicity to the scheme at the district level.Under the scheme, the farmers could get a loan of up to Rs 1 crore for setting up agro-processing industries, on which the state government provides 50% grant. The CM said that complaints of many multi-state cooperative societies cheating the general public in the name of investment and looting their hard-earned money are a matter of concern. He instructed the officers to prepare a mechanism so that in future no cooperative society in the state could cheat the poor people. He said that there is also a need to make the general public aware of such societies. Gehlot also directed to pay a premium of Rs 250 crore from the Farmers Welfare Fund so that farmers get their insurance claim for the Rabi crop for year 2019-20. The decision would help about 2.5 lakh farmers to get claims worth Rs 750 crore. He directed for early payment of Rs 95.87 crore from the Farmers Welfare Fund for the construction of 3,723 ponds (diggis) in various districts. Gehlot said that the process of recruitment on 1,000 posts in various cooperative institutions should be started soon. For this, he directed to send the candidates to the Cooperative Recruitment Board after completing the necessary amendments in the service and recruitment rules of the department in three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/for-farmers-sake-cm-bats-for-agro-processing-scheme/articleshow/77622965.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bhopal||Pandemic under control in MP, but can’t let guard down: AIIMS director||BHOPAL: “The situation in Bhopal and Madhya Pradesh is under control, but there is no room for complacency,” said All India institute of medical sciences (AIIMS) Bhopal director, Dr Sarman Singh, on his assessment of prevailing Covid-19 spread. “Measures taken by the state government are having a positive impact in keeping the virus spread under check. However, there is no reason for letting the guard down, as Covid-19 has been unpredictable,” said Dr Singh. More than 47,000 people have been diagnosed for the infection in Madhya Pradesh since the pandemic began. The infection that initially remained confined to the Old City localities and some suburbs are now being reported from almost all areas of New Bhopal. Areas like Arera Colony, Shahpura, Kolar and Hoshangabad Road are turning out to be new hotspots. Roughly, 8,900 people being diagnosed with the infection in the state capital out of which one-fifth cases are tagged as active. Experts and statistics suggest that nearly one-fourth of the active cases are reported in Western MP. The zone has reported most number of Covid-19 cases with Indore topping the infection list followed by Ujjain. Though, situation has stabilised in Ujjain, it remains a concern in Indore as after a week-long dip in cases last fortnight, the numbers have started to rise again. Eastern parts of MP, that has witnessed a late infection spread has reported less number of cases as compared to West MP. However, this zone and north MP is now reporting almost half of all cases as ‘active’. “Moving forward, one positive may lead to about 10 infection, going by some of the health department predictions in late July. If the trend holds than east of MP could see a new spurt in infections,” said a health department consultant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/situation-under-control-in-mp-but-cant-let-guard-down-aiims-director/articleshow/77621165.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||Expert panel gives nod to eco-sensitive zone in Nandhaur Wildlife Sanctuary||Dehradun: An expert committee of the Nandhaur Wildlife Sanctuary has given the final go-ahead to the draft notification of eco-sensitive zones (ESZs). The draft was open for public opinion from May 22 but it got barely 12 comments from the public and 10 out of those 12 comments were in favour of the immediate declaration of the ESZs termed the draft as “near perfection”. On Tuesday, the 14-member committee, consisting of scientists, foresters, wildlifers, and experts from the Government of India and of other states of the country, gave approval to this draft. “The move will help locals in doing their work in and around the forest but in a regulated manner. The sizes of these ESZs range from a minimum of 0.7 kilometres to a maximum of 15 kilometres,” said JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand. Now, activities like mining, tree felling, timber cutting, and other commercial activities can be conducted in the proximity of the sanctuary but only according to the law as the draft puts regulation on such practices. “Now, anyone trying to undertake a work sans any permission from the department will face legal prosecution because the zone has been notified as ESZ. So, it is a welcome move. Every activity in the ESZ would come under the legal scanner now,” added Suhag. The final notification of the ESZ will be out soon. Notably, the Nandhaur Sanctuary is spread in 25,955 hectares and falls under three forest divisions — Haldwani, Terai East, and Champawat — of the Western Circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/expert-panel-gives-nod-to-eco-sensitive-zone-in-nandhaur-wildlife-sanctuary/articleshow/77619491.cms||Shivani Azad
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||House alert after BJP MLA tests +ve||Jaipur: Speaker C P Joshi said the assembly secretariat is taking all possible precautions to prevent the spread of Covid-19 after BJP’s Phalodi MLA Pabba Ram Bishnoi tested positive. The member who tested positive has gone into quarantine and the assembly is keeping a tab and taking precautions, said Joshi. The assembly is to reconvene on Friday.Bishnoi has tested positive on Monday and announced it on Twitter. He wrote that due to mild Covid-19 symptoms, he underwent test which came positive. He advised those who came in contact with him to monitor their health. TOI repeatedly called him for his response but he remained unreachable.He had attended the BJP party meeting held on August 13 and assembly session on August 14. On both the days, the MLAs did follow all protocols of wearing face masks and social distancing but those who are close to him might go for home quarantining. However, he had left for Jodhpur in the evening of August 14 to attend the Independence Day program in his constituency.State BJP president Satish Poonia called his party MLA’s testing positive as unfortunate. He said, “Everybody should take utmost care of themselves and follow all rules to prevent the spread. Before attending the assembly, anyone should self-access their health. It is in the interest of all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/house-alert-after-bjp-mla-tests-ve/articleshow/77622938.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Kanpur||40 jail inmates, staffers test Covid +ve in Kanpur||KANPUR: As many as 40 persons, including inmates and staff of Kanpur district jail, have tested positive for Covid-19. They have been isolated in the jail premises itself and it has been decided to raise a Covid hospital within the jail campus. Further, to prevent spread of coronavirus in the district jail, a temporary jail has been made in Chaubeypur. After keeping jail inmates who have tested positive here for 14 days, they would be sent back to the district jail. Sources said that first an inmate had tested positive on July 14 and his condition had deteriorated. After this, a large number of tests on inmates were conducted and 39 else tested positive. Director (Prisons) Anand Kumar said 40 including inmates and staff have tested positive for Covid-19. All efforts are being made to contain the spread of the disease. The situation is worrisome since the district jail here is already overcrowded and it would be a real tough task for the authorities to contain the spread of the disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/40-jail-inmates-staffers-test-covid-ve/articleshow/77622978.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||Raj relaxes 2-child norm for govt staff for remarriages||Jaipur: The department of personnel (DoP) relaxed the two-child norm for government employees for remarriages. According to a notification issued by the DoP, the relaxation for an additional child for remarriage has been made effective from 2002. The notification said, “any person who performed remarriage which is not against any law and before such remarriage he is not disqualified for promotion under this sub rule, he shall not have deemed to be disqualified with effect from 2002 if any child is born out of single delivery from such remarriage”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-relaxes-2-child-norm-for-govt-staff-for-remarriages/articleshow/77622976.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Surat||Surat: Call centre racket busted, 19 held||SURAT: The prevention of crime branch of Surat city police busted a call centre in Jahangirpura area on Monday and arrested 19 persons from the spot. However, the owners of the call centre are yet to get arrested. The accused were held from the third floor of Green Aristo Plaza on Vaishnodevi Canal Road during a raid. Police also booked Vikash alias Vicky Mehta and his sister Neha for allegedly running the call centre. The duo are yet to be arrested. Investigation revealed that the accused used to make calls and send messages to individual offering schemes to invest in the forex market. The accused used to cheat the investor by offering them attractive schemes, police informed. Cops recovered 56 mobile phones, eight laptops, four desktop computers and one IPad from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/call-centre-racket-busted-19-held/articleshow/77621188.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||AYUSH docs want more honorarium||Jaipur: Contractual AYUSH doctors returned their awards and certificates, which they received as corona warriers, to health department on Tuesday. They have been demanding increase in honorarium for the past few months. “We have returned the awards which we had received on Independence Day for efforts to contain the spread of the virus. We have done it as a mark of protest,” said one of the agitating contractual AYUSH doctors. AYUSH Chikitsak Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti office bearers said that they have been boycotting work for the past 12 days, but their grievances have not been addressed. They said that they have worked on the frontline to fight against Covid-19. There are around 2,000 AYUSH doctors who are working under the National Health Mission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ayush-docs-want-more-honorarium/articleshow/77622983.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Demand for oxygen support up multifold in private hospitals||BENGALURU: The demand for oxygen support has doubled in Bengaluru since May, when Covid-19 cases began increasing. For instance, Inox Air Products Pvt Ltd, a major player in the business, has supplied 2 lakh cubic metres of liquid oxygen to private hospitals since May. The demand prior to the pandemic was barely 1 lakh cubic metres. “The price of Rs 18 per cubic metres has remained the same, but demand has doubled,” Inox officials said. “Tankers of liquid oxygen [stored at minus 180 degree centigrade] are sent to hospitals as per request.” Most private hospitals in the city have seen a three-fold increase in requirement of oxygen. At Apollo Hospitals, Jayanagar, a 100-bed dedicated facility for Covid-19 cases, at least 70 patients, including 20 in ICU, need high-flow oxygen at any given point of time. “Two months ago, we understood the need to ramp up oxygen supply so we contracted two different private agencies that supply medical-grade oxygen,” said Dr Govindaiah Yatheesh, unit head, Apollo Hospitals, Jayanagar. “That’s apart from the inhouse oxygen generation plant on our premises that produces 1,000 cubic metres of oxygen per day. We need 1,300-1,500 cubic metres of oxygen per day, which is stored in the liquid oxygen tank at the hospital.” The hospital also has 40 jumbo cylinders, each of 7 cubic metres capacity. Maintaining the equipment, constantly checking levels and blockages and ensuring additional reserve for a day is a 24/7 job, Dr Yatheesh said. “The demand has gone up by 3-4 times and some smaller hospitals are facing issues of supply. Smaller hospitals that are mandated to treat Covid cases are suffering from lack of infrastructure like oxygen tanks,” said Dr R Ravindra, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA). Despite the pandemic, the state government is yet to compile a tally of high pressure oxygen requirement and availability.  Meanwhile, Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST), under the state health and family welfare department, on Tuesday wrote to all hospitals on its network, both in government and private sector, asking them to provide data on oxygen supply availability. The letter states as per an estimate, 24 litres of oxygen is required per bed, per day. In the letter, NT Abru, executive director, SAST, said, “In order to facilitate required treatment for a Covid 19-patient, the oxygen supply chain, capacity of storage of oxygen and frequency of supply to the hospital from the distributor needs to be compiled to assess the capability of the hospital for Covid-19 management.” Health officers told TOI, “Data from all the Covid-treating hospitals will help manage patients better and to reallocate patients to nearby hospitals in case of an emergency. The data is being compiled now. However, the data will be dynamic and will change depending on the patient load. Efforts are on to update the data on a real-time basis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/demand-for-oxygen-support-up-multifold-in-private-hospitals/articleshow/77620023.cms||Sunitha Rao R
August 19, 2020||Bhopal||MP Covid tally crosses 47,000 as 990 more test positive||BHOPAL: With 990 new people testing positive on Tuesday, tally of Covid-19 positive patients in the state reached 47,375. Apart from these new cases, 13 casualties were also reported, as per the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. The districts where these casualties were reported include Bhopal (five deaths), Vidisha (two deaths), and Indore, Gwalior, Jabalpur, Neemuch, Ratlam and Chhatarpur districts all of which reported a death each. With these new deaths, the toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 1,141 on Tuesday. While fresh cases were reported from 49 out of the 52 districts, deaths were reported from eight districts on Tuesday. As per the state health bulletin, it was Indore district where maximum 142 new positive cases were reported on Tuesday. After Indore, it was Bhopal where 110 new positive cases were reported, followed by Jabalpur where 88 cases were reported on Tuesday. Of the 49 districts that reported fresh cases on Tuesday, new cases were reported in double figures from 20 districts of the state. Reports of a total of 17,370 samples were received on Tuesday with 990 people testing positive. Thus, overall 5.7% of the people whose samples were tested on Tuesday were found positive. This positivity rate is higher than the average positivity rate of around 4.3% in the state. Overall, there were 10,521 active cases in the state on Tuesday. On the brighter side, 688 people who were admitted in hospitals recovered and were discharged from the hospital. With these new patients recovering, the total number of patients who have recovered so far from the disease reached 35,713. A total of 3,758 localities across MP’s 52 districts have been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-covid-tally-crosses-47k-as-990-more-test-ve/articleshow/77621193.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Trichy||Covid-19 toll crosses 6,000 in Tamil Nadu, cases a few short of 3.5 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid toll crossed 6,000 on Tuesday with 121 deaths and 5,709 fresh cases reported. Active cases numbered 53,860 and the case tally 3,49,654. In the 18 days of August, the state saw 1,03,795 new cases and 2,072 deaths compared to 1,55,692 cases and 2,289 deaths in July. Although the epidemic curve has plateaued, the average number of fresh cases a day has gone by nearly 750 cases a day from 5,022 in June to 5,766 in August. During the same time, the average daily death toll rose from 74 to 115. Chennai reported 1,182 cases and 24 deaths, while its neighbours Tiruvallur (489), Chengalpet (344) and Kancheepuram( 249) together logged 1,082 cases and 19 deaths.  Cases continue to increase in Cuddalore (250), Ranipet (129), Tiruvannamalai (123), Villupuram (114), Vellore (94) and Kallakurichi (75) and Tirupattur (73). There were 30,056 people still under treatment in northern districts, including 21,567 in the Chennai region.  After the north zone, the highest incidence was reported from the ten southern districts. Together the districts added 1,102 cases, with Theni recording the most, 295. Dindigul (150), Kanyakumari (147), Tirunelveli (119) and Madurai (77) reported high incidences. There were 11,415 active cases in the zone. The ten districts together clocked 21 deaths. The eight districts in central Tamil Nadu reported the lowest incidence of 630 fresh cases. The zone saw 22 deaths. Three districts Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Thiruvarur reported five deaths each. Pudukottai (110) and Thanjavur (129) and Trichy (119) had a three-digit increase in fresh cases. Nagapattinam and Ariyalur reported 75 and 73 cases respectively. Meanwhile, the eight districts in the west reported 854 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore reported 392 cases and Salem had 286 cases, while Dharmapuri and Nilgiris added eight and nine fresh cases respectively. Eight deaths were reported by Salem district, followed by five in Coimbatore.  At the end of the day, 5,850 people were discharged, taking the total number of people discharged to 2, 89,787. While 13 people who died had no comorbidities, two people – an 85-year-old man and 65-year-old woman -- were declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/covid-toll-crosses-6k-in-tn-cases-a-few-short-of-3-5l/articleshow/77624625.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Chennai||Covid-19 toll crosses 6,000 in Tamil Nadu, cases a few short of 3.5 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid toll crossed 6,000 on Tuesday with 121 deaths and 5,709 fresh cases reported. Active cases numbered 53,860 and the case tally 3,49,654. In the 18 days of August, the state saw 1,03,795 new cases and 2,072 deaths compared to 1,55,692 cases and 2,289 deaths in July. Although the epidemic curve has plateaued, the average number of fresh cases a day has gone by nearly 750 cases a day from 5,022 in June to 5,766 in August. During the same time, the average daily death toll rose from 74 to 115. Chennai reported 1,182 cases and 24 deaths, while its neighbours Tiruvallur (489), Chengalpet (344) and Kancheepuram( 249) together logged 1,082 cases and 19 deaths.  Cases continue to increase in Cuddalore (250), Ranipet (129), Tiruvannamalai (123), Villupuram (114), Vellore (94) and Kallakurichi (75) and Tirupattur (73). There were 30,056 people still under treatment in northern districts, including 21,567 in the Chennai region.  After the north zone, the highest incidence was reported from the ten southern districts. Together the districts added 1,102 cases, with Theni recording the most, 295. Dindigul (150), Kanyakumari (147), Tirunelveli (119) and Madurai (77) reported high incidences. There were 11,415 active cases in the zone. The ten districts together clocked 21 deaths. The eight districts in central Tamil Nadu reported the lowest incidence of 630 fresh cases. The zone saw 22 deaths. Three districts Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Thiruvarur reported five deaths each. Pudukottai (110) and Thanjavur (129) and Trichy (119) had a three-digit increase in fresh cases. Nagapattinam and Ariyalur reported 75 and 73 cases respectively. Meanwhile, the eight districts in the west reported 854 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore reported 392 cases and Salem had 286 cases, while Dharmapuri and Nilgiris added eight and nine fresh cases respectively. Eight deaths were reported by Salem district, followed by five in Coimbatore.  At the end of the day, 5,850 people were discharged, taking the total number of people discharged to 2, 89,787. While 13 people who died had no comorbidities, two people – an 85-year-old man and 65-year-old woman -- were declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-toll-crosses-6k-in-tn-cases-a-few-short-of-3-5l/articleshow/77622986.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Puducherry||Covid-19 toll crosses 6,000 in Tamil Nadu, cases a few short of 3.5 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid toll crossed 6,000 on Tuesday with 121 deaths and 5,709 fresh cases reported. Active cases numbered 53,860 and the case tally 3,49,654. In the 18 days of August, the state saw 1,03,795 new cases and 2,072 deaths compared to 1,55,692 cases and 2,289 deaths in July. Although the epidemic curve has plateaued, the average number of fresh cases a day has gone by nearly 750 cases a day from 5,022 in June to 5,766 in August. During the same time, the average daily death toll rose from 74 to 115. Chennai reported 1,182 cases and 24 deaths, while its neighbours Tiruvallur (489), Chengalpet (344) and Kancheepuram( 249) together logged 1,082 cases and 19 deaths.  Cases continue to increase in Cuddalore (250), Ranipet (129), Tiruvannamalai (123), Villupuram (114), Vellore (94) and Kallakurichi (75) and Tirupattur (73). There were 30,056 people still under treatment in northern districts, including 21,567 in the Chennai region.  After the north zone, the highest incidence was reported from the ten southern districts. Together the districts added 1,102 cases, with Theni recording the most, 295. Dindigul (150), Kanyakumari (147), Tirunelveli (119) and Madurai (77) reported high incidences. There were 11,415 active cases in the zone. The ten districts together clocked 21 deaths. The eight districts in central Tamil Nadu reported the lowest incidence of 630 fresh cases. The zone saw 22 deaths. Three districts Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Thiruvarur reported five deaths each. Pudukottai (110) and Thanjavur (129) and Trichy (119) had a three-digit increase in fresh cases. Nagapattinam and Ariyalur reported 75 and 73 cases respectively. Meanwhile, the eight districts in the west reported 854 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore reported 392 cases and Salem had 286 cases, while Dharmapuri and Nilgiris added eight and nine fresh cases respectively. Eight deaths were reported by Salem district, followed by five in Coimbatore.  At the end of the day, 5,850 people were discharged, taking the total number of people discharged to 2, 89,787. While 13 people who died had no comorbidities, two people – an 85-year-old man and 65-year-old woman -- were declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/covid-toll-crosses-6k-in-tn-cases-a-few-short-of-3-5l/articleshow/77624621.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Real estate agent robbed of Rs 20 lakh in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: A real estate agent lodged a police complaint alleging he was robbed of Rs 20 lakh by a broker near the international cricket stadium at PM Palem in Vizag on Monday. According to the complaint, Koteswara Rao was carrying Rs 20 lakh in cash in his car when he went to meet a broker on Monday. The broker had asked him to check out some land sites. However, the broker asked Koteswara Rao to come to his home as he was ill. When Rao stopped near the broker’s house and was waiting in his car, a white car suddenly stopped near him. A person walked out of the car, snatched the bag and sped away. Koteswara Rao alleged that the broker he went to meet was in the same car. Police said they are verifying all facts of the case and are checking CCTV footage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/real-estate-agent-robbed-of-rs-20-lakh/articleshow/77621190.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Erode||Covid-19 toll crosses 6,000 in Tamil Nadu, cases a few short of 3.5 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid toll crossed 6,000 on Tuesday with 121 deaths and 5,709 fresh cases reported. Active cases numbered 53,860 and the case tally 3,49,654. In the 18 days of August, the state saw 1,03,795 new cases and 2,072 deaths compared to 1,55,692 cases and 2,289 deaths in July. Although the epidemic curve has plateaued, the average number of fresh cases a day has gone by nearly 750 cases a day from 5,022 in June to 5,766 in August. During the same time, the average daily death toll rose from 74 to 115. Chennai reported 1,182 cases and 24 deaths, while its neighbours Tiruvallur (489), Chengalpet (344) and Kancheepuram( 249) together logged 1,082 cases and 19 deaths.  Cases continue to increase in Cuddalore (250), Ranipet (129), Tiruvannamalai (123), Villupuram (114), Vellore (94) and Kallakurichi (75) and Tirupattur (73). There were 30,056 people still under treatment in northern districts, including 21,567 in the Chennai region.  After the north zone, the highest incidence was reported from the ten southern districts. Together the districts added 1,102 cases, with Theni recording the most, 295. Dindigul (150), Kanyakumari (147), Tirunelveli (119) and Madurai (77) reported high incidences. There were 11,415 active cases in the zone. The ten districts together clocked 21 deaths. The eight districts in central Tamil Nadu reported the lowest incidence of 630 fresh cases. The zone saw 22 deaths. Three districts Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Thiruvarur reported five deaths each. Pudukottai (110) and Thanjavur (129) and Trichy (119) had a three-digit increase in fresh cases. Nagapattinam and Ariyalur reported 75 and 73 cases respectively. Meanwhile, the eight districts in the west reported 854 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore reported 392 cases and Salem had 286 cases, while Dharmapuri and Nilgiris added eight and nine fresh cases respectively. Eight deaths were reported by Salem district, followed by five in Coimbatore.  At the end of the day, 5,850 people were discharged, taking the total number of people discharged to 2, 89,787. While 13 people who died had no comorbidities, two people – an 85-year-old man and 65-year-old woman -- were declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/covid-toll-crosses-6k-in-tn-cases-a-few-short-of-3-5l/articleshow/77624623.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Covid-19 toll crosses 6,000 in Tamil Nadu, cases a few short of 3.5 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid toll crossed 6,000 on Tuesday with 121 deaths and 5,709 fresh cases reported. Active cases numbered 53,860 and the case tally 3,49,654. In the 18 days of August, the state saw 1,03,795 new cases and 2,072 deaths compared to 1,55,692 cases and 2,289 deaths in July. Although the epidemic curve has plateaued, the average number of fresh cases a day has gone by nearly 750 cases a day from 5,022 in June to 5,766 in August. During the same time, the average daily death toll rose from 74 to 115. Chennai reported 1,182 cases and 24 deaths, while its neighbours Tiruvallur (489), Chengalpet (344) and Kancheepuram( 249) together logged 1,082 cases and 19 deaths.  Cases continue to increase in Cuddalore (250), Ranipet (129), Tiruvannamalai (123), Villupuram (114), Vellore (94) and Kallakurichi (75) and Tirupattur (73). There were 30,056 people still under treatment in northern districts, including 21,567 in the Chennai region.  After the north zone, the highest incidence was reported from the ten southern districts. Together the districts added 1,102 cases, with Theni recording the most, 295. Dindigul (150), Kanyakumari (147), Tirunelveli (119) and Madurai (77) reported high incidences. There were 11,415 active cases in the zone. The ten districts together clocked 21 deaths. The eight districts in central Tamil Nadu reported the lowest incidence of 630 fresh cases. The zone saw 22 deaths. Three districts Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Thiruvarur reported five deaths each. Pudukottai (110) and Thanjavur (129) and Trichy (119) had a three-digit increase in fresh cases. Nagapattinam and Ariyalur reported 75 and 73 cases respectively. Meanwhile, the eight districts in the west reported 854 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore reported 392 cases and Salem had 286 cases, while Dharmapuri and Nilgiris added eight and nine fresh cases respectively. Eight deaths were reported by Salem district, followed by five in Coimbatore.  At the end of the day, 5,850 people were discharged, taking the total number of people discharged to 2, 89,787. While 13 people who died had no comorbidities, two people – an 85-year-old man and 65-year-old woman -- were declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-toll-crosses-6k-in-tn-cases-a-few-short-of-3-5l/articleshow/77624622.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19 toll crosses 6,000 in Tamil Nadu, cases a few short of 3.5 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid toll crossed 6,000 on Tuesday with 121 deaths and 5,709 fresh cases reported. Active cases numbered 53,860 and the case tally 3,49,654. In the 18 days of August, the state saw 1,03,795 new cases and 2,072 deaths compared to 1,55,692 cases and 2,289 deaths in July. Although the epidemic curve has plateaued, the average number of fresh cases a day has gone by nearly 750 cases a day from 5,022 in June to 5,766 in August. During the same time, the average daily death toll rose from 74 to 115. Chennai reported 1,182 cases and 24 deaths, while its neighbours Tiruvallur (489), Chengalpet (344) and Kancheepuram( 249) together logged 1,082 cases and 19 deaths.  Cases continue to increase in Cuddalore (250), Ranipet (129), Tiruvannamalai (123), Villupuram (114), Vellore (94) and Kallakurichi (75) and Tirupattur (73). There were 30,056 people still under treatment in northern districts, including 21,567 in the Chennai region.  After the north zone, the highest incidence was reported from the ten southern districts. Together the districts added 1,102 cases, with Theni recording the most, 295. Dindigul (150), Kanyakumari (147), Tirunelveli (119) and Madurai (77) reported high incidences. There were 11,415 active cases in the zone. The ten districts together clocked 21 deaths. The eight districts in central Tamil Nadu reported the lowest incidence of 630 fresh cases. The zone saw 22 deaths. Three districts Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Thiruvarur reported five deaths each. Pudukottai (110) and Thanjavur (129) and Trichy (119) had a three-digit increase in fresh cases. Nagapattinam and Ariyalur reported 75 and 73 cases respectively. Meanwhile, the eight districts in the west reported 854 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore reported 392 cases and Salem had 286 cases, while Dharmapuri and Nilgiris added eight and nine fresh cases respectively. Eight deaths were reported by Salem district, followed by five in Coimbatore.  At the end of the day, 5,850 people were discharged, taking the total number of people discharged to 2, 89,787. While 13 people who died had no comorbidities, two people – an 85-year-old man and 65-year-old woman -- were declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-toll-crosses-6k-in-tn-cases-a-few-short-of-3-5l/articleshow/77624624.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Indore||MP Covid tally crosses 47,000 as 990 more test positive||BHOPAL: With 990 new people testing positive on Tuesday, tally of Covid-19 positive patients in the state reached 47,375. Apart from these new cases, 13 casualties were also reported, as per the state health bulletin released by the directorate of health services. The districts where these casualties were reported include Bhopal (five deaths), Vidisha (two deaths), and Indore, Gwalior, Jabalpur, Neemuch, Ratlam and Chhatarpur districts all of which reported a death each. With these new deaths, the toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 1,141 on Tuesday. While fresh cases were reported from 49 out of the 52 districts, deaths were reported from eight districts on Tuesday. As per the state health bulletin, it was Indore district where maximum 142 new positive cases were reported on Tuesday. After Indore, it was Bhopal where 110 new positive cases were reported, followed by Jabalpur where 88 cases were reported on Tuesday. Of the 49 districts that reported fresh cases on Tuesday, new cases were reported in double figures from 20 districts of the state. Reports of a total of 17,370 samples were received on Tuesday with 990 people testing positive. Thus, overall 5.7% of the people whose samples were tested on Tuesday were found positive. This positivity rate is higher than the average positivity rate of around 4.3% in the state. Overall, there were 10,521 active cases in the state on Tuesday. On the brighter side, 688 people who were admitted in hospitals recovered and were discharged from the hospital. With these new patients recovering, the total number of patients who have recovered so far from the disease reached 35,713. A total of 3,758 localities across MP’s 52 districts have been declared as containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/state-covid-tally-crosses-47k-as-990-more-test-ve/articleshow/77625217.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||More beds with oxygen support for patients soon||Jaipur: Grappling with Covid-19 pandemic, the state government will rope in more healthcare workers and volunteers. Apart from procuring equipment such as pulse oximetres and ventilators in bulk, the health department has decided to deploy more healthcare staff for Covid-19 treatment at a time when the state is facing surge in the cases.The health department will strengthen the infrastructure for Covid-19 patients. In the series, the state government has decided to increase the number of beds equipped with the oxygen supply.“At all the district hospitals and hospitals attached to medical colleges, the number of beds with facility of oxygen supply will be increased. It will benefit Covid-19 patients who require oxygen support. Also, trained nursing staff will be deployed to check if the patient is maintaining its oxygen saturation. We are also planning to encourage the nursing staff by rewarding them for working in night shifts, for which exercise is going on,” said health minister Raghu Sharma.Just like swasthya mitras in rural areas, the state government has decided to select swasthya mitras ward wise in urban areas. They would help the health department officials in their fight against Covid-19. Sharma said that after villages now selection of swasthya mitras has been started in urban areas. More than 80,000 swasthya mitras have been selected in rural areas for medical help and to make the general public aware about the health and social schemes of the state government and the Centre. Besides, more doctors and nurses will be deployed in hospitals. “The government is trying to ensure that there is no shortage of doctors during the time of corona and on normal days. For this, the recruitment process of 2,000 doctors has been completed. The problems being faced in this regard have been resolved and directions have been given to appoint these doctors soon,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-beds-with-oxygen-support-for-patients-soon/articleshow/77622985.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Bhopal||120 new Covid-19 cases take Bhopal’s tally to 8,900||BHOPAL: For the first time, the Covid-19 testing positivity rate at Gandhi Medical College (GMC) dipped below that of the rapid antigen test (RAT). “Only 22 people tested positive for Covid-19 out of 622 tested. A positivity rate of 3.2%. Positivity rate of RAT was 4.7%, going by health department reporting on Tuesday,” said a consultant at the largest tertiary care hospital. As many as 1,155 tests were carried out through RAT in Bhopal. On Tuesday, 120 people were diagnosed with Covid-19. A total 2,036 suspected patients underwent Covid-19 testing, with 56% of them being tested through RAT for the infection. More than 8,900 people have been diagnosed with in the infection in Bhopal since the pandemic began. Meanwhile, more than half of staff at call centre of Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board have been diagnosed with Covid-19. Five more people were diagnosed with the infection from the discom call centre at Govindpura. Four cases were reported from Ayodhya Nagar. One person tested positive at a news outlet office in E-5, Arera Colony. Forest Colony (Kolar Trisection) and 74 Bungalow reported one more positive. Three positives were diagnosed in Amrai (Baghsewania) and Tripti Kheda hospital reported one positive case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/120-new-cases-take-citys-tally-to-8900/articleshow/77621211.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Salem||Covid-19 toll crosses 6,000 in Tamil Nadu, cases a few short of 3.5 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s Covid toll crossed 6,000 on Tuesday with 121 deaths and 5,709 fresh cases reported. Active cases numbered 53,860 and the case tally 3,49,654. In the 18 days of August, the state saw 1,03,795 new cases and 2,072 deaths compared to 1,55,692 cases and 2,289 deaths in July. Although the epidemic curve has plateaued, the average number of fresh cases a day has gone by nearly 750 cases a day from 5,022 in June to 5,766 in August. During the same time, the average daily death toll rose from 74 to 115. Chennai reported 1,182 cases and 24 deaths, while its neighbours Tiruvallur (489), Chengalpet (344) and Kancheepuram( 249) together logged 1,082 cases and 19 deaths.  Cases continue to increase in Cuddalore (250), Ranipet (129), Tiruvannamalai (123), Villupuram (114), Vellore (94) and Kallakurichi (75) and Tirupattur (73). There were 30,056 people still under treatment in northern districts, including 21,567 in the Chennai region.  After the north zone, the highest incidence was reported from the ten southern districts. Together the districts added 1,102 cases, with Theni recording the most, 295. Dindigul (150), Kanyakumari (147), Tirunelveli (119) and Madurai (77) reported high incidences. There were 11,415 active cases in the zone. The ten districts together clocked 21 deaths. The eight districts in central Tamil Nadu reported the lowest incidence of 630 fresh cases. The zone saw 22 deaths. Three districts Pudukottai, Thanjavur and Thiruvarur reported five deaths each. Pudukottai (110) and Thanjavur (129) and Trichy (119) had a three-digit increase in fresh cases. Nagapattinam and Ariyalur reported 75 and 73 cases respectively. Meanwhile, the eight districts in the west reported 854 cases and 17 deaths. Coimbatore reported 392 cases and Salem had 286 cases, while Dharmapuri and Nilgiris added eight and nine fresh cases respectively. Eight deaths were reported by Salem district, followed by five in Coimbatore.  At the end of the day, 5,850 people were discharged, taking the total number of people discharged to 2, 89,787. While 13 people who died had no comorbidities, two people – an 85-year-old man and 65-year-old woman -- were declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/covid-toll-crosses-6k-in-tn-cases-a-few-short-of-3-5l/articleshow/77624626.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||Record 247 Covid cases in Jaipur in single day, state total nears 64,000||JAIPUR: For six days in a row, the state set a new record for biggest single-day spike of new infections as 1,347 persons tested positive for Covid on Tuesday, taking the cumulative count to 63,977. Jaipur reported the biggest single-day jump of 247 new infections taking its tally to 7,773. In addition, 10 persons were found infected from samples taken from Rajasthan High Court, Jaipur. For the first time, 59 different places in the city reported 247 cases, indicating that the virus had spread to almost all parts of Jaipur. Some of the areas which reported new cases are Mansarovar (16), Sanganer (14), Jhotwara (12), Vaishali Nagar (11), Sodala (11), Shastri Nagar (9), Durgapura (9), Gopalpura (8) and Jawahar Nagar (8). Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (247), Jodhpur (161), Bhilwara (148), Dholpur (106), Kota (90), Bharatpur (86), Chittorgarh (75), Nagaur (50), Pali (50), Jhunjhunu (42), Barmer (40), Pratapgarh (32), Sirohi (29),Tonk (27), Dausa (26), Ajmer (24), Sriganganagar (24), Jhalawar (23), Baran (19), Dungarpur (14), Hanumangarh (13), Jalore (12), Churu (5) and Sawai Madhopur (4). In the last 24 hours, 11 persons died taking the state’s toll to 898. Udaipur reported its 19th Covid death, while three persons died in Jaipur taking its toll to 238. Three persons also died in Bikaner taking its fatalities to 63, two died in Barmer taking its casualties to 17 and Ajmer reported its 61st Covid death while Sriganganagar reported its 6th fatality. Besides, 1,306 persons defeated the virus on Tuesday taking the tally of recovered persons to 48,960. The active cases touched new high of 14,119 on Tuesday, up from 14,089 on Monday. Currently, Jaipur has the highest number of active cases at 2239, followed by Kota (1916), Jodhpur (1811) and Alwar (1294).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/record-247-covid-cases-in-jaipur-in-single-day-state-total-nears-64k/articleshow/77622989.cms||---
August 19, 2020||Dehradun||BSNL services remains disrupted for days in Mussoorie, subscribers worried||Mussoorie: Broadband and landline services of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) have been out of order in Mussoorie for several days now, causing inconvenience to local subscribers of the network. Children are the worst-hit, facing difficulties in accessing online classes. “Our children have online sessions and their exams are ongoing but without broadband services, they are facing a lot of difficulties,” said Sunil Rawat, a local. Several other locals said told TOI that mobile internet is not enough for the online classes and broadband services are required. “Our children are not able to attend regular classes due to lack of internet, We have complained to BSNL authorities several times but to no avail,” said another parent. On the other hand, senior citizens are also facing difficulties due to problems with BSNL services. “Senior citizens are generally used to communicating through landline phones but out of order BSNL services are not letting them contact anyone,” said Hugh Gantzer, a senior citizen. He added that the current Covid-19 crisis has made it even more important for authorities to ensure that landline phones are in order. Meanwhile, junior officials of BSNL said that the services have disrupted due to upgradation of broadband system in the town. They added that the issue would be completely resolved within the next few days. Naveen Nautiyal, sub-divisional officer of BSNL, could not be contacted despite attempts despite repeated attempts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bsnl-services-remains-disrupted-for-days-in-mussoorie-subscribers-worried/articleshow/77619552.cms||Anmol Jain
August 19, 2020||Vijayawada||SEB cracks down on illegal liquor sale, sand smugglers||Tirupati: Sleuths of the Special Enforcement Bureau continued the crackdown against the illegal sale of liquor and sand at multiple locations in Anantapur district on Tuesday. According to the SEB, 3,865 tetra packs of alcohol, 75 liquor bottles and 53 litres of country-made liquor were seized during the raids. SEB sleuths also destroyed 1,200 litres of jaggery wash. Sixty persons were arrested in connection with 43 cases for the illegal sale of liquor. Twenty-three vehicles were also seized. SEB sleuths also seized eight tonnes of sand from miscreants. Two cases were registered and three persons arrested in connection with illegal sand mining and transportation. . TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seb-cracks-down-on-illegal-liquor-sale-sand-smugglers/articleshow/77621209.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
August 19, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Virus gains speed in August, positivity rate in Rajasthan at 5%||JAIPUR: With increased testings, Covid positivity rate has also risen significantly indicating that the virus is rapidly spreading in the state. Increasing positivity rate is a major concern as active cases are also on the rise pushing the number of patients needing hospitalization. In August (till 17), the positivity rate has been recorded at 5%, which is more than double than in June (2.2%). In March, the positivity rate was just 1.6%, while in April, May, June and July it was recorded at 2.5%, 2%, 2.2% and 3.4%, respectively. In June, 4.1 lakh samples were tested, which were increased to 7 lakh in July and already 4 lakh have been tested in August so far. The worst districts in terms of highest positivity rate in August are Alwar (10.5%), Banswara (8.5%), Jodhpur (7.1%), Sikar (7%), Bhilwara (6.9%), Kota (6.8%), Sriganganagar (6.6%), Bundi (6.4%), Tonk (6.2%) and Jaipur (6.1%). The situation is worrisome in Alwar, Jodhpur, Jaipur and Kota, where positivity rate was quite high in comparison to majority of the districts. The situation would have been ideal if more samples were tested and positivity rate declined. Health minister Raghu Sharma accepted that the cases are on the rise like in any other place of the country but said they were taking measures to prevent spread of the virus. “We are also focusing on screening and testing super spreaders. Covid cases have increased in the state at a few places due to super spreaders. To control such cases, special focus is on checking the super spreaders such as milk vendors, vegetable vendors, grocers and whoever falls under this category will be checked effectively so that spread of infection could be stopped,” said Sharma. Sharma expressed satisfaction that the ratio of recovery rate in the state was best among the 10 bigger states. Also, the fatality rate in the state at present is declining fast. The mortality rate at present is just 1.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/virus-gains-speed-in-august-positivity-rate-in-raj-at-5/articleshow/77623002.cms||---
